November 30, 2020||World||US may see 'surge upon surge' of virus in weeks ahead, says Fauci||The nation's top infectious disease expert said Sunday that the US may see "surge upon a surge'' of the coronavirus in the weeks after Thanksgiving, and he does not expect current recommendations around social distancing to be relaxed before Christmas. Meanwhile, in a major reversal, New York City Mayor Bill DeBlasio said the nation's largest school system will reopen to in-person learning and increase the number of days a week many children attend class. The announcement came just 11 days after the Democratic mayor said schools would shut down because of rising Covid-19 cases. "We feel confident that we can keep schools safe,'' he said. Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told ABC's "This Week'' that the level of infection in the US would not "all of a sudden turn around.'' "So clearly in the next few weeks, we're going to have the same sort of thing. And perhaps even two or three weeks down the line ... we may see a surge upon a surge,'' he said. Fauci addressed the school issue, saying that spread "among children and from children is not really very big at all, not like one would have suspected. So let's try to get the kids back, but let's try to mitigate the things that maintain and just push the kind of community spread that we're trying to avoid," he said. Fauci also appeared on NBC's "Meet the Press,'' where he made similar remarks, adding that it's "not too late'' for people traveling back home after Thanksgiving to help stop the spread of the virus by wearing masks, staying distant from others and avoiding large groups of people. "So we know we can do something about it, particularly now as we get into the colder season and as we approach the Christmas holidays,'' he said. The number of new Covid-19 cases reported in the United States topped 200,000 for the first time Friday. The highest previous daily count was 196,000 on Nov. 20, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Since January, when the first infections were reported in the US, the nation's total number of cases has surpassed 13 million. More than 265,000 people have died. Fauci said the arrival of vaccines offers a "light at the end of the tunnel.'' This coming week, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices will meet with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to discuss a rollout of the vaccine, he said. He added that President-elect Joe Biden should focus on distributing vaccines in an "efficient and equitable way.'' Fauci also said he planned to push the new administration for a rigorous testing program. "We've got to go beyond the symptomatic people and get a better understanding of the asymptomatic transmission,'' he said. Health care workers will likely be among the first to get the vaccine, with the first vaccinations happening before the end of December, "and then as we get into January and February and March, more and more,'' he said. "So if we can hang together as a country and do these kinds of things to blunt these surges until we get a substantial proportion of the population vaccinated, we can get through this,'' Fauci said. Other experts agreed that the coming weeks would be difficult, especially since so many traveled over the holiday and held in-person dinners indoors. Dr. Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, said Sunday on CBS' "Face the Nation" that Americans who traveled this past week should try to avoid people over 65. She said that those who were around others for Thanksgiving "have to assume that you were exposed and you became infected and you really need to get tested in the next week.'' In New York, some elementary schools and pre-kindergarten programs will resume classes Dec. 7, a week from Monday, the mayor said. Others will take longer to reopen their doors. The plan for reopening middle and high schools is still being developed, de Blasio said. About 190,000 students will be eligible to return to classrooms in the first round of reopening, just a fraction of the more than 1 million total pupils in the system. The great majority of parents have opted to have their kids learn remotely by computer. De Blasio said that many of those returning in person will be able to attend five days of class a week, up from one to three days previously. Elementary school students attending in person will be required to undergo frequent testing for the virus. Previously, the city set a target of testing 20% of teachers and students in each school building once a month. Now the testing will be weekly. The mayor said the city was doing away with its previous trigger for closing schools, which was when 3% or more of the virus tests conducted in the city over a seven-day period came back positive. New York exceeded that threshold early in November, and things have slightly worsened since then. More than 9,300 residents have tested positive for the virus over the past seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-may-see-surge-upon-surge-of-virus-in-weeks-ahead-says-fauci/articleshow/79481064.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Goa||Nicholas Pereira: A man for all seasons||It happened almost 50 years ago but Nicholas Pereira remembers that night, and what followed the next day, quite clearly. Handpicked to represent India, the young defender was told by coach PK Banerjee that he would make his debut in the opening game itself. This was at the Merdeka Cup in 1973 and Nicholas was nervously excited. “I was so excited that I just could not sleep,” said Nicholas, who shared a room in Malaysia with Vasco SC goalkeeper EN Sudhir. When the right-back took the field against South Vietnam, that nervousness simply grew. Vietnam took the lead early, only for Magan Singh to draw level. With nine minutes left on the clock, Nicholas moved up and ended up scoring the winner. For a defender, scoring a goal is always gold. A match winner at the fag end of the game in an international clash, and that on debut, is priceless. This wasn’t the only one. Nicholas started as a forward for his village clubs, so he always had his eyes set on goal. Throughout his 21-year career, he scored plenty of them, most famously a freekick in the final of the Nizam Gold Cup in Hyderabad (1978), just a minute from time. To bracket Nicholas, now 70, as just scorer of important goals would be unfair. Here is a man who defended, stylishly, like his life depended on it, whether it was at right-back, left --- once with national team --- and centre. In the glorious history of Goan football since the time another defender, Menino Figueiredo, became the first to represent India in 1963, Nicholas is bracketed right at the top. Goa has not seen another player like him. “My earliest memory of football is not about kicking the ball around in school like most kids do, but retrieving the ball which went outside when the Sesa Goa seniors were training,” said Nicholas. In the late sixties, Sesa Goa were an all-conquering team, so breaking through for a 17-year-old wasn’t easy. He simply watched them train in his backyard at Sirsaim and fetched balls that went out of play. While still practicing with Sesa Goa, his break came with Mapusa Youth in 1969, then in First Division League. Once he got his chance, there was no looking back. Nicholas donned Sesa Goa colours for four years and then Dempo Sports Club made him their top target in 1974. He retired with Dempo after a long and cherished career where he captained the team and won every major trophy. “The day I signed for Dempo, I was to leave for Mumbai to join Orkay (Mills) who offered me a very good deal. They also offered my brother a job in the company. I agreed but when Dempo bettered it, could not refuse,” he said. Poor Orkay officials had to wait for almost the entire day at Dhobitalao, where the Goa-Mumbai buses made a halt, in the hope of seeing their possible star signing. Dempo, not surprisingly, benefitted from the signing. His arrival coincided with an upturn in the club’s fortunes after a couple of lean years, occasioned by his assured tackling and calming influence in the heart of the defence. During his time there, Dempo won the Rovers Cup, a first for a Goan club. Besides being unbeatable in the state, they added major national trophies like the Rovers Cup (1975, 1979, 1980, 1986), Stafford Challenge Cup (1975, 1979), Nizam Gold Cup (1978) and Bordoloi Trophy (1982). From 1970 till the late eighties, Nicholas was an automatic choice in the state team for the National Football Championship for the Santosh Trophy. He debuted at Punjab and then became the first captain to lead Goa into the final of the Santosh Trophy against West Bengal in 1978. Goa lost that agonising final by a solitary goal but Nicholas, and the state, finally won the top prize in Indian football in 1983. He didn’t score here against hosts Bengal but, with Brahmanand Shankhwalkar behind him, played the game of his life in defence after experienced defender Mahesh Lotlikar picked up a groin injury inside the first 10 minutes. That was his biggest test. And like always, he delivered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nicholas-pereira-a-man-for-all-seasons/articleshow/79481119.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
November 30, 2020||World||Completed Wisconsin recount confirms Biden's win over Trump||MADISON: Wisconsin finished its recount of votes cast in this month's presidential election on Sunday, with only miniscule changes in the results that saw Democrat Joe Biden defeat Republican Donald Trump in the battleground state. Dane County, which includes the state capital of Madison, reported only small changes in its vote totals, mirroring the earlier results of the recount conducted in Milwaukee County. Trump gained 45 votes in Dane County, according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Biden won the state by nearly 20,600 votes and his margin in Milwaukee and Dane counties was about 2-to-1. “As we have said, the recount only served to reaffirm Joe Biden's victory in Wisconsin," Danielle Melfi, who led Biden's campaign in Wisconsin, said in a statement to The Associated Press. Trump's next move in Wisconsin will likely be in court. Trump campaign officials didn't immediately respond to AP requests for comment. In Milwaukee County, Biden's lead increased by 132 votes after county election officials recounted the more than 450,000 votes that were cast there. Trump paid to have a recount in both counties and his attorneys appear ready for a legal challenge seeking to toss tens of thousands of ballots. The president's campaign will need to act quickly. The deadline to certify the vote is Tuesday. Certification is done by the Democratic chair of the Wisconsin Election Commission, which is bipartisan. The Wisconsin Voters Alliance, a conservative group, has already filed a lawsuit against state election officials seeking to block certification of the results. It makes many of the claims Trump is expected to make. Another suit filed over the weekend by Wisconsin resident Dean Mueller argues that ballots placed in drop boxes are illegal and must not be counted. Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers' attorneys have and asked the state Supreme Court to dismiss the suit. Evers, a Democrat, said the complaint is a “mishmash of legal distortions” that uses factual misrepresentations in an attempt to take voting rights away from millions of Wisconsin residents. Trump's attorneys have complained about absentee ballots where voters identified themselves as “indefinitely confined,” allowing them to cast an absentee ballot without showing a photo ID; ballots that have a certification envelope with two different ink colors, indicating a poll worker may have helped complete it; and absentee ballots that don't have a separate written record for its request, such as in-person absentee ballots. Election officials in the two counties have counted those ballots during the recount, but marked them as exhibits at the request of the Trump campaign. Trump's campaign has already failed elsewhere in court without proof of widespread fraud, which experts widely agree doesn't exist. Trump legal challenges have failed in Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada and Pennsylvania.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/completed-wisconsin-recount-confirms-bidens-win-over-trump/articleshow/79481375.cms||---
November 30, 2020||World||Tigrayan forces say they have retaken Ethiopian town of Axum from military||ADDIS ABABA: The leader of rebellious forces from Ethiopia's northern Tigray region said on Sunday in a text message to Reuters that his fighters had retaken the town of Axum from the federal military. Debretsion Gebremichael, leader of the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), made the claim a day after Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed announced the military had taken the Tigray regional capital Mekelle and completed its operation. There was no immediate comment from the Ethiopian government or military. Claims from all sides have been difficult to verify as phone and internet links to Tigray have been down and access has been tightly controlled since fighting erupted on Nov. 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/tigrayan-forces-say-they-have-retaken-ethiopian-town-of-axum-from-military/articleshow/79481443.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||Farmers reject Centre's 'conditional' talks offer||NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH: Agitating farmers’ unions on Sunday rejected the Centre’s talks offer, saying they were ready for discussions but not at the government’s condition of first moving to the designated protest site at Burari in the Capital despite the Centre inviting them for deliberations. The groups, assembled on the Delhi-Haryana border, decided to intensify the protests and called for all-India mobilisation of farmers for state-level protests across the country on December 1 to press key demands, including legal guarantee to procurement of farm produce at minimum support price (MSP) and repeal of the newly-enacted central farm laws. “The condition put forward for talks is an insult to farmers. We have decided that we will never go to Burari ground as we got proof that it is an open jail. Instead of going to an open jail, we have decided to ‘gherao’ (encircle) Delhi by blocking five main entry points to the city,” said Surjeet Singh Phul, Punjab president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari). Asked how long they will be on the roads, Phul said, “We have got four months of ration with us. So, nothing to worry about.” An ANI report said home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP chief J P Nadda held a meeting on farmers’ protest at Nadda's residence on Sunday. It added that ‘khaps’ of Haryana have decided to support the protesting farmers. “Khaps will gather on Monday and proceed towards Delhi. We request the Centre to reconsider farm laws,” Sombir Sangwan, Haryana khap pradhan and Dadri MLA, told a news agency. His remarks come at a time when some farmers from Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have already started moving towards Singhu and Tikri borders. Punjab’s 30 farm organisations and Haryana BKU led by Gurnam Singh Charuni rejected Shah’s “conditional” offer of talks. The Punjab farm unions were clear that farmers would keep sitting at both the Delhi borders of Singhu and Tikri and also warned that more borders of the national capital could be blocked. “We want the farm laws repealed and the government should come to the negotiating table with a clear mind. We have decided to keep sitting at the Delhi border for an indefinite time. We are also checking if other borders to Delhi can be blocked,” BKU (Dakonda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh and BKU (Kadian) president Harmeet Singh Kadian said. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has made it clear that either they should be allowed to reach Jantar Mantar or they will remain at the Tikri border. Former Punjab minister Surjit Kumar Jyani even facilitated a telephone call between Shah and farm outfits. “Sincere efforts are being made to engage farm groups in talks. I am in touch with ministers and hope the meeting will materialise soon,” Jyani said. Haryana home minister Anil Vij also urged farmers to talk to the Union government to avoid delay and said, “Ultimately, dialogue is the only solution to the current stand-off.” Following Shah’s appeal to farmers, home secretary A K Bhalla late on Saturday night wrote to 32 farmers’ unions of Punjab and invited them for talks with a high-level committee of ministers at Vigyan Bhawan, provided they shifted to the Nirankari ground at Burari. Repeating the promise made by Shah about the possibility of talks before the scheduled date of December 3, Bhalla said in his letter that the committee of ministers would talk to them the very next day the farmers shifted to Burari. Seeking to distance themselves from political parties, the unions decided not to allow any political leader to speak using their platforms. “Our committee will allow other organisations which are supporting us to speak if they follow our rules (stand by our decisions),” Phul said while addressing reporters on the border. The unions insisted the Centre should, at least, assure them that it was ready to “reconsider” their demands. Though the Centre has so far not extended such an assurance, Tomar said on Sunday, “The government has called them for talks on December 3. So, talks are already going on. Nobody should think that the government is not ready for it.” Tomar emphasised that the government was open for talks and it was for the farmers’ unions to “create an atmosphere” for it. “They should leave agitation and choose talks,” Tomar said. He had held a round of talks with farmers’ unions of Punjab at Vigyan Bhawan on November 13. That meeting did not yield any result. “Empty assurances and statements will not be believed by farmers any more. The government chose to ignore farmers’ protests for months on end and tried to malign it in numerous ways,” All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella organisation of around 400 farmers’ organisations from across the country, said. It said the protests were not limited to Punjab as farmers from Haryana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana had also joined it. The AIKSCC also demanded that the government should stop dealing with the issue from the prism of intelligence agencies and home ministry. “Its attempt to invoke the home ministry only acts as a threat to farmers, rather than arouse confidence in its sincerity,” it said while referring to the home secretary’s letter. Watch Farmers reject Centre's 'conditional' talks offer, threaten to intensify protest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-reject-centres-conditional-talks-offer/articleshow/79481643.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Business||Forecasters raise GDP projections after Q2 rebound||MUMBAI: Forecasters are revising upwards their projection for the current fiscal’s GDP growth after better-than-expected numbers for the second quarter. Most economists expect India’s GDP to shrink between 6% and 8% in FY21. Until last month, international agencies like the IMF were expecting the economy to shrink by 10%. The RBI is widely expected to continue with its accommodative stance, keep liquidity in surplus without actually cutting rates, given that credit growth continues to remain negative but is expected to hold on to its policy rate in its post-monetary policy statement. Nomura has upgraded the FY21 GDP forecast to -8.2% from -10.8%. Most agencies have raised their projections over the weekend, while others are expected to do so this week. “It is likely that the outturn would trigger sharp upgrades to consensus estimates for full-year GDP, including that of the RBI that had pencilled in more than 9% contraction for the same period when it detailed its quarterly projections in October,” said A Prasanna and Abhishek Upadhyay of ICICI Securities in a report. They noted that the RBI had predicted a sharp contraction of 5.6% even in the Oct-Dec period, and it is likely that a reasonably strong upgrade is plausible to that estimate too based on high-frequency data in the current quarter. Although the RBI is expected to maintain the status quo in rates, liquidity is expected to be in surplus due to a record purchase of dollars by the central bank to keep the exchange rate in check. Also, demand for credit has not picked up. Despite the festive season that pushed up demand for home loans and personal loans in October, the outstanding loan book of lenders continues to be below end-March 2020 levels, as large corporates have reduced dependence on bank loans. However, weekly data shows that loan growth finally turned positive in November. According to SBI group chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh, one of the drivers for the rebound has been the growth in manufacturing. However, he believes that a large part of the improvement is due to cost-saving, particularly wage, which could have implications for consumption. “The reading of Q2 GDP suggests that the output gap has not corrected to the point that it will be a concern for demand-pull inflation. Further, the inflationary pressure in agriculture goods despite expanding output has further capped policy option. The option must move towards continued easing mobility of goods and give massive thrust to the construction and infrastructure sector. More focus should be on increasing the ease of doing business and private sector participation,” said Ghosh. According to Care Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis, the gain in Q2 was powered by manufacturing, electricity and agriculture sectors. “The contact-intensive service sectors continue to record a contraction in growth rates both on a yearly and quarterly basis,” he said. Sabnavis also said that India is trailing other countries that have reported GDP numbers. “In terms of size, the domestic economy shrunk to the level of December 2017. Also, India is trailing other major economies in terms of recovery during July-September 2020... Growth here however has been higher than that of Spain (-8.7%) and the UK (-9.6%),” Sabnavis said in a note. Watch After Q2 rebound, forecasters raise GDP projections in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/forecasters-raise-gdp-projections-after-q2-rebound/articleshow/79481901.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 30, 2020||India||December to February nights, mornings could be colder than usual||NEW DELHI: Nights and early mornings are likely to be colder than usual while day temperatures may be above normal in most parts of north, northwest and central India and some parts of east India during December-February, shows a seasonal outlook for the three-month period, released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday. The outlook shows that most parts of northeast India and some parts of west coast and south peninsular India are likely to experience “above normal minimum temperatures” during the period — it means nights-early mornings may be less cold in these parts of India. However, most of the subdivisions of south peninsular India (mainly Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu) are likely to experience “below normal maximum temperatures”. So, daytime in this region will not be as warm as it usually is during the season. These predictions for the period are based on the Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System model, prepared based on retrospective forecasts for 16 years (2003-2018). This model shows that there is 60-70% probability that Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana and east Rajasthan will record an average about 0.42 – 0.52 degree C below normal temperatures during nights-early morning period while there is 100% probability that west Rajasthan will record an average 1.17 degree C below normal temperatures. On the other hand, there is 70-100% probability that Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, most parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha will record an average 0.57 – 1 degree C above normal day (maximum) temperatures — an indication of clear sky in these regions during the day. The day temperatures in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi are likely to be nearly 1 degree above normal. “The probability forecast for maximum (day) temperature indicates that above normal maximum temperatures are likely over most subdivisions of northwest, north, east and northeast India and a few subdivisions of central and peninsular India,” said the IMD in its seasonal outlook. Watch Nights, mornings predicted to be colder than usual this Dec-Feb||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/december-to-february-nights-mornings-could-be-colder-than-usual/articleshow/79482204.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||Pharma gateway readies task force to handle vaccine cargo||While United Airlines began operating flights past weekend to gear up for shipments of Pfizer’s Covid vaccine for distribution in India, preparations like having a dedicated Covid task force to handle the cargo is on at Mumbai airport, India’s largest gateway for pharmaceutical export-import. The task force will collaborate and carry out advance planning with stakeholders such as airline customers, supply chain partners, regulatory and governmental bodies, and vaccine distributors, said a Mumbai International Airport Ltd spokesperson. Key challenges in handling the cargo are temperature management and time spent in transit. Mumbai airport authorities are laying the groundwork to create Digital Dedicated Pharma Corridors linking India with aviation hubs in Europe and the West Asia, in a bid to expedite transportation and cold chain storage of the Covid vaccine for distribution. A task force has been assembled to work out the logistics of handling the cargo. “The task force will work at temperature management, reduce dwell time (the duration that cargo containers spend within temporary storage facilities in transit, like at airports) with prior special approvals from regulators in order to ensure an unbroken cold chain for vaccine movement from the manufacturing facility to the end distributor,’’ a Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson said. The airport is also planning a dedicated, round-the-clock customer service cell for Covid-19 vaccine EXIM (export-import) consignments to handle customer queries, pre-alerts and status updates. “The Mumbai airport is well-positioned to support, maintain and optimize pharma-dedicated corridors around the world. We are also working closely with airports in Europe and West Asia to roll out fully Digital Dedicated Pharma corridors, particularly for the transportation of the Covid-19 vaccine,’’ said MIAL. Among other measures in place are flexible slot management for ad-hoc charter operations, a round-the-clock green channel facility with dedicated truck docks, and X-Ray machine. With clinical trials of vaccines by Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India, Moderna, Zydus Cadila and Pfizer currently on, the government expects heavy movement of consignments once approval comes from the drug regulators. Globally, Covid vaccine distribution would be one of the biggest logistical exercises to be taken up. For global coverage some 2,00,000 movements by pallet shippers on 15,000 flights may be needed, said a paper released by DHL. The Mumbai airport’s temperature-controlled Export Pharma Centre with an annual handling capacity of 3,50,000 tonnes has six cold chambers that offer 2-8 degrees Celsius storage. But the Pfizer vaccine demands even lower temperature for storage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pharma-gateway-readies-task-force-to-handle-vaccine-cargo/articleshow/79482551.cms||---
November 30, 2020||World||US billionaires gained $1 trillion since pandemic started||American billionaires haven't been just immune to the pandemic, they have been thriving in it, drastically increasing their collective wealth. An analysis by Chuck Collins at the Institute for Policy Studies found that American billionaires have been their wealth grow by $1 trillion since March of this year - more than 34 percent.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); That was not the case during the 2008 financial crisis when it took Forbes' 400 richest people three years to recoup their losses from the Great Recession. Collins' findings highlight a wealth gain by a mere 650 individuals that seems obscene at a time when nearly 7 million Americans are at risk of eviction when moratoriums expire at the end of the year. There are 650 billionaires on the list, out of which 47 are new arrivals with 11 dropping out due to death or financial decline. There were numerous impressive financial gains among notable billionaires on the lit with Jeff Bezos growing his fortune by $69.4 billion between March 17 and November 24.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The Amazon boss and richest man on the planet is now with $182.4 billion. The most impressive gain on the list was recorded by Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk who has seen his fortune experience a meteoric rise. In the above period, his wealth surged a whopping 414 percent, climbing from "just" $24.6 billion to $126.2 billion, making him the world's second richest man after Bezos. Illustrating the gulf in financial inequality in the US today, the analysis states that US billionaires own $4 trillion, 3.5 percent of all privately held wealth in the country. Billionaire wealth is now twice the amount of wealth held by the bottom 50 percent of all American households combined, approximately 160 million people. Source: Statista||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/1-trillion-gain-how-us-billionaires-won-even-during-pandemic/articleshow/79481859.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||BJP goes local to establish itself as a factor in Telangana||NEW DELHI: BJP’s aggression in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls is as audacious as it gets, considering that the party managed only five seats against TRS’s 99 and AIMIM’a 44 in 2016. While BJP leaders have publicly claimed that the next mayor of the city will be a saffronite, sources in the party said they were aware that getting a majority in the civic body was not going to be easy. “We cannot realistically hope for a leap of the dimension like the BJP under PM Narendra Modi-Amit Shah pulled off in Tripura when taking the party from zero to majority in the state assembly,” a leader said. BJP general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, who has been appointed in-charge for the GHMC polls, said, “Many are rattled and asking why BJP is so invested in local body elections. Truth be told, BJP is invested in all opportunities to serve the people of the country anywhere, everywhere. To those asking why, the answer is why not.” However, according to sources, the high-octane drive in Hyderabad could actually be aimed at establishing the party as a factor in Telangana as a whole. The party’s tacticians feel that the the ruling TRS could be on the wane as the sense of gratitude to its leader and chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao has evaporated because of the promotion of ‘dynasty’, alleged corruption as well as administrative inefficiency and excesses. Read AlsoTRS govt will fall after polls: Telangana BJP president Bandi SanjayBJP state president Bandi Sanjay on Saturday sparked a controversy by claiming that the TRS government in Telangana will collapse any time after the GHMC elections. He also hinted at mid-term elections which his party will win. TRS reacted sharply saying the BJP was day-dreaming given that they had“We want to take Telangana and Hyderabad from dynasty to democracy, from corruption to transparency and from politics of appeasement to development,” home minister Amit Shah said in Hyderabad on Sunday, making it clear that the party will not spare the CM and his family, who are facing charges of corruption and family fostering. BJP’s surprise success in the recent Dubakka bypoll is being seen as evidence that the state may be emerging out of “thanksgiving mode” when people massively favoured the founder of Telangana. Dubakka shares its borders with Gajwel, represented by KCR; Sircilla, the constituency of his son and IT minister K T Rama Rao; and Siddipet, the stronghold of the CM’s nephew Harish Rao. Besides TRS’s perceived problems, BJP, which surprised many by winning four Lok Sabha seats in 2019, is also encouraged by the decline of Congress and TDP. Congress did not win a single seat in GHMC polls in 2016. Read AlsoVote to change fate of Hyderabad, says Yogi AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said if Faizabad can be renamed as Ayodhya, why cannot Hyderabad become ‘Bhagyanagar.’Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, on campaign trail for GHMC polls on Saturday, had said, “Some people were asking me if Hyderabad can be renamed as Bhagyanagar. I said ‘why not?’ I told them that we renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya and Allahabad as Prayagraj after BJP came in power in Uttar Pradesh. Then why can’t Hyderabad be renamed as Bhagyanagar?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-goes-local-to-establish-itself-as-a-factor-in-telangana/articleshow/79482569.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
November 30, 2020||India||Orphan who ranked 270 in JEE clicks wrong link, loses seat in IIT-B||MUMBAI: An 18-year-old man raised by a single mother and orphaned two years ago by her death, scored an all-India rank of 270 in JEE and secured a seat of his choice in the electrical engineering BTech course at IIT-Bombay. He lost the seat within a fortnight last month. The teen, Siddhanth Batra from Agra, had aced the Indian Institute of Technology JEE (Advanced) 2020 and had been accepted in the first round on October 18. On October 31, scouting for updates on his roll number, he came across a link to ‘withdraw from seat allocation and further rounds’. He clicked on it under what he said was a “bona fide belief” that he was not required for further admission rounds. On November 10 he found his name missing from the admitted students’ list for the four-year BTech in electrical engineering. There were 93 seats for the course. He petitioned the Bombay high court against the IIT letter of withdrawal of his admission. On November 19, a vacation bench on hearing his counsel directed the IIT to consider his petition as a representation within two days. The IIT did. With two days to go for the last date of ‘late registration’, on November 23, it rejected his appeal. IIT registrar R Premkumar said the institute has “no authority to quash the withdrawal letter”. Its hands were tied by the ‘rules of business’ under which the admissions are conducted. Premkumar said the rules are clear and “strictly adhered to” and all admissions are handled by JoSSA (Joint Seat Allocation Authority) alone. The IIT-B said it had no seat vacant now. It said Batra could apply again next year for JEE (Advanced) 2021. Batra has now approached the Supreme Court. He seeks creation of an additional seat to undo his loss. He lives with his grandparents and his maternal uncle and receives an “orphan pension”. He thought the ‘freeze’ option implied he was content with his seat and his admission process was complete. He, thus, ‘froze’ his seat. The withdraw option was a “conscious” two-step process in the rules, said the IIT order. It allowed successful candidates to withdraw before the final round with no option to withdraw after the last round. ‘Seat acceptance fee’ gets refunded after a deduction of Rs 2,000. Once a candidate has withdrawn, the seat shall stand cancelled, say the rules. The IIT said the ‘reason for withdrawal’ option is there to ensure students can appear for JEE again and to “ensure seats are not wasted.” The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the matter on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/orphan-who-ranked-270-clicks-wrong-link-loses-seat-in-iit-b/articleshow/79482581.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 30, 2020||India||‘Those sharing home with Covid patient at highest infection risk’||NEW DELHI: Symptomatic people with Covid-19 infection tend to spread the virus far more than those who are asymptomatic as coughing and sneezing play a key role in discharging the infection to a large distance and for a longer period of time, public health experts said while underscoring the importance of early isolation, testing and contact tracing to ensure the chain of transmission is broken. Findings of a study conducted by researchers at the Imperial College London showed asymptomatic Covid-19 patients were four times less likely to spread the infection than symptomatic ones. “If one is asymptomatic, he or she is not coughing and sneezing etc. So, the chance of spreading infection to a large distance becomes less. Also, the duration of the viral load is shorter in such people as compared to those who have symptoms,” AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said. Coronavirus live updatesAs per Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, symptomatic people infected with Covid-19 also posed more danger because the proportion of such people in the population was much higher than those who were asymptomatic. Initially, it was felt that the pandemic was being driven more by asymptomatic people because it is difficult to identify, test and isolate them. However, the study provides new evidence to what epidemiologists, health experts and even WHO was highlighting that pre-symptomatic and symptomatic cases are the ones causing more infection. Read AlsoIndia's Covid-19 tally rises to 94.31 lakh with 38,772 fresh casesThe number of Covid-19 cases reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 40,000 for the seventh time this month, taking the infection tally to 94.31 lakh, while the recoveries surged to 88,47,600, according to govt data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 94,31,691The study — a statistical analysis of dozens of contact-tracing reports — also showed that the highest risk of infection came from sharing a home with an infected individual. “Those with symptoms must get themselves tested and isolate themselves as early as possible because chances of spreading the virus is maximum during the first one or two days,” Dr Guleria said. “The study further reinforces that one must test all those who are symptomatic early and within the first 48 to 72 hours do detail contact tracing and quarantine all the contacts to help break the chain of transmission,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/those-sharing-home-with-covid-patient-at-highest-infection-risk/articleshow/79482585.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 30, 2020||India||I-T’s multi-city searches expose benami income of over Rs 450 crore||NEW DELHI: In a multi-city operation, the income tax department conducted searches on Friday on an IT SEZ developer and a prominent stainless-steel supplier based in Chennai, detecting undisclosed income of more than Rs 450 crore. The search operation was carried out at 16 premises located in Chennai, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Cuddalore. “The evidence unearthed include unaccounted assets worth about Rs 100 crore accumulated by the ex-director and his family members of the IT SEZ in the past three years,” the I-T department said. The SEZ developer claimed bogus work-in-progress expenses of about Rs 160 crore in an under-construction project, it added. Bogus expenses claimed by the SEZ developer included capital expenses of Rs 30 crore through consultancy fees and inadmissible interest expenses to the extent of Rs 20 crore. The I-T department also unearthed transactions of Rs 2,300 crore routed as an investment through Mauritius. "The shares of the SEZ were sold by its erstwhile shareholders, a resident and a non-resident entity, which routed its investment through a Mauritius intermediary, for about Rs 2,300 crore in 2017-18,” tax authorities said. However, the capital gains out of this sale transaction were never disclosed to the I-T department. “Investigation is in progress to determine the undisclosed capital gains in the hands of both the shareholders. Other land transactions and an issue relating to Compulsory Convertible Debentures are also under examination,” according to I-T.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-ts-multi-city-searches-expose-benami-income-of-over-rs-450-crore/articleshow/79482609.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||Kerala opposition demands probe into raids on government's own department||KOCHI: Opposition parties on Sunday demanded a broader probe into Kerala State Financial Enterprises’ business dealings after the state government’s own vigilance department discovered widespread corruption and malpractice in the reputed government institution during raids conducted on around 40 KSFE branches on Friday and Saturday. “Irregularities worth lakhs of rupees are being probed by an agency under the CM. It cannot be brushed aside the way Isaac is doing,” opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said, referring to finance minister Thomas Isaac’s open criticism of the vigilance raids. The finance minister, who described the raids on Saturday as “whose madness is this?”, continued his criticism on Sunday. “Vigilance can suo motu conduct probe if they find irregularities in any government institution. I don’t have any issue with that. But this is not the way to inspect. So the department concerned will investigate how such a failure happened on the part of vigilance. The state government will inspect the report when they submit it,” he said.  The vigilance department comes under the state home ministry, which is handled by CM Pinarayi Vijayan and the finance minister’s comments on the raids raised questions on whether one arm of the government didn’t know what another arm was up to or if it was done deliberately. CPM’s acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan himself admitted that there was confusion in his party on the raids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-opposition-demands-probe-into-raids-on-governments-own-department/articleshow/79482610.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||Flight delayed to fly in organs from Rajasthan, save four lives||NEW DELHI: The Air India Group is not exactly known for on-time performance but on Saturday, Alliance Air delayed a flight deliberately to fly harvested organs from Jaipur to Delhi that eventually led to saving four lives. The lives of four critically-ill patients in Delhi depended on getting in-time delivery of two lungs, a liver and a kidney retrieved from a 49-year-old donor who passed away in Jaipur. Officials of various agencies like the Rajasthan chief minister’s office, State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation, airlines, Central Industrial Security Force and Jaipur Airport were coordinating to ensure that the harvested organs are on the first flight to Delhi, which happened to be AI regional subsidiary Alliance Air’s (9I 644) that was to depart at 8.15pm. Boarding for this flight had been completed and passengers were waiting for the ATR to take off. Once informed, the airline management decided to delay departure of this flight. “When passengers onboard the aircraft came to know about the reason of flight delay, they patiently waited for the organs and the medical team to reach Jaipur airport. The organ harvesting surgery performed at a private hospital in Jaipur was a complicated one involving retrieval of lungs, kidney and liver, and hence was time consuming. In about 30 minutes, a team of doctors, paramedical staff and the two lungs, a liver and akidney from the donor were onboard and then the aircraft took off at 9.28pm,” said an Alliance Air official. Alliance Air CEO Harpreet A De Singh applauded her team’s efforts. “We are glad to be a part of this lifesaving flight. Alliance Air’s aim is to enhance regional connectivity through safe and efficient operations while meeting the goals of business and corporate social responsibility. It is the constant endeavour of Alliance Air to serve the nation,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/flight-delayed-to-fly-in-organs-from-rajasthan-save-four-lives/articleshow/79482613.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||Congress MP Anand Sharma hails PM Modi's visit to vaccine hubs day after Cong criticism||New Delhi: A day after Congress accused PM Narendra Modi of a “photo-op” with vaccine manufacturers instead of talking to agitating farmers, Congress MP Anand Sharma said Modi’s visit to the institutes will boost spirits of the health workers and the country fighting the pandemic. Sharma, deputy leader of opposition in RS, is also a signatory to the G23 letter to Sonia Gandhi slamming the leadership drift in the party, a reference to Rahul Gandhi’s style of functioning. In a tweet on Sunday, he said, “PM Modi’s visit to Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadilla was a recognition of Indian scientists and their work to produce the vaccine. That will lift morale of frontline warriors.” He further said, “Also respecting the institutions that India has built over decades that have expertise and potential making India world’s largest vaccine manufacturer”. His remarks raised eyebrows because a day earlier Congress had accused PM of hogging publicity, saying it was the job of scientists to make the vacccine and they were seized of the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-mp-anand-sharma-hails-pm-modis-visit-to-vaccine-hubs-day-after-cong-criticism/articleshow/79482618.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||Two years on, ‘Statue of Unity’ a model of ‘self reliant’ campaign||KEVADIA: Nearly two years after PM Narendra Modi unveiled the tallest statue in the world — Statue of Unity dedicated to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on the banks of the Narmada at Kevadia in Gujarat — it has not only turned out to be one of the most visited tourist destinations but has become a model of the “self-reliant” campaign, reports Akhilesh Singh. Most projects in its vicinity, be it hospitality or other services, have been developed on a “self sustenance” model, providing jobs to local residents, mostly tribals from the region. Before Covid-19 outbreak, there have been days when Kevadia witnessed the highest tourist footfall in the country, more than 35,000 a day. In one-and-half years, earnings from visits at the statue were over Rs 150 crore. Over 43 lakh tourists came to Kevadia from October 2018 to March this year, officials said. Officials in charge of the project said Modi often called them and took feedback about ongoing projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-years-on-statue-of-unity-a-model-of-self-reliant-campaign/articleshow/79482620.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 30, 2020||India||Farmer's protest: Netizens back stir, take hoe to hashtag||JALANDHAR: The hashtag has joined the humble hoe in the fight against contentious farm laws. While an army of protesting farmers is camping on the Delhi border for the long haul, many prominent Punjabi artistes, a handful of social media influencers and even a former MP have taken the battle to Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp. “We will bring 25,000 new Twitter users for Punjab to reply to the propaganda machinery of the BJP government. The difference is, ours will be real people,” posted Ludhianabased Bhavjit Singh as the “Tractor2Twitr” campaign got underway on Sunday.  Initiated by Dr Amandeep Singh Bains and some of his friends, the campaign has already got the support of many Punjabi NRIs. Punjabi netizens have a strong presence on Facebook, but they are relatively thinner on Twitter. Over the last two days, FB has been the medium of choice to issue appeals for anyone pro-farmer to join Twitter and respond to “attacks against the Punjabi farmers’ agitation that are coming mainly through tweets”. In “an important message to Punjab social media activists” on his FB page, former AAP MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi requested all Punjabis across religions, castes, trades and professions to come forward through social media platforms and defeat the “troll army’s propaganda and malicious narrative of dubbing peacefully protesting farmers as Khalistanis and urban naxals”. Another netizen, Harsh Kumar Bhalla, has started writing messages in Hindi “to reach out to a larger constituency”. The hashtag “istandwithfarmerschallenge” has since gone viral. Punjabi singer-actor Amrinder Gill issued an appeal asking everyone with access to social media to join Twitter “to spread the message of Punjabi farmers’ struggle”. Actor Rana Ranbir had been among the first artistes to campaign for support on social media. Singer-actors Diljit Dosanjh and Gippy Grewal, too, issued appeals on Twitter to run hashtags in support of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-netizens-back-stir-take-hoe-to-hashtag/articleshow/79482629.cms||IP Singh
November 30, 2020||Business||Government issues guidelines for officers to carry out GST checks||NEW DELHI: The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has unveiled standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by tax officials carrying out physical verification of the entities that have been granted a deemed GST registration without Aadhaar authentication. This part of the tax department’s strategy to counter GST fake invoice frauds through search and surveys leading to arrests and filing of cases against fake entities involved in availing and passing on input tax credit (ITC) fraudulently, According to sources the guidelines would effectively curb the fake invoices menace and ITC frauds and ensure proper facilitation of ease of doing business for the genuine applicants/entities without any overreach by tax officials. These measures come after a high level review held in the department of revenue to assess the impact. CBIC sources said that an entity having deemed registration where the applicant either has not opted for Aadhaar authentication or where such authentication has failed, has to go for mandatory physical verification of the premises, or in cases where the physical verification is difficult, certain additional documents may be called for verification by the tax officer (upon approval of an officer not below the rank of joint commissioner) before grant of any registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-issues-guidelines-for-officers-to-carry-out-gst-checks/articleshow/79482643.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||At rally, Suvendu Adhikari stays mum on TMC||MAHISADAL: In his first rally since resigning from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet two days ago, rebel TMC veteran Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday steered clear of mentioning the party, focusing instead on portraying himself as “a people’s servant” who would continue to work and “fulfil my commitments to them”. Adhikari was at Mahisadal in East Midnapore on a day when TMC ministers Rajiv Banerjee, Sujit Bose and Bratya Basu addressed party programmes in Haldia and Contai, both on their estranged colleague’s family turf. Speaking briefly, Adhikari said: “People should have the final word. The Constitution of the country emphasises it is ‘for the people, of the people and by the people’. Every arrangement under it should put people first. It is people who will have the last word. It is their overwhelming support in such huge numbers that will help me to continue to work for them,”. The rebel leader did not take any questions. Trinamool functionaries, a constant presence in his earlier “apolitical” meetings, were conspicuous by their absence from Mahisadal. Trinamool chose to hold party meetings in East Midnapore in an attempt to retain its support base and remove confusion in the party ranks after the Adhikari family maintained a disquieting silence on their political future. The party’s preparatory meetings were also meant to canvass for chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s public meeting in West Midnapore on December 7. Sources close to Suvendu indicated he might go to Nandigram on Monday to attend a religious programme. He has several apolitical programmes lined up till mid-December. In Contai, minister Basu said: “He (Adhikari) is still in the party...Party leaders may leave the party, but a party is made by its workers.” In Haldia, PWD minister Bose did not mention Adhikari, choosing to restrict himself to targeting BJP “for fanning mistrust and half-truths among people”. At Muchisah in South 24-Parganas, MP Abhishek Banerjee dared BJP to “name” him while levelling allegations. On “dissenters” in the party, Banerjee warned that Trinamool was like their “mother” and no party worker would “forgive treachery against one’s mother”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-rally-suvendu-adhikari-stays-mum-on-tmc/articleshow/79482654.cms||Suman Mondal
November 30, 2020||Patna||Parched Gaya’s ground water level up by 17%||GAYA: The renovation of large number of water bodies under Jal Jeevan Hariyali scheme and rainwater harvesting projects has improved ground water level by 17℅ in the district. District magistrate Abhishek Singh apprised this to joint secretary, union power ministry Mrityunjay Kumar Narayan on Friday during a review meeting of the progress in different sectors like education, health and nutrition, integrated child development scheme (ICDS), infrastructure development among others at par with ‘aspirational districts’. Apprising the joint secretary about progress in different ongoing schemes, the DM said: “The district has achieved significant progress in agriculture and water resources sector. Although the progress of the ongoing schemes in the district has been affected due to the Covid- induced lockdown, review of progress is being done at regular interval. Apart from weekly review, detail monitoring is being done at the monthly meeting also,” he said. He also apprised about the project at Nimchak Bathani block headquarters for conservation of rain water coming down the hills and its reuse for irrigation purpose. “Under the Jal Jeevan Hariyali scheme, 17,418 soak pits have been constructed and renovation of 3031 water bodies, including check dams, tanks, ponds and aahars has been done to stop wastage of water. As a result, the ground water level has improved to nearly 17 ℅,”the DM said. Incidentally, during the last few years, different parts of Gaya district have been facing acute water crisis, especially during summer. The reason is said to be depletion of the ground water table, leading to drying up of hand pumps as well as ponds and other water bodies. Hand pumps fail to fetch water in the summer even in several parts of Gaya town. The administration has to make arrangement of tankers to make available water to the residents. Ground water apart, the DM said at the meeting that the district is doing well in the field education as well. “Facility of library has been made available at each block headquarter. More than 70 ℅ secondary schools have smart class facility. There is need of extra classrooms in the schools. To meet the need, a project worth Rs 2300 crore has been sent to the Niti Aayog for approval,” Singh said. The joint secretary sought details about geographical, economical, educational and social status of the district. He asked to prepare a detailed project and send it for approval to ensure better implementation of the schemes in education, health, ICDS, agriculture, water resources and other infrastructure development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parched-gayas-ground-water-level-up-by-17/articleshow/79480188.cms||Alok Kumar
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: No on-campus university class now, admissions to reopen for two weeks||KOLKATA: The state education department on Sunday announced that on-campus classes won’t be resumed at colleges and universities from December 1 and classes for the first semester of the undergraduate session will be conducted online. Following a meeting between state higher education minister Partha Chatterjee and vice-chancellors of state universities, it was also declared that admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate courses at the state universities will reopen once more for two weeks. Chatterjee acknowledged that a large number of vacancies remained in some of the most prominent colleges of the state. In the hour-long meeting, each university was asked to begin the new academic year at their own convenience, which has raised the fear that there will be no uniformity in the session. “The University Grants Commission (UGC) had asked the institutes to begin the new academic calendar from November 1, which was followed by most universities across the country. The Bengal government postponed it to December 1 citing the ongoing pandemic and the festival season. Now, at Sunday’s meeting, the VCs have been told to begin the new session as per their decision. If there is no uniformity, it may lead to problems later in running the semester,” said a higher education department official. State-run universities have also been given permission to curtail syllabus, if necessary, to complete the semesters. “Registrars should coordinate the attendance of non-teaching employees, we have been told. Also, all examinations are to be held online till a decision is taken,” said a VC. Even after the colleges sought a declaration from students assuring the college and university authorities that they were going to take up seats, several seats have fallen vacant in the various UG programmes. When the registration process for Calcutta University started, the vacancies increased, leading to a clamour for holding a centralized counselling session from next year. A college principal explained that one of the reasons for candidates’ withdrawal could be the prevailing pandemic. “We received several candidates from the districts but some of them decided to pull out. They could be unsure of studying in Kolkata now. These students may prefer a college near their homes,” he said. Lady Brabourne College has 150 vacancies at present. “After the state sought a declaration from students, many opted to withdraw. We reported almost 107 vacancies. As we closed the registration process, it went up to 150. This is a huge loss for the state considering the fabulous infrastructure which we offer to students,” said principal Siuli Sarkar. “Students started to express disinterest after the counselling process for admissions to the engineering colleges started in September. Now we can offer seats to those who are genuinely interested to study in the college,” Sarkar said. The state had closed the admissions on October 30 and the registration was closed on November 30. Now, the admission process will restart on December 1 and close by December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-on-campus-univ-class-now-admissions-to-reopen-for-2-wks/articleshow/79482146.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Met says chill to persist in Kolkata for next 3 days||KOLKATA: The mercury in Kolkata slid to 16.6°C on Sunday morning — a two-degree slump from Saturday. With no cloud in the region and the northwesterly wind gaining strength, the chill is set to persist over the next three days, said the Met office. The minimum temperature could drop further, to 16°C, on Monday and hover around the mark till the middle of the week, predicted the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). “The minimum temperature will remain below the normal mark for the next 72 hours. There is no cloud or system in sight that can block the flow of northwesterly winds and they remain strong and cool due to the early onset of winter across north India. So, the chill will continue,” said RMC director G K Das. The lowest temperature recorded in Kolkata so far this season was 15.4°C after the mercury dropped by seven degrees last Tuesday. A day earlier, it had been 15.5°C. While cyclone Nivar had a minor impact on the city weather, another low-pressure is brewing off the southern coast. It may hit land on December 3, but is likely to be a weak system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/temp-dips-by-2c-met-says-chill-to-persist-for-next-3-days/articleshow/79482169.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Business||India’s FY21 GDP sees upward revisions on faster Q2 rebound||Mumbai: Forecasters are revising upwards their projection for the current fiscal’s GDP growth after better-than-expected numbers for the second quarter. Most economists expect India’s GDP to shrink between 6% and 8% in FY21. Until last month, international agencies like the IMF were expecting the economy to shrink by 10%. The RBI is widely expected to continue with its accommodative stance, keep liquidity in surplus without actually cutting rates, given that credit growth continues to remain negative but is expected to hold on to its policy rate in its post-monetary policy statement. Nomura has upgraded the FY21 GDP forecast to -8.2% from -10.8%. Most agencies have raised their projections over the weekend, while others are expected to do so this week. “It is likely that the outturn would trigger sharp upgrades to consensus estimates for full-year GDP, including that of the RBI that had pencilled in more than 9% contraction for the same period when it detailed its quarterly projections in October,” said A Prasanna and Abhishek Upadhyay of ICICI Securities in a report. They noted that the RBI had predicted a sharp contraction of 5.6% even in the Oct-Dec period, and it is likely that a reasonably strong upgrade is plausible to that estimate too based on high-frequency data in the current quarter. Although the RBI is expected to maintain the status quo in rates, liquidity is expected to be in surplus due to a record purchase of dollars by the central bank to keep the exchange rate in check. Also, demand for credit has not picked up. Despite the festive season that pushed up demand for home loans and personal loans in October, the outstanding loan book of lenders continues to be below end-March 2020 levels, as large corporates have reduced dependence on bank loans. However, weekly data shows that loan growth finally turned positive in November. According to SBI group chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh, one of the drivers for the rebound has been the growth in manufacturing. However, he believes that a large part of the improvement is due to cost-saving, particularly wage, which could have implications for consumption. “The reading of Q2 GDP suggests that the output gap has not corrected to the point that it will be a concern for demand-pull inflation. Further, the inflationary pressure in agriculture goods despite expanding output has further capped policy option. The option must move towards continued easing mobility of goods and give massive thrust to the construction and infrastructure sector. More focus should be on increasing the ease of doing business and private sector participation,” said Ghosh. According to Care Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis, the gain in the domestic economy in Q2 FY21 was powered by manufacturing, electricity and agriculture sectors. “The contact-intensive service sectors continue to record a contraction in growth rates both on a yearly and quarterly basis,” he said. Sabnavis also said that India is trailing other countries that have reported GDP numbers. “In terms of size, the domestic economy shrunk to the level of December 2017. Also, India is trailing other major economies in terms of recovery during July-September 2020... Growth here however has been higher than that of Spain (-8.7%) and the UK (-9.6%),” Sabnavis said in a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-fy21-gdp-sees-upward-revisions-on-faster-q2-rebound/articleshow/79482154.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 30, 2020||Business||‘Holding companies will separate promoters from banks’||NEW DELHI: Sachin Chaturvedi wears many hats. He is the director general of think tank RIS and is also on the RBI’s central board. He was also part of the internal working group (IWG) set up by the RBI to revisit bank licensing norms. In an interview with TOI, he explains the thinking behind the recommendations. Excerpts: A lot of attention is currently focused on the entry of the corporate sector into banking. Did you expect this kind of a reaction?The reactions are on two or three different planes. One is focusing on the entry of large corporate houses. There are quite a few reactions that are welcoming the new scope for capital infusion in the banking sector, they are welcoming the efforts on enriched regulatory architecture and they are also trying to bring out the fact that the report has not just covered the architecture for universal banks but also the mechanisms needed for differentiated banks like small finance banks and payments banks. There is a need for a mix of institutional architecture and governance models to deliver what is required. The regulatory architecture should reflect the new realities emanating out of the rise of new technologies in the financial sector and the plurality of new actors in the realm of finance require changes in the Banking Regulation Act. A ex-RBI governor, a former deputy governor, two former CEAs chief economic advisers and a former finance secretary are among those who are critical about the entry of corporate houses... and have concerns around regulating them and also the global experience. How do you view it?We shouldn’t completely overlook what has been existing in India. Entry of private banks will not happen for the first time with this report. This has been the case since 1993. The provisions and requirements of various rounds of licensing have not been uniform. They reflect regulatory preferences of those times. Harmonisation across those guidelines is important, particularly when there is a new confidence for a $5-trillion economy and a new buoyancy in the economy. After 1993, the efforts to strengthen and regulate the private sector banks were made in 2001 and later in 2013, when we talked about the NOFHC (Non-Operative Financial Holding Company) to support the banking structure. In 2016, we made an effort to further insulate it and bring it forward to improve delivery. The IWG report is clear that a holding company structure is a desired format to achieve the necessary ring-fencing objectives. This should be sustained as the NOFHC would insulate the credit giving institution from those who are availing it. What we have tried to do is say that private banks are welcome but should be properly regulated. We have suggested two tracks — to strengthen the regulations and bring it through the law. Provision for NOFHC was through RBI guidelines and we have suggested that the RBI should work with the government to ensure that the tax provisions treat the NOFHC as a pass-through structure. How do you safeguard corporate houses promoting a bank lending to its own group companies?There are several areas which we have focused on. We have suggested revisiting the fit-and-proper criteria. We have said that financial conglomerates getting into banking should have a structure of NOFHC to come through and that companies should be regulated through RBI guidelines and necessary legislative framework. Third, the other entities of the conglomerate should not be in a similar area of business. Fourth, there should be prior RBI approval for any transactions that have to take place in the same entity. Fifth, there are suggestions to ease the regulatory structure for NBFCs to become banks and for banks to have an exit option. For equity dilution, we have proposed structures where we do not disincentivise those who are venturing into setting up a bank. But once they are there accountability should not be compromised. So, the sixth suggestion is the timespan for dilution and capping of voting rights and listing requirement. Seventh is not just redefining fit and proper criteria but also defining the base capital. These steps are clearly defined and there is no attempt to dilute the regulatory architecture. In fact, what we have suggested is the strengthening of them with maneuvering space for various financial actors. Are these sufficient safeguards given RBI’s supervisory history, from PNB to IL&FS and Yes Bank?Certainly. The legislative enabling process that we have suggested, the strengthening of the supervisory role and leveraging of IT are some of the areas which are dealt at length in the report. At different levels, how the group entities are transacting among themselves, how the transition is happening and in what manner NOFHC are being leveraged. How business houses are permitted, what kind of capital is required is largely dealt with in the report. I don’t think the report has missed out on issues and it has robust recommendations on regulation and supervision. We have followed Pillar III of the Basal Guidelines for widespread disaggregated shareholding structure. Since you are also on the RBI board, what is the kind of timeframe that is envisaged for new licences?Difficult to say. The IWG recommendations are on the table, and if they are accepted, it would require going through a legislative process. Probably not before a year or so may be by 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/holding-cos-will-separate-promoters-from-banks/articleshow/79482194.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Maradona tribute forms part of CNI golden jubilee celebrations; interfaith group holds e-prayer meet||KOLKATA: The first Sunday after the passing of football legend Maradona saw several prayer sessions in the city by way of tribute. The services that were organized for the golden jubilee celebrations of the unification of non-Catholic churches of the country doubled up as occasions for prayers for the player too. Priests said that in this football-loving city, everyone is a Maradona fan and priests cannot be beyond that fold. The United Interfaith Foundation, a congregation of leaders of all religions, also organized a virtual prayer on Sunday. Bishop Paritosh Canning, the head of Kolkata Diocese of the CNI, read special prayers for Maradona at the service organized at the Barrackpore Cathedral for the golden jubilee. “Maradona united the whole world with his skill. He served mankind through his game. We pray that his soul finds eternal peace. He will be remembered forever,” Bishop Canning said. The service was live streamed so people across the city could join in. The priest of St Andrew’s Church, Swarup Bar, said that since Thursday, Maradona’s passing has been a part of the informal rhetoric of the clergy. “We grew up watching his game. He will forever be part of our nostalgia. From Thursday, I have prayed several times for the icon,” Bar said. The church will organize an intersession prayer for Maradona in the next couple of days because it did not wish the prayers to get mixed up with the golden jubilee celebrations of CNI on Sunday. The United Interfaith Foundation saw leaders from the Christian, Muslim, Sikh, Hindu, Brahmakumari, Dawoodi Bohra and Jewish communities come together for a virtual prayer at 5pm. Before the prayer started, the leaders spoke about how in the 1986 Fifa World Cup, Maradona helped the Argentine team lift the Cup and how that was the first World Cup to be live telecast in India. “We pray for his eternal rest. May the Almighty embrace him with love and mercy. His story is an example of overcoming dire straits to make his dream come true,” said Satnam Ahluwalia, general secretary of the Foundation. Attendees to the special prayer meet included Archbishop Thomas D Souza, Munni Mani Kumar (Jain monk), Md Shafique Qasmi (Imam of Nakhoda Masjid), S K Mudreka Jamali (Dawoodi Bohra Jamaat), Sister Asmita (Brahmakumari) and A M Cohen (Jewish Community Affairs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maradona-tribute-forms-part-of-cni-golden-jubilee-celebrations-interfaith-group-holds-e-prayer-meet/articleshow/79482157.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Vehicle, factory emissions contribute most to foul Kolkata's winter air: study||KOLKATA: A quarter of the pollutants in Kolkata’s winter air is contributed by vehicular emission, the result of a two-year study on sources and quantum of pollutants has revealed. The largest contributor to the foul winter air is secondary aerosol formed by the reaction between salts in the atmosphere and chemicals released in the exhaust of vehicles, factories and thermal stations, as well as burning of waste. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the source apportionment study commissioned by West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) and conducted by National Environmental Engineering & Research Institute (NEERI), secondary aerosol comprise nearly a third of the PM2.5 pollutants during winter. What this essentially means is that if strategies can be formulated to reduce these two pollutant sources, nearly 60% of the city’s air pollution can be addressed. The study also revealed that biomass combustion has increased during winter in Kolkata. Burning of wood and coal by civic agencies during road repair and roadside pice hotel operators, among others, contribute to another quarter of pollutants. TimesViewThese inputs need to be factored in our efforts to reduce air pollution. The pandemic has only reinforced how important air quality is to our life.The study, which started in the summer of 2017, is crucial for strategizing where to invest in pollution combat measures. “The measures we had adopted were based on the preliminary report in 2019. The results have been encouraging. The final report will help us fine-tune the strategies further,” said WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra. “Secondary aerosols get self-neutralized in summer. But during winter, they become a major contributor of particulate matter. It isn’t clear whether these secondary aerosols are formed locally or get carried in from outside,” said Deepanjan Maumdar, principal scientist and head of CSIR-NEERI, Kolkata zonal centre. “The results of the study is in line with the source apportionment studies in a majority of cities in southeast Asia,” said Amitava Bandyopadhyay, an expert on chemical components of pollutants. However, Kankana Das, an environment analyst with Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE), an environmental research and advocacy organization, found the 12-location study inadequate for a city the size of Kolkata. “Almost all the locations were a mix of traffic junction, residential area, residential and traffic mixture and traffic and commercial mixture. The construction-intensive locations were largely kept out, which eventually led to lower percentage contribution from the construction sector,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/study-vehicle-factory-emissions-contribute-most-to-foul-winter-air/articleshow/79482150.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Congress to hoist party flag in 60,000 villages||LUCKNOW: By December 28 when the Congress will celebrate its foundation day, AICC general secretary and incharge of the state Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is determined to ensure hoisting of the party’s flag in 60,000 villages of the state. The scion of the Gandhi dynasty has been assigned the task of reviving the moribund party in the most challenging state where it has been out of power for over 30 years. In a slow and steady manner, Priyanka is trying to strengthen the Congress’s organisational structure and build a cadre of foot soldiers across the state. “Having constituted the party’s state executive, district, city committees, block level bodies and nyay panchayats, the Congress leadership is now setting up village level committees in 60,000 gram panchayats of the state. When the Congress will celebrate its foundation day on December 28 Priyanka wants everyone of us to hoist the party flag in every city and village of the state,” remarked official spokesman of the UP Congress Surendra Rajput while talking to TOI. Besides, a trusted team of Priyanka’s aide Sandeep Singh is camping in Lucknow and undertaking tours of the state to motivate the committed cadre in expanding the party geopolitically, making its presence felt all over the state. “The Congress had been hijacked by a powerful lobby which was exploiting the party for personal gains. Without their consent nobody could organise any programme. While the Congress decayed these leaders continued to flourish,” a senior party functionary said, adding that “now their monopoly in the party has ended and the party leaderships has allowed the young blood to take over.” “The tendency of running the Congress from palaces has ended and the party is working to uplift the poorest among the poor,“ a member of Priyanka’s core team in the state said and added that ”committed village level cadres will be real message carriers of the party in the state.” The raising of an army of committed workers is part of a well-conceived strategy of Priyanka who resolves to take on political rivals with full might, if not immediately then surely after some time. While on the one hand Priyanka is trying to infuse a fresh life in the party by rebuilding the organisational structure, on the other she has been constantly interacting with people, developing a direct rapport with different sections of the society. Priyanka is regularly meeting Dalit students, seeking their feedback and appealing to them to support the Congress. Under the leadership of Priyanka the deadwood has been replaced with the young and energetic faces. Gone are the days when the party used to declare its candidates’ list just a week ahead of the election. Now, in 75 Assembly constituencies, the party leadership has already asked candidates to prepare for the 2022 elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/congress-to-hoist-party-flag-in-60k-villages/articleshow/79482214.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 30, 2020||Patna||6 die in separate road accidents||At least six people, including a minor girl, were killed in three separate road accidents in Patna, Bhagalpur and Supaul districts on Sunday. While three people were killed and four injured when an autorickshaw was hit by a speeding bus near Beldari Chak on Patna-Gaya road under Gaurichak police station in Patna district, two youths riding a motorbike was run over by a speeding truck in Supaul district. In Bhagalpur, a four-year-old girl, Sonakshi, was crushed to death by a speeding car. Gun factory unearthed: A small illegal gun factory was unearthed at the house of one Ram Dular Sharma at Tirauna village under Chainpur police station area in Kaimur district following the arrest of three persons during vehicles checking, police said. “A .315-bore short-muzzle rifle, two cartridges were seized from the possession of Jalim Ram, Anil Kharwar, and Sanjay Kharwar,” Kaimur SP Dilnawaj Ahmed told IANS. Cache of arms found: A team of CRPF’s 159 CoBRA commandos unearthed a huge cache of weapons, Maoist documents and other objectionable items from an underground bunker at Parariya village in Imamganj police station area in Gaya district, city SP Rakesh Kumar said. CAPF, CRPF, CoBRA and BSF battalions are deployed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-die-in-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/79480119.cms||Abhay Singh
November 30, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi artisans weave scarves to welcome Modi||Varanasi: Joining the local administration in leaving no stone unturned in welcoming the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his visit o Varanasi after nine months due to the Covid pandemic outbreak, some artisans of his parliamentary constituency, including two young girls, have prepared beautifully crafted ‘anga vastram’ (scarf) to gift to him when he arrives on Monday. A master weaver, Bachchelal Maurya, has weaved a scarf with Buddhist inscription —‘Buddham Sharanam Gachchhami, Dhammam Sharanam Gachchhami, Sangham Sharanam Gachchhami’ and images of peepal leaves, while young artisans Afrin and Yasmin have made a scarf with the text ‘Dev Deepawali —Prakash Parva’ and image of diyas embroidered on it. Both the scarves have been submitted to the district administration. Maurya, a resident of Chhahi village, applying the calligraphy technique weaved the scarf in a colour combination of maroon and yellow. He said it took him seven days to complete the scarf. In the past also, Maurya has woven such scarves for celebrities. He wishes chief minister Yogi Adityanath gifts the scarf to PM Modi when he visits Sarnath to watch the light and sound show. Similarly, Afrin and Yasmin, residents of Lohata area, too want the scarf to be presented to PM Narendra Modi when he visits the ghats along the Ganga to take part in Dev Deepavali celebrations. They said it took them six days to complete the hand embroidery on the 22”x72” scarf. The PM will mark the beginning of Dev Deepawali, which is a famous festival of light in Varanasi, by lighting a diya at Raj Ghat, followed by lighting of 11 lakh diyas on both the banks of the Ganga on Monday evening. “Both the scarves, which are GI-tagged goods, have been submitted to the district administration with the request of the artisans,” said GI expert Dr Rajani Kant of Human Welfare Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-artisans-weave-scarves-to-welcome-modi/articleshow/79481977.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Patna||Bodh Gaya sees decline in tourist footfall||GAYA: With uncertainty still prevailing over organizing the annual prayer events of Buddhists at Bodh Gaya, the footfall of tourists continue to be very low in the heritage city, especially during winter. The reason behind the annual prayer events not being organized is that the event organizers have not shown much interest as foreign tourists and devotees cannot participate. The annual events are organised on the premises of the world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara where a large number of foreign tourists and devotees arrive to participate. Since the international flights are not in operation due to the Covid-19 pandemic, foreign tourists have no option to reach Bodh Gaya. The Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) secretary Nangzey Dorjee said, “The annual prayer event organizers have to submit a request letter every year for permission. This year, few organizers have submitted the request letter but due to lack of follow-up from their side, any decision to grant permission for the event cannot be taken.” He added , “The temple is open for the organizers of the event. If they want to organize the annual prayers, permission may be granted on first come first serve basis but the organizers will have to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines of the government.” Chakma Buddhist monastery monk incharge Bhikkhu Priyapal said, “In normal situation, the events are led by spiritual leaders of respective sect of Buddhism. The spiritual leaders have their followers in Buddhist nations besides, in European and other countries. These followers arrive in Bodh Gaya to participate in the annual event and also to listen to the discourses of the spiritual leaders. This increases the footfall of tourists in Bodh Gaya.” According to the information available on the website of Bodhgaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC), during the 2019-20 tourist season ‘Pavarana Puja’ was the first event organised on October 13. The annual event calendar had concluded with Dechod Monlam from January 18 to 22. In between events like Maha Kathina Civara Dana, Water Land Buddhist ceremony, International Tipitaka chanting, Kagyu Monlam, Jonang Monlam, Gelug Monlam and Thousand offering prayers were organised under the sacred Bodhi tree on the Mahavihara campus. Due to the lockdown, Mahabodhi Mahavihara was also closed for devotees and the tourists from March 22. Initially, it opened for six days from July 10 to 16. Again it was closed and reopened on September 2. At present, the Mahavihara opens in two shifts— from 6 to 10am and from 3 pm to 9 pm. But the visitors are mostly locals or the Buddhist devotees staying in the monasteries of different countries. Tourist Guide Association of Bihar president Rakesh Kumar said, “Because no international flight is operating from the Gaya airport, foreign tourists are not arriving here. During the tourist season from October to February, Sri Lanka-based airlines Mihin Lanka, Thailand-based Thai Airways and Bhutan-based Druk Airways operate flights for Colombo, Bangkok and Paro respectively from Gaya airport, which could not start this year due to the pandemic”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bodh-gaya-sees-decline-in-tourist-footfall/articleshow/79479597.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 44 more special trains to run till December 31||PATNA: The railways has extended the run of 44 more special trains either originating from or passing through the East Central Railway (ECR) till December 31 to cope with the Chhath rush. This is in addition to 36 other special trains which had already been extended till December 31. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Howrah special (02351/02352), which was earlier scheduled to run up to November 30, will now run till December 31. Besides, the Danapur-Yesvantpur (03209/ 03210), Barauni-Ernakulam (02521/02522) and Darbhanga-Mysore special trains (02577/02578) will now run till January 2, 2021. “Similarly, the Gaya-Chennai weekly special (02389/02390) will run till December 29 via Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction while the Patliputra-Yesvantpur weekly special (03251/03252) will run till December 28,” the CPRO said, adding, the running of Patna-Dhanbad (03329/03330), Patna-Barkakana (03347/03348) and Patna-Singrauli special trains (03349/03350) has also been extended till December 31. “The Sealdah-Saharsa biweekly special (03169/03170, 03163/03164), Bhagalpur-Ranchi special (03403/03404) and Malda Town-Kiul special (03409/03410) will now run from December 1 till further orders,” Kumar said, adding, the Howrah-Dhanbad special (02339/02340) and Howrah-Mumbai special (02321/02322) will run daily from December 1 till furtherorders. Likewise, the Howrah-Barmer special (02323/02324) and Howrah-Jammu Tawi special (02331/02332), which will run via Patna Junction, and the Howrah-Kathgodam special (03019/03020) and Howrah-Raxaul special (03021/03022) via Samastipur-Hajipur, will now run daily till December 31. “The Sealdah-Jaynagar (03185/03186), Madan Mahal-Singrauli (01651/01652) and Jabalpur-Howrah special trains (01447/01448) will run daily from December 1 till further orders,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/44-more-spl-trains-to-run-till-dec-31/articleshow/79480173.cms||Kumod Verma
November 30, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Number of containment zones in Patna district to go up||PATNA: The number of containment zones in Patna district is likely to be increased, DM Kumar Ravi said on Sunday. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumar Singh said a proposal in this regard will be sent to the district administration after 10 cases were reported from Masaurhi and five from Dariyapur in the past 24 hours. There are 16 containment zones in Patna district and the maximum barricaded localities are in Patna Sadar area. The measures are being taken to slow down the spread of the Covid-19. There are nine containment zones in Patna Sadar, including four in Kankerbagh areas (Kanti Factory Road and PC Colony), two in Shastrinagar (Gurusahay Bal Nagar and Professor’s Colony) and one each in Kadamkuan (Rajendra Nagar Road number 1), Rajeev Nagar (road number 3) and Patliputra Colony (Nehru Nagar). There are five containment zones in Patna City area, including Alamganj, Khajekalan and Sultanganj, and one each in Paliganj and Masaurhi. Ravi said the number of containment zones would likely to be increased as per the report received from the civil surgeon. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumar Singh said the testing in containment zones has been ramped up. “Earlier, swab samples of infected family members and vulnerable people like senior citizens, pregnant women and people having health issues were collected by the mobile team. But now the samples are being taken from each and every person in a containment zone. Besides, contact tracing will be done for the containment of the virus,” she said on Sunday. There were 1,891 active cases in Patna district, including 234 reported on Sunday. About 90% of the Covid patients have opted for home isolation while 8% were admitted at AIIMS-Patna and the remaining at PMCH and NMCH. Ravi said additional security forces were being deployed at the exit and entry points of containment zones to check the virus spread and movement of people. “The security personnel would ensure that people wear masks and follow social distancing norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-of-containment-zones-in-patna-district-to-go-up/articleshow/79479537.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 30, 2020||Patna||Sushil Kumar Modi recalls Surajnandan Kushwaha for contributions to BJP||PATNA: Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Sunday said the use of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and efficient poll management by the Election Commission have made it possible for anyone to hope that he or she can contest an election and might even be a winner. He was speaking at the birth anniversary function of BJP’s former MLC and organizational general secretary late Surajnandan Kushwaha at a function organized by the Rashtravadi Kushwaha Parishad (RKP) on Sunday. Kushwaha had formed RKP. SuMo also flayed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who at a rally in Champaran during the recently concluded state assembly elections, had called the EVMs as (Narendra) Modi Voting Machine (MVM). “But the use of such a coinage for EVM was not proper, as the EVMs are tamper-proof,” he said. He also said it was very difficult for any common man or woman to contest elections in the state during 1990-2004, as the elections used to be violent and as many as 641 people had been killed on the polling days during the aforesaid period. Among those who also spoke on the occasion were deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, as well as health minister Mangal Pandey and Patliputra MP Ram Kripal Yadav, besides the party’s senior leaders Prem Kumar and Samrat Choudhary, among others. SuMo recalled vignettes from the life of Kushwaha and said he had played a big role in his election from the Patna Central assembly constituency. He also described late Kushwaha as a good poll manager, who rose in the party hierarchy slowly, but succeeded in establishing himself as a leader across the state. Deputy CM Prasad described Kushwaha as a good politician and a leader who was loved by the party’s rank and file and credited him for giving Kushwaha caste identity to Emperor Ashoka in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-recalls-kushwaha-for-contributions-to-bjp/articleshow/79480219.cms||Abhay Singh
November 30, 2020||Patna||Patna Municipal Corporation to place plant pots at garbage points||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has launched a unique initiative to convert the ‘traditional dumping points’ into the ‘green sites’ in all wards, as part of its Swachh Sarvekshan Mission to make the city clean. The PMC officials said the initiative would discourage people from littering garbage in residential areas, roads and streets. Besides, action would be taken against those caught dumping the garbage near their homes or roads. Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma on Saturday said he had asked all the ward councillors to identify such spots where the residents usually dump their household garbage. “Once the list of such points is prepared, we start placing plant pots there. We have already started this initiative at a few places in ward number 21 (Punaichak) under New Capital Circle as well as in Patna City Circle,” he said. “Anyone caught littering the garbage will be fined up to Rs500 as per the Municipal Act. Residents can also alert the civic body if they find anyone dumping the garbage on road,” Sharma said. The aim is also to create awareness among the people to keep the city green and clean, as the central team would be here soon to inspect the city ahead of the Swachh Survekshan 2021. Sharma said the central team is expected to visit Patna in January for the cleanliness survey and the city would be ranked on the basis of its report. “This year, we got 1,500 points out of 6,000. However, we aim to reach 2,500 points in the 2021 Swachh Survekshan. For this, we would construct the fountains at Saidpur, Karmmalichak, Dinkar golambar and Ambedkar Golambar. Treated waste water will be used in these places. We will get some points for this technique as well,” Sharma said. The PMC scored zero in certification category under which points were awarded to cities based on garbage-free certificates and open defecation free (ODF) this year. The PMC commissioner said this time they sent the certification for open defecation free (ODF) to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-to-place-plant-pots-at-garbage-points/articleshow/79479628.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 31 acre land needed for permanent civil enclave at Darbhanga airport||PATNA: The officials of state government, Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) discussed several pending issues related to Darbhanga airport at a meeting held on its premises on Saturday. Principal secretary (cabinet secretariat department) Sanjay Kumar said issues related to land acquisition for a permanent civil enclave and installation of instrument landing system (ILS) were taken up at the meeting. Officials of Darbhanga district administration were also present to discuss the short-term and long-term measures required to be taken for smooth commercial operations at the airport. “Lots of issues related to Darbhanga airport need to be resolved. First, the state government has to acquire 31 acre land and transfer it to the IAF, who in lieu of that would transfer the same chunk of land to the AAI for the construction of a civil enclave. We can acquire land anywhere, but the IAF has to give a no-objection certificate,” Sanjay said. “The proposed civil enclave requires a four-lane connectivity from the National Highway. Some land has to be acquired for direct connectivity to the enclave. Besides, there is one road on one side of the runway and, because of that, the airport surface is slightly below the road. A person standing on this road can see what’s happening inside the airport. A view cutter is required to give security cover to the airport,” Sanjay said. The AAI officials have also raised concern over the blue bulls (nilgai) living in the green cover on the airport premises. “To prevent the bulls from coming near the runway, barbed wire fencing is needed on its either side as a short-term measure. On the southern side of the runway, fencing was done by the IAF and work is in progress on the northern side,” said the principal secretary. For long-term planning, the officials of environment, forest and climate change department have been asked to tranquillize the blue bulls and shift them to some other area. According to AAI officials, the blue bull population has increased over the years on the Darbhanga airport premises as it was non-operational for a long time. Vehicle parking is another issue faced by the flyers and the visitors at the Darbhanga airport. The state government has asked the IAF to provide some land to develop parking lot for up to 300 vehicles. Sanjay has also asked the AAI officials to install ILS for smooth landing and departure of flights in view of foggy conditions during the winter season. “Landing and departure will not be a problem for this winter season as the airport is handling only three flights per day and also in daytime. Besides, temporary fights of IAF are there. However, once the number of flights increases, ILS will be required,” he said. The number of flights at Darbhanga may increase up to 12 in due course as the Air India and IndiGo have made inquiries to start commercial flights on different routes. At present, the airport is handling three flights of SpiceJet to Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/31-acre-land-needed-for-permanent-civil-enclave-at-darbhanga-airport/articleshow/79480131.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu records 15% deficit rainfall despite Cyclone Nivar bringing heavy downpour||CHENNAI: Despite cyclone Nivar triggering heavy rainfall across northern and western parts of the state, Tamil Nadu has recorded 15% deficit rainfall during the northeast monsoon since its onset on October 28. Statistics show that rain is yet to catch up in 22 districts and worse, the deficiency is more than 40% in the three delta districts - Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam - and Trichy. The meteorological department forecast is that the depression over southeast Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into a deep depression and into a cyclonic storm and emerge into the Comorin area on December 3. The water bodies in the southern districts are expected to brim in the process. “Nivar helped us receive good rain. Let us wait and see, since we have one more month (of northeast monsoon). The emerging new system will bring good rainfall in the southern parts, mostly Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Sivaganga. Other areas will receive moderate rainfall but it all depends on how the system moves,” deputy director general of meteorology, S Balachandran said. Nivar leaped northwestwards and brought heavy rain in Chennai, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Ranipet areas. The current deficiency of 15% is normal as per the classification of rainfall, Balachandran said. Forecast is heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places of southern Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy rainfall over Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga and over northern Tamil Nadu on Wednesday and Thursday. The public works department has geared up with adequate stock of sand bags and casuarina poles to prevent breaches of water bodies in the southern districts. The latest data shows 66% of 2,040 tanks in Kanyakumari district have storage of more than three fourth of their capacity. “In comparison with last year, the storage is less now. Tanks and reservoirs have sufficient space to fill up and we are releasing water for irrigation. There won’t be breaches since we have taken adequate precautionary measures. We have posted staff to monitor dams round-the-clock. Chittar dams I and II, Pechiparai and Perunchani in Kanyakumari are among the dams being monitored,” PWD chief engineer (Madurai region) M Krishnan said. Floods in Thambraparani river are not unusual during monsoon, especially at Srivaikundam anicut region. The strengthening of bund in Uppodai river in Tuticorin will help, he said. The major reservoirs in the state have a combined storage of 141tmcft as against a capacity of 198tmcft. Papanasam, Manimuthar, Pechiparai and Perunchani levels are steadily rising, while PAP group of dams in the Western Ghats have comfortable levels. “The state emergency operation centre is closely monitoring the movement of depression,” revenue and disaster management minister R B Udhayakumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-records-15-deficit-rainfall-despite-cyclone-nivar-bringing-heavy-downpour/articleshow/79498797.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 30, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Kalpwasis to be tested in Magh Mela||Prayagraj: Kalpwasis in the forthcoming Magh Mela will have to bring along a negative RT-PCR test report with them to get entry in the mela ground and will have to undergo a test every week during their month-long stay. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai told TOI on Sunday, “Medical teams equipped with a thermal scanner and sanitizers would be stationed at all the 15 entry points of the Mela ground. Every devotee coming for kalpwas will be required to submit a Covid-19 negative test report on entry. The report should not be older than five days.” “Besides, all kalpwasis will have to undergo a Covid test once every week. Over 20 medical teams would be deployed at the Mela ground to conduct RT-PCR tests. The kalpwasis would also be submitting an undertaking that they agree to be sent to quarantine or isolation at a centre in Kalindipuram, if they test positive,” he added. The health department will set up six booths for collection of swab samples in six sectors of the Magh Mela ground. The Mela will start from January 14 next year. The UP government had recently assured seers that Magh Mela would be organised despite the pandemic, but under strict implementation of Covid-19 safety guidelines. The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad has advised seers not to invite followers in large numbers and appealed to them to strictly follow the safety guidelines during Magh Mela. “Few religious organisations are likely to be allowed this time due to the pandemic. We will urge all devotees coming on Mauni Amavasya snan to take a dip at different ghats and not to crowd a particular ghat. Kalpwasis would also be advised not to invite many guests to their tents,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kalpwasis-to-be-tested-in-magh-mela/articleshow/79480826.cms||Kapil Dixit
November 30, 2020||Kanpur||BSF jawan dies after falling off moving train on way home||Kanpur: A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan died after reportedly falling from a running train near Ambiyapur in Kanpur Dehat on Delhi--Howrah route on the intervening Friday-Saturday night. He died on the spot due to severe injuries. The deceased, identified as Omkar Nath Yadav (43), a resident of Deoria, was posted at Jaisalmer in Rajasthan. According to sources, he was going to his home district but unfortunately met with the tragedy. The GRP out-post incharge Rakesh Pal said that it seemed that he had died after falling off the running train. After the post-mortem examination, the police handed over the body to his family, the GRP in-charge added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bsf-jawan-dies-after-falling-off-moving-train-on-way-home/articleshow/79481831.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nashik||In Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi praises Dhule farmer||Nashik: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised a Dhule farmer for using the new farm laws to get his outstanding payment from a trader. The prime minister said that to buy crops from farmers and keep the payments pending for months is probably a long-standing tradition followed by the traders. “But the new farm laws passed by Parliament have not only helped unshackle farmers but have also given them new rights and opportunities. Within a short span of time, these new rights have begun to ameliorate our farmers’ woes. Jitendra Bhoi, a farmer from Dhule district, made use of the new farm laws to get back his dues from the trader,” said Modi. Bhoi, who is from the Bhatane village in Shirpur taluka of the district, had cultivated corn and decided to sell his produce to a trader for the right price. The total cost of the produce was fixed at approximately Rs 3.3 lakh. Bhoi had even received an advance of Rs 25,000. It had been decided that the outstanding amount would be cleared within 15 days. However, later, he did not receive the remainder of his payment. The new farm laws, which were passed in September, came to his aid. Under this law, all dues of farmers must be cleared within three days of produce procurement, failing which, the farmer can lodge a complaint. Another aspect of this law is that the area sub-divisional magistrate has to ensure grievance redressal of the farmer within one month. “I had sold 270 quintals of corn to a trader on July 19. But I did not receive the balance payment of around Rs 3 lakh. When I came to know about the new farm laws, I lodged a complaint on September 29 and got the outstanding payment,” Bhoi told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/in-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-praises-dhule-farmer/articleshow/79479690.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 30, 2020||Vadodara||Tanker carrying acid overturns on NH-48||Vadodara: A 38-year-old truck driver suffered burn injuries after a tanker containing sulphuric acid that he was driving overturned near Kapurai bridge on the national highway-48 on Saturday midnight. The acid leaked from the tanker. According to police, the driver of the tanker, Miraj Gujjar, lost control over the vehicle after crossing the flyover bridge when a luxury bus driver overtook him and suddenly applied brakes. To avoid collision with the bus, Gujjar too applied brakes and changed the lane due to which the tanker overturned. Immediately, the sulphuric acid started oozing out of the tanker and Gujjar suffered burn injuries on his right leg. He was taken in a 108 GVK-EMRI ambulance to SSG Hospital where he is currently undergoing treatment. The police said that of the 50 tons of sulphuric acid, around four tons leaked. As a precautionary measure, fire fighters from Panigate fire station were rushed to the spot. “Our staff cordoned off the accident spot and remained deployed there until the tanker was moved,” said a fire officer. The traffic from south Gujarat going towards Ahmedabad moved at a slow pace until the spot was cleared. The sulphuric acid was being sent from a company in Dahej to a chemical company in Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tanker-carrying-acid-overturns-on-nh-48/articleshow/79479864.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Patna||Patna reports 234 new Covid cases||PATNA: Altogether 606 new Covid-19 cases and six more deaths were registered in the state in the past 24 hours. The Covid tally reached 2,35,159 and the toll mounted to 1,259 till Sunday. Patna again had the maximum number of 234 new Covid cases, taking the tally in the district to 42,016. However, 39,800 of them have recovered from the virus infection. There were 5,649 active cases in the state, which has 97.06% recovery rate. As per the health department data, three deaths were reported from Patna, followed by two in Gaya and one in Nawada. AIIMS-Patna reported four deaths, including two from Patna district. One was a 41-year-old male of Nathupur in Beur area and another was a 50-year-old woman from Alamganj. The other two deceased were a 60-year-old woman from Thali Bazaar in Nawada and a 65-year-old man from Bidupur Bazar in Vaishali. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 10 patients were discharged and 23 got admitted in the past 24 hours. The new positive cases were reported from S K Puri, Gardanibagh, Phulwari, Bailey Road and Buddha Colony. There were 171 Covid patients undergoing treatment there. One 68-year-old man from Maharajganj (Alamganj) in Patna died at NMCH, its nodal officer for Covid, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said. “Eight Covid patients are undergoing treatment at NMCH,” he said. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that as many as 1,35,944 new samples were tested in the past 24 hours. “Altogether 537 people had recovered from corona in 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery to 2,28,251 (sic),” he tweeted on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-reports-234-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79479612.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM to inaugurate elevated road between AIIMS and Digha today||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the AIIMS-Digha elevated road in the city on Monday. The first-of-its kind 12.47km-long elevated road will cut down the time taken by the motorists going from JP Setu towards Phulwarisharif and vice versa as they will not need to enter the city. Around 8.5km of the road is elevated structure and the remaining stretch is semi-elevated. The first 2km of the road from AIIMS-Patna is a two-lane semi-elevated structure. Besides, the elevated road is connected with the approach road of the road deck of JP Setu. The trial run of vehicles on the elevated road started in the third week of this month. “Both flanks of the road are ready for vehicular movement. The road is aimed at further smoothening the vehicular movement between north and south Bihar. It is a first-of-its-kind project in Bihar as three-tier vehicular movement will be there near Patliputra Junction as the elevated road will pass above a rail overbridge,” said Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, managing director, Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL), which has executed the project. CM Nitish had laid its foundation on November 2, 2013 and the project was initially targeted to be completed by March, 2018. Agarwal said empty trucks will also be allowed to move on the elevated road. “This was allowed under trial run and will continue after its inauguration,” he said. Motorists hope this will ease traffic on the main city roads. “I face frequent traffic jams while going from Phulwarisharif to Digha for official works. The new road has, however, come as a boon for regular commuters like me as we don’t need to enter the city or face the heavy traffic,” said Chandan Kumar of Danapur. The vehicular movement has also been eased with the construction of a 12.27km-long two-lane road underneath the AIIMS- Digha elevated road along the Digha-Danapur canal. The road provides connectivity to people coming from Phulwarisharif or AIIMS-Patna side and going to Digha and vice versa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-to-inaugurate-elevated-road-between-aiims-and-digha-today/articleshow/79479509.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 30, 2020||Patna||Patna: Covid casts shadow on travel plans||By: Neha Nimisha PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic, which has been wreaking havoc on the world for months, continues to cast a shadow over the year-end travel plans of Patnaites. Consequently, tour operators are facing huge losses. A city-based travel agent, Saurav Kumar, has only made a few honeymoon bookings this time. “I have neither received any query for Christmas or year-end travel plans in India nor done any international bookings. The pandemic has ruined everything,” he told this newspaper. Another travel operator, Vijay Kumar Das, who had expected to earn profits during the year-end, rued, “The pandemic has hit my business because I have done only five bookings so far.” Travel agent Sandeep Karn has also faced a huge loss in business. He said, “Due to the pandemic, I am witnessing a slump in demand for bookings during the peak travel season.” Travel enthusiasts also blame the pandemic for spoiling vacation plans. The employee of a private firm, Sandeep Singh, said, “My family and I had decided to enjoy New Year’s Eve at a distant place. However, we had to cancel the plan due to a spurt in Covid-19 cases all over.” Anandpuri resident Sumit (30), who got married earlier this week, had to cancel his honeymoon. “My wife and I will stay at home and wait for the Covid situation to improve,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-casts-shadow-on-travel-plans/articleshow/79479586.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Control rooms set up at Ganga ghats for Kartik Purnima today||PATNA: Though necessary arrangements have been made on the banks of river Ganga for Kartik Purnima on Monday, the administration has appealed to people to avoid visiting the ghats in view of Covid-19. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Aggarwal on Sunday said besides setting up control rooms, NDRF and SDRF personnel have been deployed at different ghats. Also known as ‘Tripuri’ or ‘Tripurari’ Purnima, this festival has a special significance for devotees as many of them consider taking a dip in the holy Ganga as auspicious on that day, which is also known as ‘Dev Deepawali or Diwali’. “The auspicious Kartik Purnima began at 12:47pm on Sunday and will continue till 2:59pm on Monday. Kartik Snan in the Ganga is an important ritual on Kartik Purnima, but it will be better to perform the rituals at home this year to abide by the guidelines owing to the pandemic,” priest Shashikant Mishra said. In an attempt to contain the spread of Covid-19, the state government on Thursday had issued guidelines, asking people not to visit Ganga ghats this year for Kartik snan. Residents also claimed they will adhere to the guidelines owing to the pandemic. Reena Singh of Rukunpura said: “Every year, we used to go to the Ganga for Kartik snan, but this time we would use Gangajal at home and perform the rituals.” Rekha Pal of Anandpuri said: “We wanted to visit the Ganga ghat for Kartik snan, but will stay at home in the wake of government’s guidelines.” Apart from Patna, lakhs of people also take a dip at the confluence of river Ganga and Gandak at Sonepur on Kartik Purnima every year. However, the administration has appealed to people to avoid large gatherings. Sonepur circle officer Anuj Kumar said: “Devotees have been made aware of the consequences of violating precautionary norms, including social distancing, while taking a holy dip. They have been requested not to take part in Kartik snan this time.” He added: “Nevertheless, vehicular movement will not be allowed on old Sonepur bridge from Sunday night till Monday. Also, officers have been deputed on the river banks to ensure that the guidelines are followed without fail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/control-rooms-set-up-at-ganga-ghats-for-kartik-purnima-today/articleshow/79479555.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Patna||Fix accountability for crime: DGP to SSPs||PATNA: Facing criticism over the incidents of crime, acting DGP S K Singhal has directed the SSPs and the SPs to introduce the beat-policing system in urban areas and fix the accountability of the police officers concerned. Under the system, the areas have to be divided in sectors. The incharge of the sector will be held accountable for any major incident of crime and will have to explain the reason. The sector incharge will report to the station house officers (SHOs) concerned if any incident of crime takes place under their jurisdiction. The SHOs then will report it to the senior police officers. “The system of beat policing is not new. But it will help the cops assigned field duty to remain vigilant and keep surveillance on the activities of the antisocial elements,” said a senior police officer posted at the headquarters. The officer said the SSPs and the SPs have been asked to monitor the performance of the sectors incharge as well as the SHOs. “The field posting of the officers will depend on their performances,” he said, adding that the assessment of performance is aimed at improving their skills. The DGP has also directed the SPs to upgrade the quick response teams (QRT) on par with the central armed police force (CAPF). “The very purpose of QRT is defeated if the response time is not maintained at the site of occurrence,” the police officer revealed. Authoritative sources said the DGP has asked all the SSPs and the SPs to intensify night patrolling in urban areas. The senior officers have also been told to undertake night patrolling from time to time. The initiative has been taken in view of the review meeting on law and order chaired by CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fix-accountability-for-crime-dgp-to-ssps/articleshow/79480084.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Varanasi||Annapoorna idol’s return very pleasing: PM in Mann ki Baat||VARANASI: Just a day before a visit to his parliamentary constituency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi began the 18th episode of his ‘Mann Ki Baat 2.0’ on Sunday with a reference to Varanasi by expressing happiness over the returning of the stolen idol of Goddess Annapoorna from Canada. “I want to share a good news with you all at the beginning of Mann ki Baat today. Every Indian will be proud to know that a very old idol of Devi Annapoorna is returning to India from Canada. This idol was stolen from a Varanasi temple and smuggled out of the country around 100 years ago, somewhere around 1913. I express my gratitude to the Government of Canada and the people who made this propitious deed possible for their large-heartedness,” the PM said. “Mata Annapoorna has a very special relationship with Kashi, and the return of her idol is pleasing for all of us. Just like the idol, a lot of our invaluable heritage was smuggled out and sold at very high price in international market. Now, these illegal activities have been heavily restricted. India has increased efforts for return of its smuggled valuables and has been successful in bringing back such idols and artefacts in the past few years,” he added. “There is a coincidence attached with the return of Mata Annapoorna’s idol… World Heritage Week was celebrated only few days ago,” Modi said. Statue part of MacKenzie’s 1936 bequestThe idol measuring 17.30x9.90x4.90cm in stone is part of University of Regina’s collection stewarded by the MacKenzie Art Gallery through a longstanding partnership dating back to the early 1950s. Artist Divya Mehra saw the statue while preparing an exhibition of her work and found that art collector Norman MacKenzie had noticed the statue while on a trip to India in 1913. Someone had overheard MacKenzie’s desire to have the statue, and stole it for him from a shrine on the banks of the Ganga in Varanasi. The statue was part of MacKenzie’s 1936 bequest to the University of Saskatchewan — Regina Campus and remained part of its art collection. Dr. Thomas Chase, the University of Regina’s interim president and vice-chancellor handed over the statue to High Commissioner of India Ajay Bisaria in a virtual repatriation ceremony. Representatives from the MacKenzie Art Gallery, Global Affairs Canada, and Canada Border Services Agency had also attended the ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/annapoorna-idols-return-very-pleasing-pm-in-mann-ki-baat/articleshow/79481894.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Business||From mining to manufacturing, companies boost gender diversity||MUMBAI: India Inc has quietly progressed on the gender diversity front in spite of the pandemic. Engineering firm ABB, Hindustan Zinc (HZL), Sun Life Asia Service Center (ASC) and leading direct selling FMCG major Amway have improved upon their gender diversity numbers significantly this year through proactive hiring of women candidates. Zurich-based ABB, which underwent a transformation from a power and manufacturing company to a technology and automation company two years ago, has seen its diversity numbers increase to 14% in October this year from 9% in 2018. A traditional set-up in manufacturing can make it extremely challenging for women to consider this segment as a career option. ABB India CHRO Raman Kumar Singh said it’s challenging to fill up positions with a woman candidate due to a smaller pool of women in manufacturing. “A big inflection point for us was to bring a shift in thinking. Once we have communicated that a certain role can be done by a woman, we seek more time to look for the right candidate,” Singh said. ABB created ownership and visibility of the agenda among business leaders through diversity and inclusion councils. It worked with leaders from each division where the women workforce is mostly present in support functions. This year, 60% of hiring was done by ABB from campuses and 20% were hired laterally. At Vedanta group firm Hindustan Zinc, CHRO Kavita Singh had to first get the basics in place. Emphasis was laid on setting up women-friendly toilets at every mining site and forming women councils. Today, there are seven women councils at HZL. These cover 39 women employees who are being groomed to take up front-end operational and leadership roles. Over a hundred senior leaders have been identified to mentor 200 women leaders. The percentage of women at HZL has increased to 15% currently, from around 10% two years ago. “There are always opportunities and means to get existing leaders to create space for those who are ready to move in,” said Singh. Today, the first ‘second-class mine manager’ for underground mining in India is from HZL. “Six more such women leaders are in the pipeline,” said Singh, who worked by breaking myths around mining jobs to recruit a large number of entry-level women engineers. “The target now is 30% diversity by 2025,” she added. Across the industry, global in-house trends indicate that diversity ratios are fairly healthy at the entry level, while these tend to drop at mid-managerial and beyond. At Sun Life ASC, 41% of the total new hires this year were women. The company has raised its diversity ratio for this year from 19% to 30% at director levels and 35% across the board. Sun Life ASC CHRO Rajeev Bhardwaj said, “We have directed serious efforts towards both intentional hiring at senior level and also developing leadership potential for our mid-senior female managers. Globally, Sun Life has a target of 40% women for our leadership positions. Consequently, we decided to open specific roles only for women and leveraged a targeted candidate pool to convert to hires.” For Amway, which has 5.5 lakh direct sellers, diversity numbers favour women. The business attracts women talent given that such jobs can be done on a part-time basis. When it first entered India in 1998, more men gravitated towards Amway’s business model. Back then, Amway had 60% of men working in the business. The tables have now turned with the percentage of women at Amway touching 70% today. “Women are the gatekeepers for health and hygiene products. Being consumers themselves, women naturally gravitate towards such businesses. Nearly 65% purchase decisions are made by women,” said Amway India CEO Anshu Budhraja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/from-mining-to-mfg-cos-boost-gender-diversity/articleshow/79482168.cms||Namrata Singh
November 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Orphan with AIR 270 clicks wrong link, loses IIT seat||MUMBAI: An 18-year-old student raised by a single mother and orphaned two years ago after her death, scored an all-India rank of 270 in JEE and secured a seat of his choice in BTech electrical engineering course at IIT-Bombay. He lost the seat within a fortnight last month. Siddhanth Batra from Agra had aced the IIT-JEE (Advanced) 2020 and had been accepted in the first round on October 18. On October 31, scouting for updates on his roll number, he came across a link to ‘withdraw from seat allocation and further rounds’. He clicked on it under what he said was a “bona fide belief” that he was not required for further admission rounds as everything for him was already confirmed through an acceptance letter. On November 10, he found his name missing from the admitted students’ list for the BTech course. There were 93 seats in all for the course and he was one among the 9.3 lakh students who had appeared for JEE (Mains). The IIT said his own actions had led to his withdrawal from admission and the seat cancellation. Batra said it was an “inadvertent and unknowing’’ error. He petitioned the Bombay high court against the IIT letter of withdrawal of his admission. On November 19, a vacation bench on hearing his counsel Nikhil Sakhardande and Prahlad Paranjpe directed the IIT to consider his petition as a representation within two days. The IIT did. With two days to go for the last date of ‘late registration’, on November 23, it rejected his appeal. IIT registrar R Premkumar said the institute has “no authority to quash the withdrawal letter”. Its hands were tied by the ‘rules of business’ under which the admissions are conducted. Premkumar said the rules are clear and “strictly adhered to” and all admissions are handled by JoSSA (Joint Seat Allocation Authority) alone. The IIT-B said it had no seat vacant now. It said Batra could apply again next year for JEE (Advanced) 2021. Batra has now approached the Supreme Court for relief. He seeks creation of an additional seat to undo his loss. He lives with his grandparents and his maternal uncle and receives an “orphan pension”. The meritorious student stated how he had worked hard against all personal odds to crack the IIT JEE, which was his aspiration. He never had an opportunity to meet his father, said the petition. He figured the ‘freeze’ option in the process implied he was content with his seat and his admission process was complete. He, thus, ‘froze’ his seat. He said he had even entered as ‘reasons for withdrawal’ his admission to electrical engineering in IIT-B, which indicated that he was not forgoing his admission. The withdraw option was a “conscious” two-step process in the rules, said the IIT order. It allowed successful candidates to withdraw before the final round with no option to withdraw after the last round. ‘Seat acceptance fee’ gets refunded after a deduction of Rs 2,000. Once a candidate has withdrawn, the seat shall stand cancelled, say the rules. The IIT said the ‘reason for withdrawal’ option is there to ensure students can appear for JEE again and to also “ensure seats are not wasted.” The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the matter on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/orphan-with-air-270-clicks-wrong-link-loses-iit-seat/articleshow/79482501.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: SIT to re-probe killings of two of family in 1984 riots||KANPUR: The special investigating team (SIT) set up to probe into a large number of of killings during 1984 anti-Sikh riots has started re-investigation into the murder of two members of a family, who were brutally beaten to death, during the violence that broke out in Kanpur in the aftermath of the assassination of the then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984. SP Balendu Bhushan, SIT's member secretary, said that the team was examining the number of such serious cases which were filed in the city in connection with the 1984 riots and have since been closed in the absence of evidence and eyewitnesses. After the consent of the family members of the victims, these cases will be reinvestigated and sent for trial again. “This is one of the 19 cases reported from K block area of Kidwainagar under the limits of Naubasta police station, wherein two members of a family of Sardar Purshottam Singh, identified as Gurdayal Singh and Shardool Singh, were brutally done to death on October 31, 1984. Purshottam, thereafter, lodged an FIR at Naubasta police station in this regard. The police, however, after finding no eyewitness and in the absence of evidence, filed a final report," an SIT member told TOI. "During the findings by the SIT, it came to light that few victims of the same case were residing in Punjab. After seeking permission from the victims, who are also eyewitnesses, we moved an application in the court. After the court granted permission, we have started the re-investigation into the case. Soon, the eyewitnesses would also be presented before the court to get their statement recorded,” he said further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sit-to-re-investigate-killings-of-two-of-a-family-in-1984-riots/articleshow/79481864.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: November set to draw to close on its coldest note in 10 years||NEW DELHI: Delhi is all set to record its coldest November in at least 10 years, with the capital’s minimum mean temperature hovering around 10 degrees Celsius this month, according to IMD data. While Delhi had recorded a minimum of 10.1 degrees Celsius on Saturday, cold northwesterly winds once again started blowing from the hills, resulting in a minimum of just 7 degrees Celsius on Sunday – three notches below normal. The minimum is likely to be around 6 to 7 degrees Celsius for the next two days, Met officials said. Till November 29, this month has seen an average minimum of 10.3 degrees so far. In comparison, the average minimum temperature last November was 15 degrees Celsius and 13.4 degrees Celsius in 2018. This is also the seventh day this month when the temperature was below 10 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, Lodhi Road was the coldest location in Delhi, recording a minimum of 6.4 degrees Celsius. The highest minimum recorded in November this year has been 16 degrees Celsius. This was on November 16 after Delhi received a spell of rain the previous day. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD), said lack of cloud cover and reduced western disturbances in the region have led to such low temperatures. Forecast for December 2020 to February 2021 released by IMD on Sunday showed below normal minimum temperatures likely over most subdivisions of north, northwest, central and a few subdivisions of east India, owing to La Nina conditions. “Minimum temperature rises during a western disturbance and rain. However, there is lack of rain and less cloud cover. If there are clear skies, heat does not get trapped during the day, meaning nights are cooler. With northwesterly winds blowing once again, Delhi is all set to record a minimum of around 6-7 degrees Celsius for the next two days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD. Meanwhile, Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) remained in the ‘poor’ category at 256 on Sunday, deteriorating from 231 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nov-set-to-draw-to-close-on-its-coldest-note-in-10-years/articleshow/79480889.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Courier co-staffer stabbed on busy Kurla railway FOB||MUMBAI: A 37-year-old man, Fayyaz Nempurwala, was stabbed and left bleeding in full public view on a foot overbridge at Kurla railway station around 3.45 pm on Saturday. The masked assailant fled from the site, but did not rob the injured victim of the Rs 2 lakh he had in a bag. People on the bridge were numb with shock; a woman passed out at the sight. Nempurwala regained consciousness on Sunday and was stable, but still on a ventilator at a municipal hospital, with doctors saying he was in no condition to give a statement. The GRP has registered a case of attempted murder. Watch: Man survives knife attack in MumbaiNempurwala works with a courier company and lives in Mumbra with his wife. On Saturday, Nempurwala was in Kasaiwada in Kurla (east) for professional reasons. His business done, he took the public bridge to cross over from east to west. He was between platform 6 and 8 on the bridge when the assailant crept up from behind and suddenly stabbed him with a sharp knife in his chest and abdomen. Nempurwala collapsed, his clothes quickly getting soaked in blood. People informed the station manager, who summoned the GRP. “We suspect the assailant had been following Nempurwala. He was dressed in a full-sleeved and hooded jerkin, his face covered with a mask,” a GRP officer said. The officer said Nempurwala was conscious when he was taken to hospital. “From his cellphone, we obtained his family’s phone numbers and informed them of the stabbing,” the officer said. Nempurwala was taken to Bhabha Hospital near Kurla station and later moved to Sion hospital. He underwent a surgery on Saturday night. Nempurwala’s brother, Farhan, viewed the CCTV footage. The assailant’s identity could not be established. “Nempurwala’s family said he was a simple man who had no vices and no enemies. We will investigate if he had a dispute with anyone, in the family or at his workplace, or if he had a financial disagreement with anyone,” an officer said. The police said they were investigating if the assailant intended to issue a threat. The GRP and the railway crime branch formed teams to hunt for the assailant. Farhan’s statement was recorded and the FIR was filed on its basis under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/courier-co-staffer-stabbed-on-busy-kurla-railway-fob/articleshow/79482503.cms||Nitasha Natu
November 30, 2020||Allahabad||Police emergency vehicles get high-end surveillance system||Prayagraj: The city police have turned to technology upgradation to strengthen the vigilance system. The 39 vehicles of UP112 (police emergency vehicle) got two fixed and one 180 degrees rotation cum high zooming camera installed, known as the mobile surveillance system, to equip itself better. Apart from having a network of over 1,044 CCTV camera sets installed across the city’s prominent locations including crossings and intersections, the installation of fixed and 180 degrees rotation cum zooming camera on 112 police vehicle would enhance security and vigilance system for the police authorities. IG ( Prayagraj range) K P Singh told TOI that installation of fixed and 180-degree rotating cum zooming camera on 112 vehicles would boost police surveillance system particularly in those pockets not covered under the CCTV network. He said, “Cops sitting in the integrated command and control centre (ICCC) would also be able to monitor live activities on screens with the help of fixed and rotating cameras. These cameras also come with the ability to record footage. IG said that the rotating camera could move up to 180 degrees and with the infrared facility, police could also record activities during night hours. With the installation of the fixed and rotating camera, cops would also be able to maintain vigilance in those pockets which have no CCTV sets. “The cops would be able to record all activities taking place on the streets in case of violence and arson\ violent protests \ dharna etc. with the help of 112 Vehicles,” said a senior cop. “The recording would also help police to identify lawbreakers, and in the investigations” he added. He also said that the cops sitting in ICCC would be able to witness live telecast of the protests, dharna and other public gatherings of large scale. The installation of the fixed and rotating camera on 112 vehicles would help police to offer solid electronic evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/police-emergency-vehicles-get-high-end-surveillance-system/articleshow/79480876.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Faction feud hindered devpt projects in most local bodies||Kochi: Functioning of various local bodies in Kochi had been affected due to tug of war between factions in ruling parties in the past five years. Many development projects suffered a setback due to the factional feud.It’s Maradu municipality which witnessed political instability most number of times in the past five years. Ajitha Nandakumar of UDF was the first chairperson of the local body after the 2016 polls. Then, UDF won 15 out of 33 seats and ruled the local body with the support of two dissidents — Boban Nedumparambil and Jabbar Pappana. Later, Nedumbarambil moved no-confidence motion against UDF chairperson and Nandakumar lost the non-confidence motion. Then, Divya Anil Kumar of LDF was elected as the chairperson of the local body with the support of Congress dissidents. A few months later, Nedumparambil withdrew his support to LDF and once again joined hands with UDF to get Suneela Siby elected as chairperson in December 2018. The next year, Nadeera T H of I faction of the Congress was elected the chairperson. A year later, Nadeera stepped down for paving way for Molly James of A faction to become the chairperson. “The political volatility had affected implementation of development projects in Maradu. Five chairpersons in five years. No heads of the local body got time to implement any projects properly,” a Congress leader who chose anonymity told TOI.It was after much political drama that Jessy Peter of A faction stepped down as the chairperson of Kalamassery municipality. Later, Rukhiya Jamal of I faction had assumed office. In Thrikkakara municipality, Neenu K K of LDF was elected the chairperson of the municipality after the 2016 polls. After two years, she had to stepped down due to pressure from dissidents. Then, Sheela Charu, who switched sides to LDF from UDF, become the chairperson. Later, Sheela was disqualified by election commission under ant-defection rules. Then, Ajitha Thankappan of UDF was elected through draw of lots.The factional feud didn’t spare the administration of Kochi corporation as well. As per the understanding, Soumini Jain should have stepped down as mayor two-a-half years after taking charge paving way for Shiny Mathew to head the local body. But, Jain didn’t quit stating there had not been any such understanding. The feud was one of reasons behind lag in development projects in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/faction-feud-hindered-devpt-projects-in-most-local-bodies/articleshow/79480142.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||CM: Matter of pride, women head 45 of 75 zila panchayats||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said, the state government planned to tap rural gross domestic product to make it the foundation of development that will help panchayats inculcate self-reliance. Yogi also said, it was a matter of pride women were heading 45 out of 75 zila panchayats in the state and displaying skill and inquisitiveness in developmental programmes. Inaugurating 2095km roads constructed under Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) and 2000km built by Panchayati Raj, Yogi said, PMGSY was one of the most popular and flagship projects launched by former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2001.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-matter-of-pride-women-head-45-of-75-zila-panchayats/articleshow/79482236.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 30, 2020||India||Green push: Tea only in kulhads at rail stations||NEW DELHI: Tea will be sold in environment-friendly “kulhads” (earthen cups) in place of plastic cups at all railway stations in the country, railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday. While the minister said this will be railways’ contribution to make India plastic-free, the national transporter has also electrified 18,065 km of the railway line in the past six years, a move to make railway operation carbon neutral. Goyal said there has been a quantum jump of 371% in the eletrification of railway tracks between 2014 and 2020. Later, in a tweet, he said only 3,835 km of railway track was electrified between 2008 and 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/green-push-tea-only-in-kulhads-at-rail-stations/articleshow/79482658.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19 recovery rate in Prayagraj goes up to 96%||Prayagraj: With the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Prayagraj touching almost 96 per cent, the Sangam city has clocked a recovery percentage (95.32 %) higher than any other district, leaving behind Kaushambi (95.04%) and Pratapgarh (82.46%). As many as 25,210 out of 26,446 patients have recovered from Covid-19 till November 28, and there were only 894 active cases left till Saturday. The city has so far recorded 342 deaths due to Covid-19. The statistics of health department revealed that 6,311 patients had been cured and discharged from the designated Covid hospitals and 18,999 others had completed their home isolation by Saturday. Till now, the city has had less than 1,000 active cases. On September 1, the tally of Covid-19 cases was over 10,000, while the number of recoveries was 7,386. Things started changing from September second week, and the recovery rate has continuously been improving since then. Statistics also showed that Prayagraj district recorded a spurt in Covid-19 cases June onwards before recovery improved in September. Till May 31, there were only 87 cases and three deaths recorded in the city. In over a month, the number had risen by 199 to 286 patients along with eight deaths. The statistics also showed that July and August recorded 2,142 and 7,540 cases, respectively. By August 31, the continuous rise in Covid-19 cases brought the tally to 9,668. On September 1, the caseload crossed the 10,000-mark. Between September 1 and November 28, as many as 14,210 more residents were diagnosed with the infection in the city. On the other hand, Pratapgarh and Kaushambi have 187 and 81 active cases, respectively. In Pratapgarh, 4,968 cases were recorded till Saturday. Of these, 4,097 patients have recovered. Of the 2,178 patients diagnosed in Kaushambi, 2,070 had recovered till Saturday. The recovery percentage of Pratapgarh and Kaushmabi district is 82.46 per cent and 95.04 per cent respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-prayagraj-goes-up-to-96/articleshow/79480885.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Cops bring hope to dropouts in rural Ernakulam||KOCHI: Hope project, the police initiative to assist school dropouts in continuing their education, would be inaugurated in the rural limits on Monday. The project aims at preparing 106 persons to pass Plus Two examinations this year through online classes. As many as 12 persons would be prepared for the tenth standard exam as well. District police chief (Ernakulam Rural) SP K Karthick would inaugurate the project at 11am on Monday. SP Karthick said that the project aims at identifying students who dropped out of education due to familial circumstances or due to failure in exams and providing them with coaching classes so that they can complete their primary education. According to police, the first stage of this year’s project would be conducted online. There will be three classes per day. Police said that eminent teachers would be conducting the classes. Police said that the department of mathematics at St Teresa’s college, Ernakulam, is conducting the classes for those preparing for the 10th standard examination. Last year, as many as 20 persons in the district had passed the 10th standard examination through the Hope project. One student secured A-Plus grade in all subjects. Additional SP E N Suresh is the nodal officer for the project in Ernakulam rural limits. Sub-inspector T R Giles is the administrator of the project. Apart from giving coaching classes, the project aims to ensure a peaceful situation at the homes of those who drop out. The project examines the standard of education of those who have dropped out and finds out the exact reason for students going behind in education to find a solution to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-bring-hope-to-dropouts-in-rural-ernakulam/articleshow/79480151.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kanpur||306 test Covid +ve, 3 die in past three days||Kanpur: As many as 306 people tested Covid-19 positive and three succumbed to the infection in the city in the last three days. Of the three deaths, one took place on Sunday. The number of active cases have come down as more and more people are recovering. While on Saturday, the total active cases stood at 1225 but on Sunday it came down to 1,190. As many as 30,549 people tested positive and 778 succumbed to the infection in the city after the first case was identified in March this year. On Saturday new positive cases were reported from Ratanlal Nagar, Swaroop Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Juhi, Vishwa Bank Barra, Shivkatra, Civil Lines, Naubasta, Nawabganj, Harjinder Nagar, Maniram ki Bagiya, PAC Line, Safipur, Dabauli, Shyam Nagar, Karachi Khana, Ashok Nagar, Naveen Nagar, Gandhigram, Jajmau, Ranjit Nagar and Lajpat Nagar. The Covid-19 positive person, who died on Saturday, was a resident of Barra while the one who expired on Sunday lived in Dhankutti. He died at LLR hospital. He was suffering from other ailments as well including severe acute respiratory Infection, said a health department official. Sample collection came down on Sunday as 4852 samples were collected on Saturday while only 4010 samples were collected on Sunday. On Friday, 4781 samples were collected, said a source in the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/306-test-covid-ve-3-die-in-past-three-days/articleshow/79481871.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||Criminal flouts externment, attacks 3 cops||Pune: The Sahakarnagar police on Friday arrested an externed criminal for abusing and attacking three policemen after he was found brandishing a sickle and letting loose a reign of terror among residents near Swarna Maruti temple around 10.15am. Hrishikesh, alias Bankya Sanjay Londhe (20), was externed from the limits of the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerates for two years by the then deputy commissioner of police, Shirish Sardeshpande, on September 2. But Londhe breached the externment order and entered Pune on Wednesday. Senior inspector Arun Waykar of the Sahakarnagar police said on Saturday, “We have set up a surveillance team for monitoring movements of criminals as per the directions of city police commissioner Amitabh Gupta. One of our team members had received information that Londhe was creating a commotion outside Swarna Maruti temple.” Waykar said, “Three policemen rushed to the spot to arrest Londhe, but he abused and attacked them. He was later taken into custody and brought to the police station.” Londhe has 12 cases registered against him of murder attempt, body offences, burglaries and others with various police stations, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-flouts-externment-attacks-3-cops/articleshow/79469842.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport readies team to handle vaccine cargo||MUMBAI: While United Airlines began operating flights over the last weekend to gear up for shipments of Pfizer’s Covid vaccine for distribution in India, preparations like having a dedicated Covid task force to handle the cargo is on at Mumbai airport, India’s largest gateway for pharmaceutical exports and imports. The task force will collaborate and carry out advance planning with stakeholders such as airline customers, supply chain partners, regulatory and governmental bodies, and vaccine distributors, said a Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson. Key challenges in handling the cargo are temperature management and time spent in transit. Mumbai airport authorities are laying the groundwork to create Digital Dedicated Pharma Corridors linking India with aviation hubs in Europe and the Middle East, in a bid to expedite transportation and cold chain storage of the Covid vaccine for distribution. A task force has been assembled to work out the logistics of handling the cargo. “The task force will work at temperature management, reduce dwell time (the duration that cargo containers spend within temporary storage facilities in transit, like at airports) with prior special approvals from regulators in order to ensure an unbroken cold chain for vaccine movement from the manufacturing facility to the end distributor,’’ a Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson said. The airport is also planning a dedicated, round-the-clock customer service cell for Covid-19 vaccine EXIM (export-import) consignments to handle customer queries, pre-alerts and status updates. “The Mumbai airport is well-positioned to support, maintain and optimize pharma-dedicated corridors around the world. We are also working closely with airports in Europe and Middle-East to roll out fully Digital Dedicated Pharma corridors, particularly for the transportation of the Covid-19 vaccine,’’ said MIAL. Among other measures in place are flexible slot management for ad-hoc charter operations, a round-the-clock green channel facility with dedicated truck docks, and X-Ray machine. With clinical trials of vaccines by Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India, Moderna, Zydus Cadila and Pfizer currently on, the government expects heavy movement of consignments once approval comes from the drug regulators. Globally, Covid vaccine distribution would be one of the biggest logistical exercises to be taken up. In the first half of the year, managing the PPE supply chain was the major challenge across regions given the spikes in demand, factory lockdowns and a highly centralized production footprint, said a white paper released by DHL which said the next major global challenge is likely to be the logistics of vaccines. For global coverage some 200,000 movements by pallet shippers on 15,000 flights may be needed, said the paper. Apart from the scale of the operation, there are other constraints. For instance, Pfizer has said its vaccine would need storage at temperatures as low as minus 70 degree Celsius. In the US, last Friday, United Airlines began transporting the Pfizer vaccines in special suitcase-size boxes designed specially to be packed with dry ice to keep temperatures at the requisite level. According to media reports, the US aviation regulator has permitted its airlines transporting the vaccine to carry large quantities of dry ice. The Mumbai airport’s temperature-controlled Export Pharma Centre, spread over 4,000 sqm, with an annual handling capacity of 3,50,000 tonnes has six cold chambers that offer 2-8 degrees Celsius storage. But the Pfizer vaccine demands even lower temperature for storage. Last week, the union health minister said India may not need the Pfizer vaccine as several other companies’ vaccines were being tested in India, of which Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is currently in the final stage of human trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-airport-readies-team-to-handle-vaccine-cargo/articleshow/79482512.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Parting’ of twins at KGMU brings cheer to family||LUCKNOW: Separating from a sibling is a painful experience, but this ‘parting’ sent cheers in the family. Ram and Shyam born as conjoined twins were discharged from KGMU on Sunday after full recovery following a successful separation surgery — a first in the medical university — on November 9. It was also one of its kind surgery performed under Ayushman Bharat Scheme. The one-year-old twins, born to Priyanka and Chandan Kanaujia on November 6, 2019, in Kushinagar, were joined from thorax till abdomen. They were taken to BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur, and were referred to KGMU where they were examined by paediatric surgeon Dr J D Rawat. Investigations, including CT scan and MRI, showed the twins were joined at several layers, including organs like pericardium, diaphragm and liver. The parents were asked to wait for a year so that kids reach optimum age. The twins were admitted again on October 9, 2020. A team of super specialistswas formed under Prof S N Kureel, head of paediatrics surgery. A mock surgery was performed before the actual one. It was challenging for doctors to secure the airway control of both the kids simultaneously. During surgery, thorax with attached pericardium were separated and repaired. Then liver resection was performed through water jet scalpel using hydro-surgery technique. Both children had to be intubated after the surgery. While Ram was extubated the next day, Shyam remained on mechanical ventilation for 10 days. “It was a rare case. In more than 70% of such cases, kids die in-utero or immediately after birth. Very few such surgeries have been performed where both children have survived after the intervention and are healthy,” said KGMU vice-chancellor Lt Gen (retd) Dr Bipin Puri, who felicitated the team on Sunday. Smiling ear to ear, the parents, Priyanka and Chandan, posed for photographs and thanked KGMU doctors for the feat. “Had this surgery been not done, life of the two kids would have always been uncertain and full of difficulties. Now they are not joined, but can stay happy together,” said Chandan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/parting-of-twins-at-kgmu-brings-cheer-to-family/articleshow/79482357.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Week-long targeted Coronavirus mapping in Uttar Pradesh from December 1||LUCKNOW: Stepping up preventive measures to check corona pandemic, the state government is set to embark on a state-wide exercise of mapping of infection cases between December 1 and December 7. Under the exercise the health department would conduct sampling based on the clusters formed in the district map. Additional chief secretary (health), Amit Mohan Prasad said that the step will help the state government assess the extent of infection, amid indication of a second wave of Corona pandemic in many other states. “We are trying to get an idea about the pattern of infection as there has been a surge in the number of cases in many other states including Delhi. The state government is taking all possible step to curb the spread of infection,” he said. The move comes after the state government conducted focussed testing of various communities to get a deeper understanding of the Corona infection pattern. According to data shared by Prasad, the health department collected 55,741 samples of rickshaw-pullers and found 413 infected, suggesting an infection rate of 0.75%. Likewise, of the 53,916 samples collected from 'mehendi' designers during Karva Chauth, 422 were found to be infected. In cases of 1,19,145 samples collected from the sweet shops, 2172 were found to be positive. The department also carried out sampling in religious places where against 1,14,976 samples collected 2438 were found to be infected. In shopping malls, the department collected 1,16,054 samples and found 1025 samples of Corona positive. Prasad said the people need to take all possible precautions to arrest the spread of infection. At least 2,036 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the state in the past 24 hours. With 2,618 recoveries in the same period, the total number of active cases went down to 24,575 even as 25 people lost their lives in the past 24 hours. With this, the death toll has mounted to 7,742. A total of 1,75,633 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. This included 70,295 tests conducted through RT-PCR. Prasad said that the health department would conduct 40% of the test through RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/week-long-targeted-corona-mapping-in-state-from-dec-1/articleshow/79482343.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Candidates promise jobs, hike in salary of teachers||LUCKNOW: The stage is set for elections to 11 seats of legislative council – five graduates’ and six teachers’ constituencies – scheduled to be held on December 1. Over 3.23 lakh graduate voters in seven districts –Lucknow, Barabanki, Pratapgarh, Rae Bareli, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur and Hardoi – will exercise their franchise. Amid coronavirus pandemic, candidates are not hesitating to address public gatherings to teach voters how to use preferential vote to elect their representative. Many are also using social media to connect with voters. In Lucknow, a retired bureaucrat, a former student leader and a businessman are contesting against Kanti Singh, whose family has been representing the constituency for last 18 years. Kanti Singh (52), whose family runs educational institutions, said she was contesting elections to ensure job opportunities for unemployed educated youth, regularisation shiksha mitra and hike in salary of teachers. Similar issues are also being raised by other candidates, who asked as to what she had been doing during her tenure to solve these problems. Ram Singh Rana (38), former general secretary of Lucknow University Student Union who is contesting election with support from the Samajwadi Party, alleged that the MLC graduate constituencies were in the hands of education mafia who, instead of focusing on creating opportunity of jobs for educated youths, were minting money and opening schools and colleges. Brajesh Kumar Singh (38), a Congress-backed candidate, said: “Unemployment and low salary of teachers are major issues this election but these can be addressed only if people elect the right person.” “One can gauge the sad situation of graduate constituency election from the fact that candidates have to gather graduates and get them as registered voters so that they can choose the MLC and raise issues in Vidhan Sabha,” he said. Former bureaucrat Hardev Singh (Baba Hardeo Singh), who was also the president of UP PCS and officers association, is also contesting the graduate constituency election. “MLCs of graduate constituency are elected with the objective that they would talk about the problems of educated youth, unemployment and welfare programmes but hardly anyone knows about the entire process,” he said. Singh tried his luck in politics and was the state president of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) before contesting Lok Sabha election as an Aam Aadmi Party candidate against SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav from Mainpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/candidates-promise-jobs-hike-in-salary-of-teachers/articleshow/79482363.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 30, 2020||Varanasi||PM Modi in Kashi today for a glittering Dev Deepawali||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s arrival on Monday has ensured a grand and glittering celebration on Dev Deepawali this year and ensured festivities won’t be overshadowed by Covid-19 pandemic in any way as the ghats in Varanasi are beautifully decked up and a sizzling laser show will increase the grandeur. The district administration has finalized all the preparations for the PM’s stay of over six hours in the city in his visit after nine months. The PM will also inaugurate the six-lane 78km stretch of Varanasi-Prayagraj national highway. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Sunday, “The preparations for PM’s visit and all the venues where he is scheduled to attend different events are ready.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-modi-in-kashi-today-diwali-of-gods-to-cast-away-covid-shadow/articleshow/79481917.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt policy on setting up of data centres soon||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Sunday that his government would come up with a policy on establishment of data centres in the state by year-end. He made the announcement while laying the foundation stone of a data centre proposed to be set up by the Hiranandani Group in Greater Noida. A data centre is a group of networked computer servers which are used by organisations for the remote storage, processing and large amounts of data. Yogi said the government had been working on setting up the data centres for the past two years. He said at least three data centres are proposed to be set up under the policy. Yogi said the government has received many proposals for setting up data centres. Yogi underlined the government policy of allocating land for mega projects within 15 days after a formal proposal is received. For the data centre being established by the Hiranandani Group, the state government has allocated 20 acres of land. An investment of Rs 6,000 crore is proposed in the 250MW power project. A unit of 40 MW is expected to be started by June 2022, Yogi said. He reiterated that UP government has provided the most suitable environment for investment in the state which ranks the second in ease of doing business. The state has potential to contribute to PM Narendra Modi’s dream of making India a five trillion economy. The CM stressed the state government came up with a number of policies to boost economic development in the wake of the Corona pandemic. The state government has already set up an `Invest UP’ agency which is tasked to hand hold the investors until their project is not set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-policy-on-setting-up-of-data-centres-soon/articleshow/79482340.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Choosing people with ‘uncommoncareer’ for his ‘irrelevant podcast’||KOCHI: Over the last few years, George Vivian Paul, a Kochi-based stand-up comedian, had gathered a lot of audience in the city for his vibrant stand-up comedies. But the pandemic-induced lockdown hit him hard as he couldn’t perform before live audience anymore. Though many other comedians took their stand-up acts to online platform, Paul did not prefer it as he strongly believed that live audience is its real essence. So, he started relying on a new medium — podcasting. Titled ‘Vivian’s Irrelevant Podcast’ (VIP), the show focuses on talking to those people who pursue ‘rather uncommon careers’ out of their passion. Ceramic artists, painters, calligraphists, potters, buskers, endurance cyclists who may not be very popular are in Paul’s list and he aims to give them a wider exposure. “Talking to people and make them comfortably talk about themselves is what I intend. My guests are from varied fields of life and are engaged in activities that they are passionate about. They have chosen a career which stands apart from conventional ones like doctor, engineer, chartered accountant etc., They are successful in their career and are immensely satisfied with their work as they believe that personal happiness is more important than monetary benefits. And that is the USP of my show,” said Paul, who is an engineer-turned stand-up comedian. Most of the podcasts spans for an hour and are aired through Spotify and Social Mob, a Kochi-based online platform for independent artists. For recording the podcasts, Social Mob gives him access to their recording infrastructure. Over the last eight months, Paul has posted 35 podcasts with guests from all over the country. “Though it was difficult to get guests for the show initially, after the first few podcasts became a hit many were convinced. Among the guests were DJ Sekhar and filmmaker Bejoy Nambiar. The chats with these celebrities were unique in terms of content and topics.” he said adding that podcasting is slowly growing in Kerala but the future looks bright with more people showing interest to be his guests. “Every episode ends with a pivotal question to the guest, “If money did not exist, would you go back to your job?” And my entire guests so far have given their own versions of the same answer which is “yes”. Of course money is a concern but it is not always about money,” Paul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/choosing-people-with-uncommoncareer-for-his-irrelevant-podcast/articleshow/79480181.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kanpur||Unique code for each property to help KMC increase tax collection||Kanpur: Your house or commercial property will soon be assigned a unique code number that would be exclusive in the entire state and would contain all the identification details of the property. The state government has taken the house tax evasion seriously and decided to allot a unique code to each house so that none are left out of the ambit of house and general tax and all properties, both residential and commercial, are brought under tax net. The unique code system would also check the manipulation in house tax assessment and is likely to be enforced in the entire state, said municipal corporation sources. As per information, each house will have a unique code in the state consisting of 16 digits and a letter. The first two numbers would denote the state. The next three digits (3,4 & 5) would be code of the local body, sixth and seventh will represent zones, and eighth, ninth and 10th would represent the ward. The digits from 11 to 16 will be code of the property and 17 will be a letter, R, N or M. R will represent residential, N would indicate non-residential and M will be mixed (residential-cum-non-residential) and would indicate whether the property is residential or commercial. Several corporators said that more than 70,000 houses in the city are out of tax net due to laxity of KMC employees. Bringing them under the tax net would increase the income of KMC, they claimed. Navin Pandit, a local corporator, welcomed the unique code system and said correct assessment of tax would improve the financial state of the municipal corporation. The code would clearly demarcate whether a property is residential or commercial or mixed. At present, several residential houses are being used for commercial purposes, but are still paying tax on residential rate. Kanpur Municipal Corporation has hired a Lucknow-based firm to conduct a survey to collect all details of each house. The company has so far completed the survey in five out of 110 wards in Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/unique-code-for-each-property-to-help-kmc-increase-tax-collection/articleshow/79481843.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Take public feedback on schemes: CM to officials||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked senior bureaucrats to visit various districts and take direct feedback from people about the implementation of development and public welfare schemes of the government. Yogi issued the directions during a high level meeting at his official residence in Lucknow. He also directed the officials to remain present in office in time and meet people regularly. The fresh instruction comes days after he asked officials to receive calls on their CUG numbers. Yogi said that officials should nominate someone else if they are not able to make it to the office because of some reason. He instructed DMs to review redressal of public grievances in their respective districts. Yogi also pitched for making tehsil diwas and thana diwas more effective while fixing accountability of the officials. Stressing on proper security of night shelters, Yogi asked the officials to ensure that all Covid protocols are in place. The CM also emphasized on making traffic movement on multi-model terminal in Varanasi smooth, besides speedy execution of various programmes in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/take-public-feedback-on-schemes-cm-to-officials/articleshow/79482332.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mayor visits Bhalswa landfill after fire||NEW DELHI: A day after a minor fire broke out at the Bhalswa landfill site, North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s mayor Jai Prakash visited the spot to take stock of the situation on Sunday. Prakash said that a minor incident of fire took place on the foothills of Bhalswa where waste pickers keep segregated dry waste, mostly plastic. “The incident took place due to negligence of some waste pickers and we are verifying other details. As far as the landfill is concerned we have installed 29 pipes for extracting methane gas generating during degradation of waste. That’s why the number of fire incidents have also reduced drastically in the last one year,” he said. The mayor said that at present around 2,200 metric tonne of waste is dumped at the already saturated Bhalswa landfill every day. “And to stop dumping here, the north corporation in collaboration with Indian Oil Corporation Limited is going to set up another waste-to-energy plant at Rani Khera, which will cost Rs 1,000 crore,” said Prakash. “As far as legacy waste is concerned, we have installed 15 trommel machines to dispose of the waste. By now we are able to reduce 30 feet of the height of the garbage at the landfill site. There is a plan to add four more trommel machines and its installation is under process,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mayor-visits-bhalswa-landfill-after-fire/articleshow/79480996.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Need to diversify, shift to water-saving crops’||LUCKNOW: Welcoming new ideas to turn Uttar Pradesh a truly water positive state, UP government officials listed out ongoing initiatives for water conservation during the ‘Times Water Summit’. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi said, “We have to exploit maximum surface and rain water. There are schemes, like the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, which is a ‘per drop, more crop’ initiative, which aim at maximising productivity using least water. Under the scheme, the state is encouraging farmers to take up drip irrigation which is gaining popularity in Bundelkhand region.” Chaturvedi added that the impact of PMKSY was being maximised with the help of other schemes like Khet Talab Abhiyan. “Convergence with MNREGS where workers are roped in to ensure that ponds are rejuvenated and new ponds are created is one of the examples. The other strategy is to diversify from water intensive to water saving crops. For example, sugarcane uses lot of water while oilseeds, pulses and maize need less. Maize has been a success as we have been able to list minimum support price for maize,” he said. Informing that UP’s irrigation department was one of the oldest in the country, engineer-in-chief (projects), irrigation department, Vinod Kumar Niranjan said traditional irrigation had its own advantages. “We need to look at the definition of wastage differently as the water which goes into the ground is actually recharging it. However, there is scope for improving systems and infrastructure,” he said. Niranjan said the state was in the process of repairing old dams in different regions to check wastage of water at the source. Director, sales and marketing (South Asia) at Xylem Analytics Sham Chaudhari said: “Data can help in predicting situations which can help in preventing incidents like deluge in Mumbai or Surat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/need-to-diversify-shiftto-water-saving-crops/articleshow/79482283.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure hassle-free cane supply, says govt in SAP runup||Lucknow: Ahead of determination of state advisory price (SAP) for sugarcane, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed the officials to ensure smooth operation of mills and a hassle-free cane supply by farmers. The CM gave the directions at a high-level meeting at his official residence on Sunday. A government spokesman said the sweetness of sugar has been brought back with the increase in cane crushing capacity of mills, production of ethanol and licences to khandsari units. Admitting that cane price payment and timely operation of cane mills are the key issues of sugar sector, a state government spokesperson said when BJP came to power in 2017, high cane arrears was a highly sensitive issue. “Payment of cane dues was of prime importance for the state government. In last three years, the government has made a payment of over Rs 1.12 lakh crore to cane growers,” he said. The spokesperson said the state government also focussed on modernisation of old mills and setting up of new mills. “In the process, capacity of 11 mills was raised while new units were set up in Pipraich (Gorakhpur), Mundera (Basti) and Ramala (Baghpat). Restarting of 29 mills which were closed during BSP and SP governments between 2007 and 2017 was a key priority,” he said. He said the state government also started issuing online licences to khandsari units. “In the ongoing crushing season, licences have been issued to 105 khandsari units, which has increased crushing capacity by 27,850 tonnes crushing per day (TCD),” he added. Additional chief secretary, cane development, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said more than 165 lakh litres of sanitizer had been manufactured in the state. “Of this, 87 lakh litres sanitizers was sold in UP while the remaining 78 lakh litres was exported out of the state,” he said. In an attempt to market gur (jaggery), the state government organised a Gur Mahotsav in Muzzaffarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-hassle-free-cane-supply-says-govt-in-sap-runup/articleshow/79482334.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nashik||HAL to invest Rs 1cr to develop immigration infra at Ozar||Nashik: Defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) is investing Rs 1 crore to create infrastructural facilities for dedicated immigration facilities at the Nashik airport (Ozar), which the PSU manages.A team of officials from the Bureau of Immigration (BoI), which functions under the Ministry of Home Affairs, had recently visited the Nashik airport for inspection as part of the procedure before giving permission of Immigration Checkpost (IMC).The BoI teams discussed the facilities and provided proper plans that HAL has to make available at the airport. According to the sources at HAL, establishing immigration facilities will pave way for international flight operations from and to Nashik. It will also help bring the airport under the international Udan scheme. Moreover, there is scope for special haj flights to Saudi Arabia.HAL sources said while the company will create the infrastructure, the IT-related works will be handled by the BoI. The BoI has set a deadline of January for HAL to create the infrastructure.“We have already started creating basic infrastructure like immigration counters, a customs office, security office etc. at the Nashik airport,” said the sources.The BoI is also creating a dedicated information technology network for broadband and other services at the airport for the immigration desk on its own. The IT-related investment will be made by the BoI itself.Local MP Hemant Godse, who has been working hard for the commencement of air service from the Nashik airport, said the Centre has already announced the setting up of an international courier terminal (ICT) at the airport. Now, setting up an immigration checkpost at the airport will boost both international passenger as well as cargo flights in the future.Manish Rawal, the chairperson of the joint aviation committee of all the prominent industrial associations in the district, said this is really a positive development and welcomed BoI’s willingness to start the immigration checkposts that will pave the way for more international flights.“The Nashik airport has a long runway of 3.5 km, where any large passenger aircraft or cargo plane can land. This new development will help include Nashik under the Udan international scheme of the state government,” said Rawal.Nashik already has air connectivity to six cities like Delhi, Bangaluru, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Pune. Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, along with other two private airlines are operating flights from the Nashik airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hal-to-invest-rs-1cr-to-develop-immigration-infra-at-ozar/articleshow/79479699.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 30, 2020||Surat||Calls to 108 double for Covid-19 emergency cases daily||SURAT: With the city bracing to the second ‘wave’ of Covid-19 infections, Surat civic body’s eight ambulances, dedicated especially for transportation of Covid-19 patients, attended 68 emergency calls related to Covid-19 on November 22 and 50 on November 23 in Surat district. GVK Emergency Management and Research Institute (GVK EMRI), which operates 108 emergency ambulance services, said the surge in daily calls has been witnessed in Surat city and district in the past one week. These numbers were almost double compared to last week when it attended nearly 25 calls daily. “Majority of the calls are coming from Surat city. We have six ambulances dedicated to Covid-19 duty in Surat city and two ambulances for Surat district. We received three types of Covid-19 calls. One from SMC officials from testing centres to transfer positive patients to hospital, the other call is from patients from homes who want to get themselves admitted and the third is from those admitted patients who want to change hospitals,” said Fayaz Pathan, programme coordinator, GVK EMRI, Surat. Surat municipal corporation has set up over 200 Covid-19 testing centres across the city including city entry points. After a peak in July where 108 emergency services attended 6,263 cases, it witnessed a downward slide since and had attended to 1,339 cases only in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/calls-to-108-double-for-covid-19-emergency-cases-daily/articleshow/79480130.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Goa||A Man For All Seasons||It happened almost 50 years ago but Nicholas Pereira remembers that night, and what followed the next day, quite clearly. Handpicked to represent India, the young defender was told by coach PK Banerjee that he would make his debut in the opening game itself. This was at the Merdeka Cup in 1973 and Nicholas was nervously excited. “I was so excited that I just could not sleep,” said Nicholas, who shared a room in Malaysia with Vasco SC goalkeeper EN Sudhir. When the right-back took the field against South Vietnam, that nervousness simply grew. Vietnam took the lead early, only for Magan Singh to draw level. With nine minutes left on the clock, Nicholas moved up and ended up scoring the winner. For a defender, scoring a goal is always gold. A match winner at the fag end of the game in an international clash, and that on debut, is priceless. This wasn’t the only one. Nicholas started as a forward for his village clubs, so he always had his eyes set on goal. Throughout his 21-year career, he scored plenty of them, most famously a freekick in the final of the Nizam Gold Cup in Hyderabad (1978), just a minute from time. To bracket Nicholas, now 70, as just scorer of important goals would be unfair. Here is a man who defended, stylishly, like his life depended on it, whether it was at right-back, left --- once with national team --- and centre. In the glorious history of Goan football since the time another defender, Menino Figueiredo, became the first to represent India in 1963, Nicholas is bracketed right at the top. Goa has not seen another player like him. “My earliest memory of football is not about kicking the ball around in school like most kids do, but retrieving the ball which went outside when the Sesa Goa seniors were training,” said Nicholas. In the late sixties, Sesa Goa were an all-conquering team, so breaking through for a 17-year-old wasn’t easy. He simply watched them train in his backyard at Sirsaim and fetched balls that went out of play. While still practicing with Sesa Goa, his break came with Mapusa Youth in 1969, then in First Division League. Once he got his chance, there was no looking back. Nicholas donned Sesa Goa colours for four years and then Dempo Sports Club made him their top target in 1974. He retired with Dempo after a long and cherished career where he captained the team and won every major trophy. “The day I signed for Dempo, I was to leave for Mumbai to join Orkay (Mills) who offered me a very good deal. They also offered my brother a job in the company. I agreed but when Dempo bettered it, could not refuse,” he said. Poor Orkay officials had to wait for almost the entire day at Dhobitalao, where the Goa-Mumbai buses made a halt, in the hope of seeing their possible star signing. Dempo, not surprisingly, benefitted from the signing. His arrival coincided with an upturn in the club’s fortunes after a couple of lean years, occasioned by his assured tackling and calming influence in the heart of the defence. During his time there, Dempo won the Rovers Cup, a first for a Goan club. Besides being unbeatable in the state, they added major national trophies like the Rovers Cup (1975, 1979, 1980, 1986), Stafford Challenge Cup (1975, 1979), Nizam Gold Cup (1978) and Bordoloi Trophy (1982). From 1970 till the late eighties, Nicholas was an automatic choice in the state team for the National Football Championship for the Santosh Trophy. He debuted at Punjab and then became the first captain to lead Goa into the final of the Santosh Trophy against West Bengal in 1978. Goa lost that agonising final by a solitary goal but Nicholas, and the state, finally won the top prize in Indian football in 1983. He didn’t score here against hosts Bengal but, with Brahmanand Shankhwalkar behind him, played the game of his life in defence after experienced defender Mahesh Lotlikar picked up a groin injury inside the first 10 minutes. That was his biggest test. And like always, he delivered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-man-for-all-seasons/articleshow/79481827.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
November 30, 2020||Madurai||HC imposes cost on petitioner for suppressing facts||Madurai: The Madras high court has imposed Rs 10,000 cost on a petitioner for suppression and misstatement of facts in a plea which sought to forbear the authorities from removing an encroachment in Madurai district.“Nobody has any right to encroach the land belonging to the national highways,” a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi said and directed the authorities to remove the encroachment immediately within a week.The court was hearing the petition filed by Jailani, jamath president who sought to forbear the authorities from demolishing a mosque situated at Kottampatti village at Melur taluk. Jailani, in his petition claimed that the mosque situated adjacent to the national highway, has been in existence for more than 100 years. Since it was an encroachment, the authorities attempted to remove it in October.The special government pleader refused the petitioner’s claim and said that the mosque was not situated for the past 100 years and further submitted that as per the records, the property belongs to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).The judges said that it has been brought to the knowledge of the court that the petitioner in 2019 had filed a petition seeking to quash the eviction notice issued by the officials, however, the same was dismissed by this court. The judges observed that on perusal of the records, it is clear that the other encroachers have been removed except the petitioner. The judges further observed that a perusal of the photographs would show that only a thatched shed is put up and there is no evidence to show that the mosque is situated in that locality for nearly 100 years. “The person who drafted the affidavit, should act as an officer of the court and they cannot merely act as mouthpiece of the client,” observed the judges. Even in the affidavit drafted by the petitioner, there was no mention about his earlier petition filed before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-imposes-cost-on-petitioner-for-suppressing-facts/articleshow/79482504.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Experts unravel health benefits of ‘green friends’||Lucknow: Like chamomile which helps relieve stress, Brahmi is a brain booster and geranium is useful in aromatherapy, there are many ‘green friends’ which can help us lead a healthy life and improve immunity, said experts at Navbharat Times’ ‘NBT Aarogyam’ event on Sunday during which a medicinal garden was planted in a park in Sahara Estates, Jankipuram. The newly planted Aarogya Vatika brought big smiles to the faces of locals who said the initiative can help fight diseases and will create a healthier society. On the occasion, CIMAP’s senior scientist Saudan Singh discussed various medicinal plants and their health benefits. ADM (trans-Gomti) Vishwabhushan Mishra, who was the chief guest at the event, said, “Such events which can help the society stay healthy, especially during a pandemic, should be promoted.” “This is a wonderful initiative which has made me realise that the cure of mild cough and fever is available in my garden itself,” said Vimla Sharma, a local resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/experts-unravel-health-benefits-of-green-friends/articleshow/79482346.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Govt committed to conserving ground, surface water: Min||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government is set to embark on an ambitious drive to install 6,000 electronic piezometers across the state to assess the groundwater situation in the state. The process is scheduled to be completed by next year. Piezometer measures the depth and pressure of groundwater at specific points. Making the announcement during the ‘Water Summit – Roadmap to make UP water positive’, UP Jal Shakti Minister Mahendra Singh said the state government was committed to conserving groundwater as well as surface water and would not let a war to happen over water scarcity. “We are in the process of drafting various schemes to recharge groundwater,” Singh said, pointing out at the Atal Bhujal Scheme which has been implemented in all 75 districts of the state. Singh said 47 blocks were in critical zone and 181 in semi-critical zone. “Our target is to bring these areas back to safe zone,” he said, stressing that the per capita availability of groundwater has been decreasing continuously over a period of time. “As per scientific evaluation, UP has 70 billion cubic litres (bcl) of groundwater while surface water is around 109 bcl. The utility of rainwater is also very low – as against 4000 bcl of rainwater, the country is able to use only 700 bcl, which is around 17% and only 10.2% is used for recharging groundwater. He said the state had 188 lakh hectares of land fit for agricultural activity of which just over 160 lakh hectares was being irrigated. “Various projects, including Bansagar Dam project, related to irrigation are being expedited by the state government,” he said. Making a special mention of Bundelkhand, Singh said various irrigation projects in the region were being fast-tracked by the state government. He said the government managed to irrigate an additional 3 lakh hectares of land last year. “In the last three-and-a-half years, the state government provided irrigation facilities for 20 lakh hectares of land,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-committed-to-conserving-ground-surface-water-min/articleshow/79482268.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Madurai||HC directs to identify encroachments in tank||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed an advocate commissioner appointed to inspect an encroachment in Pudukulam tank in Madurai district, to measure the entire extent of the tank for more such illegal occupancy. The court was hearing a petition filed by P A Veeramani, who sought to remove the encroachments made by the Temple City hotel inside Pudukulam tank. T Lajapathi Roy, who was appointed as advocate commissioner submitted a report after inspection, stated that the hotel had encroached 4.69 cents in the tank. He had also stated that few other people had encroached the tank. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that a perusal of the documents would reveal that the hotel which is situated at the Madurai-Melur road opposite Mattuthavani had encroached a portion of the land. The judges noted that the road is useful up to the high court staff quarters and except for government law college hostel, it is being used as a back entrance for the properties owned by the people. On the northern side of the quarters, there is a vacant site to an extent of 15.09 acres of the total extent of the tank which extends up to 48.16 acres. The judges observed that the encroachments have to be identified and removed in order to maintain the waterbody. Hence, the judges directed Roy to measure the entire extent of Pudukulam tank, identify the encroachers and the extent of encroachments made by them. The commissioner should also identify as to whether the road behind the hotel has been laid in a private or government property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-to-identify-encroachments-in-tank/articleshow/79482505.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 30, 2020||Udaipur||8-year-old girl raped, murdered & thrown into well in Pratapgarh||UDAIPUR: An 8-year-old girl was ‘gang-raped’, murdered and thrown into a well in Meghpura village under Pithalwadi gram panchayat of Chhoti Sadri block in Pratapgarh district late night on Friday. Police found her body from the dry well in the wee hours of Saturday. The medical report has indicated that the child was sexually abused and strangled to death. Cops have rounded up over 50 suspects and detained a few. However, police said that it has not been ascertained yet whether it was a gang-rape. Pratapgarh SP Chuna Ram Jat visited the spot and called for speedy action. Cops have rounded up over 50 persons from the village in two days and a dog squad has been pressed into service to find the culprits. Chhoti Sadri SHO Ravindra Pratap Singh told TOI that the child was sleeping with her mother and sister in her kutchha house. Her father had gone to Marwar to buy goats. The women were alone and some unidentified men sneaked into the house after midnight and took the child away. The family informed the police after they found the girl was missing. Within hours her body was found from the nearby well. The FSL team has taken samples from the spot. The officer said the accused had raped the child near the well, choked her to death and dumped the body into the well. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/8-year-old-girl-raped-murdered-thrown-into-well-in-pratapgarh/articleshow/79481812.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Rising green cover can turn off red alarm on shortage’||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh will set up sewage treatment plants with capacity of 4,000 million litres per day in the next few years. This was announced by chief secretary RK Tiwari at the Times Water Summit. Tiwari stressed on conservation of ground and surface water to mitigate water crisis in the state and added that the developmental model adopted over the years has led to depletion of water resources The chief secretary said that despite earth being a water planet, as its 2/3rd surface has water, it is feared that water scarcity might lead to World War-III. He emphasised on key areas like green cover which can help in fixing water problems. Tiwari said the depletion of green cover and other environmental crisis led to shortage of water in the state. But the Yogi government has tried to address this problem by planting 70 crore saplings in the past three-and-a-half years, which is a big achievement, he said, adding that the green cover in Uttar Pradesh has grown by 15% under Yogi government as per the scientific surveys based on satellite data. In addition, the state government has taken up various key projects to irrigate agricultural fields and recharge groundwater in drought-prone areas like Bundelkhand, the chief secretary said. He said around 10,000 ponds have been built in the Bundelkhand region and the state government is working towards conserving 12,000 lakes. UP is also blessed to have enough water in the form of rivers, many of which are continuously fed by the Himalayan glaciers, Tiwari added. He said the government was also focusing on rainwater harvesting to recharge groundwater. “Besides promoting rainwater harvesting in government buildings, rules are being framed for plots with area of more than 300 square metres to have this facility,” he said. Tiwari said the existence of humans is dependent on clean water, adequate availability of food and clean air. “Shortage of any one component can cause problems to human existence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rising-green-cover-can-turn-off-red-alarm-on-shortage/articleshow/79482249.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AAP slams Centre for being ‘anti-farmer’||NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday demanded that Union home minister Amit Shah resolve the issues by listening to them immediately. Senior AAP functionaries also slammed Shah for campaigning for the Hyderabad municipal election at a time when thousands of farmers are protesting at Delhi’s border points. Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said the party, under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, was standing with the farmers. “We will fight shoulder to shoulder with the farmers. We support the demands made by them and we welcome these protesting farmers to Delhi,” he said, adding that Shah must permit them to protest wherever they want. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said lakhs of farmers were waiting to get a response from Shah, but he was campaigning for the Hyderabad municipal corporation elections. “In this serious situation, the home minister of our country is not in Delhi, but in Hyderabad and he is holding a press conference regarding the issues related to the Hyderabad municipality,” Bharadwaj said. “I believe that after Independence in the history of India, we have never witnessed such a home minister who is not dealing with such a serious issue of the farmers, but is campaigning for a municipality election,” he said. “Till yesterday, he was telling the farmers that because of their protest, Covid-19 cases will rise in Delhi. But just a few minutes ago, in his press conference, the home minister said there was massive participation of people in his roadshow,” Bharadwajj claimed. “BJP sees the threat of corona in Delhi when the farmers are protesting, but they are doing massive roadshows at Hyderabad where they don’t care about the pandemic,” Singh said. “When the Union home minister can ignore the demands of the lakhs of protesting farmers and go to Hyderabad for a municipality election campaign, then it becomes clear that India now has an anti-farmer and an intolerant and irresponsible home minister,” he said. “Today, our farmers are on the roads, they have left their homes, farms and villages and are marching towards Delhi... Because the Central government has passed three farm bills that are against the farmers,” AAP spokesperson Atishi said, addressing a press conference on Sunday. “Our farmers, who build our nation with their blood and sweat, who are our providers, who feed the nation, want us and the government to listen to them. And our government is so intolerant towards thousands of farmers who are sitting on the border of Delhi that they are not even ready to talk to them,” she said. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “Today, I am going to keep certain facts in front of you, which proves that Captain Amrinder Singh is a BJP chief minister. This friendship of Captain Amrinder Singh and PM Narendra Modi has led to the duping and destruction of the nation's farmers,” he alleged. “They are making all efforts to put a full stop to this movement,” he said. Chadha claimed Amarinder and the PM were close acquaintances, the farm laws that were passed by Modi government were mentioned by Congress in their 2019 manifesto and that the Punjab government stood by these laws when these were being brought in by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-slams-centre-for-being-anti-farmer/articleshow/79481058.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Six killed in separate Rajasthan road accidents||ALWAR/JAIPUR: Six people were killed and 11 others injured in two separate road accidents in Bharatpur and Jaipur on Sunday. A family trip ended on a tragic note when four members were killed while nine others were injured in a head-on collision between a jeep and a truck near Deeg town of Bharatpur. Out of the nine injured, the condition of six is stated to be critical. According to police, a family from Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh was on their way to Narnaul in Haryana to select a groom for their daughter in a pick-up jeep. "As per reports, there were 13 persons in the jeep. The accident took place between Naraina and Panhauri in Deeg area of Bharatpur. Villagers took the injured to the hospital," said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/six-killed-in-separate-raj-roadaccidents/articleshow/79481814.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘River culture key to saving water’||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that water conservation forms the core of restoring ‘nadi sanskriti’ (river culture) in the country, a programme launched by the central and state governments. Speaking at the ‘Times Water Summit – Roadmap to make UP water positive’, powered by Mantena Constructions in association with knowledge partner Xylem, the CM said such initiatives will create awareness among the public and bolster water conservation programmes which are underway in the state. He assured full government support to the Times Group’s campaign, saying it will conserve both humanity and biodiversity. Yogi said the Modi government has vowed to clean water bodies under the Namami Gange programme. “The campaign started with the Ganga river and its tributaries and has been extended to other rivers too. It shows the resolve of the Centre and UP government to restore ‘nadi sanskriti’,” he said. In addition, Yogi said, schemes like Atal Bhujal Yojana and Har Ghar Nal are providing water supply to people in the state. The biggest challenge, Yogi said, was ensuring a clean Ganga during last year’s Mahakumbh in Prayagraj. “UP government and the Centre joined hands and achieved the desired goal of clean Ganga. It was after decades that seers and pilgrims visiting the Mahakumbh realised that the river in which they repose ‘astha’ (faith) had received its due respect,” the CM said. Yogi described water as ‘pratiroop’ (model) of life and exhorted the civil society to take up the responsibility of spreading awareness about water conservation. He said people need to keep groundwater and surface water in mind while speaking about water conservation. Saying that the cleanliness of water bodies was one of the biggest challenges in the present times, Yogi added: “The importance of water had been realised in the ancient times when Shastra started with ‘jal stuti’ (prayer of water).” He lauded the multi-dimensional aspects of water conservation programmes started in the past six years under the guidance of PM Narendra Modi. Yogi said houses built under PM Awas Yojana have been linked with the rainwater harvesting system. The plantation drive carried out by UP government in the past three years will also aid in replenishing water resources, the CM said and added that the Varanasi model and Chitrakoot model are helping in groundwater recharging in the state. Yogi said the quality of water in the Ganga in UP cities, including Varanasi, Prayagraj and Kanpur, has improved following his government’s intervention. “Kanpur was the most critical point between the Gangotri and the Gangasagar. There was no aquatic life left in the Jajmau and Sisamau stretch of the Ganga in Kanpur. Around 14 kilolitres of sewage used to fall into it every day. But owing to the government’s efforts, now you can see that aquatic life has revived in that stretch,” Yogi said. “The Gomti river, too, had dried at its point of origin. But the state government revived it through convergence of works undertaken under Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) and water management,” the CM said, recounting that 15 rivers ,including Manorama river (Basti), Tamsa (Ayodhya), Ami (Gorakhpur) and Aril (Bareilly), are also being rejuvenated by his government. Yogi said his government’s decision to ban non-reusable plastic has played a pivotal role in reviving rivers. “We constituted the Mati Kala Board to provide mud-baked utensils as an alternative to plastic. For this, the state government has allowed potters to dredge mud from ponds between April and June,” he said. Yogi said though UP was blessed with adequate ground and surface water, its conservation requires immense public awareness. He described the Rs 15,000 crore ‘Har Ghar Nal Yojana’ a game changer in Bundelkhand and Vindhyan region. “There was a time when people in Bundelkhand were dependent on water tankers. But we changed that and in the past three years, Bundelkhand has not faced a water crisis,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/river-culture-key-to-saving-water/articleshow/79482367.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 30, 2020||India||Pakistan PM to skip India-hosted SCO meet||NEW DELHI: India will for the first time host a meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government on Monday that will see the participation of prime ministers of China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. Another member-state, Pakistan, will be represented by its parliamentary secretary for foreign affairs. As first reported by TOI on Tuesday, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, instead of PM Narendra Modi, will chair the meeting. While Modi was expected to chair the meeting, given that India is the host nation, the PM will be travelling to his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi on Monday where he is expected to inaugurate an expressway. Ahead of the meeting, official sources said India will continue to play a proactive and constructive role in the regional organisation seen as vital for promoting peace, security and trade. Participating in the recent SCO summit hosted by Russia, Modi had said that the Eurasian forum was being used to raise the Kashmir issue even though the SCO charter didn’t permit it. Pakistani PM Imran Khan will for the second time this year avoid attending a meeting hosted by India apparently to show solidarity with the Kashmiris after India’s decision to revoke the special status of Jammu & Kashmir. He had earlier skipped the meeting of Saarc leaders held by Modi for cooperation on Covid-19. The SCO CHG deals primarily with the trade and economic agenda of the organisation and approves its annual budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-pm-to-skip-india-hosted-sco-meet/articleshow/79482685.cms||---
November 30, 2020||World||Pakistan PM to skip India-hosted SCO meet||NEW DELHI: India will for the first time host a meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government on Monday that will see the participation of prime ministers of China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. Another member-state, Pakistan, will be represented by its parliamentary secretary for foreign affairs. As first reported by TOI on Tuesday, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, instead of PM Narendra Modi, will chair the meeting. While Modi was expected to chair the meeting, given that India is the host nation, the PM will be travelling to his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi on Monday where he is expected to inaugurate an expressway. Ahead of the meeting, official sources said India will continue to play a proactive and constructive role in the regional organisation seen as vital for promoting peace, security and trade. Participating in the recent SCO summit hosted by Russia, Modi had said that the Eurasian forum was being used to raise the Kashmir issue even though the SCO charter didn’t permit it. Pakistani PM Imran Khan will for the second time this year avoid attending a meeting hosted by India apparently to show solidarity with the Kashmiris after India’s decision to revoke the special status of Jammu & Kashmir. He had earlier skipped the meeting of Saarc leaders held by Modi for cooperation on Covid-19. The SCO CHG deals primarily with the trade and economic agenda of the organisation and approves its annual budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-pm-to-skip-india-hosted-sco-meet/articleshow/79482691.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Madurai||Residents concerned over divider on Sivaganga Road||Madurai: Residents have expressed concern at the divider coming up along the Sivaganga Road from Melamadai junction to the PC Perungayam junction on the inner ring road, stating that it could lead to major accidents as it is too high and blocks visibility. Coordinator of the Gomathypuram-Thendral Nagar Residents Welfare Association, D Raghavan said that some residents went to that stretch recently and witnessed the ongoing work. “It is a curved road and the divider could make navigating along the road more difficult. The road is bordered by the Vandiyur tank on one side and Gomathypuram, Melamadai and Seeman Avenue come on the other side. If the divider is completed, residents coming on to the road have to climb two to three feet, as these residential areas are many feet below the level of this road. “When coming on to the Sivaganga Road from the 1t, 2nd, 3rd, 4th to 10th streets in Gomathypuram, we have to accelerate more since it is a steep climb. Now, the divider is blocking the vision of the oncoming vehicles which makes it dangerous,’’ said A Annadurai of Gomathypuram. Many encroachments have also mushroomed along the bund of the tank, making this road even more dangerous. “The divider was constructed from second main road to 6th main road about two years ago and then stopped, because of lack of feasibility, as there are encroachments on one side and the road is not uniform in width. But, now they have taken it up to complete it before the elections as the contract is given to some AIADMK sympathiser, and they are not concerned about the danger,” said S V Pathy of Gomathypuram. “It is a rule that a road should be 120 feet wide to be divided, but this road is not even 60 feet wide in many places,” he said. Residents have decided to submit a petition to the state highways department which is executing the work. They threatened to take the legal course of action if the work is not stopped. State highways department officials could not be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/residents-concerned-over-divider-on-sivaganga-road/articleshow/79482510.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Baba Amte’s granddaughter dies in suspected suicide||Chandrapur: Renowned social worker and CEO of Maharogi Seva Samiti at Anandwan, Dr Sheetal Amte-Karajgi (39) died on Monday morning under suspicious circumstances. It is suspected she died by suicide by injecting herself with some poisonous chemical. She is said to have been under depression for the last many days following a family feud. She had recently posted a video on social media about these differences, but deleted it hours later. The Amte family had issued a clarification about it later, pointing out her mental illness. Some six hours before her death, Dr Sheetal had posted a modern art painting titled ‘War and Peace’ on her Twitter account. The painting, her last post on social media, apparently reflected her stressed mental state. Sources told TOI Dr Sheetal was found writhing at around 11am in her bedroom, and was rushed to Warora sub-district hospital, but declared brought dead. She is survived by husband Gautam and six-year-old son. Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Warora, Nilesh Pande told TOI that it is yet to be ascertained whether it was suicide, homicide or a natural death. Dr Sheetal was with her husband, son, father-in-law and mother-in-law at her residence in Anandwan when the incident took place. Dr Sheetal’s father, mother and brother had been staying at Hemalkasa in Gadchiroli for the last several days following a dispute with her. The body has been sent to Chandrapur GMCH for post mortem, and police will be able to comment on the cause of death only after receipt of primary post mortem report. A specialist forensic team from Nagpur was summoned to look for forensic evidence, and the work is still underway, said Pande. The SDPO also denied having recovered a suicide note, and maintained that forensic team from Nagpur is looking into all such aspects. SP Arvind Salve also visited Anandwan and is supervising the investigations. Maharogi Seva Samiti (MSS) was founded by legendary social worker Baba Amte at Anandwan in Warora in 1949. He was a pioneer in the treatment and rehabilitation of leprosy patients. Daughter of Baba’s elder son Dr Vikas Amte, Sheetal was a gifted doctor shouldering her family legacy in the third generation and had been running the establishment for the last many years as Maharogi Seva Samiti chief executive officer (CEO). Her husband Gautam Karajgi too worked with her at Anandwan. Disputes had cropped up in recent months between Dr Sheetal and other members of the Amte family. She had raised her concerns and dispute with the family in a social media video post recently, and levelled serious allegations on the trust management and Amte family. The video was deleted within a couple hours from her profile. On November 24, a statement issued on the letterhead of MSS Warora came into the media. The statement dated November 22, but released on November 24, had signatures of Dr Vikas (Dr Sheetal’s father), his wife Dr Bharati, Dr Prakash (uncle) and his wife Dr Mandakini Amte. TOI had on November 26 published the report about the Amte family refuting allegations by Dr Sheetal. The statement claimed that Dr Sheetal was under tremendous mental stress and going through depression. “MSS was established in 1949 by Baba Amte and at present is the leading social organization in India. From last three generations, the entire Amte family is working together for this cause. Dr Sheetal Gautam Karajgi (née Dr Sheetal Vikas Amte) has her contribution in the trust work. However, at present, Dr Sheetal is going through mental stress and is in a state of depression. Dr Sheetal has accepted it during the social media message posted by her, in which she has made some wrong statements about the trust, trustees, and workers of the trust. All these statements are baseless,” read the statement. It further added that the family, after serious brainstorming, has decided to issue the said statement so that no one should be confused by the video released by Dr Sheetal. “The Amte family wants to assure all our beneficiaries, workers, and associates that we will continue the work following the trust’s tradition of last seven decades. We will continue to adhere to the principles, aims and objectives of the trust and maintain transparency in our work always,” it concludes. Dr Sheetal was an alumnus of Government Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur. She was working to strengthen the most essential pillars of rural system — health, education and sustainable village development. She was also selected by World Economic Forum as ‘Young Global Leader 2016’ and later selected as a member of World Economic Forum Expert Network on Humanitarian Response. As an adviser to many government and non-governmental organizations, Dr Sheetal was instrumental in creating many microforests for conservation of 88 native forest tree species at Anandwan, and was looking to create a man-made forest for creating a gene bank of one million rare native trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/baba-amtes-granddaughter-dies-in-suspected-suicide/articleshow/79492841.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 30, 2020||Surat||Dhanvantri Raths at weddings to detect Covid cases||Surat: With wedding season expected to be in full bloom in the coming months, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is keeping a close eye on the venues across the city as large gatherings of people could possibly result in a surge in Covid-19 cases. The civic body is gearing up to ensure that arrangements are in place to contain the virus from spreading through wedding venues.Post Diwali, the city has witnessed a massive increase in coronavirus cases and numbers of bed occupancy is steadily increasing in private as well as government hospitals in Surat city.“At present, the rise in Covid-19 cases were due to Diwali festivities. We have carried out aggressive testing to isolate infected patients and hospitalize them for timely treatment. Now, the wedding season is in full bloom till December 15 and gatherings would take place at wedding venues,” Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, told TOI. The SMC teams are contacting wedding venue owners and event managers to ensure that all the guidelines are enforced by invitees. Masks are a must and sanitisers should be in place for all guests at the venue, said Pani.“We are now focusing on wedding venues across the city where gatherings would take place. We will provide Dhavantari Raths at marriage venues on demand and it will be a free-of-cost service. These raths will conduct tests at venues and help us identify infected guests if any and isolate them,’‘ Pani added.SMC officials said nearly 400 wedding venues in the city which will host weddings up to December 15 as kamurta (inauspcious period) sets in on December 16.On Sunday, SMC created 134 new microcontaintment zones covering 143 houses. As of Sunday, there are a total of 1419 microcontaintment zones covering 1.25 lakh population and 29,994 houses in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dhanvantri-raths-at-weddings-to-detect-covid-cases/articleshow/79480156.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Madurai||HC appoints advocate to check illegal sand mining||Madurai: The Madras high court has appointed an advocate commissioner to inspect and submit a report, in a plea which sought to prevent illegal sand mining in Thamirabarani river in Tuticorin district The court was hearing a petition filed by K Balakrishnan. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi appointed M Kalaivanan, an advocate and retired joint director of geology and mining department as the advocate commissioner. The judges directed the commissioner to inspect the place and ascertain the quantity of sand quarried from Thamirabarani river. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that due to recent rains, some of the portions are waterlogged and it is easy to destroy the evidence. Taking cognizance of the submissions, the judges directed the commissioner to assess the volume of sand quarried using advanced scientific methods like satellite images and others. The judges directed the commissioner to file a report along with photographs in this regard and adjourned the case to December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-appoints-advocate-to-check-illegal-sand-mining/articleshow/79482508.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Night curfew in 13 districts, educational institutions closed till December 31||JAIPUR: The state home department on Sunday issued Covid-19 guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution for the December 1-31 period. As per the guidelines, there will be night curfew from 8pm to 6am within urban limits of 13 district headquarters, namely Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. Night curfew was already in place in eight districts and it has now been increased to 13. Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed and regular classes for students till December 31. Cinema halls/theatres/multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will also remain closed till December 31. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations will not be permitted till December 31. Lockdown shall remain in force in containment zones till the end of the year. All activities permitted outside containment zones “The need of the hour is to launch a mass movement against Covid. Every citizen should maintain due caution and strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of guidelines,” said the guidelines issued by home principal secretary Abhay Kumar. In all workplaces (government/autonomous/private offices, etc.) with over 100 employees in the above 13 cities, and 75% of employees shall be permitted to attend offices and 25% shall continue to work from home. At marriage-related gatherings, organisers should ensure that the maximum number of guests should not exceed 100. At funerals/ last rites-related gatherings, the maximum number should not be over 20. However, if any person/institution/organisation applies to the district collector for any function along with a seating plan, the collector can give permission following certain conditions. The organizer must ensure the maximum number of guests in a closed space is 50% of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 100 persons. In open spaces, the number will be decided by the size of the ground/space with a ceiling of 100 persons. All activities are permitted outside containment zones, except for the following, which are permitted with certain restrictions: international air travel of passengers, as permitted by MHA; swimming pools, only for training of sports persons; exhibition halls, only for business to business (B2B) purposes. With a view to ensuring safety in offices and workplaces, employers should ensure that Aarogya Setu app is installed by all employees. Organization and business entities with 50 or more employees are encouraged to avail the Aarogya Setu Open API Service. Within the demarcated containment zones, strict containment measures, as prescribed by MoHFW, have to be scrupulously followed. Only essential activities shall be allowed in containment zones. Listing of contacts shall be carried out in respect of all persons found positive, along with their tracking, identification, quarantine and follow up of contacts for 14 days (80% of contacts to be traced in 72 hours). The medical department will share a list of all positive cases (with address and mobile details) with concerned SHO every day for monitoring purposes by beat constable. The beat constable will download ‘RajCovidInfo’ app to monitor positive cases. He will visit at least once in three days to ensure that the patient remains in home quarantine and also get RajCovidInfo app downloaded on the mobile phone of Covid patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/night-curfew-in-13-dists-eduinstitutions-closed-till-dec-31/articleshow/79481819.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Surat||Surat: To fulfil wife’s demands, artisan turns bike thief||SURAT: A 37-year-old diamond artisan turned into a motorcycle thief allegedly to fulfil his wife’s demand for a better life than their relatives. After crime branch sleuths nabbed Balvant Chauhan, a resident of Utran, based on a specific tip from near Hirabaug circle in Varachha on Sunday, he opened up on why he took to stealing bikes. Chauhan told the police that his wife was jealous of her elder sister as she could splurge in luxuries which her husband, a builder, could afford through his work. Regular comparison and taunting made Chauhan attempt to earn some quick bucks along with his job as a diamond artisan which earned him Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 monthly. However, he lost his job during lockdown. Thereafter, he took up motorcycle stealing as a whole time activity. Police recovered 30 stolen motorcycles from the accused who lifted the vehicles from Kapodara, Varachha, Katargam and Amroli areas. Chauhan, said cops, targeted parking lots of diamond units and shopping complexes. “Since he was an employee in a diamond unit he knew the working hours of employees. He was aware that in post lunch hours the motorcycle remained in the parking area for a long time when he stole it,” said a police officer of the crime branch. Investigation revealed that the native of Jaliya village in Bhavnagar district stole the first bike in 2017. He started stealing again in 2019 and stole four motorcycles. He stole 25 bikes in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-artisan-turns-into-bike-thief/articleshow/79480275.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Surat||Debt-ridden bizman fakes kidnapping to get money from father||Surat: Debt-ridden, a 39-year-old farsan shop owner, tried a spicy’ trick to extract money from his father to repay his loan. Rajan Damaniya from Adajan area of Surat fabricated his own kidnapping story in Valsad to get money from his retired government officer father and repay his debt of Rs 2.5 lakh. However, Valsad police sniffed their way into the rented apartment where he was hiding and nabbed the businessman. Damaniya, resident of Halar Road in Valsad, disappeared from his home on November 25 without informing family members. Later in the day his father Harjivandas received messages on Whatsapp from Damaniya’s number. It was claimed in the message that Damaniya has been kidnapped. “The messages were sent in Hindi and Damaniya sent his own photo as a proof of kidnapping,” said M N Chavda, deputy superintendent of police, Valsad. He demanded Rs 3.2 lakh ransom from his father. Of the total ransom money he demanded Rs 20,000 to be transferred in a Bank of Baroda account first. The father then approached the police and filed a missing person’s report. Later police gathered details of Damaniya’s location and traced him in Adajan area of the city. Police raided the spot with help of local police in Adajan and found that Damaniya had feigned kidnap, but was actually hiding there. “He staged the kidnapping drama to get money from his father. We did not register an offence against him yet but police plans to do further procedure now,” said police. Damaniya left home on his motorcycle and went to Daman. He spent two days there and later went to Surat. He searched for accommodation available on rent and hired an apartment for 15 days. Damaniya started the farsan shop, a franchise of a popular Vadodara based farsan chain, four months ago in a rented shop. To meet his expenses he borrowed around Rs 2.5 lakh from different mobile applications. After due date the money lenders were demanding repayment of the loan after which Damaniya planned his kidnapping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/debt-ridden-bizman-fakes-kidnapping-to-get-money-from-father/articleshow/79480182.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Madurai||‘Infra must to overcome changes in rainfall pattern’||Madurai: Change in climatic conditions have resulted in nearly 100mm or more rainfall experienced within a few hours, said secretary of the International Water Association (IWA) and associate professor at Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Dr S Chandran.Chandran said that the current conditions and infrastructure may not be sufficient to overcome the impacts of climate change. They require an integrated demand side and supply side strategies. Hence, all steps should be taken to develop the infrastructure in such a way that flooding and inundation is prevented, and the water is carried away to storage structures effectively, during the rain, he said.He was speaking at the third water conclave organized by the CII Madurai zone, in coordination with IWA, in Madurai on Saturday. Chandran said that earlier, widespread rainfall amounting to 100mm or more was experienced in a few days of a season. But, now rain in a particular place is intense.This year, on October 16, Pune received its highest rainfall in a single day for the first time in 120 years. Similarly, on November 16, many parts of Tuticorin district were inundated recording 100mm of rainfall in just 90 minutes, which was more than one mm per minute.During the recent Nivar cyclone, Cuddalore experienced 24.4cm rainfall, in less than 24 hours. “Powerful cyclones bringing copious rainfall has become a normal occurrence in Tamil Nadu and other parts of the state. We have experienced flooding in many places. The solution is to be resilient by revamping our infrastructure to ensure that the rainwater is channelized towards storage bodies such as tanks through proper capturing techniques which could help recharge the groundwater,” Chandran said.He said that climate change manifests itself primarily through changes in the water cycle. Floods, droughts, sea-level rise are some of the consequences. Climate change adaptation will help to build climate resilience. There should be an effective country-driven climate change adaptation. It should reflect the importance of water management in reducing vulnerability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/infra-must-to-overcome-changes-in-rainfall-pattern/articleshow/79482513.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Madurai||Loan assessor steals 2kg gold in Madurai bank||MADURAI: City police have arrested a jewellery assessor at a public sector bank in Madurai on charges of embezzling gold jewellery worth more than Rs 1 crore pledged by the bank’s customers. The misappropriation and theft of jewellery at the North Veli branch of Bank of Baroda came to light when the bank officials conducted a check a few weeks ago. Vilakkuthoon police on Saturday arrested M Hariharaputhiran, the assessor, based on a complaint by the regional manager of the bank, S Suthakaran.  Police are in the process of arresting G Balakrishnan, another bank official, who is said to be the mastermind of the crime. Police said that the bank employees have been embezzling money for the past one year without giving any suspicion to the branch manager or other officials. The officials blew the lid of the scam when a random check was conducted to ascertain the quantity of jewellery in the first week of November. During the check, it was revealed that around 450g of gold jewellery worth Rs 25 lakh was missing. The shocked bank officials conducted an extensive examination of accounts over the last one year and found that 2,162g of gold jewellery worth Rs 1.03 crore have been misappropriated. Explaining the crime, a police officer said that the bank staff stole jewellery pledged by customers and pledged it back at the same branch with the help of Haraharaputhiran’s friends and relatives for a commission. They also forged documents and pocket the money. When a customer pledges 10 sovereigns of gold and seeks less money than what the gold could have fetched, the bank officials issue bills tantamount to the money given to the customers. But, they make forged slips for bank records showing higher rates and pocket them. Police inspector M Ilavarasu said, “We have seized 265g of gold jewellery so far and expect to recover more jewellery after arresting Balakrishnan, who was transferred to the main branch recently. Further inquiries are underway to find out what the accused did with the money,” he said. Police also booked another bank staff Gorpalakrishnan, besides Haraharaputhiran’s six friends and relatives, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bank-staff-held-for-embezzling-2kg-gold-pledged-by-customers/articleshow/79482511.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||In a first, bee-keeping begins at Barabanki PS||Lucknow: In a first of its kind initiative, Mohammadpur police station in Barabanki began bee-keeping on its premises on Sunday. The initiative was part of keeping bees at the police stations for not only upgrading facilities at a police station, but also for the welfare of cops. Superintendent of police, Barabanki, Arvind Chaturvedi said that bee-keeping at the police station will give honey which will not only boost immunity of cops, but its sale will bring in cash which will be used for the police welfare. Chaturvedi said that beekeeping was finalised because it has many advantages. Besides honey, it provides beeswax which is used for multiple purposes along with a compound called propolis from the sap on needle-leaved trees or evergreens which is used in medicines and also boosts immunity. It also gives bee-pollen which is a rich source of nutrition. The officer also said that beekeeping would be done under the ‘garden fund’. Other 26 police stations have also installed the boxes for beekeeping. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-a-first-bee-keeping-begins-at-barabanki-ps/articleshow/79482324.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Surat||Surat police on behavioural makeover mode||SURAT: Until it can’t be avoided, police stations are strictly avoided by general public. While in most cases it may be out of fear for the uniform, what also puts people off mainly is cops’ uncultured, almost hostile behaviour towards the civilians. While keeping a strict countenance may go well with their job profile, the khaki image has taken a huge beating as it is most often associated with harsh unfriendly attitude. But this is set to change soon. If things go as planned by city police commissioner Ajay Tomar, you may be pleasantly surprised the next time you walk into a police station with any complaint of yours. Not only will the men in uniform accurately guide you in stating your grievances, but you will also be helped with filing a complaint immediately. And what’s more, cops will also inform you about your legal rights. City’s cops have been instructed in a written order by the top cop that, “Complainant’s are in trouble hence they should be heard peacefully. They should be assisted in writing application and not asked to go to someone who can draft the complaint. Register a complaint immediately in case of serious crime.” All these have been envisaged to revise cops’ appearance with a more people-friendly approach to help those in need get justice early. Cops will also assist victims of crime to make them feel safe in their presence. “Image of strict police is for criminals but not for citizens. Out of total population of 60 lakh in the city less than half percent are criminals so the larger portion of the city should feel the positive side of cops,” Tomar told TOI. “Our intention is to support the victims of crime who are already in pain. Police can make some changes in its approach and win trust of people,” Tomar said , adding that investigation officers will now explain to complainants that they too can take objection against bail to the accused and can argue in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-police-on-behavioural-makeover-mode/articleshow/79480201.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||Pro-Khalistan, pro-Pak slogans being raised at farmers’ stir: BJP’s U’khand, Pb in-charge||Dehradun: “Slogans of ‘Pakistan-Khalistan Zindabad’ are being raised in the farmers’ protest and those involved will be arrested soon,” said newly elected BJP state in-charge for Uttarakhand, Dushyant Kumar Gautam, who is also the party in-charge for Punjab. Gautam, a member of the Upper House of Parliament from Haryana, maintained that “anti-national forces are behind farmers’ protest”. Addressing the media at the party’s state head office in Dehradun on Sunday, Gautam said that “farmers are like brothers and the government is ready to talk to them but the Congress and other parties are confusing them”. “(The new) farmer laws are for the entire nation but the protests are happening only in Punjab. Slogans of ‘Pakistan Zindabad’, ‘Khalistan Zindabad’ are being raised there. Slogans are being raised for anti-national forces,” he further said. Asked why those raising these slogans are not being arrested, he said they will soon be arrested. “At a time nahi hoti hai giraftari, karenge hum sab karenge (they cannot all be arrested in one go but we will do everything),” he added. Attacking the ruling Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi, Gautam said that AAP which did not “even provide food to labourers during the pandemic is setting up tents and arranging food for agitating farmers”. He also added that “people associated with Shaheen Bagh have also joined this movement”. Gautam, who was in the state capital to review the preparations ahead of party national president JP Nadda’s visit, also claimed that as many as 165 BJP workers sacrificed their lives to protect and help people during the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pro-khalistan-pro-pak-slogans-being-raised-at-farmers-stir-bjps-ukhand-pb-in-charge/articleshow/79480302.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 30, 2020||Madurai||Woman, child injured in snatching incident||Madurai: A woman and her 10-year-old daughter suffered injuries after they fell down from a bike as an unidentified duo, snatched a gold chain from the woman. The incident took place at RMS Colony in Sholavandan-Melakkal Road on Saturday night. The snatchers escaped with a gold chain weighing six sovereigns. The injured were identified as Amali Ganagamani from Yoga Nagar in Sholavandan and her daughter Francis Jeeva. They had visited her relatives and was on their way home at around 7.30 pm when the bike borne duo snatched her chain. The woman and her daughter fell down under the impact and suffered injuries on their hands and legs. A complaint was lodged with the Sholavandan police station. A case was registered and police are on the lookout for the culprits. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-child-injured-in-snatching-incident/articleshow/79482514.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Rise in vector-borne diseases in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: With the number of dengue and chikungunya cases rising in the city, the authorities have appealed to the citizens to cooperate with the administration by following the guidelines strictly to contain the spread of the vector-borne viral diseases. In the past one month, the city has reported over 100 dengue and 30 chikungunya cases. The actual numbers may be on the higher side as patients treated in private hospitals are not registered with the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), though the private hospitals must notify such cases within 24 hours of confirmation. Kadambari Balkawade, the civic chief, said, “Our efforts are on to contain the spread. Fogging is being carried out in each lane of the city. Unused containers and tyres are being removed while the vents of the wastewater pipes from homes are now fitted with a mesh.” “We need people’s support. They should keep utensils or containers dry and clean. They should also immediately approach our hospitals for testing and treatment,” she said. Many people said their blood samples have tested negative for both dengue and chikungunya despite having symptoms for more than a week.The health authorities of the KMC have taken the complaints into account and appealed to the patients to approach the KMC-run urban health centres. At present, the KMC reports three to four dengue cases and one to two chikungunya cases per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rise-in-vector-borne-diseases-in-kolhapur/articleshow/79595710.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Madurai||Deepams light up Meenakshi, Palani temples for Karthigai||Madurai/Trichy: Karthigai deepam was lit on top of the Palani temple, as thousands of devotees gathered at the foothill to witness the ceremony. The festival was celebrated at other temples also without devotees. Thousands of lamps were lit around the tank inside the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple. In Sri Meenakshi Sundareswrar temple, the festival will be celebrated for 10 days till December 3, and lakh of lamps were lit and special poojas were performed at the temple. Palani Dandaydhapani temple opened for darshan at 4am, and devotees were sent up in batches of 1,000 till noon. Elaborate arrangements were made at the temple for the festival, and a large crowd worshipped the lamp when it was lit at 6pm. At the Thiruparankundram Subramaniaswamy temple, the festival was a low-key affair this time, as devotees were not allowed due to Covid-19. The lamp was lit in a copper vessel using 160l of ghee, a wick made of 110m of cloth and 5kg of camphor. Festival lamps were also lit in small temples and other temples in the southern districts including Tiruchendur Subramaniaswamy temple and Palamudhir Cholai temple in Alagarkoil. People also celebrated the festival, by lighting lamps at their houses and exchanging sweets. Prices of flowers shot up due to the festival, and jasmine was sold at Rs 1,000/kg. However, rain in the evening affected festive shopping. Meanwhile in Trichy, the giant oil lamp was lighted atop the Rockfort hillock temple complex as part of Karthigai deepam festival, which was observed as a low-key event. Devotees were not permitted inside the temple. Temple management said that the giant wick made of 300m of cotton was immersed in a copper cauldron containing 900l of iluppai (Mahua) oil, sesame oil and ghee mixture for the past three days. Special prayers were held at the shrine of Thayumanaswami at 5.30pm. Around 6pm, the giant oil lamp placed atop a 20ft tall tower erected near Uchchi Pillaiyar shrine was lit. Subsequently, the residents started lighting oil lamps at their houses. The giant lamp will continue to glow for the next three days, HR&CE officials said. The shrines atop the hillock were adorned with decorative lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deepams-light-up-meenakshi-palani-temples-for-karthigai/articleshow/79482516.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Madurai||Villagers complain of unhygienic conditions||Dindigul: Residents of the Otta Koilpatti Adidravidar colony in Kannivadi town panchayat of Dindigul district are complaining of being treated like second class citizens as they are forced to wait along sewage channels to collect water for their daily use. While the other wards and colonies of this town panchayat have a better water supply system, residents of the colony feel that they don’t have a similar system. There are about 100 houses and about 300 people living in this colony. The other part of the area comes under the T Pudupatti town panchayat. Rani (name changed), a resident of the colony, said that they were being treated like second class citizens when compared to the other wards as their taps were fixed near the sewage line. “At times, the sewage overflows when there is a water supply and we have to wade through it and collect water,” she said. Residents said that they receive water supply only once in five to 10 days and they are forced to collect as much water as possible as they do not have bore wells. Women residents said that they were not concerned about it in the summer season, but now as it has started raining and they are frightened that their children may fall sick due to the unhygienic conditions. Additional director of town panchayats, Dindigul R Raja said that steps would be taken to shift the taps to a better environment at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/villagers-complain-of-unhygienic-conditions/articleshow/79482519.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Madurai||Water released from Manjalaru dam||Madurai: Water from the Manjalaru dam in Theni district was relased on Sunday, to irrigate 5,259 acres in the old and new ayacut regions of the dam. It would be released for a period of 107 days from November 29. Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev, who released the water, said that the water was being released to irrigate 3,386 acres in the old ayacut region in Theni and Dindigul districts, which would receive 60 cusecs from November 29 to December 15, and 1,873 acres in the new ayacut region, which would receive 40 cusecs on November 29 and 30. In the second phase, the old ayacut areas would receive 50 cusecs for a period of 47 days from December 16 to January 31, next year, while the new ayacut regions would receive 30 cusecs for a period of 90 days from December 1 to February 28, next year. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/water-released-from-manjalaru-dam/articleshow/79482518.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Surat||For Surtis, marriages are made in Daman!||SURAT: Marriages, it is said, are made in heaven. No wonder then, that an earthly pandemic could barely do much to keep wedding bells in check. At least for the Surti brides and grooms. As organising elaborate wedding ceremonies are becoming a challenging task in diamond city that is hit both by spike in Covid-19 cases and night curfew imposed by Gujarat government, Surtis are rushing to solemnise them in the Union territory of Daman. “I always wanted my marriage to be a big, fat one. But that is not possible in Surat,” said Rajesh (name changed), a 34-year-old engineer with textile business background, who will be now tying the nuptial knot at a beach resort in Daman on November 30. For the hoteliers and resort owners in Daman, who were gasping for breath due to huge losses in Covid times, the wedding season has brought hopes of their survival. “On an average 15 weddings are taking place in Daman daily. Most of these bookings have come after the Gujarat government imposed a night curfew in Surat to contain the spread of the pandemic. This marriage season has turned fortunes for us,” Haresh Thangal, secretary of Daman Hotels and Restaurant Association (DHRA) told TOI. DHRA expects the trend to continue till December 15. “There is no night curfew in Daman so guests can enjoy till late in the night. Daman offers dual advantage. Guests get to enjoy everything – live DJ, wedding and off course booze,” said Thangal. He however added that standard guidelines such as a cap of 100 attendees are in force in Daman as well. “Three weddings ceremonies took place at our resort on a single day on Thursday. All the families were from Surat. Since the first lockdown in March, the occupancy was less than 20% as tourists from Gujarat and Maharashtra avoided travelling. But we have more weddings lined up in the coming days,” said Gopal Tandel, whose resort is perched right on the beach. “We are getting lot of inquiries from Surat and Mumbai. I have marriage bookings till December 7 and majority of the customers are from Surat,” said Akarsh Mathur, general manager of another resort. “Planning for weddings in Surat has been going on since the last two months. But many of our clients shifted their venues to Daman after the night curfew. Daman has an advantage as they have everything ready - right from wedding stage, liquor, event planners, food and DJs. Cost too is cheaper,” said Nirav Chahwala, president of South Gujarat Event Management Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/for-surtis-marriages-are-made-in-daman/articleshow/79480334.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
November 30, 2020||Kochi||This article has been removed||This article has been removed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-article-has-been-removed/articleshow/79480351.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: 135 cases in south TN, 120 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state on Sunday reported 135 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the tally to 1,29,183, which include 1,110 active cases, 1,26,221 recoveries and 2,066 deaths. The region recorded two deaths, one each in Madurai and Kanyakumari. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 120 new cases taking the tally to 70,547, which include 1,012 active cases. The region recorded no death and the toll remains at 899. Madurai reported 27 new cases, the highest number in the south, followed by Dindigul (26). With 242 and 140 active cases respectively, Madurai and Kanyakumari districts have the most number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Dindigul (135). Dindigul, which has been reporting 20-40 cases per day during the past few days, crossed 100 active cases on Saturday. Except for Tuticorin (133) and Tirunelveli (128), all other districts have less than 100 active cases, with Theni (17) having the least number of active cases. Kanyakumari (16), Tuticorin (15), Tenkasi (14) and Sivaganga (12), reported less than 20 fresh cases on Saturday. Virudhunagar (9), Tirunelveli (8), Ramanathapuram (4) and Theni (4) recorded cases in single digits. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. Thanjavur district recorded 32 new positive cases, the highest in central region, taking the tally to 16,385. Nagapattinam recorded 24 fresh positive cases pushing the tally to 7,616. Trichy reported 21 new cases taking the tally to 13,395. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Pudukottai (16), Karur (15), Tiruvarur (10), and Ariyalur (2). Perambalur recorded no case on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-135-cases-in-south-tn-120-in-central-districts/articleshow/79482520.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||Covid SOPs: Ceiling of 100 people in marriage, religious, social gatherings||Dehradun: A day after chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the state, the Uttarakhand government on Sunday has come up with a fresh SOP which places certain restrictions such as ceiling of 100 people in marriage, religious, educational and entertainment events. Earlier, 200 people were allowed for such events. However, no restriction has been imposed on inter and intra state movement of people and goods and all inbound travellers have been directed to register themselves with the smart city website. Besides, no separate permission is required for people travelling within or outside the state. On Sunday evening, chief secretary Om Prakash issued the fresh set of guidelines. Cinema halls and theatres would operate with a 50% capacity and swimming pools would open only for training of sportspersons. Similarly, exhibition halls would be permitted only for "business to business" purposes. The SOP stated that the district administration should make the necessary arrangements for thermal screening of all inbound travellers at border check posts, airports, railway stations and bus stands in border districts. If a person is found symptomatic then an antigen test must be done, and if found positive then appropriate SOP should be followed, it stated. For local restrictions, the district administration, based on their assessment of the situation, may impose night curfew with the aim to contain the spread of infection. “The district administration, however, shall not impose any local lockdown [district sub-division/ city level], outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the state,” the order stated. The SOP also mentioned that strict enforcement of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing must be ensured. To enforce wearing of masks in public and work spaces, imposition of fines may be imposed. “Observance and enforcement of social distancing in crowded places, especially in markets, weekly bazaars and public transport, is also crucial,” it stated, adding that effective demarcation of containment zones in vulnerable and high incidence areas has to be done at the micro level, taking into consideration the Central guidelines to break the chain of transmission. Besides, the SOP lays thrust on house to house surveillance. Meanwhile, a Covid report is not mandatory for tourists coming to Uttarakhand. All inbound asymptomatic persons, if coming for a specific purpose - such as business, exams, personal distress - for less than seven days can visit, but should continuously monitor their health and if they develop symptoms they must contact the local health authority. All asymptomatic persons, who are travelling outside Uttarakhand for a maximum duration of five days, should on their return be exempted from being quarantined. However, in cases of outbound travel for more than five days, they must undergo home quarantine of 10 days. Also, all asymptomatic inbound persons will be exempted from home quarantine, if they undergo RT-PCR/TrueNAT/ CBNAAT/ antigen test with negative report on return or not earlier than 96 hours before the arrival to the Uttarakhand border, the SOP order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-sops-ceiling-of-100-people-in-marriage-religious-social-gatherings/articleshow/79480338.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 30, 2020||Madurai||Survey to identify school dropouts||Madurai: Chief education officer (CEO) of Madurai district, R Swaminathan has said that the annual survey to identify school dropouts under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), is currently on in the district. The survey, which will identify both school dropouts and those children who have not had formal education so far, will be carried out till December 10. “Teams of block resource teacher educators, special educators and anganwadi workers are carrying out the survey. Government school headmasters have also been asked to submit attendance records as well to identify those who have been absent for long time apart from the area-wise survey,” said Swaminathan. Officials urged for co-operation by public, especially with the possibility of rise in dropouts due to Covid-19 pandemic. “Only when we get the results of the survey, we will know if there is any unusual trend. The survey will be completed by December 10,” said the CEO. Officials from other departments, including from Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), will also be working with education department officials for conducting the survey. Similar surveys are being carried out in other districts too. Children with special needs and children of migrants are also identified to be provided aid. For children with disabilities, data of whether they have proper IDs and documentation is also to be collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/survey-to-identify-school-dropouts/articleshow/79482528.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||Weekly closure of markets enforced in Doon||Dehradun: The mandatory one-day closure of markets for sanitization purposes was reintroduced in the city from Sunday onwards. In view of Diwali and the festive season, the measure had been temporarily suspended, but in view of the rising number of Covid cases, market closure on Sundays has been restarted. Dehradun district has reported the highest daily average of Covid cases in the state. The sanitization drive was also carried out in markets which remain crowded throughout the week - such as Jhanda Bazaar and Paltan Bazaar. The hospitals, too, were sanitized during the drive on Sunday. Officials from the district administration and police also inspected several places to check if the weekly closure was being followed - in all the markets and malls. DM Ashish Srivastava has also instructed all the SDMs to carry out drives in areas under their jurisdiction and ensure compliance of social distancing norms. He has asked the officials to especially check people who are not wearing masks in public places like the market and take action against the offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/weekly-closure-of-markets-enforced-in-doon/articleshow/79480357.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||CM dedicates Rs 50 crore Suryadhar lake to people||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday inaugurated the Suryadhar lake in his home constituency of Doiwala. Built at a cost of Rs 50.25 crore, the lake has a holding capacity of 77,000 cubic metres. The lake is 550-metre long, 28-metre wide and 10-metre deep. The lake, which has been named after social worker Gajendra Dutt Naithani, would provide drinking water to 18 villages and irrigation to 19 villages in the area. CM Rawat said that the purpose of constructing this lake is not just drinking water and irrigation, but it will also bring about wider results. “This will recharge water sources, better the eco system for the environment and prove a major tourist destination in the future,” the CM added. The CM pointed out that 18 villages will get gravity water and irrigation facilities will be available in 1,247-hectare area in 19 villages. Earlier, only 534 hectares were irrigated. “There is a population of 30,000 in this area and a person gets 40 litre water each day. With the construction of this lake, now a person will get 100 litres of water daily,” Rawat said. On the occasion, Rawat went on a boat ride and also poured fish seeds. “We aim to develop the lake as a major tourism destination and will also encourage water sports,” he added. Besides, he also laid the foundation stone for projects worth Rs 6.79 crore in Doiwala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-dedicates-rs-50-crore-suryadhar-lake-to-people/articleshow/79480369.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Move over Munna Bhai, here comes Munna behen||Ludhiana: It seemed a scene from Munna Bhai MBBS film, only the climax was different.The police on Sunday booked two cousins for cheating and conspiracy after they reached Meritorious School examination centre to appear for the elementary teacher training (ETT) test with the same roll-number and ID proof. The accused have been identified as Kirna Rani of Ferozepur, the actual candidate, and her cousin, Asha Rani of Jalalabad.Rajesh Kumar, superintendent of the examination centre, said in his police complaint, “On Sunday, Kirna Rani came to the examination centre to appear for the ETT exam. Minutes later, another woman came and claimed she was Kirna Rani. Both the women had the same roll-number and copy of the same Aadhaar card. The matter was brought to the notice of the higher authorities after which both were allowed to appear for the exam.” In the meantime, the police were informed. Division 8 police station SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said, “It was found during investigation that days before, Kirna had asked Asha to write the exam on her behalf as the latter was post-graduate and the former a Class XII passout. Later, Kirna forgot about it and came to Ludhiana to sit for the exam. Asha too reached the examination centre with the photocopies of the ID proofs of Kirna.”An FIR has been lodged against the two under sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (punishment for cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. No arrest has been made so far, he added.Over 3,238 students, of the registered 3,629, appeared for the elementary teacher training test. There were 11 centres in Ludhiana, where test was conducted as per the pandemic guidelines.Both had same roll-number, ID proofController of the centre Col Amarjeet Singh said, “Both the candidates had the same Adhaar card and roll-number. The photograph on Adhaar card was not clear. With the consent of the vice-chancellor of GNDU, we allowed them to appear for the exam. Later, we approached the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/move-over-munna-bhai-here-comes-munna-behen/articleshow/79480374.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Tractor to Twitter’: Agri protest gets online push for Punjab farmers||JALANDHAR: Some netizens have taken to the virtual world to back the farmers’ protest against the farm laws. Punjabi singers, a former MP and some social media influencers are among those mobilising support for farmers on Twitter by running a campaign with hashtags, while some others have formed a WhatsApp group to organise support on Twitter.  “We will bring 25,000 new users on Twitter for Punjab to reply to propaganda machinery of BJP Govt. Difference is, ours will be real people,” posted Ludhiana-based Bhavjit Singh. Dr Amandeep Singh Bains along with some friends launched “Tractor2Twitr” campaign. Former MP Dharamvira Gandhi posted “an important message to Punjab social media activists” on his FB page, asking all Punjabis across religions, castes, trades and professions to come forward to counter and defeat the BJP’s “troll army’s” propaganda. “Most of Punjabi netizens either post in Punjabi or English, but Hindi audience has been just audience. I have started in Hindi as most of the propaganda against Punjabi farmers’ agitation is happening in Hindi,” he said. A hashtag “istandwithfarmerschallenge” was also started on Sunday. Singer-actor Amrinder Gill also issued an appeal in Punjabi, asking netizens to join Twitter “to spread the message of Punjabi farmers’ struggle and Baba Nanak’s message of universality to the world”. Singer-actors Diljit Dosanjh and Gippy Grewal also asked people to run hashtags in farmers’ support. BOX: SC lawyers back agitationA group of Supreme Court lawyers led by senior advocates H S Phoolka and Rajiv Khosla have conveyed they are with farmers. Demanding that cases against farmers be withdrawn, Phoolka said lawyers would extend support, including fighting their cases, without any fee. Advocate Khosla said Delhi Bar Council will hold a meet on Dec 4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tractor-to-twitter-agri-protest-gets-online-push/articleshow/79481867.cms||IP Singh
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid claims 2 lives, infects 92||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 92 tested positive on Sunday.As per the local media bulletin, the Ludhiana casualties included an 80-year-old man of Guru Nanak Nagar in Khanna, who had diabetes, and a 52-year-old man of Bhamia Kalan on Tajpur Road, who had diabetes, chronic liver disease and pulmonary hypertension.The day also saw two residents of Jalandhar and Jammu and Kashmir succumbing to the virus and 13 outsiders testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally was 904 and that of outsiders 380.To date, 4,55,951 persons have been tested.Of the 92 new cases, 39 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 13 positive cases’ contacts, 28 from OPD, seven from tracing process, three healthcare workers, and one severe acute respiratory infection case.The local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count was 22,734 and that of outsiders 3,222.So far, 20,962 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.20% of the total cases.There are 865 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,084.On Sunday, 163 persons were quarantined and 3,363 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones installed at CMCH.Nine patients, including three Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-claims-2-lives-infects-92/articleshow/79480372.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Crackers time limit on Gurpurb: No plan to check compliance||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police have no special plan to ensure compliance of time-limit order for bursting of crackers on Gurpurb on Monday. On Diwali, residents were allowed to burst crackers between 8pm and 10pm, but the order was flouted despite claims of police patrolling. On Gurpurb, the state government has allowed people to burst green crackers from 4am to 5am and then from 9pm to 10pm. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “Directions have already been issued to all cops to ensure strict patrolling and enforcement of time-limit order. People are also requested to ensure its compliance. Any violation will invite action as per the law. People can also report violations to Ludhiana police control room on WhatsApp number 9115601159 or can dial 112.”Agarwal added, “We have also asked fire tenders to be on alert. The city residents are requested to use only green crackers and that too symbolically to avoid air pollution in the wake of the pandemic.” On Diwali too, the order was violated, but the police had lodged about 16 FIRs. Agarwal did not reply when asked if the accused, who were booked for violation on Diwali, have been identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/crackers-time-limit-on-gurpurb-no-plan-to-check-compliance/articleshow/79480371.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 30, 2020||Goa||Bicholim fines mask violators||Bicholim: After the Sakhali municipal council (SMC), now authorities from Bicholim municipal council (BMC) have started imposing fines on people within its jurisdiction for not wearing face masks in public places, especially during the weekly Wednesday market. BMC chairperson Rajaram Gaonkar told TOI that the civic body has started imposing fines to avoid the spread of Covid-19 for the second time, which he said was currently within control. Of special concern is the Wednesday market which has shoppers converging from many parts and people are seen without face masks at the local market. Gaonkar said that BMC along with Bicholim police have started the fresh drive to fine people to avoid the spread of coronavirus.  Gaonkar, Bicholim PI Mahesh Gadekar and mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit have requested people to use face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-fines-mask-violators/articleshow/79481869.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: This ground is now our gurdwara, say farmers on eve of Gurpurab||NEW DELHI: By the time the sun set on the eve of Gurpurab on Sunday, Sardar Katna Singh had made over 800 rotis and was ready to make more at Sant Nirankari Samagam ground at Burari. Hundreds of farmers huddled inside their tractor-trolleys covered in blankets and quilts were ready to celebrate the festival saying the ground was now their gurdwara. While massive tents had been arranged by Delhi government and langar services had been started by political parties like Congress and AAP, the farmers preferred to give them a miss. Malkeet Singh from Faridkot said none of his farmer brothers would go to those tents. “Those tents have been created by political parties. Why should we give them the opportunity to benefit from our issue?” he quipped, adding “We have decided to celebrate Gurpurab here. Since the police will not let us go to any gurdwara, we will continue our seva and think of this ground as our gurdwara.” Several Delhiites joined the farmers and helped them with seva. Delhi University master’s student Sara Javed Chawla, a resident of Daryaganj, and her friends were busy rolling rotis. She said all Delhiites believed that they should do their bit for the farmers. “They need our support. This is not just a farmers’ protest, but ours too. If the farmers are affected and if we treat them badly, then it will lead to dark days ahead,” she added. The farmers sitting and eating together said they were at the ground for the long run. “Even though we were deceived into coming here, we have decided to stay at the ground. We have rations that will last for over six months, so we are least bothered,” said Jasweer Singh from Faridpur, Punjab. He was angry at the Haryana chief minister for lathi-charge on farmers and his tractor getting damaged. Singh added, “Our family is being fed well. We are sure Babaji is with us while we are fighting for our rights.” Another farmer, Jakseer Singh from Bathinda, blamed Delhi Police for working on the orders of Kejriwal and Modi. “We will not eat a morsel from these political parties. Since we celebrated a black Diwali, we will also celebrate a dark Gurpurab,” he said. “There are over 8,000 tractors from the villages in Punjab alone and many more will eventually come from other states. We are not worried about our farms or our families because if we do not fight now, then we will lose our farmlands forever. If our children can fight at the borders and win at Kargil, so can we here in the capital,” said Charanjeet Singh, a farmer from Faridkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-ground-is-now-our-gurdwara-say-farmers-on-eve-of-gurpurab/articleshow/79481071.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Among seniors, those in 60s have lowest CFR in Karnataka||BENGALURU: While Covid-19 gaining a fatal edge in senior citizens was anticipated, those in the youngest (60-69) and the oldest (centenarians) age brackets among the infected elders have reported the lowest case fatality rates (CFR) in Karnataka. Multiple doctors TOI spoke with said most of the deaths have involved patients with comorbidities. They said access to healthcare and early detection may have helped those in their 60s, while centenarians have good genes and mild infection, among other things, to thank for. Among the 8.8 lakh Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka till November 28, at least 16% — or 1.4 lakh — were senior citizens aged above 60 years. But the seniors accounted for 61% of the nearly 11,800 Covid-19 deaths in the state, reiterating the high vulnerability of people in this category. According to government data, patients in the 60-69 age group account for 63% of the cases among senior citizens but only 49% deaths, while centenarians account for 0.04% in both cases and deaths. Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson, Covid expert panel, said: “Given that people in this age group are among the most vulnerable, numbers reiterate how efficiently the system — access to healthcare and strong treatment protocols — has worked.” Covid-19: Those in 90s have highest CFRDr CN Manjunath said: “Most of these deaths would be from the early stages of the pandemic. With more awareness and early admission, we’ve managed to save more.” Those in the 70-99 years group account for 38% of cases among seniors and 51% deaths. A break-up of the age groups shows that those in their 90s have the highest CFR. Patients in the 70s account for 28% of cases and 35% deaths. At least six of every 100 patients in this age group have died compared to just four among those in their 60s and five among patients aged100 years or more. Comparatively, those in their 80s have a CFR of 9% (9 out of 100 die) and patients aged between 90 and 99 years have a CFR of 11.4%. Together, patients in these two age categories account for 9% of the cases and 16% of the deaths among seniors. 100+ category survivorsSo far as centenarians go, of the 60 infected, 52 have been discharged and five are under treatment. Only three (5%) have succumbed to Covid-19. Manjunath said: “Most of them were healthy with no other medical conditions and have responded very well to treatment. We think that most, if not all five still under treatment, will also recover.” Data shows only two of 60 patients had comorbidities — a 103-year-old Tumakuru woman had hypertension and a 105-year-old Chamarajanagar woman had hypertension and diabetes. Both have recovered. Dr Anoop Amarnath, geriatrician and member of the Covid-19 critical care support group, said: “Among other things that may have helped them, including a generally healthy body, is the fact that infection in most of these cases was mild. That they may have been insulated from the public even before the lockdown and other restrictions may have aided them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/among-seniors-those-in-60s-have-lowest-cfr-in-karnataka/articleshow/79482770.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Second graffiti surfaces in Mangaluru in just two days||MANGALURU: Two days after a pro-terror graffiti was spotted in Mangaluru, a second wall writing surfaced in the city on Sunday. Police removed the graffiti painted on the wall of an old police outpost on the city court premises. Police had stepped up security and patrolling across the city after the first graffiti appeared on the wall of an apartment complex near Kadri on Friday. Issuing a warning to miscreants, city police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said individuals or organisations indulging in such acts will be dealt with strongly. “We are checking CCTV footage for leads. This could be the handiwork of miscreants who want to disturb communal harmony and disrupt law and order in the region,” said Vinay Gaonkar, DCP (crime & traffic). Slamming the government, former minister and Mangaluru MLA UT Khader said persons involved in creating the pro-terror graffiti should be arrested within 15 days. Arrest suspects within 15 days: Khader to govtFormer minister UT Khader lashed out at the BJP government for its “failure to control terror activities.” He gave the Yediyurappa government 15 days to arrest all accused behind the two pro-terror graffiti incidents and added the Congress will launch protests across the district if the government failed to act tough against anti-nationals. “It is the responsibility of the government and police to bring facts to light and take the issue to its logical end. Extradite those anti-nationals,” Khader told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/2nd-graffiti-surfaces-in-mluru-in-just-two-days/articleshow/79482774.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Ahead of elections, 33 gram panchayats in Karnataka get urban tag||BENGALURU: With the panchayat election bugle set to be sounded soon, 33 gram panchayats across the state have been upgraded into or made part of an urban local body (ULB) in the past two months, and 100 more will get the tag in the next two years. Though the urban agglomeration is the official reason behind the panchayat-upgrade decision, sources said a village in an urban local body will enjoy more electoral significance and get more attention than under a gram panchayat. Elections to gram panchayats were to be held this year, but had to be postponed due to the outbreak of pandemic. ULB polls are likely to be held next year. Law minister JC Madhuswamy said population in these villages had crossed 15,000 threshold, prompting upgrade of panchayats. “Everyone has to grow. Should these panchayats not urbanise? When we speak of panchayats which are attached to cities like Bengaluru, it is a much-needed process,” he had said after the cabinet approved the proposal on Friday. Six gram panchayats will be added to Bengaluru, five to Belagavi and three each to Shivamogga and Mysuru. Rest of the pachayats are spread across seven districts. In 2018, Karnataka had 6,021 gram panchayats. With this upgrade, the number of panchayats will come down to 5,976. ‘GP regrouping gives ruling party edge’Senior government officials said 2-3 panchayats are, on average, being upgraded every year until now, but this year is an exception. “With the forthcoming gram panchayats polls and Census 2021 is scheduled to begin early next year, the state has pushed these 33 GPs to become ULBs,” said a government official. The official said regrouping of panchayats gives the ruling party an edge to influence voters by showcasing development and enjoy more hold on a certain voting population. Besides, the rural land characteristics change after a village is bracketed under an urban local body, and its zoning regulations for residential and commercial development are redefined. This, sources said, is an incentive for most political parties to get them incorporated into an ULB. Another reason for the upgrading of a large number of gram panchayats is that such a process cannot be undertaken once the census process is launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ahead-of-elections-33-gram-panchayats-in-state-get-urban-tag/articleshow/79482780.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Cyclists, pedestrians killed in accidents were also offenders’||NCRB DATALudhiana: As per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, most of the cyclists and pedestrians who have lost their lives in road accidents in Ludhiana were also offenders of traffic and road safety rules, though their offences have not been specified. As per the data categorised under mode of transport, from 2017 to 2019, as many as 64 pedestrians and eight cyclists died in road accidents in Ludhiana city. All these deceased have been categorised as offenders too, which means they caused the accident.In 2016, as many as 40 pedestrians had died and 35 were shown as victims and five as offenders. Two cyclists had died, of which one was an offender. In 2017, as many as 24 pedestrians died in road accidents in Ludhiana, all categorised as offenders, which was the highest among 89 cities, followed by 21 in Ranchi, 13 in Patna and nine in Vasai Virar. In the year, one cyclist died who was also the offender. In 2018, as many as 26 pedestrians died in Ludhiana who all were offenders too, which was also the highest among 89 cities, followed by 21 in Ranchi, 15 in Patna, 10 in Mumbai. In this year, too, one cyclist died who was also the offender. In 2019, 14 pedestrians and six cyclists died and all were shown as offenders. In offenders’ category, Ludhiana is at number five among 89 cities, as in Chennai 43 cyclists died, in Jabalpur 14, Dhanbad 12 and Madurai eight. Road safety expert Kamaljit Soi said, “The offenders meaning here is people who violated the traffic rules, be it jumping red-light, crossing over the road medians, among others. However, the offences of the people have not been specified, so I find it vague. I believe this is a case of poor investigation, whereby the authorities have shown the deceased as an offender and helped the real culprit. How can all the pedestrians and cyclists who died in road accidents be offenders especially when their offence has not been specified?” Resident of Jodhewal KL Chopra said, “Even if we say that a pedestrian or a cyclist has died because of his fault, it should be checked where he erred. I live near Ludhiana-Amritsar national highway and see pedestrians and cyclists crossing the roads over medians as there is no overbridge for them to cross the highway. Moreover, the Ludhiana roads have no separate lanes for cyclists and pedestrians.” Compensation to victims Kamaljit Soi said, “As per the Motor Vehicle Amendment Bill, any person who has got injured in a road accident can get Rs 50,000 compensation and Rs 2 lakh is given to the family of the deceased by the deputy commissioner. They just have to submit the FIR copy, autopsy report and insurance of the vehicle with Aadhaar card within 30 days of the accident. Besides, if the lone breadwinner of a family has died, they can get a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore through the Motor Accident Case Tribunal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cyclists-pedestrians-killed-in-accidents-were-also-offenders/articleshow/79480379.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Tragedy averted as fire erupts in scrap godown||Ludhiana: A major tragedy was averted on Saturday night when a fire broke out in a scrap godown in Gurmail Nagar on Daba-Lohara Road here. Three fire tenders took over three hours to tame the flames. No injuries were reported from the incident.On seeing the flames leaping out of the scrap godown located in a thickly populated area, the residents rushed to the spot and tried to douse the fire. But, as they failed, the fire brigade was informed.An eyewitness Sandeep Shukla said, "A little after 10.30pm, the residents of the area noticed thick smoke and flames coming out of the structure where a huge quantity of scrap was stored. Initially, they tried to control the fire of their own, but failed. When some residents tried to call the fire brigade, their number was not reachable, so they called a fire official on his personal number, who sent the fire tenders. It was at around 3am that the fire brigade personnel left the spot.” Sub-fire officer Maninder Singh said, "The call was received at 12am and three fire tenders were rushed to the site. But, since the lanes were narrow, we had to control fire with extended water pipes and the fire tenders had to be stationed on the main road."The residents complained that there are many scrap dealers operating in the area since long. Even last year, a major fire had broken out there when three LPG cylinders had also blasted. They said they have complained against the scrap dealers several times, but no action has been taken so far.Fire in furniture storeAnother fire erupting at Ranjodh Park, Haibowal on Sunday afternoon engulfed a furniture store, Khanna Sofa, and gutted the material kept inside. The fire officials claimed that somebody had thrown inflammable waste on a vacant plot, from where the flames reached the store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tragedy-averted-as-fire-erupts-in-scrap-godown/articleshow/79480380.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||Covid cases crosses 74,000 mark in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 389 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Uttarakhand on Sunday, the toll has now reached 74,340. The state also reported eight deaths on Sunday, all from Dehradun. Moreover, with over 3,000 cases and 68 deaths, the state has witnessed the highest spike in Covid tally and deaths in the past six weeks. Weekly recoveries have also largely declined. Anoop Nautiyal from Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid scenario in the Himalayan state, said that with 80,000 tests conducted last week, the number of tests was satisfactory, but over 13,000 samples were still pending. “Last week, which was the 37th week of Covid in Uttarakhand, the state has witnessed its highest weekly deaths [68], highest number of cases [3,161] and highest active cases [4,876] in the past six weeks. Weekly recoveries have also largely declined. Hope that situation will be better in future for which people will have to be equally responsible, along with the government,” said Nautiyal. Among the 389 fresh cases, a maximum of 146 were from Dehradun - followed by 57 in Pauri, 49 in Haridwar, 33 in Udham Singh Nagar, 24 in Tehri and 21 in Chamoli. “Uttarkashi reported 18 fresh cases followed by 10 in Champawat, nine in Rudraprayag, seven each in Almora and Pithoragarh, six in Nainital and two in Bageshwar,” Abhishek Tripathi from Covid control room, said. With 278 people recovering from the infection, the total recoveries reached 67,475 and the state reported its recovery rate at 90.7%. The infection rate is 5.6%. Total 13,27,314 samples have been tested in the state so far and 13,844 more were pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-cases-crosses-74000-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/79480382.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Dist has 13 micro-containment zones||Ludhiana: With a spurt in Covid-19 cases in festival season, there has been an increase in micro-containment zones, too, in the district.At 13, Ludhiana has the maximum number of such zones in the state.According to the data of the state health department, after the start of the festival season, there were nine micro-containment zones in Ludhiana around October 20, which was the highest for any district of Punjab. The zones were at Khattra village, Sham Singh Road, Shakti Nagar on Pakhowal Road, New Green City at Ayali Chowk, Glada heights Phase Two, Railway Road at Sahnewal, Barmi village, New Subhash Nagar, and Shastri Nagar in Namdev Colony.By November 1, there were two such zones in Narangwal and Hole villages, with a population of 500 and 82, respectively. At the time, Jalandhar and SBS Nagar, too, had the same number of micro-containment zones. The number remained the same till November 18. There was no such zone on November 19. As the active cases increased to 837 by November 24, the number of micro-containment zones rose to 16.The next day, the figure was 13 and since then, it has remained the same.The data shows that the number of such zones in Ludhiana is the highest (65%) in the state, which has a total of 20.The health department officials said they had to make more micro-containment zones because of rise in cases.“Less than 50 persons were testing positive in a day before the festival season, but now the number has risen to around 100. The reason is residents didn’t follow pandemic guidelines during the festival season. As a result, we have to make more micro-containment zones to check the spread of the disease,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.The district, however, does not have a containment zone. In Punjab, there is only one containment zone in district jail of Muktsar district.The health department declares an area micro-containment zone when it reports five to 15 Covid-19 cases. The step aims at controlling the spread of infection in the area by imposing certain restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-has-13-micro-containment-zones/articleshow/79480377.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar government allows up to 150 guests in weddings||PATNA: The state government on Sunday allowed band and baraat (marriage processions) as well as increased the number of guests up to 150 in wedding ceremonies. Earlier, only 100 guests were allowed to participate in any wedding function. The partial modification made in the previous order issued on November 26 has brought in a sense of relief for not only those who have weddings in the family but also the hospitality sectors, band parties and others associated with the related businesses in the state. The order will remain effective till December 3. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani told this newspaper that the partial modification has been done in public interest. “Only the upper limit of guests in marriage ceremonies has been increased from 100 to 150. Marriage processions have also been allowed. But, the safety protocols for Covid-19 have to be followed in marriage ceremonies,” he said. The other points mentioned in the previous order will remain unchanged. The restrictions on the number of guests for funerals will continue to be 25 till December 3. As per the order, wearing face masks has been made mandatory for all guests at a wedding ceremony. Besides, thermal screening and hand sanitisation of guests at the entrance of the wedding venue are also mandatory. The DMs and SSPs/SPs of all the districts have been instructed to ensure compliance of partial modification in previous order. Giving information about the decision taken in the crisis management group meeting of the state government, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Aggarwal said the state has relaxed the cap on the number of guests in banquet halls or closed spaces for weddings. “The decision has been taken in public interest as a number of weddings are scheduled to take place,” he said. “Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision of thermal scanning and use of handwash or sanitiser will be mandatory,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-allows-band-up-to-150-guests-in-weddings/articleshow/79480385.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Half measures, full passion: Marathon in a new avatar||NEW DELHI: Airtel Delhi Half Marathon (ADHM) this year donned a new avatar with people participating in the event from the convenience of their homes. The new format was put in place keeping the pandemic in mind. Top runners from across the world participated in the half marathon from JLN Stadium and the organisers had created a secure bio-bubble to protect them from the novel coronavirus. This year, the general public couldn’t join the elite runners and, instead, ran from wherever they were. All they had to do was register, choose their race category and download the ADHM app. The chosen distance was then completed from their location. Around 13,500 people worldwide took part in ADHM 2020 across three categories — Half Marathon (21.09km), Open 10K (10km) and Great Delhi Run (5km). There were many first-timers too. “During the lockdown period, I made many changes in my health graph. The marathon was a boon. At first, I was sceptical as I didn’t want to go to a large gathering. But I got excited when I came to know that we could run from anywhere. While this was my first time, I intend to participate every year from now on,” said Sheetal Mehta. Another participant, Karan Singh, a regular ADHM participant, said he was pleasantly surprised when he got to know that the event would take place differently. “I thought the half marathon won’t take place at all. This was one event that I always looked forward to every year. I was glad that the organisers found a way to make this run happen. It was a satisfying run for me as I beat my record,” he added. The route for ADHM 2020 was more compact compared with the previous editions. The organisers didn’t use Mathura Road and the runners were, instead, turned into Archbishop Makarios Marg. This time, only one carriageway instead of both was used for the entire half marathon. The organisers said they had ensured that the route still consisted of the usual scenic structures, such as India Gate. Since there were no amateur runners this time, it gave them a chance to make the route more compact, which put fewer restrictions on traffic. Started in 2005, the annual event attracts pro and amateur runners from across the world. The marathon route of 21.09km takes runners across some of Delhi’s most iconic landmarks, such as Lodhi Garden, Jantar Mantar and India Gate. Not only is ADHM a great motivator to live healthy, but it is also one of the largest sporting philanthropy platforms in the country that raises large amounts for charities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/half-measures-full-passion-marathon-in-a-new-avatar/articleshow/79481105.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Rajkot||No evacuation plan, staff untrained in fire safety||RAJKOT: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed by Rajkot police to investigate into the Uday Shiavanand Hospital fire, which claimed lives of five Covid patients on Thursday night, has found several irregularities in the emergency ward. The SIT team, headed by deputy commissioner of police, Manoharsinh Jadeja, found that the exit of ICU ward was closed and its gates were obstructed by the machinery lying there. They also found that there was no ventilation facility which could release smoke that got accumulated inside the ward. Inflamables like sanitizers were in much more quantity than required. Addressing reporters, DCP Jadeja said, “The biggest negligence was the absence of any exit gate for evacuation in emergency situation. There was a narrow staircase, four foot wide, used for ascending and descending purposes,” he said. “One patient died due to severe suffocation and the firemen broke open windows and glass doors in time which saved lives of the other patients,” he added. All the five who died were males aged between 50 and 65 years. Police found that there were two gates on the ground floor but there was no signboard or any reflector that indicated an emergency exit. The ICU gate was just three feet wide. Assistant commissioner of police JS Gedam added that the fire fighting equipment in the ICU could not be used by the staff due to lack of training. “We have recorded the statements of the hospital staff who said they were not provided training in fire fighting and emergency rescue,” Gedam, who is part of the SIT, added. The SIT also found that it was a four story building and there was no evacuation plan in case of emergency. There was no automatic sprinkler system too in case of fire. This system plays a pivotal role in controlling fire. The hospital did not follow the guideline of NBC (National building code) that came into force in 2016 and the police also found violation of fire safety guidelines. The forensic post mortem of the victims revealed that Keshubhai Akbari died of suffocation while Ramshi Loh, Rashik Agravat, Sanjay Rathod and Nitin Badani died of severe burns. Police recorded statements of hospital staff, fire department personnel and examined the relevant documents regarding approvals granted to the hospital building beside the CCTV footage. Some documents and video footages have been sent for forensic investigation. The SIT has handed over further investigation to police inspector J V Dhola of Rajkot taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/no-evacuation-plan-staff-untrained-in-fire-safety/articleshow/79480389.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kanpur||Minor girl sedated, gang-raped thrice in Chakeri, 2 held||Kanpur: A minor girl was gang-raped thrice within few hours allegedly by her boyfriend and his three friends in Chakeri area of the city. The incident took place on Saturday, but came to light when the girl returned home and narrated her ordeal to her parents. Police have arrested two accused, Rahul Sonker and Mithun Sonker. Police said the girl, a resident of Chakeri area, had befriended one Sahil through internet. “On Saturday, Sahil asked his friends Rahul and Mithun to bring his girlfriend on a motorcycle near Trimurti temple. When they brought the girl, Sahil joined them along with one VK Rajput in a car and offered her some eatables laced with sedatives. When the girl was knocked out of her senses, the four took her to a secluded spot and took turns to rape her in the car. Then they took her to a vacant plot and again gang-raped her. The accused then took her to the roof of a market and gang-raped her there once again,’ said police. “An FIR has been lodged under relevant sections of IPC besides Pocso Act. We have arrested two accused Rahul Sonker and Mithun Sonker.Searches are underway to arrest Sahil and VK Rajput,” said Cantt circle officer Satyajit Gupta. Three youths gangrape minor; one held: A minor girl, abducted from Kannauj, was taken to Lucknow where she was held captive and gangraped by three youths. The incident, which took place on November 18, came to light after the girl’s parents lodged an FIR at Kannauj’s Talgram police station on Saturday. One of the accused, Akash of Lucknow, has been arrested, police said. As per the complaint, Vivek, Devendra of Kannauj and Akash had abducted the girl and took her to Lucknow. “They held her captive in a room and gangraped her,” police said. The girl somehow escaped and reached her native place on Friday. “A case was registered on Saturday against the three accused,” said inspector Taalgram Krishna Lal Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/minor-girl-sedated-gang-raped-thrice-in-chakeri-2-held/articleshow/79481868.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||City with 800 parks doesn’t have playgrounds for children||Ludhiana: A city, which boasts of over 800 public parks, is without proper playgrounds for the children. Now the residents are demanding proper space for the kids to play outdoors, as they are left with the only option of passing time indoors on mobile phone and television. Even though civic officials admit that there is a shortage of playgrounds due to unavailability of vacant spaces in the city, they insist the parks cannot be allowed to be used for playing, since these are meant for leisure activities only. In many public parks, the authorities have even placed boards warning both children and elders against playing there. Park Management Committees (PMCs) say since they spend a lot on the maintenance of parks, they cannot allow their beauty to be spoiled. Moreover, playing with balls in parks can prove risky for people going there for a walk, they point out. However, the residents insist that playgrounds are a necessity for the kids and allege that the authorities have turned a blind eye to the issue of common concern. Gurinder Harleen Sachdeva, who took the issue to social media platforms, said, "Notices warning against playing in most of the parks, especially in Dugri Urban Estate Phase-1, have come up. Children are already addicted to internet, and as a psychiatrist I feel it is affecting their both mental and physical health. If we as a society don’t provide places for children to play, we will end up paying a huge price." Narinder Singh Masson, a resident of Karnail Singh Nagar, said although parks are necessary, these cannot replace playgrounds. “While the PMCs maintain the parks to be used for walking, light exercise, yoga and meditation, playgrounds provide large space for sports,” he said, adding that the local authorities should come out with plans to create open spaces for the children to play. Varinder Bhakoo, president of a residents’ welfare association in Kitchlu Nagar, said, "We see frequent arguments in the colony over this issue, as the children are denied permission to play in parks where senior citizens and others go for a walk or yoga. Besides, PMCs and residents of the area contribute money for the maintenance of parks, so they don’t want children to spoil the grass and plants there. The government should take initiative to open playgrounds of all schools and colleges for the children.” A Civil Lines resident Gopal sharma said in the absence of parks, the children are forced to play on roads and streets, where traffic movement poses a threat. He said outdoor activities help children grow physically as well as mentally, but the authorities are silent on the issue. When the indoor stadium on Pakhowal Road was not constructed, it was a playground for kids, but the authorities raised a white elephant and deprived the children of even that space. When contacted, municipal corporation’s junior engineer Kripal Singh said, "The PMCs do not allow children to play in parks due to several reasons, including the objection from elders. There is a scarcity of space in the city where playgrounds could be created.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-with-800-parks-doesnt-have-playgrounds-for-children/articleshow/79480383.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
November 30, 2020||Trichy||Heavy vehicles banned from entering Trichy city during day||Trichy: City police have announced a ban on the entry of trucks and heavy vehicles towards Trichy city for loading and unloading consignments during the day time. The entry of such vehicles will be restricted between 9pm and 5pm, police have said and warned of action against erring vehicles. The traders were told to plan the arrival of heavy vehicles to load and unload their commodities within the permitted period.The move comes following the reopening of the Gandhi market and to avoid traffic bottlenecks due to haphazard parking. Although the time restriction for trucks were in place since 2018, poor enforcement failed to solve the purpose as trucks used to access the narrow commercial streets during the peak hours. “We will be monitoring Palpannai, East Boulevard road and Sanjeevi Nagar localities to prevent heavy vehicles from accessing the core city area. Erring vehicles, parked on the roads will be penalised,” a traffic police officer said.Truck operators said that such regulations will impact their operations as they do not have adequate space to park. “If a truck from another state visits the city, where can we park with expensive goods till 9pm? Our plights were not considered,” R K Prabhakaran, secretary, Trichy district lorry owners association said. Though a minor terminal for trucks on EB road was established by the Trichy Corporation, truck operators said that space availability is highly inadequate. “Previous attempts to regulate the entry of trucks failed only because the terminal was not available. Authorities should make arrangements for parking the trucks before enforcing the regulations,” Partha Sarathy, a resident of Woraiyur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/heavy-vehicles-banned-from-entering-trichy-city-during-day/articleshow/79481882.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Haryana cops in no hurry to probe FIRs’||CHANDIGARH: In no mood to start early investigations into cases of violation and breach of barricades by agitating farmers, Haryana Police have decided to go slow in the wake of the present ‘law and order’ situation in the state, according to sources in the police and home department. Sources confirmed that local police authorities and district administrations had been asked to quantify the loss on account of damage to public and private properties, and vehicles. No official was willing to come on record. It is alleged that 32 such cases had been registered in districts across the state against agitating farmers for breach of barricades, violence and causing interruption in discharge of official duty by government workers. In some cases, cops have added charges like attempt to murder in cases registered at various districts. “As of now, our priority is to ensure law and order. Also, investigation is a long process. You have to identify accused and then start investigations. Hence, no immediate action in investigation so far,” said an officer of a district where farmer leaders were booked. Registration of cases has also become an issue with agitating farmers and political parties, especially opposition leaders across the state. “What kind of a dialogue is the government expecting? To our knowledge, they have registered 30-32 criminal cases, and a few cases are of attempt to murder and one of murder. Rest, everybody has seen the use of force by police,” said Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, whp has been booked under charges of attempt to murder and rioting for an incident that happened in Ambala on NH-44. The case has been registered on a complaint by a head constable posted at Mohra police post. Meanwhile, leader of opposition Bhupinder Hooda and Haryana Congress chief Selja too have flayed the government. “They are farmers, not robbers. For five days, some farmers are in illegal detention and have not been released so far. The government should not delay in dropping the police cases,” said Selja. Hooda flayed CM Manohar Lal Khattar over his statement of negligible presence of Haryana farmers in the agitation. “If number of farmers is less, then why has this government registered cases? Who are the persons booked in cases of attempt to murder and murder?’’ said Hooda. Senior police officials said those who were detained under preventive measures had been released. “We had picked up 72 such persons. To our knowledge, all of them have been released,’’ an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cops-in-no-hurry-to-probe-firs/articleshow/79481874.cms||Manvir Saini
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Son’s death blamed on mom in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Pragnya Kalal, 32, a resident of Vraj Apartments in Ghodasar, lodged a complaint on Saturday stating that her husband has been subjecting her to sustained mental torture over the death of their son. The complaint was filed with the Isanpur police station. In her complaint, Pragnya says that her husband, Deepak Kalal, still blames her for the death of their three-month-old son in 2013, owing to vitamin deficiency. According to the complaint, Kalal says that Pragnya did not want a child and so killed their son. The boy was born in December 2012. Isanpur police have lodged a complaint under sections relating to domestic violence against Kalal. “The woman works as a senior executive at a private firm on CG Road,” said an official of the Isanpur police station. The official said the FIR mentions that to save the marriage, the complainant continued to live with her husband. She gave birth to another son in 2015. “The complainant says that her husband’s attacks never ended over the years and he kept saying he wanted a divorce,” the official said. “She has been with her parents since 2017. As all her efforts at reconciliation failed, she lodged the complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sons-death-blamed-on-mom/articleshow/79481082.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard enters house in Nainital, carries away dog||NAINITAL: A leopard entered a house in Nainital’s Oak Lodge area and took away a German Shepherd. The incident happened last week, when Karan Bisht and his family went to Haldwani to attend a wedding and left their dog leashed in the verandah to guard the house. When they returned to find it missing, their first thought was that it had wandered off and would turn up in a few days. When it didn’t, the family checked CCTV footage and saw a leopard lurking near the house, entering and carrying their dog away. Local residents have asked the forest department to install a cage in the area to trap the leopard. According to Madan Singh Bisht, a local resident, the leopard had been sighted before in the area as well. “It has been lurking here for a month now. Many locals have seen it and now it has entered a house,” Bisht said. He added that many residents in the area have stopped venturing out of their houses after dark now. Karan Bisht said, “Now that the leopard has been emboldened enough to enter a house, it’s not safe here anymore. The forest department must capture it and take it away to a forest.” The forest department said that they were aware of the situation and will take action. “We will soon visit the area and see if there is a possibility of the leopard being captured and relocated,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-enters-house-in-nainital-carries-away-dog/articleshow/79480394.cms||Prashant Jha
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Crematorium hunt haunts final journey||AHMEDABAD: Here the dead queue up and wait for their turn. As the pandemic takes its toll on anguished families, long queues of dead bodies in ambulances and hearses outside major crematoriums are becoming a familiar scene. At 11:30am on Sunday, Girish Dave, a resident of Jivrajpark, was told that it will be 8 hours before a loved one can be cremated at the VS Hospital crematorium.“We are devastated after we lost our mother and now this wait for cremation and the helplessness are unbearable. I have never seen a scene like this,” said Nikunj Shah, 43, who lost his mother to Covid on Wednesday. Relatives have to wait for two to three hours at the Civil Hospital to get their relatives’ bodies and then wait for the AMC’s dead body van to arrive. Many families whose relatives died in home quarantine don’t know how to get the death certificate, PPE kits, and ambulance vans. They don’t know which AMC health teams to contact. Dave, on Sunday was overseeing the cremation of his friend’s wife. “Kaushika Shah, the wife of my friend Rajendra was under home quarantine for two days and today we are cremating her at VS Hospital,” Dave said. “She had fever and cough. But today she collapsed just as we were taking her to the hospital. Rajendra had tested positive a week ago. We called the 108 ambulance service but they won’t issue a death certificate. We were in a bind. What do we do now?” Dave says 108 did not suggest a hospital where she could be declared dead. Dave even tried calling three to four doctors, “They told us a certificate was not required and that the Covid report will do. The family then called 102 fire department for dead body van which took time,” Dave said. “The fire department suggested that we should buy the body bag and be ready.” After the VS crematorium informed that it will take eight hours, Dave suggested the Dudheshwar crematorium where five bodies were to be cremated at 4:30pm.  Milind Joshipura, a resident of Shyamal Crossroads, said: “We had to wait for nearly 90 minutes at the Thaltej crematorium before we could cremate my father on November 8.” Gaurang Patel, a resident of Asarwa whose mother Indiraben died in the morning, had a different story. “My mother’s RTPCR test was negative but for the last seven days she was in the Covid ward,” Patel said. “On Sunday, we were told that she was on oxygen and in the next hour she was no more. We got her mortal remains after three hours.” Patel went on to say: “When I called the AMC dead body van I was told that I will have to wait for two hours. Finally, I opted for a private van and took her to the Dudheshwar crematorium.” Ravi Shukla said that he had to wait for three hours at Civil Hospital to get the body of his mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crematorium-hunt-haunts-final-journey/articleshow/79481104.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Spl plaque on Pankaj Mullick’s S Kol house||Kolkata: The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage and Rotary International have launched a movement to highlight residences of eminent personalities who lived in Kolkata. On Sunday, a stainless steel plaque was fixed to the facade of singer, composer, actor Pankaj Kumar Mullick’s house on 2/2 Sebak Baidya Street near Ritchie Road in south Kolkata. The honour in Kolkata is designed on the lines of the famous London Blue Plaques that is now run by English Heritage and covers over 950 buildings to honour the notable men and women who have lived or worked in them. Among the houses that have a Blue Plaque in the English capital are that of James Bond creator Ian Flemming; Sister Nivedita (Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had unveiled the plaque during her London visit); Sri Aurobindo, Annie Besant and others. “The first man of Rabindrasangeet, he was the first to popularize Tagore’s songs among the masses. A renowned composer from Indian films, he was a revered singer as well. As a radio and recording artist and as a film personality, he was extremely popular across India and Internationally. His repertoire included songs in Bengali, Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu and other Indian languages,” read the plaque that was affixed on his residence on Sunday. Among the other names that Intach has shortlisted includes scientist Satyen Bose and Meghnad Saha, writer Tarashankar Bandyopadhyay, film director Mrinal Sen, cine-superstar Uttam Kumar, musicians V Balsara and Ali Akbar Khan, artist Jamini Roy and footballer Chuni Goswami. “This is a tentative list. We will approach their families and see if they are agreeable,” said Intach convenor GM Kapur. Mullick’s grandson Rajiv Gupta and grand daughter-in-law Jhinuk said they were delighted at the initiative taken by Intach and Rotary International. But not everyone is enthused. Some have misgivings over whether the plaque will mean a heritage tag to the property. “We wish to explain that this has got no bearing on KMC’s graded heritage list. It is just an attempt to create awareness among people in the neighbourhood that an eminent person once lived there,” explained Kapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spl-plaque-on-pankaj-mullicks-s-kol-house/articleshow/79481076.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Farming: ‘Most work but shrinking share in economy’||Hisar: Over the last 24 years (1993-94 to 2017-18) in Haryana, the agriculture sector declined the most in terms of both gross state domestic product (GSDP) and employment while travel, hotels, transport, storage and communication (THTSC) ) gained the most in both sectors. Despite this, the agricultural sector still provides the maximum employment. However, the share of the THTSC sector in GSDP is nearly three times the share of agriculture. This was stated in a study conducted by Professor N K Bishnoi and assistant professor Gargi Boora from the economics department of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST). The study, titled, “Economic growth and structural change-analysis for the state of Haryana, 1993-94 to 2017-18,” has been published in the International Journal Management. Data for the study was collected from the department of economic and statistical analysis of the state government. The year 2004-05 was considered the base year to compare data in the study, which examined changes in the sectoral composition of GSDP and employment in line with structural change. Structural change refers to the shift of labour from lower-productivity to higher-productivity sectors. According to the study, total GSDP of the state decreased by 26.41% in the fields of agriculture, forestry and fisheries over the last 24 years. It was 38.37% in 1993-94 and steadily decreased to 11.96% in 2017-18. There has been a decrease of 29.38% (56.79 to 27.41) in employment in this sector during the period. GSDP decreased by 1.98% in the construction sector, 0.14% in electricity, gas and water supply (EGWS), 0.27% in public administration and other services (PAOS). Despite the decrease in GSDP, employment in the construction sector increased by 7.66% and 0.79% in EGWS. In the public administration and other services sector, it decreased by 2.45%. On the other hand, GSDP increase has been recorded at 17.97% in travel, hotels, traffic, storage and communication (THTSC) sectors, 8.92% in finance, insurance, real estate and business services (FIREBS), 1.91% in production, and 0.01% in mining and quarrying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farming-most-work-but-shrinking-share-in-economy/articleshow/79481902.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Trichy||Bharathidasan varsity’s double intake policy on M Phil draws flak||Trichy: Bharathidasan University’s decision allowing its faculty members to double the intake of M Phil students in violation of the University Grants Commission (UGC) norms has created uproar among a section of teachers as they said that self-financing colleges will misuse the opportunity to mint money.The decision to double the intake than the stipulated limit prescribed by the UGC was taken as a special case this year. Though it will allow more students to get enrolled in MPhil, teachers raised apprehension about self-financing colleges misusing it.On the directions of BDU vice-chancellor P Manisankar, registrar G Gopinath on Saturday issued the circular allowing assistant professors to enrol two M Phil students instead of one, and associate professor to enroll four M Phil students instead of two at the affiliated colleges.According to officials from the BDU, the decision was taken following a representation from Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association (TNGCTA). With the implementation of the new education policy, M Phil programmes will be abolished from next year. Increasing the intake this academic year will benefit more students, said TNGCTA state vice-president G Ramesh. He said that M Phil degree is not considered as a basic qualification for any job; neither is it accepted for salary increment or promotion for teachers.He further clarified that MPhil remains a pre-research degree which helps students who take up PhD in future. This is also a reason for increasing interest among students in pursuing M Phil.However, former president of AUT K Pandiyan said the move could be misused by self-financing colleges, which charge not less than Rs 33,000 for the year-long programme. The fee is double in case the students pursue it as part-time.There have been instances in the past when colleges were barred from offering M Phil and PhD programmes as the institutions violate norms to get more students admitted. The BDU circular lacks clarity on the fee structure and reservation. Above all, the move is against the UGC norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bharathidasan-varsitys-double-intake-policy-on-m-phil-draws-flak/articleshow/79481950.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 30, 2020||Patna||Two gunned down in Patna within 24 hours||PATNA: A fish trader and a married woman were killed in separate incidents in Patna within 24 hours of a high-level meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar to review the law and order situation in the state on Saturday. While one Kiran Sahni (35) was shot dead near Machua Toli Mor under Danapur police station area around 4pm, a 40-year-old married woman was gunned down for resisting a loot in the autorickshaw in which she was travelling with her husband to Patna Junction in the wee hours of Sunday. Sahni, a resident of Bhattha Road in Danapur, was attacked when he was sitting outside a cement store. His father Lalbabu Sahni said the deceased was to attend a wedding ceremony of a relative. “When I reached the spot, Kiran was lying in a pool of blood. He was rushed to the local Sadar hospital where doctors declared him dead,” Lalbabu said. Danapur police station SHO (incharge) Sanjay Kumar Singh said the reason behind the incident was not ascertained yet. “The CCTV footage is being obtained to identify the criminals,” he said. The trader was murdered barely a few hours after the killing of one Saika Parveen around 1.30am, when the two criminals travelling in the same autorickshaw robbed the victim and her husband Imran Alam (45) of cash near Chiraiyatand overbridge. Imran, who works at a private bank at Andar in Siwan district, told the police that he had already handed over the money to the robbers. However, his wife offered resistance when the criminals fired at her at point blank range for the delay in handing over the cash. The bullet pierced through her eyes and face. The robbers fled after snatching money from them. The autorickshaw driver also fled, leaving the injured Saika on the spot. Imran raised an alarm and a police patrol car of Jakkanpur police station rushed to the spot and admitted the injured to the PMCH where she was declared dead. Saika was a teacher in a school at Dehri-on-Sone in Rohtas district. The couple had reached Patna from Siwan by a bus and alighted at Agamkuan from where they hired an autorickshaw for Patna Junction. “When we occupied our seats, the two passengers were shifted to the seats beside the driver. They signalled the driver to stop the auto near Chiraiyatand and started robbing us,” Imran said. The incidents evoked sharp reactions from leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who tweeted, “In Bihar, ‘mahajungle raj’ is going wild with the outpouring of criminals, gunfire and havoc on businessmen.” He further said, “Why the CM sitting on a double-engine train is helpless. Why is ‘maharaja’ of the ‘mahajungle raj’ silent?” Responding to Tejashwi’s remarks, deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said maintaining law and order was his government’s top priority. “Everybody knows what was the law and order situation under the previous government in Bihar. The BJP has successfully transformed the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-killed-in-patna-within-24-hours/articleshow/79480420.cms||Ramashankar
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm leaders’ decision unfortunate: Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma||CHANDIGARH: Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma on Sunday said it was unfortunate that farmer union leaders have rejected the offer of early talks made by the Union home ministry. In view of the hardships being faced by protesters, the central government had offered to reschedule talks, which were earlier supposed to take place on December 3, said Sharma. He added that it demonstrated the Centre’s concern for farmers and its keen desire to resolve their issues. Unfortunately, he said, farmers’ leaders have spurned the offer. However, Sharma hoped that farmers would review their decision and come to the table for talks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-leaders-decision-unfortunate-pb-bjp/articleshow/79481935.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||NSUI protests edu dept’s decision to cut students’ funds||Dehradun: Objecting to the higher education department’s recent decision to reduce grants for scholars of Uttarakhand colleges, the state-unit of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) staged a protest outside higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat’s residence in Dehradun on Sunday. NSUI Uttarakhand president Mohan Bhandari told TOI, “50% of the money kept for the students’ scholarships has been shifted to expenses of the directorate of the higher education department. This is despite the fact that the department already gets grants from the state’s university for the same expenses. Also, grants of the 18 non-government colleges have been put on hold by the department. We demand that the government reverse these two decisions, as these will adversely affect the quality of higher education in the state.” Meanwhile, the group also protests against farm bills in Kusumkhera, Haldwani, lending support to peaceful protest of farmers against the Centre’s farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nsui-protests-edu-depts-decision-to-cut-students-funds/articleshow/79480417.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||KMC resumes water supply in north and central Kol||Kolkata: Water supply resumed across large parts of north and central Kolkata on Sunday after remaining suspended for a day to facilitate repair work at the Tallah pumping station. Some parts of south Kolkata, that receives water from Tallah, had also got affected. Part of a 60-inch pipeline at Nilmoni Mitra Row, which had developed a major crack, was successfully repaired by Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) workers and engineers. The KMC water supply department had shut down both the Palta water treatment plant and Tallah water tank from Saturday morning. As a result, no filtered water could be supplied to entire north, central and several parts of south Kolkata since Saturday morning. “We resumed normal supply from 6.30am this morning as per schedule and there was no dearth of water for residents of the affected areas,” said a KMC water supply department official. The pipeline crack caused colossal waste of potable water in the past seven days, said the civic authorities. “This was one of the major leaks that the 60-inch water pipe has developed in recent years. Repair of the pipe that runs below a railway track — 25 feet below the surface level — proved to be an uphill task for us. We had taken all sorts of precautions to ward off any threats to our workers who were at risk,” said a KMC official. The KMC engineers will now need to keep a close watch on some other vulnerable parts of the pipe and monitor it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-resumes-water-supply-in-north-and-central-kol/articleshow/79481083.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops find beggar’s missing child in hours||AHMEDABAD: On Saturday evening, one Rajesh Chauhan, alias Salim Pathan, lodged a complaint with Dariapur police that his 2.5-year-old son had gone missing while he had gone to Hanuman Mandir near Dariapur fruit market for donated food with him. Police swung into action for Chauhan who hails from Thane, Maharashtra, begs for his livelihood. The photograph of the child was broadcast to all nearby police station and at night, a team of home guards spotted the boy with a beggar near old Alankar Cinema and handed him over to Dariapur police. Even though the cops found the missing child within hours, they are now in a quandary over handing over the custody of the child to Chauhan. Also, the child’s mother has expired. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone-4, Rajesh Gadhiya said, “We are going to approach the court to decide whether to give the custody of the child to his father, who is allegedly a drug addict, or to some institution. At present, the child is with Dariapur police station.” Gadhiya added they had launched an intensive search for the child, and also searched CCTV footages but failed to get any lead. “The last information we got was that the boy was seen playing in an auto. We traced the auto driver who told us the boy often plays in his auto. He had taken the boy for a round and when couldn’t find Chauhan on return, he had contacted another beggar in the locality, and kept the child with him to hand over to Chauhan,” Gadhiya said. Meanwhile the home guard team spotted the child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-find-beggars-missing-child-in-hours/articleshow/79481097.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chennai||No respite from shadow of caste in urban colonies||Among the cases of caste-based discrimination in urban spaces that Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front’s (TNUEF) B Sundaram won’t forget easily is that of Chandrashekar. The high school teacher and his wife from Chengalpet had worked hard to buy a home in Rangarajapuram, Kodambakkam, unaware of the anguish that being the sole scheduled caste (SC) house owners in an orthodox, Brahmin-dominated neighbourhood would bring.Within a year of moving in, as get-togethers and celebrations ensued, and extended family from their village visited, attention of the neighbours turned to Chandrasekhar, and the pressure started building. "It began with neighbours coaxing him to sell them the house, even willing to pay a higher price than what he had bought it for, as they wanted their own people to be custodians of the area’s ‘sanctity’," says Sundaram, central Chennai district secretary of TNUEF. "When he didn’t relent, they expressed their frustration by ostracising his wife and children, and disconnecting the water pipeline to his house," says Sundaram. It took several trips to the Ashok Nagar police station and discussions between activists and residents before they agreed to coexist, "quietly, without interfering".While the regressive power structures behind caste-demarcated housing in rural areas make it to the headlines, the territorial ownership happens in the city as well, if anything in more toxic ways, as it perpetuates a system oppressed communities work hard to flee when they migrate to the city. From being denied homes on the ground of caste, to being pressured out of properties, dalit tenants continue to live in the shadows. And what makes it worse, is that this blatant violation of a constitutional right under Article 15 that prohibits discrimination on the basis of religion, race, caste, and place of birth, has few legal recourses to set it right, say experts.In 2015, scholars Sukhadeo Thorat, Anuradha Banerjee, Vinod K Mishra and Firdaus Rizvi conducted a survey on access to the urban rental market on the basis of caste and religion, in five metropolitan cities in the National Capital Region. Of the 1,479 potential home-seekers comprising Hindus, dalits and Muslims surveyed, all dominant caste home-seekers received a positive response, the corresponding proportion fell to 59% for dalits and to 29% for Muslims. They concluded there was an urgent need for state intervention in the form of policies to ensure fair access to marginalised sections of dalits and Muslims to private rental markets in the metropolis. They also called for legal safeguards in the form of the enactment of laws that could act as a deterrent against such discrimination, along with changes in private and public housing policies.Previously, the Rent Control Act was the legislation in place to deal with landlord-tenant issues. In 2017, the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act was introduced. But they don’t take into account caste and religion-based exclusions, say experts."Depriving someone a house on rent on such grounds — although unconstitutional — cannot be taken up legally," says R Rajkumar, an advocate specialising in civil and property rights from Trichy.. "Because, an individual, housing society or resident welfare association (RWA) are private bodies free to choose who they want to rent their properties out to," says Rajkumar.There may also be situations in which housing societies are formed for the benefit of one particular community, or minority. And only if such a body comes under governmental aid or supervision can any article of the Constitution be invoked to challenge this, he says. "The government recognising these disparities in rent control legislations, and creating safeguards and reinstating Article 15 in them for the benefit of tenants could be a possible solution," he says.Also a challenge is that house owners often don’t explicitly spell out caste as the point of contention to decline homes to tenants, and may use such things as lofty rental fees and restricted eating habits as an excuse to maintain their hegemony. Last October, TNUEF sought action against Trichy-based Om Sakthi Constructions after the company displayed an advertisement for ‘Brahmins only’ flats on sale for a residential project in Srirangam. After a petition was sent to the collector, the company came out with a clarification. "We planned to announce that the flats will be sold to vegetarians only. It wrongly appeared as brahmins in print," a representative of the construction company told TOI.A resident of Triplicane, who didn’t wish to be named, admits that dominant caste members are most comfortable having their own in their immediate environment, as they can make it a community of familiar practices, outlook and lifestyles. "For brahmin residents near a temple or mutt for instance, this fixation stems from a certain insecurity that their way of life shouldn’t be weakened, as it is often the only identity they’ve held on to for years," he says. C M Kumar, an accounts professional belonging to an SC community, was ousted out of his Adyar home months before his lease was to end, after he stood up to a series of casteist insults by his landlord, a backward class (BC) man, "We worked together, and although he was aware of my background, his snide jokes over their mutton and my beef eating habits, my slang and ancestry often led to arguments. It all came to a melting point one day when they asked us to leave, pulled out our furniture on to the street. They never explicitly cited caste as the reason," says Kumar.Pandiyan, executive director of Witness for Justice, says it is for these reasons that most dalit tenants tread carefully. "They prefer not to dwell on details of their religious beliefs or eating habits. Many maintain they are agnostic and reveal the towns they hail from instead of specifying their villages," says Pandiyan. "For instance, even if a Gounder and Arundhatiyar man hail from the same village, something as conspicuous as their slang of Tamil can give away their backgrounds. The tenants, who have migrated into cities, carry the wounded psychological trauma of their lineage," says Pandiyan, who also struggled with a series of dominant caste landlords in Madurai unwilling to rent out an office space for his NGO that works for oppressed communities.Because roots are powerful, and the same theory flips on its head when it comes to dominant caste members in an urban setting. "They rarely celebrate homogenous populations and follow their traditions as much as possible to keep cultural thread strong."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-respite-from-shadow-of-caste-in-urban-colonies/articleshow/79481100.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nashik||2 juveniles detained in robbery case||Nashik: Two juveniles have been detained by the Panchavati police for robbing a taxi driver of his car and two cellphones, worth nearly Rs 2 lakh. An officer from Panchavati police station said they have launched a search to trace other suspects involved in the case. The police have also recovered the vehicle robbed by the suspects. “With the help of officials from the technical analysis team of the city police, one juvenile was detained for enquiry from Kopargaon city in Ahmednagar district while the other was picked up from Manchi village in Sangamner taluka,” a police officer said. “On Thursday, the taxi driver, Rahul Phegade, had registered an offence with the police stating that a person booked his vehicle via a radio taxi company on November 24 for going to Sinnar from Nashik after which four people boarded his vehicle from Nashik city. Later, the suspects tied him with a rope and took him towards Shirdi,” he added. The suspects then assaulted the complainant and demanded Rs 30,000 stating that if he did not pay up, they would take away his taxi. Later, they snatched Phegade’s ATM card and also took away his two cellphones. Phegade alleged he was forced out of his taxi in Ahmednagar and he managed to reach his home in Cidco on Thursday after which he registered an offence with the Panchavati police. “We have received certain leads into the case and would soon arrest other culprits involved in the crime,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-juveniles-detained-in-robbery-case/articleshow/79479692.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Metro taking innovative steps to increase ridership||Nagpur: With ridership not increasing due to various reasons, including Covid, MahaMetro is taking several innovative steps to up the figures. These include renting trains for birthdays, allowing bicycle riders to take their machines in trains, developing a hang out joint for senior citizens, providing free feeder service at Nagpur airport, etc. MahaMetro spokesperson said that under its ‘Celebrations On Wheels’ scheme, a person could book the train for birthdays, pre-wedding shoots, marriage anniversaries, etc for one hour by paying Rs3,000. “Due to Covid restrictions, the number of guests should not be more than 150. If you want the train for more than one hour then you will have to pay Rs2,000 for every extra hour,” he added. “We have allowed bicycle riders to carry their machines in the train. We are not charging anything for the bicycles,” said the spokesperson. Metro officials allow you to hold exhibitions at some of their stations at an affordable cost. A book exhibition was held at the Sitabuldi station while old articles were on display at Subhash Nagar station. The agency has decided to allow more such exhibitions at Lokmanya Nagar and Subhash Nagar stations. “We make space and power supply available to the exhibition holder,” said the spokesperson. A replica of Bapu Kuti has been created at the Airport Metro station. This has been developed as a hangout for senior citizens. “The station has a walking track, a vertical garden on station pillars, a library and seating arrangements. Senior citizens can spend as much time as they wish to at the station. We have books on Mahatma Gandhi, Shivaji Maharaj, Swami Vivekananda, Acharya Vinoba Bhave, etc.” The agency has appointed eminent persons living near all functional stations as Metro ambassadors. These people will encourage people to travel by Metro. If residents of a particular locality want some service from Metro, they can convey the same to the ambassador. The spokesperson said that other than these steps, MahaMetro was doing the regular things to increase ridership. “Feeder vehicles have been made available at the Airport Metro station to take you to the airport terminal. These vehicles will be soon made available at Jai Prakash Nagar, Ajni Square, Rahate Colony, Sitabuldi Interchange and Lokmanya Nagar stations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-taking-innovative-steps-to-increase-ridership/articleshow/79482021.cms||Ashish Roy
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||23 Covid deaths in Bidhannagar in November so far; highest in a month||KOLKATA: The areas under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation are witnessing a steep rise in Covid fatality cases. Already, 23 Covid deaths have been reported this month so far — the highest death in a single month since the outbreak of the pandemic. There has been a spike in the number of new Covid cases in the past one month and the active cases are touching the mid-October figures. Since November 1, there has been 2,909 new Covid cases with a daily average of over 100 cases being reported from Bidhannagar, including Salt Lake and Rajarhat. Till Saturday, the number of total Covid affected people from Bidhannagar was 12,415 with 86 deaths and 1,181 active cases. However, the number of people recovering from the virus stood at 11,148. Till last month, there were 63 Covid deaths while the number of active cases on November 1 had stood at 1,047. Twelve Covid deaths had been reported in October while it was only four in September. Bidhannagar civic officials said that though there has been a rise in Covid deaths along with over 100 new cases daily on an average, the recovery rate has also increased significantly. Till Saturday, the recovery rate was close to 90%. However, what made the civic officials worried is that there has also been a rise in the number of dengue cases in the past one month after Puja. Around 20 people have suffered from both Covid and dengue so far. “In the festive month many people did not take precautions and this resulted in the rise in Covid cases,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/23-cov-deaths-in-bidhannagar-in-nov-so-far-highest-in-a-month/articleshow/79481098.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||Verification drive underway in Haridwar ahead of Kumbh||Haridwar: In its first phase of verification drive in view of security concerns ahead of next year’s Kumbh, Haridwar police plans to cover the district’s slum areas, hotels, ashrams and residential colonies. Circle officer (CO) city Bhadane Vishakha Ashok told TOI, “A total of 15 teams have been made for the city area. The drive was launched last week and will be finished soon. The data we collect will be stored for further verification. So far, five persons have been penalised for not doing tenant verification. Also, we are readying a register of beggars and unclaimed persons living on the banks of the river or in the open. Further action will be taken accordingly.” District police are on alert about possible terror strikes, as the NIA had arrested alleged IS sympathizers from Mangalore in 2016 Ardhkumbh fair, who wanted to target Haridwar railway station and other religious places. Kumbh mela will commence in January. The first bathing ritual is scheduled on January 14. The first royal bath, in which the akharas will take part, will be held in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/verification-drive-underway-in-haridwar-ahead-of-kumbh/articleshow/79480432.cms||MS Nawaz
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||Proposal passed for archive showcasing Mussoorie’s rich past||Mussoorie: Mussoorie is all set to have an archive showcasing the almost 200-year-old history of the town. To be set up on the Mall Road near the ropeway, it will have rare photographs, maps, books and other items on display, officials of the Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC) confirmed to TOI. “The board has formally passed the proposal for the archive. The cost of construction is estimated at Rs 1 crore. Construction will commence in a few months and be completed within a year,” said chairman of MMC Anuj Gupta. The main items to be on display belong to local archivist Gopal Bhardwaj. Bhardwaj’s collection includes more than 250 rare pictures - some of which date back to 1860, more than 100-year-old maps of Mussoorie and Dehradun and the scrapbook of an English officer dating back to 1822. He also has a 200-year-old 18-pound cannon ball, used by the British during the Gorkha war, the portable stove used by Jim Corbett during his quests for man-eaters as well as a number of negatives of photographs clicked by Corbett himself. “This is a great decision by the MMC. The archive will display Mussoorie’s history to the world and be a major tourist attraction,” Bhardwaj told TOI. The archivist whose family has been collecting material pertaining to Mussoorie’s history for several years, is currently forced to store his collection in a tin shed outside his house due to lack of space and funds. Frustrated over lack of support from the administration, he had once even threatened to burn his entire collection. Bhardwaj said that the administration should keep up its efforts to preserve the rich history of the queen of hills. “In addition to my collection, documents and memorabilia from various sources and residents of the town must be collected and displayed at the museum,” he added. For the residents of Mussoorie, the archive has come as a pleasant surprise. “It is a welcome move in the direction of preserving and showcasing the rich history of the town. The archives will definitely attract tourists,” said Sandeep Sahni, president of Uttarakhand Hotel Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/proposal-passed-for-archive-showcasing-mussoories-rich-past/articleshow/79480428.cms||Anmol Jain
November 30, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 25, arrested for raping woman on pretext of marriage||Pilibhit: A 25-year-old man was on Sunday booked and arrested for allegedly raping a 21-year-old woman for over three years on the pretext of marriage. In her complaint, the woman, resident of a locality under Neuria police station, stated that she had come in contact with the accused, resident of a village under Madhotanda police station, three years ago. The accused used to travel to her town frequently and soon they fell in love, and the accused established physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage, alleged the woman. When she asked him to fulfil his commitment, he retracted from his promise and refused to marry her, she alleged. Neuria police station SHO Jagat Singh said the accused was booked under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He was arrested and sent to jail, added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-25-arrested-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage/articleshow/79479533.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 30, 2020||Dehradun||Tight security arrangement for pilgrims on Kartik Poornima||Haridwar: Following last week's decision to not allow pilgrims into Haridwar for the Kartik Poornima bathing ritual due to Covid-19 threat, a large police force has been deployed to stop pilgrims at the district border. Congregation of locals on the banks of Ganga has also been banned by the police during the festival which usually sees lakhs of devotees congregating every year in Haridwar. Meanwhile, residents have requested the administration for granting permission to locals at least to take a dip in the river on Kartik Poornima day. Last year, 25 lakh pilgrims reached Haridwar on Kartik Poornima bathing festival and administration is anticipating many devotees to reach the city this year, too. Haridwar DM C Ravishankar told TOI, “We have sealed borders for devotees coming from other states and police force has also been deployed at Harki Pauri and other banks of the Ganga in Haridwar. Outsiders are not allowed while as far as local devotees are concerned, we are taking action according to the situation. As per the guidelines, religious gathering is not prohibited, but social distancing is mandatory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tight-security-arrangement-for-pilgrims-on-kartik-poornima/articleshow/79480438.cms||MS Nawaz
November 30, 2020||Nashik||Civic body to appoint 3rd party to inspect road quality||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), which is undertaking major road works worth Rs 250 crore in the city, has decided to rope in a third party like the IIT Bombay or other prominent technical institutes to inspect the quality of roads. This is in line with the quality inspection, the NMC had done during Kumbh Mela in 2015. NMC had carried out road works worth Rs 450 crore during Kumbh Mela and most of the roads constructed then are still in a good condition. This is the second time that the roads are being constructed at large scale in the city after Kumbh Mela. The payment for the road projects to the contractors concerned will be done only after the third party inspects the road and ensure the roads have been constructed as per the standards. Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav told TOI, “Apart from the inspection of the quality of roads, we will involve citizens in maintaining the quality of the roads. “The citizens can complain about the quality of roads through NMC’s mobile app e-connect if they see the quality of roads is not being maintained during the construction. NMC teams of engineers will immediately visit the spot and ensure the quality of the roads are good,” said Jadhav.NMC officials said, “.We have made financial provision of Rs 157 crore for the construction of the city roads in the budget for the current financial year.”“Additional financial provision will be made in the budget of NMC during the next financial year 2020-21,” said NMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-to-appoint-3rd-party-to-inspect-road-quality/articleshow/79479696.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Gang that duped new car owners busted in Delhi, 2 arrested||NEW DELHI: The south district police have busted a gang of crooks who duped owners of newly bought vehicles by impersonating as representatives of finance companies and threatening to take away the vehicle due to pending dues. The accused have been identified as Vijay Kumar and Satpal Singh. Kumar (22) is a resident of Ballabgarh, Haryana and Singh (28) is from Badarpur. They had obtained lists of people who had not paid vehicle loan instalments during the lockdown and approached them individually. They would take Rs 10,000-20,000 from each owner in lieu of temporarily stalling the process of impounding the vehicle. If the victim failed to pay, they would take away the vehicle. Three bikes “impounded” by the gang recently have been recovered by cops. Officers from Malviya Nagar police station started tracking the gang after a resident of Sangam Vihar lodged a complaint on November 27. According to DCP (south) Atul Thakur, the victim reported that he had purchased a motorcycle in November last year and got a loan for it from a finance company. Due to lockdown, he couldn’t pay few installments of the motorcycle. “On November 20, he received a call on his mobile phone wherein a person introduced himself as an employee of the finance company from which he had taken the loan. The complainant was told to meet this man near Select City Mall, Saket, in connection with the installments,” Thakur said. The complainant reached the given address and met two people who said they had come to take away his motorcycle due to the pending installments. As the victim didn’t have any money, they took away his bike telling him that he should arrange for Rs 15,000 and call them to get the bike released. The victim later reached the office of the finance company in Noida, but found that the company had taken no such action against him. Realising he had been cheated, the victim filed an FIR. Cops made the victim call up the accused to give them Rs 15,000 and a meeting was fixed at Meethapur near Badarpur border. A trap was laid and the accused were arrested while taking money from the victim. The accused were produced before the magistrate and sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-that-duped-new-car-owners-busted-2-arrested/articleshow/79481214.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city records zero Covid-related deaths for the 7th time in November||Nashik: The city has recorded no Covid-related casualties for the past three days — on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. This is the seventh time that Nashik city has reported zero deaths in November. In October, the city had recorded zero Covid deaths twice — October 20 and 25.The officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation said zero death was also recorded on August 15 and 8. The city had also recorded zero death on June 5.The covid death rate has reduced in the past four months from 2.92% on July 31 to 1.36% so far, which is the lowest since May. The health department of NMC has determined to bring the death rate below 1% at the earliest.NMC officials said they have conducted a health check-up of 83,000 comorbid patients in the city and also 18 lakh population of the city to find the suspected patients of Covid under the state government programme -‘My Family My Responsibility’ last month“Earlier, we also conducted surveys of citizens to find Covid suspects under the Nashik zero mission with the help of an NGO. We also conducted antigen tests for early detection and provide treatment in time to yield good results,” said the officials.NMC officials said they had also conducted surveys of slum-dwellers across all the 150 slums in the city at the initial stage of the outbreak of Covid.“We could bring the Covid situation under control due to such continuous efforts,” said the officials. The recovery rate of the Covid patients in the city has also improved significantly in the last four months, as it has increased from 77.39% on July 31 to over 96% now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-records-zero-covid-related-deaths-for-the-7th-time-in-november/articleshow/79479708.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Tourism firms prepare for ‘vaccine vacations’||Kolkata: As the buzz around Covid vaccines gets stronger, particularly in Russia, the US and the UK, travel agents and tour operators have started designing ‘vaccine vacations’ that combine a holiday trip abroad with an opportunity to get a Covid vaccine shot. Though no country has yet announced vaccination for foreigners, the travel trade industry believes countries with low population and decent health infrastructure will allow visitors to get vaccinated to give the tourism sector a booster shot. While a Kolkata-registered travel firm with 30 branches across the country and 12 overseas offices has already prepared Covid vaccine tourism packages to Russia and the US as a template — in anticipation of the countries allowing overseas travellers to get vaccinated after covering a major chunk of their population — others are hoping Gulf and other countries with high tourism dependence to use the vaccine as a bait to kick-start their economy. “We have designed packages for the US and Russia. The former is currently priced at Rs 1.5 lakh per person and the latter around Rs 1.2 lakh per person. They will be launched once we get the necessary approval from the authorities there. We are in discussion with partners in these countries. Simultaneously, we are keeping the data of prospective customers to contact once we get the nod,” said Zenith Holidays director Manoj Mishra. While America and Russia may appear long shots at present, both countries are sure to complete vaccination of their population ahead of India. But there will be several other countries that will complete vaccination even earlier and can extend the opportunity to tourists. According to the two leading travel trade bodies — Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) and Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) — many travel agents are creating the template. “The tourism industry is talking about vaccine vacation. We aren’t sure of the modalities yet, but this will happen since it will take much longer to complete the vaccination in India. Dubai (UAE) and South Africa could be possible options,” said TAAI chairman (east) Manav Soni. Though it is still early days to hard-sell vaccine vacations, TAFI chairman (east) Anil Punjabi believes it can make sense if those who can afford to travel abroad can combine holiday with a vaccine shot. “There are many Indian students studying abroad. If they are covered in the drive there and are allowed to call their parents over for shots at market price or at a premium, many may opt for it. There are ethical issues that need to be sorted out. It can definitely be a win-win situation if a week is set aside for vaccination and another seven to 10 days are added for sightseeing and travel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tourism-firms-prepare-for-vaccine-vacations/articleshow/79481106.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 1,564 new Covid cases, 16 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: The Covid-19 surge in Gujarat continued with the sixth consecutive day of 1,500-plus daily cases as the state recorded 1,564 new positive cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Sunday, taking the state’s tally of positive cases to 2.08 lakh. The state also recorded the deaths of 16 positive patients, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 3,969. The new positive cases in the state include 345 from Ahmedabad, 278 from Surat, 171 from Vadodara and 149 from Rajkot districts. While Ahmedabad district inched near 50k total cases mark with 49,850 cases, Vadodara’s total tally reached near 20k total cases at 19,912. The deaths included 11 from Ahmedabad, three from Surat, and one each from Kheda and Bharuch. The eight municipal corporations contributed 55% of the daily tally as it was the 10th consecutive day for Ahmedabad city to record 300-plus daily cases and Surat to record 200-plus daily cases. With 14 out of 16 deaths from Ahmedabad and Surat, the cities contributed to 87.5% of the total deaths in 24 hours. The share of active cases reached 7.1% at 14,889 as the share of discharged patients (1.89 lakh) was 90.9% and the deceased patients (3,969) 2%. The daily tests dipped a bit at 68,960 as the state health department claimed the test rate of 1,061 per million population. As of Sunday evening, Gujarat had 5.17 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-records-1564-new-cases-16-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/79481186.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||NMC begins limited feeder service to Metro||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is gradually providing feeder service to Nagpur Metro. However, Metro riders are unaware of it, and hence the move has not benefited them much. A MahaMetro official said that feeder buses had been started for two Metro stations by NMC. “City buses now stop near all sixteen Metro stations. Nine buses now stop at our main station — Sitabuldi Interchange, which connects Medical Square, Raghuji Nagar, Nara, Hazaripahad etc. You can get a city bus every half an hour from the interchange station. We expect NMC to augment its feeder service in the coming days,” he said. Another Metro official, however, said that Metro ridership remained poor due to lack of coordination between MahaMetro and NMC officials. “Metro riders must know the timings, destination and route of city bus from a particular station. For this, MahaMetro will have to include this information on its website, mobile application and publicize it through other media,” the official said. “The Common Mobility Card (CMC) — Mahacard, can only be used for booking Metro tickets. The idea was that it should be used for city buses as well. For this, the city bus operators will have to purchase machines in which the CMC can be swiped. This implies investment on the part of bus operators. With the operators and NMC incurring huge losses, there is little chance of this system being adopted in the near future,” the official further said. The Metro official slammed NMC for not withdrawing buses from Wardha Road and Hingna Road routes. “Buses continue to ply on this route, which is ridiculous. If city buses stop on these routes, people will automatically board the Metro,” he added. Another Metro official said that public representatives of the city, irrespective of party, were not showing any interest in increasing the ridership of the Metro. “MahaMetro does not have any control over NMC and hence its officials refuse to listen to us. If Union minister Nitin Gadkari or guardian minister Nitin Raut told them to do certain things, they will not be in a position to refuse. However, the politicians seem to be happy that Metro is running. They are not bothered that people are not riding it,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-begins-limited-feeder-service-to-metro/articleshow/79482056.cms||Ashish Roy
November 30, 2020||Bareilly||UP registers first case under ‘love jihad’ law||Bareilly: Hours after UP’s ordinance against “forced” religious conversion came into effect, a 22-year-old man from Bareilly was booked for “threatening to kidnap” and convert a 20-year-old woman -- a girl he knew from school who is now married to someone else. The FIR was filed on the basis of her father’s complaint. Police, however, confirmed that the two had tried to elope last year. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religious Ordinance, 2020, was cleared by governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday. Later that night, the FIR against Uwaish Ahmad was filed at Devarniyan police station in Bareilly. “This is the first case filed under the newly enacted law,” DIG (Bareilly zone) Rajesh Kumar Pandey said. The woman’s father, in his complaint, alleged that Ahmad had been “stalking and threatening” his daughter for the past three years. “We have booked him under Section 3/5 of the ordinance, along with sections 504 (breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC,” additional SP (rural) Sansaar Singh told TOI. Section 3 of the ordinance prohibits conversion or “attempt to convert either directly or otherwise any other person from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage,” Supreme Court lawyer Shobha Gupta, who had fought on behalf of Bilkis Bano, told TOI. Section 5 lays down the punishment for its violation — 1 to 10 years of prison and fines up to Rs 25,000. The burden of proof is on the accused. These charges, however, appear to have been added later. In the FIR, a copy of which is with TOI, the IPC sections were already printed. Below that, written by hand in black ink, were the charges under the anti-conversion ordinance. When asked why Ahmad would want to convert a married woman, Singh said Ahmad wanted to marry her. In fact, Ahmad and the woman had tried to elope earlier. Their families are farmers and they knew each other from school. Singh said, “During investigation, we came to know that she had gone missing last year and a complaint had then been filed against the youth. But he was found in the village ...the girl was later found in Bhopal.” She was married to another man in June. A relative of Ahmad said the two were involved consensually. “Many in the locality knew … She wanted to marry Ahmad,” he said. The woman, her husband and her father did not respond to questions. Her elder brother repeated what her father had said in his complaint: “Ahmad used to stalk my sister since she was in school. Now, he is forcing her to marry him and change her religion.” Their allegation is that when the woman came home to visit her family recently, Ahmad got there. “The accused came to her house and threatened her and her father on Saturday,” said ASP Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-registers-first-case-under-love-jihad-law/articleshow/79479580.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||‘Club tent closure has nothing to do with tradition’||Kolkata: The Local Military Authority (LMA) maintained that closure of club tents on the Maidan for 15 days annually has nothing to do with tradition but legal issues related to lease agreements. Former footballer-turned-politician Prasun Banerjee has written to defence minister, Rajnath Singh, seeking that such closure be done away with. “The Maidan belongs to the Ministry of Defence. Clubs are deemed to be lessees, though no rent is collected from them. Land was allotted to clubs to promote sports in the city and no permanent structures were allowed. Hence the word ‘tent’ that some clubs still use. According to the Registration Act of 1908, registration of a deed agreement is mandatory if it extends 12 months. Since no rent is paid or collected and there are no lease agreements between the clubs and MoD, there can’t be any registration. So, the period of use of a tent has to be restricted to 11 months and 15 days,” said an official. The break of 15 days is also essential to repair the tent structures. The LMA has no problem if the 15-day break is during the monsoons but such activity may not be possible then, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/club-tent-closure-has-nothing-to-do-with-tradition/articleshow/79481128.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 30, 2020||Trichy||Farmers demand compensation for paddy destroyed by cyclone||Trichy: As central committee members are going to Tamil Nadu to assess crop damages caused due to cyclone Nivar, farmers have appealed to the government to announce compensation for all farmers whose paddy fields were also inundated. Standing crop in the inundated fields may look healthy but there will be significant yield loss, which may reflect only at the time of harvest and the expert committee should consider this fact, farmers said. They also thanked the governments for sending a committee soon after the cyclone to assess the damage. Several acres of samba crops were inundated due to cyclone Nivar in delta districts including Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur. While water has been drained out of some of the fields, a few others are still inundated, said secretary of Thanjavur district Cauvery farmers’ protection association Swamimalai S Vimalnathan. When the expert committee would examine fields that were inundated, they should not come to the conclusion that the crops are healthy. Because once a field is inundated, definitely there will be yield loss,” Vimalnathan appealed. Due to the inundation, chances of pest attack will also be there, farmers said. “Since the standing samba paddy crops are in the flowering stage, water stagnation can make the paddy go withered at the time of harvest or sometimes the grains may lose their weight. All these things would ultimately bring down the revenue for the farmers,” said L Krishnan, a farmer from Kollidam in Nagapattinam district. Sugarcane is the major crop in Cuddalore. Canes will lose its sugar content. So, the government should announce compensation to all the crops, he added. “When the state government would ask Rs 1,000 crore as compensation, the Union government would offer Rs 175 crore. This is our past experience. The Union government should sanction the entire fund and they should further follow up whether the compensation was used properly,” Cauvery S Dhanapalan, president, Cauvery delta farmers’ association from Nagapattinam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-demand-compensation-for-paddy-destroyed-by-cyclone/articleshow/79482074.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 30, 2020||Pune||Ample study time helps CET examinees improve ranks||PUNE: With more time for preparation for the Maharashtra Common Entrance Test (MHT-CET), the ranks of students corresponding to their percentiles have improved by 10-15 marks this year. Students with a score of 150 had a percentile of 99 last year, but this year, students who scored 160 got 99 as their percentile.  Experts attributed this trend to better preparation by students for the examination. In 2019, there were 2,762 students per percentile point. In 2020, there are 1,746 students per percentile point. According to director of IITians Prashikshan Kendra, Durgesh Mangeshkar, there are two clear observations __the percentiles this year have dropped rapidly as compared to the marks as the number of students appearing has reduced per slot. A reduction in the students appearing for the exam affects percentile adversely, he added. “Secondly, the marks needed this year to score a specific percentile has increased by 10-15 marks across the spectrum. This may be because students were better prepared as they had more time to study,” he said. Percentile of 95 in 2020 corresponds to 97 in 2019. The percentile is important as students refer cut-offs of last year to know where they may get admission. So, the rank of a student scoring 95 percentile this year is just the same as the rank of a 97 percentile student in 2019. Kshitij Salunkhe, who scored 99.99 percentile, said, “My aim was to get into the College of Engineering, Pune for a computer science seat. Hopefully, I will get through. All through the lockdown, the online classes were going on so I was preparing for the exam throughout.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ample-study-time-helps-cet-examinees-improve-ranks/articleshow/79481169.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal trio gives up Ama Dablam summit attempt||KOLKATA: The most beautiful mountain in the Himalayan range — Ama Dablam — turned savage for three climbers from Bengal and they reportedly had to come back after they went for the final push on Saturday night. One of the climbers, Satyarup Sidhanta, had to be rescued by helicopter after his hands and feet became numb. While climbing down, Sidhanta’s hand slipped and he had a long free fall before he was hanging from the rope. He received minor injury on hands and lower back. He was flown back to Lukla and then to Kathmandu. Expedition agency sources in Nepal on Sunday evening indicated that two other climbers, Malay Mukherjee and Debashis Biswas, had come back to Camp II. Thaneswar Guragai of the Seven Summit Treks said, “They tried hard but could not make it to the summit. It started getting very windy near the summit and temperature started dropping very fast. They decided to come back. We will get to know the details after they come back.” On Sunday morning, Sidhanta’s friend, Dipanjan Das, wrote on his Facebook page, “Satyarup has given up his summit attempt. Around 5am on Sunday, he felt that his toes and fingers were numb and it was difficult for him to pinch the rock and ice wall. He tried to rest for a while and took warm water, but after repeated attempts, he found that his hands and feet might have suffered permanent damages because of this.” The three had reached the camp II on Saturday afternoon and were preparing for the final push. They managed to cross Yellow tower, one of the most exhausting stretches for the climbers. The 12-meter vertical elevation is steep and climbers need to breathe a lot to provide oxygen to their muscles. Sidhanta was around Mushroom ridge, a relatively stable formation filled with ice and snow cornice-like structures, when he decided to go back. Other two members continued to climb. While much details could not be gathered, sources said the duo had to give up near the summit. “Both of them are physically fit and came back to camp II before evening,” Guragai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-trio-gives-up-ama-dablam-summit-attempt/articleshow/79481160.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 30, 2020||Chennai||Bike-borne men try to snatch gold chain from woman||Chennai: A day after a sub-inspector overpowered mobile phone snatcher in Madhavaram, two bike-borne men tried to snatch a gold chain from a woman at Pattabiram. The incident happened on Saturday night when Geetha, 40, a resident of Thandumariyamman Koil Street, was riding pillion with her husband, Vinaayagamoorthy. The couple were returning from Poonamallee and near Amthurmedu they found two men riding close to them. The couple ignored them but soon Geetha saw that the bike had come very close. The pillion rider on the other vehicle grabbed her chain but Geetha held onto it. Geetha’s husband stopped the bike and cried out for help when a few passers-by rushed to their rescue. Noticing a crowd gathering, the two fled the spot. Geetha, who sustained injuries on her neck, lodged a complaint with the Pattabiram police. Police are checking CCTV camera footage. An investigating officer said the couple could not recollect the bike’s registration number. The men were wearing helmets and masks, he said. Police suspect it to be handiwork of previous offenders. The victim couldn’t recollect the registration number of the vehicle. In another incident in Avadi, two men snatched a part of her gold chain from a 70-year-old woman. The victim, Sharadha, a resident of Indira Nagar 11th Street was on her way to a nearby shop when two men on bike tried to snatch her five-sovereign gold chain. Sharadha held onto the chain tightly but the men were able to break it and flee with the gold. Based on her complaint, police have registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bike-borne-men-try-to-snatch-gold-chain-from-woman/articleshow/79481167.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Covid effect: Dutch plants to go into 1-week quarantine in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 epidemic hasn’t left even the city’s beautification efforts untouched. Exotic flowers imported all the way from the Netherlands to grace the green lawns of Shanti Path, Children’s Park, Rose Garden and embassy areas under the jurisdiction of New Delhi Municipal Council will have to go in for a weeklong quarantine inspection. To minimise the risk of plant diseases or bacterial infection, NDMC has decided to follow all safety norms during the import and plantation of 55,000 bulbs of the exotic flowering plants, including tulips, hyacinth, iris, Oriental lily, Asiatic lily and Calla lily. A senior NDMC official said the exotic flowers bloom in the peak winters and that’s why all preparations need to be completed by early December. “Keeping the present situation in mind, we had obtained the ‘post entry quarantine certificate’ from the ministry of agriculture last month itself and, later, sent the approval letter to the producers in Holland,” the official said. “Once the whole lot of the imported bulbs are cleared by the excise and customs departments, we will keep them inside a hi-tech nursery in Lodhi Garden for a week to observe any fungal or bacterial infection in the boxes. If there are any signs of infection, then we will immediately get them treated,” he said. The plantation will start from the next weekend and is targeted to be completed by December 10 to give the plants enough time to flower. This time around, the civic agency has decided to plant single-colour varieties of tulip. “We have not ordered multi-coloured flowering bulbs because the feedback was not that favourable. Also, it was observed that in case of tulips, rows of a single colour look more beautiful,” the official added. These imported plants can only be grown in the December-March period in Delhi when the temperatures range between 5 and 20 degrees Celsius. “Besides, we will plant other winter varieties like chrysanthemum, dianthus, Verbena, sweet William, petunia, salvia and phlox,” the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-effect-dutch-plants-to-go-into-1-wk-quarantine/articleshow/79481174.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 30, 2020||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University: Term exam of first year subjects likely from December 8||PUNE: The first-term exam for first year graduation courses will be conducted via multiple choice questions (MCQs) at the college level in December. The exam department of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has instructed all its affiliated colleges. They will have the option of conducting online and offline exams. The examinations for bachelor in arts, science and commerce courses will be conducted by the colleges. The exams are likely to start from December 8 and will go on till December 20 as per the schedule set by each college. The university has instructed colleges to announce the results by January 10. Head of the exam department at SPPU, Mahesh Kakade, said, “The colleges will have to give options to students in terms of appearing for the exam in online or offline mode. They will also have to make all necessary arrangements as per the guidelines set by the UGC for students who will be attempting the exam in offline mode.” In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, there has not been any change in the syllabus of these courses. Hence, colleges have been told to conduct exams based on the old exam pattern. The exam will be held for one hour. Kakade said the question paper for the exam will be set by teachers in the college. The colleges have been told to prepare a timetable and put up on the website for knowledge of the students. According to the UGC guidelines, the students should be informed well in advance (at least one week) about the examinations and other related activities. Every university/college shall establish a cell for handling student grievances related to examinations and academic activities during Covid-19 pandemic and notify the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/term-exam-of-first-year-subjects-likely-from-dec-8/articleshow/79481172.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||73% of 681 Covid patients from other dists, states died in city||Nagpur: The fatality rate for Covid-19 patients coming to Nagpur from other districts, divisions of Maharashtra and adjacent states is shocking 73%, reveals figures provided by the civil surgeon (CS). Alarmingly, the number of outstation patients is just 0.61% as compared to total Covid-19 cases of Nagpur district. But they account for 14% of total deaths reported in Nagpur district. As per the CS data, out of 1,11,477 total Covid-19 cases in Nagpur till November 29, only 681 are from other states/divisions who visited the city for non-Covid ailments but later tested positive. Of the 681 patients, 499 died due to Covid-19. The district’s overall toll is 3,654. According to doctors, when patients report at a very serious stage for their non-Covid ailment they are unaware of their Covid-19 status. After testing positive, their condition deteriorates. Being a medical hub of Central India, Nagpur is a preferred destination for patients from across the region for treatment of all types of serious ailments. During the pandemic, Nagpur has been treating serious Covid-19 patients from all 11 districts of Vidarbha and also from the adjacent states of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Patients who are diagnosed with Covid-19 at their native place are considered as ‘referred patients’ and not added to the case count of Nagpur district. If such patient dies during treatment in Nagpur, the death is counted in the account of their respective native district/state. But there are some people who come to Nagpur as non-Covid patients or simply non-Covid travellers. They get infected in Nagpur and get diagnosed Covid-19 positive here. Even if they are not resident of Nagpur, they get counted in the Nagpur district’s Covid-19 tally. The CS office keeps separate record of such patients under the head of ‘Patients outside district’. Covid in-charge of a leading private hospital told TOI that patients from other states and districts come to the city in serious condition. “The deceased comprise already serious patients who come to city for tertiary treatment. Unfortunately, they get infected during their treatment. It’s difficult to save such patients,” he said. OUTSTATION BURDEN: FEWER CASES, MORE DEATHS * 1,11,477 | Covid-19 caseload of Nagpur district * 79% | 88109 cases from city * 20.3% | 22,687 cases from Nagpur rural * 0.61% | 681 cases from outstation * 3,654 | Deaths in district till Nov 29 * 69.18% | 2,528 deaths from city * 17% | 627 from Nagpur rural * 13.65% | 499 outstation patients * 3.27% | Case fatality rate of Nagpur district * 2.8% | Case fatality rate of city * 2.7% | Case fatality rate of Nagpur rural * 73.2% | Case fatality rate of outstation patients in city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/73-of-681-covid-patients-from-other-dists-states-died-in-city/articleshow/79482144.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 30, 2020||Pune||PMC to conduct structural audits of old water tanks||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will carry out the structural audits of old water tanks for repair and restoration work. The first phase of the audits will cover 20 tanks. According to the PMC officials, many of these tanks were built around 30 years ago and they needed to be reconstructed. So, the decision was taken to assess them. “The civic administration has conducted survey of these tanks. A list of dilapidated or old tanks has been made. The PMC has given a letter to the College of Engineering Pune to conduct the structural audits,” Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of PMC’s water department, said.The PMC administration has planned 24x7 water supply project in its civic limits and the project includes construction of 103 tanks and the laying of 1,600km pipeline network and water metres. The civic administration is expected to spend around Rs3,000 crore on this initiative, officials said.The construction work of 83 tanks under the equitable water supply system has already been started. They are located across the municipal areas. The works of building the remaining tanks is on hold due to issues such as non-availability of land. “The PMC has to provide equitable water to the civic limits through these tanks. But, unless the construction of the tanks is completed the water will be stored in old tanks. So, these tanks must be in good condition. Hence, the structural audits and repairs are to be conducted,” a senior PMC official said.The official added that the chances of any mishap due to falling of these tanks could be averted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-conduct-structural-audits-of-old-water-tanks/articleshow/79481179.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chennai||Driver dozes off at wheel, runs over man on OMR||Chennai: A minivan ran over a 65-year-old man to death and injured two others in Taramani on Saturday night. Police said its driver had dozed off at the wheel. Police said Duraivelu was riding a bike with his wife Rukmani on OMR when the accident happened near Indira Nagar railway station. Duraivelu saw the speeding van mow down a pedestrian but before he could move to safety, the van knocked his bike down. In the impact, the couple fell from the two-wheeler and Duraivelu came under the rear wheels of the van, dying on the spot. Rukmani escaped with minor injuries. The pedestrian was identified as Chandrasekar, a resident of Guindy. Motorists nabbed the van driver who tried to escape. They rushed Rukmani and Chandrasekar to a nearby private hospital. Chandrasekar, who had suffered severe head injuries, was referred to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for treatment. Duraivelu’s body was sent for an autopsy at Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital. The Adyar traffic investigating wing registered a case against the driver, Sugumar, a resident of Palavakkam. The 68-year-old was arrested and booked for rash driving and causing death due to negligence. Police said Sugumar had been continuously driving the vehicle for two nights, police said. In another accident in Puzhal, a 40-year-old man was knocked down by an unidentified vehicle. The victim, Inniyavan of Red Hills, was on his bike when he was hit by an unidentified vehicle. Police are checking CCTV camera footage to track the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/driver-dozes-off-at-wheel-runs-over-man-on-omr/articleshow/79481176.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Will free Hyderabad from Nizam culture if BJP wins: Amit Shah||HYDERABAD: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday promised to turn Hyderabad into a “mini India” housing an International IT hub, while taking a dig at chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s plans of cobbling together a non-BJP political front which failed to take off. After a huge road show during the last day of campaigning for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls on December 1 that has seen a bitter attack by political parties, often with communal overtones, Shah said if the BJP wins big, Hyderabad would be made free from the Nizam and Nawabi culture. Read AlsoBJP only knows 'jumla' and 'hamla': KTR on last day of GHMC campaignTelangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) working president KT Rama Rao on Sunday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party on the last day of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election campaign saying that the BJP only knew two things: 'jumla' (fake promises) and 'hamla' (attack).Addressing a media conference, Shah said he was overwhelmed by the crowd and promised that if BJP was voted to power they would put an end to appeasement politics and turn the city into a global IT hub. “I have been here many times, but this welcome is unprecedented and unexpected. We are not only doing well in polls, but will have the mayor’s seat for us too,” he added. Shah stressed that in the immediate future BJP wants to win the mayor’s seat and emerge as the main opposition after the GHMC polls, paving the way for the party to win the next assembly election. He said BJP does not consider this galli election, unlike the TRS. “Those who are calling this a street election should have got the city streets cleaned properly then they would not have this apprehension over BJP leaders emerging,” said Shah. Attacking KCR’s proposal of an anti-BJP front, he said, “He is free to move everywhere in the country and remember what happened last time after 2018 elections? He went around in several states in 2019, but he lost many parliament seats.” Quizzed on KCR’s charge that the Centre has not released central funds, the home minister said had KCR gone to the Secretariat he would have come to know the details about central funds to Telangana. “Telangana is the state which received maximum loans for street vendors and Hyderabad is the city with highest number of such loans,” he added. Highlighting that dynasty politics should end, Shah said the BJP does not have any problem with anyone having alliance with any party, but asked why TRS and AIMIM are having a secret pact. “Why don’t you have open, declared understating,” he said. Shah also criticised KCR for not visiting all the flood-hit areas and added that it was not BJP, but the AIMIM and TRS who are engaged in divisive politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-free-hyd-from-nizam-culture-if-bjp-wins-shah/articleshow/79482568.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rush for Covid tests in west, kits dwindling||AHMEDABAD: Several Covid-testing kiosks in the western part of the city are running out of rapid antigen test kits as people rush for virus scans driven by anxiety. Authorities are trying to match the supply of kits with the demand. Amid the surge in testing, the city is showing doubled positivity rate compared to the pre-Diwali period. A senior officer of the health department of the AMC said that usually teams running the kiosks are given 75 to 100 tests kits a day. But since Diwali, that number has been inadequate. Officials said there has also been a rise in the number of people seeking RT-PCR tests. “At several kiosks, when the staff realize that they might run out of kits, instead of asking for more kits they stop testing,” the officer said. Officials said that the number of people seeking rapid antigen tests was higher in the western part of the city — in areas such as Prahladnagar, Vastrapur, Memnagar, Thaltej, Gota, Ghatlodia, Bopal, and Paldi. The officials said that these are also the areas that have reported the maximum number of cases in the recent times. The officials said that the case positivity rate for RT-PCR tests was about 3% before Diwali. It has doubled to 6% now. The officials said that the case positivity rate for rapid antigen tests is nearing 10%; it was 3-5% earlier. The officials said that the majority of the corona-positive people are asymptomatic and are home quarantined. The officials said some reports suggest that asymptomatic patients in home quarantine face difficulty in getting treatment because of the lack of coordination between zonal offices and the AMC’s health department. The officials said that private labs send information about the positive patients to AMC officials and the lists are sent to zonal offices. But in many zonal offices the lists are ignored, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rush-for-tests-in-west-kits-dwindling/articleshow/79481310.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 30, 2020||Pune||Cops recover stolen ornaments & 33 cellphones||Pune: The city police’s crime branch arrested five men and detained a minor on Friday early morning from Sinhagad Road near Dandekar bridge and recovered stolen gold ornaments and 33 stolen cellphones from them. The 33 stolen cellphones were collectively worth Rs1.44 lakh and the gold ornaments were worth Rs1.45 lakh. A patrolling team headed by senior police inspector Rajendra Mokashi of the crime branch nabbed the suspects, who were identified as Sahil Dilip Sambre, Suraj Ravindra Jambre, Someshwar Bhanudas Gaikwad, Krushna Kumar Chavan, Tejas Pawar and their minor accomplice. All the six suspects were armed with sharp weapons and tools to break open locks and doors. Police said that the suspects had planned to loot a closed jewellery shop in the area.However, a timely tip-off alerted the police about their presence in the area, following which the police team then nabbed them. During the course of the questioning, the suspects admitted that they had committed thefts in the Parvati Darshan and Dattawadi areas before. Police recovered 33 stolen cellphones phones, collectively worth Rs1.44 lakh from the six suspects. The police also solved a house break-in theft case and recovered gold ornaments worth Rs1.45 lakh that were stolen. The thefts occurred in the last one month, police said. Police said that the arrested men were criminals on record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-recover-stolen-ornaments-33-cellphones/articleshow/79481189.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||1,000 of 1,300 candidates lost deposit in 2016 GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Nearly 1,000 of the total 1,333 candidates who contested the elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation had lost their deposit in 2016. Some of the candidates of the winning TRS had also lost deposit in a few wards. While the highest number of candidates to lose deposit were independents, Congress, BJP, CPI and CPM candidates were not far behind. This time, 1,122 candidates will contest and try their best to win the hearts of the voters. In all, 415 Independents are in fray and another 76 are from recognised and regional parties. The TRS is contesting from all 150 wards followed by BJP in 149 wards, Congress 146, TDP 106, MIM 51, CPI 17 and CPM 12. In the elections, a deposit is the sum of money that a candidate has to pay to the election authority before contesting the polls. In the GHMC elections being held now, the deposit is Rs 5,000 for candidates from other castes and Rs 2,500 for SCs, STs and BCs, said state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi. This deposit collected is repaid to the candidate after the poll if the candidate obtains one-sixth of the total valid polled votes. The purpose of the deposit is to reduce the prevalence of ‘fringe’ candidates or parties with no realistic chance of winning a seat. If the candidate does not achieve the refund threshold, that is one-sixth of total valid polled votes, the deposit is forfeited. Officials said the deposit is refunded to the winner and also those getting one-sixth of total valid polled votes. It is also refunded in case of death of the candidate before polling. Though the total votes polled by winning candidates varied from one ward to the other, a large number of candidates won when polled had anywhere between 8,000 and 12,000 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1000-of-1300-candidates-lost-deposit-in-2016-polls/articleshow/79482149.cms||Roushan Ali
November 30, 2020||Pune||Auto driver, aide rob passenger||Pune: The Dehu Road police on Sunday launched a search for an autorickshaw driver and his accomplice who robbed a 32-year-old construction worker of his smartphone, worth Rs12,000, on Friday night. The incident happened when complainant Narayan Gokare of Talegaon Dabhade was travelling in the suspect’s autorickshaw. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auto-driver-aide-rob-passenger/articleshow/79481206.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Health items dealer loses Rs 1 lakh to online fraud||PUNE: Cybercrooks who posed as army officials duped a 25-year-old dealer of health-related products worth Rs1 lakh under the pretext of ordering 300 vaporisers for the Army’s medical college. When the complainant told the suspects to make the payment, the fraudsters sent him a QR code and asked him to scan it. As soon as the complainant scanned it, some amount was debited from his bank account. When he contacted the suspects, they promised to return the amount and sent one more QR code. The complainant scanned the code again, and money was debited from his account. “In total, they sent seven QR codes to the complainant and siphoned Rs1 lakh from his bank account in September,” an officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said. The complainant had approached the cybercrime cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police in September. After the probe, an FIR was registered with the Nigdi police on Friday night. “On September 5, I had received a call from a man who claimed to be an Army officer and ordered 300 vaporisers for the medical college. He also introduced me to another ‘officer’. They then sent me QR code for scanning, and siphoned off Rs1 lakh from my account,” the complainant told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-items-dealer-loses-rs-1-lakh-to-online-fraud/articleshow/79481182.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 30, 2020||India||Let e-hearings go on, Bombay HC CJ urged||MUMBAI: The Bombay Bar Association (BBA) and several senior lawyers on Sunday requested Bombay high court chief justice Dipankar Datta to rethink a move to bring back physical hearings in place of the video-conferences that have become the norm since the lockdown began. They have urged the chief justice (CJ) to continue with virtual courts till at least December 31, after which, they said, it may be re-assessed. The video conferencing mode has been “already successfully used for many months,” said the BBA.  The group wrote a letter to the CJ Sunday morning to reconsider Friday’s order by which almost the entire high court at the principal seat in Mumbai would go physical from December 1, albeit on an ‘experimental basis’ till January 10. Physical hearings were suspended in the last week of March when the numbers of Covid cases in Maharashtra were less than 50. About 15 lawyers, including senior counsel V A Thorat, Prasad Dhakephalkar, Shirish Gupte and Amit Desai, sought the choice to appear virtually or physically. They cited a “24%” rise in active Covid cases in the past week alone in Mumbai. The BBA held a meeting around 4 pm to discuss the issue. Its secretary advocate Birendra Saraf said it had received feedback from many lawyers “expressing grave concern on the making of physical appearances mandatory in so many courts given the pandemic.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/let-e-hearings-go-on-bombay-hc-cj-urged/articleshow/79482856.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||67-year-old from Rajasthan sets out on cycle to meet PM Modi||JAIPUR: Raghuveer Khod, 67, a farmer from Rajasthan, set out on a 370-km journey from Rawatsar in Hanumangarh to New Delhi on a bicycle at 6:30 am on Sunday to spread the message of pollution-free environment and drugs-free society. But, his ultimate goal is to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and don the army uniform for a day. Asked why he wanted to meet the prime minister, Khod, says, “My childhood dream was to join the Indian army. However, it couldn’t be fulfilled. I want to meet Modiji and request him that I wish to become a soldier for one day. My only wish is to don the army uniform for a day. I don’t know whether the prime minister will meet me, but I will leave a representation in his name at his office.” “I also want to spread the message of pollution-free environment and drugs-free society among children. That’s why I am riding my bicycle all the way to Delhi,” Khod told TOI. While Raghuveer cycled all the way to New Delhi, his grandson, Lalit Kumar (18), accompanied him as he drove his car alongside him. “He feels if he meets the prime minister, his wish of wearing the army dress, which didn’t materialize for so many years, will be fulfilled,” said Kumar, who lives in Khoda village at Hanumangarh’s Rawatsar tehsil. “Even at this age, my grandfather cycles 60 kilometres daily - from Rawatsar to Suratgarh. Apart from this, he also does farming at his agricultural land,” he said. Raghuveer has five daughters and two sons, said Kumar. Of the five, one daughter is an employee with Rajasthan police and another daughter is a teacher. Kumar, Raghuveer’s grandson, who has completed his 12th, is now preparing to sit for competitive exam to join the Indian Navy. “It will take us at least 18 hours to reach New Delhi. We will reach our destination by 11 in the night,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/67-yr-old-sets-out-on-his-cycle-to-meet-pm-wishes-to-don-army-uniform-for-a-day/articleshow/79481229.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Acute infection could trigger chronic lung illness among recovered patients||JAIPUR: Pulmonary fibrosis is one of the major complications being reported by patients who have recovered from Covid-19. The guidelines on post-Covid syndrome and management issued by the health department shows that severe acute illness has more likelihood of pulmonary fibrosis later. The risk factors for fibrosis are age above 65, severity of illness, length of ICU stay, need for mechanical ventilation, smoking and chronic alcoholism. The health department officials said that comprehensive guidelines have been issued for management of post-Covid fibrosis. “Low dose steroid can be prescribed for three months, then to be tapered. It can be continued for 3 to 6 months if there is no response. Anti-fibrotics can be considered if there is no response to steroids after six months,” said the official. Other issues which have come to light are secondary infections and post-intensive care syndrome. “There are increased chances of secondary bacterial or fungal pneumonia due to lung parenchymal destruction and cavitation and due to use of immunosupprants. Careful microbiological sampling and analysis are required for timely diagnosis and management,” said the official. Besides, in post-intensive care syndrome, patients may complain of new or worsening of cognitive, psychiatric and physical functions after a critical illness. Pulmonary thromboembolism is suspected in patients with persistent hypoxia. It is an inflammatory and hypercoagulable state, with an increased risk of thromboembolic events. The guidelines say that many hospitalized patients receive prophylactic anticoagulation. A majority of the patients have mild illness and gradually recover spontaneously. The mainstay of management is providing holistic support, rest, symptomatic treatment and gradual increase in daily activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/severe-acute-covid-19-has-more-likelihood-of-pulmonary-fibrosis-post-recovery/articleshow/79481201.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||PMPML bus runs over 67-year-old security guard||Pune: A speeding PMPML bus ran over a 67-year-old man riding a scooter in Anandnagar, in the Sinhagad Road area, on Sunday morning. Police said the accident occurred around 8.30am when Jayant Ramaji Mahadik, who finished night shift as a security guard at a housing society in Anandnagar, was on his way home to Narhe. Sub-inspector Kishor Tanpure of the Sinhagad Road police said they detained the bus driver and were in the process of registering a first information report (FIR). Tanpure said the accident occurred near Jagtap hospital. “A police team rushed him to Sassoon General Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival,” he said. “As per our information, (the deceased) was trying to overtake the bus from the left side, lost balance and came under its rear tyre. We are investigating the matter,” A PMPML official. Tanpure confirmed that the bus’s rear tyre went over Mahadik’s head and added, “We will study CCTV footage and ascertain how the accident occurred.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-bus-runs-over-67-year-old-security-guard/articleshow/79481232.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: RT-PCR test for teams part of hotspot surveys in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With a random testing of municipal teachers — who were part of the teams that carried out the recent door-to-door survey in northwest Delhi — revealing 17 out of 60 to be Covid-19 positive, a decision has now been taken to carry out RT-PCR tests on all personnel involved in the exercise in Covid hotspots. The five-day survey of over 57 lakh Delhiites living in ‘hotspots’ to identify symptomatic people and isolate those who test positive had started on November 20. In the survey, over 13,500 symptomatic people were found and the testing of these people and their contacts had found less than 1,200 people to Covid-19 positive. The corporation teachers who were found positive recently had visited the Bawana JJ clusters for five days from November 20 to identify people with symptoms and got the test done at the end of it on Tuesday from a dispensary in the area, a teachers’ associations had said. The teachers’ associations had blamed the district administration and the civic agency for not providing enough safety gear and other facilities. They alleged that unlike paramedical staff, teachers were not given any training, thereby risking their lives. Apart from teachers of municipal schools, the 9,000 three-member teams also had Booth Level Officers, Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife and other staff. “While the five-day survey has concluded, surveys in and around containment zones will continue to ensure that all symptomatic persons are identified, tested and if found positive, isolated. The personnel deployed at these surveys will undergo regular checks to ensure they are not infected, apart from those who were part of the earlier teams,” a Delhi government official said. “No separate guideline has been issued for these tests but these are being done just to ensure that they are safe since they have gone from house to house,” he said. “Periodic testing for healthcare workers and their families is also a welfare measure. Testing at repeated intervals for such personnel is necessary as they go around for fieldwork and surveys that is a crucial part of our containment strategy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rt-pcr-test-for-teams-part-of-hotspot-surveys/articleshow/79481230.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||54% Gujaratis feel there’s high risk in attending weddings: Study||AHMEDABAD: The second wave of coronavirus infections hit Gujarat and several other parts of the country, compelling state governments to revise the norms for social gatherings and weddings. While the government of Gujarat recently revised the cap on the number of people allowed at weddings, reducing it from 200 to 100 persons only, people are equally reluctant to attend weddings and believe there’s high risk involved. According to a survey conducted by an online community, LocalCircles, 54% Gujaratis feel there’s a high risk involved in attending weddings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/54-gujaratis-feel-theres-high-risk-in-attending-weddings-study/articleshow/79481245.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Was Shah sleeping when Rohingya came in: Asad||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday attacked union home minister Amit Shah saying whether Delhi was sleeping as the Rohingya population grew in Hyderabad. “If there are 30,000 Rohingya, show me 1,000 names. If there are 30,000 names of Rohingya in the voter list what is Amit Shah doing? Was he sleeping in Delhi? Remove them who is stopping you,” said Owaisi. He also mentioned that a BJP leader said Pakistanis, Rohingya and Afghanis are there in old city. If they are in the old city, show us at least 100. You don’t even show that. Now home minster says write and give it to me, why will I write and give it to you,” questioned Owaisi. Reacting to BJP leaders’ statement pertaining to BJP corporator becoming GHMC mayor he said it was a dream. Continuing his attack on BJP and pointing out towards Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath’s visit, he alleged that the UP government denied justice in Hatras case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/was-shah-sleeping-when-rohingya-came-in-asad/articleshow/79482160.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 30, 2020||Pune||Warmer nights in Pune till December 5: IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department on Sunday forecast warmer nights till December 5 in the city. “There has been a surge in the moisture levels because of the northeasterly winds blowing over Maharashtra. Over the week, Pune will not experience much cold conditions. The night temperatures will remain over above normal by 3-4 degrees Celsius,” an official from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, said. The city has been experiencing overcast conditions with cold breeze for the last few days.. The met officials have also predicted warmer days till December 5. “The day temperatures till December 5 will remain in the range of 29 to 32°C,” the officials added On Sunday, the city experienced humid and overcast conditions since morning. The city has also recorded a slight increase in day temperatures as well. The Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 20.5°C and 20.4°C, which were above normal by 7.8 degrees Celsius and 6.4 degrees Celsius, respectively. Maharashtra experienced increase in minimum temperatures across all the stations, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/warmer-nights-in-city-till-december-5-imd/articleshow/79481286.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||CM should’ve been invited to accompany Narendra Modi: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Bharat Biotech facility at Genome Valley here to take stock of Covid-19 vaccine development, TRS working president KT Rama Rao on Sunday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao should have been invited to receive the prime minister. Taking exception to CM KCR not being invited, KTR said the PM and CM were not individuals but institutions. These institutions should be respected by each other. Telangana CM should have been invited, he told media persons. There are protocols that are followed in any state. If the protocols are followed, it augurs well for the system. Irrespective of who the CM is, whether it is CM KCR or any other CM of another State, or whoever is the PM, there has to be respect between the institutions. It is good for the state as well as nation, KTR said. What is the harm in inviting the chief minister when he is ready to go and welcome the Prime Minister? The CM should have been invited. By not inviting him, the CM did not lose any respect. It is they who lost it, KTR said. Stating that Modi’s visit to the facility endorses Hyderabad as the vaccine capital of the world, KTR thanked the PM for his visit and said it had sent a message about Telangana government support for the expansion of life sciences ecosystem in the city and the good work being done in this field. The TRS working president made it clear that he would not comment on the intention of the PM behind his visit to the vaccine-development facility but said his trip to the city can also be seen in the political lens. On TRS government having supported Modi-government on several issues, KTR said the TRS party would continue to oppose or support the government at the Centre keeping in view the interests of Telangana state and its people. On the number of seats the TRS is anticipating to win in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections, KTR said they will win an absolute majority without having to depend on ex-officio votes to get the Mayor’s post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-shouldve-been-invited-to-accompany-modi-ktr/articleshow/79482155.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||Gaps in fence, RCC walls allow animals & jaywalkers on Pune-Mumbai expressway||PUNE: The highway safety patrol (HSP) has begun sending a monthly report to the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) on the number of illegal punctures and damage to the iron mesh and RCC compound walls as well as the Brifen ropes meant to prevent accidents on the Pune-Mumbai expressway. The patrol has sought repairs to these punctures on priority so that animals do not stray on to the expressway, and local residents and jaywalkers stay off the high-speed lanes. Recently, the patrol had spotted an injured buffalo lying on the expressway. Similarly, a buffalo was killed after it was hit by a speeding vehicle on the expressway at Khalapur. In another incident, the carcass of a dog was found on the expressway. These incidents pose a huge risk to motorists especially at night, the officials said. Last month, the patrol found 25 such punctures between Kiwale and Amrutanjan bridge along the Mumbai corridor and 15 on the Pune corridor. “Animals or local villagers stray on to the expressway through these punctures. It is risky. Buffaloes walking on the expressway is recurring at Urse,” HSP superintendent of police Sanjay Jadhav said. MSRDC engineer Rakesh Sonawane said repairs are continuous and they have acknowledged all communications from HSP. “However, despite our efforts, local villagers snap the iron mesh or break the RCC compound walls. These punctures are used to enable cows and buffaloes to stray on to the expressway and feed on the grass in the median and on either sides of the lanes,” he added. MSRDC has been urged to repair broken crash barriers after speeding vehicles ram into them. The crash barriers stop vehicles from falling into the ditches or valleys from the expressway. Sonawane said, “There is no major problem between Khopoli and Panvel stretch of the expressway but there are several illegal punctures between Kiwale and Lonavla. At Urse, buffaloes come on to the expressway’s lanes to feed on the green patch between the Mumbai and Pune corridors, and the grass on either side of the expressway.” He said their patrolling teams try to nab those breaking the compound walls and snapping the iron mesh compound but it leads to fights. “We have requested the local police stations to file complaints against persons who create punctures,” he said. They have a plan to mend all compound walls and broken iron mesh compounds along with the expressway and will install crash barriers in three months, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gaps-in-fence-rcc-walls-allow-animals-jaywalkers-on-e-way/articleshow/79481264.cms||Gitesh Shelke
November 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Man released after 20 years in jail for killing wife||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa ordered release of a 51-year-old convict Dilip Shetye, who has served nearly 20 years behind bars for murdering his eight-month pregnant wife . On 18 September, the State Sentence Review Board had declined the plea filed by Shetye seeking premature release. Shetye, who was sentenced to life imprisonment, submitted that he was entitled to be released as he had served for more than 14 years in jail. The board declined to release him as the petitioner had committed a serious offence. The superintendent of police (North Goa) did not recommend Shetye’s premature release and the probation officer informed the board that the mother and elder brother of the victim had objected to his release. Aggrieved by the board's order, the prisoner approached the high court. His case for release was rejected by the board seven times. Shetye pointed out before the court that he was released on parole and furlough on not less than 23 occasions and there was never any complaint about breach of any terms and conditions of parole and furlough. He stated that the victim’s family resides at a place which is almost 25km away from his home Granting relief to Shetye, a division bench comprising Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar observed, “It is no doubt true that the offence committed by the petitioner was a serious one. This is the reason why the petitioner was sentenced for life and as on date has suffered actual incarceration of about 20 years. The board was, therefore, required to consider whether this sentence was sufficient and commensurate to the crime committed by the petitioner. Merely stating that this was a serious crime without anything else, cannot be a good ground to refuse premature release of the petitioner.” The court noted that the record very clearly indicates that this petitioner was released on parole and furlough on not less than 23 occasions and that there was no complaint on any of these occasions. There is no allegation that the petitioner interfered with the family members of the victim or with any of the witnesses who may have deposed against him. These were relevant provisions which have not at all been considered by the superintendent of police and by the board, the high court held. While ordering premature release of the petitioner, the high court directed him to file an undertaking that he will not, in any manner, interfere with the family members of the victim or with the witnesses and their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-released-after-20-years-in-jail-for-killing-wife/articleshow/79482206.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 6 IAS, 1 IPS officers transferred||JAIPUR: The department of personnel (DOP) on Sunday transferred six IAS officers and one IPS officer. Rajesh Sharma, who was secretary, ayurved and Indian medicine department and managing director, Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation Limited, has now been made divisional commissioner of Jodhpur. Samit Sharma, who was divisional commissioner Jodhpur, has been appointed divisional commisioner Jaipur. Nannumal Pahadia, who was district collector Sawai Madhopur, has now been made district collector Alwar. Meanwhile, Rajendra Kishan, who was joint secretary labour, employment, skill and entrepreneurship, will now be holding charge of district collector Sawai Madhopur. Hridesh Kumar Sharma, who was joint secretary urban development and housing department, has been appointed as secretary Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) and Alok Ranjan, who was secretary JDA has now been made managing director of Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation Limited. On the other hand, Ravi Prakash Meharda, who is currently additional director general of police (ADGP) civil rights and anti-human trafficking, has now been transferred to crime branch as ADGP. He will also hold additional charge of the post he held earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-ias-1-ips-officers-transferred/articleshow/79481239.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt encouraging daycare for Covid treatment||JAIPUR: Following the spurt in Covid cases, the health department has decided to give a push to daycare facilities for patients. For such facilities in private hospitals, the state government has fixed prices of treatment. According to the health department’s order on daycare, Rs 2,500 per day inclusive of personal protection equipment (PPE), consultation, nursing charges, housekeeping and monitoring has been fixed. Medicines will be made available at MRP or at a rate suggested by the health department. Also, rates for investigations/oxygen fixed at CGHS rates or at a rate suggested by the health department earlier. In government hospitals, daycare facilities will be provided to patients who are at low risk, who do not require oxygen therapy, but require injectable medicines. The patients will be given injectables and will be allowed to go to their homes after that. Asymptomatic patients having a CT severity score less than 15/25 or mild symptomatic patients who do not have other risk factors such as age above 65 years, having diabetes, hypertension, chronic liver or kidney disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, can get the treatment at daycare under home isolation. Oxygen therapy, injectable dexamethasone or plasma therapy, should only be given as an impatient and not to be administered in day care. Any Covid-19 patient with early moderate disease with increasing oxygen requirement should be treated as an in patient only, the order says. All patients with mild disease and comorbid conditions such as uncontrolled diabetes, kidney or liver disease, coronary artery disease or COPD, should be treatment by getting admitted to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-encouraging-daycare-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/79481273.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nashik||NMC to enhance caution in containment zones||Nashik: Following the directive of the central government for stricter implementation of guidelines related to the containment zones, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has instructed the nodal officers across the six divisions to ensure the norms are implemented properly. There are 638 active containment zones in the city and all of them are residential buildings and individual houses. The most number of containment zones (126) are in Panchavati division of the NMC, followed by 110 in Nashik West, 108 in Nashik East, 107 in Nashik Road, 101 in Cidco and 86 in Satpur division. A senior official from the health department of NMC said, “As per the new government guidelines, the stricter implementation of norms is mandatory in containment zones. We have already issued instructions to our nodal officers in this connection.” “The officials of the respective divisions will ensure the Covid patients do not leave their house. They will also ask the members of the housing societies or apartments to ensure all the norms are followed,” said an official. “We also want the patients and people from containment zones to strictly follow the norms and restrict their movement. The health department is taking all the safety measures and precautions, but at the same time it is also the responsibility of the citizens to adhere to the Covid safety protocols,” said NMC officials. Although the second wave of the Covid has been projected by the end of December, citizens should wear masks while moving out, maintain social distancing, wash hands frequently, said the officials. Moreover, people should not go outside unnecessarily, added the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-enhance-caution-in-containment-zones/articleshow/79479713.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP, MIM diverted voters’ attention from real issues: Cong||Hyderabad: Quoting the proverb “He who digs pit for other falls in himself”, Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth on Sunday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao tried to weaken the main opposition Congress by luring its MLAs to join the ruling TRS, is now scared with the level of campaign done by BJP in GHMC elections. Addressing a media conference, participating in a meet-the-press and speaking at road shows on the final day of campaigning, Revanth said it was KCR who allowed BJP to grow to weaken Congress. “Now, it is not only KCR”, but Telangana is faced with the danger of politics of hatred being spread,” he added. Congress leaders Uttam Kumar Reddy, Revanth Reddy, Md Ali Shabbir among others made a last-ditch effort to win the hearts of voters before the campaigning came to an end at 6 pm on Sunday. They strongly condemned TRS, BJP and MIM for using GHMC  campaign to instill fear and spread hatred among people instead of debating real issues concerning the people of Greater Hyderabad on civic, traffic and other fronts. Uttam termed the GHMC election campaign as the ‘worst-ever campaign for a municipal elections’ which witnessed Nazi-style propaganda carried out by TRS-BJP-MIM to suppress real public issues. In GHMC polls, CM KCR created a scare, stating “communal disturbances are being planned”. “BJP and MIM took the politics of hatred to another level. Who is Yogi Adityanath, a Karnataka MP or even Bandi Sanjay to promise they will change the name of Hyderabad? They are all outsiders and have nothing to do with my city. How dare Bandi Sanjay uses terminology like surgical strike against the Old City, where I was born,” Uttam said and added changing the name of the city was not a priority for Hyderabadis. Shabbir Ali said only Congress was capable of defeating communal forces and ushering in development. GHMC election campaign has completely unmasked TRS, BJP and MIM and exposed the reality that they could go to any extent to win elections. All the three parties pursued a common agenda of instilling fear and hatred among the people and tried to keep them mentally engaged on issues which were not linked to their day-to-day lives, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-mim-diverted-voters-attention-from-real-issues-cong/articleshow/79482162.cms||Roushan Ali
November 30, 2020||Trichy||Min lauds people who gave land for river project||Trichy: Health minister C Vijayabaskar on Sunday said that the names of those who have given their land for Cauvery –Vaigai– Gundar river linking project will be remembered in history forever. He was speaking at an event to felicitate the locals in Kunnathur of Pudukottai district, who had volunteered to give their land for the project. The donors were felicitated by the minister with a shawl and district collector P Uma Maheswari gave appreciation certificates to them. The state government has allocated Rs 700 crore for the project in the first phase and land procurement for the project is underway. Once implemented, the project will benefit over 17,000 hectares of agricultural land in Pudukottai district. Under this project 8.5tmcft of surplus water from Cauvery near Mayanur barrage in Karur will be diverted to Vaigai river in Madurai and further to Gundar via channels. The linked canal under the project will run through Karur, Pudukottai and Trichy, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar. While 36 hectares of land is required for the project in Kunnathur, 20 hectares have been procured for the project with cooperation from locals. While 122 people need to offer their lands, 63 have volunteered to do so. Steps have been taken to get thrice the compensation for the land donors within two weeks, said the minister. Tender will be released for laying canal for the project on December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/min-lauds-people-who-gave-land-for-river-project/articleshow/79482159.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||School dropouts battle it out to represent IT hub in GHMC||HYDERABAD: Home to some of India’s top IT companies and best brains of India, the IT corridor of Hyderabad will, however, see candidates who barely managed to get a school certificate slug it out in the December 1 civic polls. Education is important, but the ability to question, fight, and get things done is much more important, says J Renuka, who is in the fray from the Hafeezpet ward in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. Renuka, who is contesting on Congress ticket, did not even have an opportunity to complete her schooling as she discontinued studies in class 7, but is quite certain that lack of a degree is not going to stop her from fighting and winning the election. “I am not educated, but can fight for people and get their issues resolved,” Renuka told TOI. Out of the 65 candidates without basic formal education in the fray, many are contesting from wards in the information technology zone, which has IT and pharma employees among voters. “People only think about posh colonies and swanky buildings when one talks about Madhapur, but it also has many poor colonies, which do not even have basic infrastructure. There are no proper schools or colleges for our children in the locality or a place for them to play,” said 29-year-old Shaik Waheed, who studied up to class 10. Waheed is contesting as a candidate from the Madhapur division. “I am contesting so that our problems are highlighted and addressed so that my people can get benefited,” he added. Likewise, A Sambasiva Rao, who is contesting from KPHB, never went to a regular school. “I don’t think education is needed to contest in elections. I know about the problems of workers and labourers better than anyone as I am one of them. I am relying on word-of-mouth publicity to win the elections and I am not afraid of losing,” Rao said, adding that he would definitely get all mass votes in the area. In the streets of Hi-Tec city, Renuka, who was busy campaigning on Sunday says women are forced to stay in the shadow of their male family members and she wants to change it and bring them at the forefront. “I feel when a woman is contesting, she should be given complete freedom and no one should interfere in her duties after she wins as she is the elected representative,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/school-dropouts-battle-it-out-to-represent-it-hub-in-ghmc/articleshow/79482571.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||NICED looks for adults living within 10km for Phase-III vaccine trial||Kolkata: NICED has sought for volunteers, who are more than 18 years old, and Kolkata residents, who stay preferably within 10 kilometres of its Beliaghata campus, to volunteer in the Phase III clinical trial of Covid-19 candidate vaccine Covaxin. In an appeal, NICED director Shanta Dutta said, “Those who are willing to participate in this trial are instructed to send their requests over the number +91-9836169622 or e-mail at bbv152niced@gmail.com with their personal details (name, age, sex, address, contact number, e-mail and co-morbidities, if any) for consideration. As per trial protocol, a limited number of participants will be enrolled in this trial after screening of their eligibility criteria. The eligible participants will be contacted for further details over the given mobile/e-mail. Participants’ enrolment will continue until the target number is achieved.” The Phase III trial at NICED will involve 1,000 volunteers — 500 will get the actual vaccine while the rest will get placebo shots. The volunteer will get the second shot after about four weeks of the first. Being above 18 years of age and having been free of Covid infection during the entire pandemic are among the basic criteria to be volunteers. The trials will begin early next week, sources indicated. Sources in NICED said that they are getting enquiries from a good number of Kolkatans if they could volunteer for the clinical trial. “All applicants will go through a screening process to confirm the eligibility criteria,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/niced-looks-for-adults-living-within-10km-for-phase-iii-vaccine-trial/articleshow/79481282.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Pal elected new president of Sarva Sewa Sangh||Wardha: After a bitter power struggle in the Sarva Sewa Sangh (SSS) over the last few months, Chandan Pal was elected unopposed its new president on Sunday at the 88th convention of SSS, which is the apex body of Gandhian organizations in the country. The election was held at the Kasturba Health Society, Sewagram. Pal’s was the only nomination filed. He had been the interim president of SSS since March 2020. According to returning officer Ramesh Pankaj, he checked Pal’s documents, awarded certificate and declared him the president in the presence of 50 people, including 38 Loksevaks (authorized members of Gandhian community who have a right to vote). “There are 169 Loksevaks across the country eligible to vote in this election. One-eighth of the electorate were required for a valid election,” Pankaj said and added that there was no need for a representative from the charity commissioner’s office to attended the process. All the proceedings had been notified earlier. After the election, Chandan Pal was congratulated by senior Gandhians Asha Batra, Sugan Baranth, Ashok Sharan and others. Following a conflict between two groups, previous president Mahadev Vidrohi was removed from the post of SSS president and Pal appointed as the interim president. On November 25, Pradip Kumar Bajaj, a senior journalist from Varanasi, was declared elected and announced as next president on official website of SSS. Vidrohi and his supporters also tried to cancel the convention in view of coronavirus pandemic by writing letters to district collector and filing a petition in court. But district administration gave permission for convention with 50 members only. On Sunday, a few members of Sarvoday Samaj prayed at Bapu Kuti. One of the members, Dharmendra Rajput, said, “We want to end the conflict in Sarvoday Samaj (Gandhian people). We don’t support anyone, we support the cause, hence we are praying here for all the problems to end.” Guardian minister and Congress leader Sunil Kedar, who addressed the concluding ceremony of the two-day convention, said, “After such conflict of opinion, this convention ended with positive decisions. I think this is the power of Gandhian thought, that we avoid obstacles and do what we have to do. We should continue to work on Gandhian thoughts against all opposition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pal-elected-new-president-of-sarva-sewa-sangh/articleshow/79481545.cms||Balwant Dhage
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Railway minister Piyush Goyal inaugurates electrified Dighwada-Bandikui section||JAIPUR: Rail minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday flagged off the first train on the newly electrified Dhigawara-Bandikui section of North Western Railway (NWR). The section is on Delhi-Ajmer route via Jaipur where electrification work has recently been completed. Rail minister Goyal inaugurated the completion of electrification work on Dhigawara-Bandikui section of NWR by flagging off the first train at the function organized at Dhigawara station on Sunday. Goyal said, “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Indian Railways is moving forward in a phased manner. Rajasthan is a very big state in terms of area and population and it had electrified a train route from Kota to Mumbai almost 35 years ago. But since then it was neglected. So, we set a target to electrify entire percentage of railway lines across India.” “Till 2009-14, there was 0km of electrification in this area. In the last five years, 1,433km has been electrified. We can now expect trains on electrified routes from Delhi to Jaipur and Delhi to Ajmer,” he added. Emphasizing on the need of electrification, he said, “Trains on electrified route will eliminate pollution and dependence on fuel imported from outside would be eliminated. India would be self reliant in running its trains on electrified routes. Also electrification will increase the average speed of trains which will give a push to goods movement for industries, agro-based businesses.” NWR GM Anand Prakash thanked the rail minister and shared the ongoing development and infrastructure projects undertaken by it. Box Six trains got delayed on Delhi-Mumbai route due to snag: At least six trains on Delhi-Mumbai route got delayed when the overhead electric wire on the electrified line broke at Chaumala station in Jhalawar district. A team of electrical engineers of the section rushed to the spot to rectify the snag. During the snag, at least half-a-dozen trains got delayed which included Delhi-Indore, Jaipur to Mumbai and other trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rail-minister-inaugurates-electrified-dighwada-bandikui-section-flags-off-goods-train/articleshow/79481325.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: 3 killed, 6 injured as trailer truck ploughs through vehicles near Navale bridge||PUNE: A 64-year-old autorickshaw driver and two motorcyclists were killed while six others were injured, two of them seriously, after a fully-loaded trailer truck carrying heavy metal ploughed through vehicles near Navale bridge on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass here around 6pm on Sunday. Four cars, a motorcycle and a tempo were among the other vehicles damaged in the accident, which the police have prima facie attributed to a brake failure and front tyre burst in the truck trailer. This is the fifth accident this year in the vicinity of the Navale bridge. Barely five days ago, three people were injured in two back-to-back accidents involving five vehicles near the Swami Narayan temple at Narhe. On October 6, a truck had ploughed through several vehicles near the bridge, killing a motorcyclist and injuring eight others. Sub-inspector Deepak Khedkar of the Sinhagad road police told TOI, “Rajendra Murlidhar Gadhve, the autorickshaw driver from Ambegaon, was killed on the spot while the two motorcyclists, Prashant Gore (32) and Nikhil Awate (25), succumbed to their injuries at the Sassoon General Hospital. The critically hurt were rushed to Sasson hospital while the other injured were taken to private hospitals near the accident site. Sub-inspector Nitin Jadhav, who was part of the Sinhagad road police team that rushed to the spot, said, “A portion of the trailer truck’s front underbelly was damaged by a fire caused by the the tyre burst and screeching wheel ring.” Police later detained the trailer truck driver, Premaram Pannaram Bishnoi, from Jodhpur in Rajasthan. The vehicle was on its way to Mumbai. The accident caused a major disruption of vehicular movement along the bypass, which is one of the busiest thoroughfares in Pune, linking the Bengaluru and Mumbai highways. Till 9pm, the traffic police and other authorities were facing a tough time redirecting vehicles as they tried to remove vehicles damaged in the accident from the site. Police said the accident spot is a point where vehicles coming from the new Katraj tunnel and heading towards Sinhagad road exit to the service road from the bypass and similarly vehicles from Sinhagad road come on to the bypass. This often results in a traffic hold-up and slowdown of vehicles coming from the new tunnel. The trailer truck came at some speed from the new Katraj tunnel side. As it approached the spot where the other vehicles had slowed down, Bishnoi lost control over the wheel owing to the brake failure and tyre burst, police said. The trailer truck first hit Gadhve’s autorickshaw before ploughing into the other vehicles. Gadhve was not carrying any passengers at the time. Gore, who hails from Osmanabad, was on his way to New Panvel where he was residing. The other motorcyclist, Awate, hails from Rajuri in Junnar, and lived at Katraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-killed-6-injured-as-trailer-truck-ploughs-through-vehicles-near-navale-bridge/articleshow/79481338.cms||Gitesh Shelke
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||AP government looks to table 16 bills during upcoming state assembly session||AMARAVATI: The government is planning to table at least 16 bills to replace ordinances issued in the last six months during the assembly session slated to begin on Monday. The government will introduce tax reforms bills to revise property taxes in urban areas. The government had recently issued ordinance to switch over to the Capital Value (CV) system from the existing Annual Rental Value (ARV) mode to fix property taxes in municipal areas. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy held strategy meetings with senior ministers, chief whip and whip on handling the members during the session in the last two days and asked them to be fully geared up. He asked the senior ministers to get prepared and provide information to legislators to take on the opposition. He asked the ministers and whips to come with full information and facts to counter the opposition charges. The government would introduce bill reserving all village panchayaths to tribals in the villages with 100 percent tribal population in local body elections. Another bill is to create an authority to regulate, supervise, control, manufacture, sale and distribution of fish feed in the state. The state government has prohibited adulterated fish feed and criminal cases would be booked against the firms which indulged in either making or distribution of adulterated feed. The government would also introduce fiscal responsibility and budget management bill to allow the revenue deficit to be below 5% GSDP by the end of current fiscal. As per the original Statute, the revenue deficit should not go above 2.5 percent of GSDP. With the Centre allowing the state’s for one-time borrowing due to fall of revenues following Covid-19 outbreak, the government secured a loan of Rs 2,534 crore. Meanwhile, opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu requested speaker Thammineni Seetharam to allow the media for the assembly session coverage and restore the assembly media point. Earlier, the speaker had decided to keep the media away from the assembly keeping in view of the Covid-19 protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-looks-to-table-16-bills-during-upcoming-state-assembly-session/articleshow/79479719.cms||Samdani MN
November 30, 2020||Bareilly||Eight of 15 prisoners didn’t return to Pilibhit district jail after parole period||PILIBHIT: Eight of 15 prisoners, who had been released on parole from Pilibhit district jail on April 29, following the state government’s orders in compliance with directions of the Apex court, have gone missing and did not return to jail. The superintendent of police, following a letter sent by the officiating jail superintendent, has now issued orders to all SHOs to trace these prisoners and make them surrender before jail authorities. Since the prisoners were released, the parole period — eight weeks — had been extended thrice. Eventually, November 23 was set as the deadline for their return and letters duly issued to them informing them, but of the 15 prisoners sentenced to a maximum jail term of seven years, only seven returned to jail, said officiating jail superintendent Vivek Sheel Tripathi. SP Jai Prakash Yadav said all SHOs in the district have been issued directions to trace the prisoners and ensure their return to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/8-of-15-prisoners-didnt-return-to-pilibhit-district-jail-after-parole-period/articleshow/79478450.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||With 507 deaths in November, Vidarbha Covid-19 toll crosses the 6,000 mark||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported 25 deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday. With this, total death toll of the region surpassed the 6000-mark. Vidarbha had reported its first Covid-19 death on March 29. Since then, 6,016 citizens have died in 245 days, 507 in November alone. On an average, Vidarbha has seen 24 Covid-19 deaths per day. At 2.66%; Vidarbha’s case fatality rate is still more than the national and state average. On Sunday, eight out of the 11 districts in the region reported deaths. These include Nagpur (9), Chandrapur (4), Wardha (3), Gondia (3), Bhandara (2), Akola (2), Gadchiroli (1), and Amravati (1). In Nagpur district, 4 deaths were from Nagpur city, 4 were outstation patients and only 1 from Nagpur rural. In the last fortnight of November; the number of patients recovering from Covid-19 was more than the number of new cases on Sunday. The difference was negligible (10 cases). Total 1,057 new patients were detected while 1,067 recovered. Now, Vidarbha region has l 2,26,122 cases. With 2,07,835 recovered till date, the recovery rate is 91.91%. 1,057 New cases on Sunday came from Nagpur (287), Buldhana (121), Bhandara (116), Gondia (110), Amravati (88), Yavatmal (66), Chandrapur (63), Washim (55), Gadchiroli (52), Akola (52) and Wardha (47) while 1,067 recoveries came from Nagpur (363), Gondia (125), Bhandara (111), Amravati (98), Buldhana (91), Chandrapur (80), Gadchiroli (77), Wardha (47), Yavatmal (36), Washim (21) and Akola (18). Gondia: The number of patients that recovered crossed the 11,000-mark on Sunday. A total of 11,081 persons are reported to have recovered, including 125 discharged on Sunday. The district posted 110 new cases and three deaths in a day. Now, Gondia has 12367 total cases, and 160 deaths. Total 1126 patients are under treatment. Total 783 of them are in home isolation. Bhandara: The district has seen yet another 100+ spike in cases. This took total cases to 10709. On the other hand, 111 patients recovered in a day. Now, 9,473 patients have already recovered. The district reported deaths of 2 covid-19 patients on Sunday. This took the death toll of Bhandara to 252. Total 984 patients are still under treatment in Bhandara. Gadchiroli: A diabetic man, who was infected with Covid-19 and was under treatment in Gadchiroli died on Sunday taking the total death toll of the district to 79. The district has reported 52 new cases, and 77 recoveries in a day. Now, Gadchiroli has 7,915 cases, including 7124 recoveries and 79 deaths. Total 712 patients are under treatment. Akola: Two under treatment patients died on Sunday — a 66-year-old man from Balapur and a 63-year-old woman from Akot. This took Akola’s toll to 293. Total number of cases reached 9385 with 52 new cases reported on Sunday. On the other hand, 18 patients recovered in a day taking total number of recovered patients to 8,467. Now, 625 patients are under treatment in Akola. This number was below 200 on November 1. Buldhana: A spike of 121 new cases raised eyebrows. This took the total number of cases in the district to 11,206. With 91 patients recovering in a day, 10,694 have recovered till date. No death was reported. With toll intact at 134, total 378 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 55 new cases, which means more than 50 cases for the first time in November. Total cases reached 6,157. Total 21 patients recovered in a day, which took the number of total recovered to 5,766. No death was reported and the toll remained 148, including one suicide. Total 243 patients are under treatment. Amravati: A spike of 88 cases and one death took the district’s count to 17,813 and toll to 376. The district also recorded 98 recoveries to take the total to 16,973 for a recovery rate of 95.28. Wardha: Three patients (a man and two women) died taking the toll to 248. In all, 47 were detected positive while as many patients were discharged. Total cases 7,838. Chandrapur: Four deaths took the toll to 299. New cases (63) took the Covid total to 19,755. A total of 80 patients were discharged with recoveries rising to 17,729. Yavatmal: While no deaths were reported, 66 tested positive with 513 active patients undergoing treatment. In all, 36 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-507-deaths-in-november-vidarbha-covid-19-toll-crosses-the-6000-mark/articleshow/79481583.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Do not fall prey to BJP, MIM divisive politics: TRS||Hyderabad: The ruling TRS has said that voters in Hyderabad should “not fall prey to the divisive politics of BJP and AIMIM”. “Leaders from BJP and AIMIM were making provocative speeches and polarising votes,” said Telangana state planning commission vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar on the final day of campaigning here on Sunday. “Do not vote on communal lines. The youth should vote for progress and development,” he said. Vinod, a former MP, said: “The focus of TRS election campaign was on development of Greater Hyderabad. The BJP leaders went to the extent of saying that surgical strikes would be conducted in Old City. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is a failure in his own state,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/do-not-fall-prey-to-bjp-mim-divisive-politics-trs/articleshow/79482165.cms||Roushan Ali
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Govt strenghtening monitoring and referral of Covid patients in rural areas||JAIPUR: The health department will set up Covid-19 OPD at block level community health centres to be manned by trained medical staff in the wake of rising cases in rural areas.Before rushing patients to Covid care hospitals, patients with difficulties in breathing will get oxygen at CHC and while transportation of patients. A teams of nurses, ASHA workers and anganwadi workers will be deployed at every five gram panchayats for monitoring and random sample collection. “We have strengthened facilities for Covid care in rural areas. Our teams equipped with pulse oximeters are continuously monitoring health of Covid patients under home isolation,” said Dr Ajay Chaudhary, chief medical health officef (Sikar). Chaudhary said they have strengthened the referral system of patients with difficulty in breathing to higher centres at district and divisional level hospitals. Since 30% of the state’s deaths have occurred in rural areas, the health department is focusing on improving facilities for patients. A senior health department official said they have already issued directions to the chief medical health officers of respective districts to get the HRCT done of patients with breathing difficulties in rural areas, if treating doctors find it necessary. For the purpose, orders have been issued to arrange ambulance for patients. The health department has also issued directions to officials to use emergency Covid response fund for expanding the healthcare facilities in the rural areas. In the first four months of the pandemic, the state’s rural areas had reported 78 deaths accounting for 17% of the deaths reported in the state. In the next four months, 495 deaths took place in rural areas, which accounted for 30% of the casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-strenghtening-monitoring-and-referral-of-covid-patients-in-rural-areas/articleshow/79481295.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Two proposed iron ore units threaten Bramhapuri tigers||Nagpur: The tigers in Bramhapuri forest division in Chandrapur circle are already facing the heat from fragmented habitat due to Gosikhurd canals, widened roads, electrocution and biotic pressure. Now, two iron ore units are being set up in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Ghodazari wildlife sanctuary, which was notified on March 23, 2018, and is very close to the sanctuary’s boundary. But the brief summary of the project ignores this fact and makes no mention of it. It only states that Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) is 32km away and Umred-Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary is 25km away.Dinanath Allied Steel Manufacturing Private Limited, Nagpur, is setting up an iron ore beneficiation plant of 6 lakh tonne per annum (TPA) and an iron ore pellet plant of 4 lakh TPA on 13.5 hectare private land at Mohadi village in Nagbhid tehsil. The plant is surrounded by reserve forests on all sides, and is frequented by wild animals. On June 21, a tigress strayed in Bamni village and was captured just 300 metres from the project area. Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has issued a public notice for an environmental public hearing on December 29, and invited comments and objections from projected-affected persons (PAPs), individuals, and NGOs. Project proponents say the development of downstream industries will boost direct and indirect employment, and infrastructural and social amenities in the region.As per the public hearing document, the project will affect at least 13 villages, including Khairi, Irvha and Dahegaon in Chimur, and Bikli, Banwahi, Pendhari, Rangatur, Korambi, Kasarla, Mhasali, Telimendha, Devtak and Kanhalgaon in Nagbhid tehsil. All these villages are 1-3km from the sanctuary boundary and are already in the grip of man-animal conflict.“Even if the company doesn’t need any forest land, the project will need wildlife clearance from the state wildlife board (SWBL) as the project borders Ghodazari wildlife sanctuary and is in its ESZ. The area is also a corridor between Umred-Karhandla-Bramhapuri-Tadoba,” said SWBL member Bandu Dhotre.Bramhapuri deputy conservator (DyCF) Dipesh Malhotra said, “The proposal for Ghodazari ESZ has been submitted. Till the final notification is issued, 10km from the boundary of the park will have to be considered as ESZ as per the Supreme Court orders.”“If the project falls in the ESZ of the sanctuary or national park, setting up of industries which cause soil, air, water and noise pollution are prohibited. Besides, irrespective of land status, if the area is a corridor it will need both wildlife and environment clearance,” says environment lawyer Manish Jeswani. As per the Phase IV tiger estimation conducted by the state forest department in 2020, there are 53 tigers and 88 leopards in Bramhapuri division. Vast stretches of forest land has been diverted for the construction of Gosikhurd irrigation canals through the forests, bifurcating the Bramhapuri division into three fragments, turning it into a death trap for wild animals.“The future of this corridor depends on the physical connectivity of forests, availability of prey, and effective protection. Check on developmental projects is essential to control man-animal conflict. This year, 27 humans have died in the conflict in Chandrapur district alone. Of this, 22 were tiger attacks, four leopards and 1 wild boar. The project will increase conflict,” says Amod Gaurkar, founder of Tarun Paryavaran Mandal, Chimur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-proposed-iron-ore-units-threaten-bramhapuri-tigers/articleshow/79481703.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||More militia surrender, 20 members give up in Nov||Visakhapatnam: Another seven militia members of banned outfit CPI (Maoist) surrendered before police at Koyyuru in Visakhapatnam Agency. With this, the total number of surrendered militia members in Chintapalle and Koyyuru regions in November has gone up to 20. The surrendered persons were identified as J Balaraju, J Balakrishna, John Paul, Prasad J, Prakash, K Chiranjeevi and K Govardhan. On Saturday, five militia members — M Matsyaraju K Sanyasi Rao, K Hari, M Bhagat Ram and K Poornachander, hailing from various villages in Chintapalle mandal had surrendered before cops. The police said that the civic action programmes being organised by district police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), in association with the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), have been gaining trust of tribals in many parts across Visakhapatnam Agency. Surrendered militia members have promised that they will not go back to militant activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/more-militia-surrender-20-members-give-up-in-nov/articleshow/79479765.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Police use force to disperse clashing party workers||Hyderabad: Minutes after the campaign concluded for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections, inter-party clashes broke out in various parts of the city on Sunday evening. In a few locations, police had to disperse the crowd by using force. Tension prevailed in Mailardevpally when BJP activists alleged that TRS workers were distributing cash. A large number of members from both the parties gathered near TRS’s registered office. After knowing about the incident, police reached the spot. After BJP activists alleged that cash is being distributed, Cyberabad police said they will verify BJP activists allegations by calling the election flying squad. But the BJP activists wanted to accompany the police to inside the local TRS office to verify. TRS workers took strong objection and refused to allow BJP men inside their office. The police had to use force to disperse the gathered crowd to avoid a clash between the workers of the two parties. Senior Cyberabad police said that there were complaints and counter-complaints from both the parties. All through the day, several videos were circulated in social media in which some persons were seen caught by locals either distributing or attempting to distribute cash. Locals caught persons who came to distribute cash in a few areas. A large number of a political party workers gathered in Kukatpally protesting against their rivals, accusing them of distributing money to voters. Police were deployed to ease tension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-use-force-to-disperse-clashing-party-workers/articleshow/79482163.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Brahmin woman files case against in-laws for 'forcing' her to embrace Jainism||AHMEDABAD: A 28-year-old woman from Prahladnagar area of the city, who has been born into a Brahmin family, on Saturday lodged a police complaint, accusing her in-laws of pressurizing her to embrace Jainism. In her FIR with Anandnagar police station, the woman, who works with a private firm, said that she married her boyfriend who was from the Jain community living in Satellite locality of the city in October 2017. Both she and her boyfriend worked together in a private firm on SG Road. The woman said that her marriage was solemnized, according to the Hindu rituals on January 30 this year and that she had got her marriage registered on February 10. She said that her husband got a job in Germany and had moved there on February 17. She said that her husband had promised her to take her along with him to Germany. However, he did not keep his promise and left her at her in-laws’ home in Satellite. After her husband left for Germany, her mother-in-law and father-in-law, who are teachers with different primary schools, began harassing her. The woman alleged that her in-laws would pressurize her to embrace Jainism. Whenever she resisted, they would abuse her. When her husband returned from Germany in July, her in-laws allegedly provoked him, following which he allegedly physically assaulted her. “The woman also alleged that her in-laws and husband made a dowry demand to buy a new house. When she refused, her husband forcibly made her sit in his car and then dropped her at her parents’ place in Prahladnagar,” said an official from Anandnagar police station, quoting the FIR. After waiting for three months, the woman approached the police and filed a complaint under Domestic Violence Act, causing hurt, criminal intimidation and abetment along with the charges of Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brahmin-womans-in-laws-force-her-to-embrace-jainism/articleshow/79481335.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag mining firm slapped second fine within one week||VISAKHAPATNAM: The regional vigilance squad of the mines and geology department has imposed a fine of Rs 9.96 crore on Anjani Stone Crushers for misuse of mining permits and illegal quarrying of road metal and gravel at Martoor in Anakapalle mandal in Visakhapatnam. This is the second time in a week that the firm has been found in violation of rules. The vigilance squad had imposed a fine of Rs 4.5 crore on the firm only a few days ago. Speaking to TOI, assistant director of the vigilance squad, Pratap Reddy, said that Anjani Stone Crushers had obtained permission for excavation of 3,00,208 cubic meters of road metal in 6.78 hectares land. But the firm had excavated only 1,32,285 cubic meters of road metal from the quarry and went on to illegally excavate road metal from surrounding quarries. “We have observed that MS Reddy (owner of Anjani Stone Crushers) utilised the official permit for unauthorised excavation and transportation of road metal by not paying loyalty to the government,” the vigilance official said. “Apart from misusing the permit, MS Reddy also indulged in excess excavation (14,702 cubic meters) of gravel at Martoor. He had obtained permission for excavation of 2,996 cubic metres but excavated around 17,700 cubic meters,” added Pratap Reddy. He further said: “Since MS Reddy has links with some political leaders, I have been facing some pressures. I will continue the raids against illegal activities. If I am going on the wrong path, they have the option to file a case against me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-mining-firm-slapped-second-fine-within-one-week/articleshow/79479754.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 30, 2020||Vadodara||Beer-laden van goes up in flames in Gujarat||VADODARA: A pick-up van used for smuggling beer cans in Gujarat turned turtle and caught fire in Dahod on Saturday midnight. The beer cans were, however, saved and later seized by the police. Cops said that the pick-up van turned turtle at Devdha village in Garbada taluka and immediately caught fire. Cartons containing beer cans were thrown out of the van. On learning about the incident, the fire brigade reached the spot and doused the blaze. Later, cops collected the beer cans which were scattered all around. “In all, there were 171 cans which we have seized. We are searching for the driver and the owner of the pick-up van,” said a police official. The pick-up van is registered in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/beer-laden-van-goes-up-in-flames/articleshow/79479906.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||97 speakers, 90 sessions light up 2nd Orange City Literature Fest virtually||Nagpur: After a thought pilgrimage spanning 20 hours, 97 speakers and 90 sessions, the 2nd Orange City Literature Festival culminated lyrically on Sunday. With his mellifluous voice and stunning vocal range, Rajasthani folk singer Mame Khan brought the curtain down on a literal high note. The third and final day of the festival broadened the spectrum of themes explored previously, with the likes of artificial intelligence (AI), old age, corporate life, sports and cinema joining the fray. Conversations were woven skilfully with the common threads of intrigue and topicality. The day began with American author Diana R Chambers describing the ups and downs in the tumultuous romance of actress Nancy Valentine and the Maharaja of Cooch Behar (part of her book ‘The Star of India’), during her session on research and imagination in historical fiction. This was followed by storyteller Ramendra Kumar’s tips on creative writing for the 8-15 years age group. Financial consultant Vishesh Jain spoke about what inspired him to translate Rajasthani folk stories into English, while Australian professor Toby Walsh peeked into the AI-packed future in store for the world, in their respective sessions. Food history was a leitmotif in this edition of the festival. While author Kaumudi Marathe took viewers on a trip down the Indian culinary history lane, techie and author Krish Ashok explained why our grandmothers “were more scientific than chefs on the Internet”. Author Nandini Sen Gupta’s session unveiled the role of animals in history, and management professional Sujeev Shakya revealed what triggered the idea for his book on Nepal’s journey between India and China. On the cinema front, film director Kanchan Adhikari talked about the state of the Marathi industry post Covid-19, and author Kishwar Desai recounted the life and times of Devika Rani — who is widely acknowledged as the first lady of Indian cinema. Writer Zainab Priya Dala shed light on what led to the South African diaspora becoming one of the largest populations of Indians outside India, and former Delhi police joint commissioner Karnal Singh talked at length on the genesis, evolution and causes of terrorism in India. Polity discussions continued to be the mainstay on Day 3. Journalist Kingshuk Nag opined on China’s aspirations to dominate the world at the cost of India, and senior journalist Sagarika Ghose spoke about her biography of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, describing how the stateswoman wrote the playbook for Indian politics. Fittingly, the art and science of conversation and dialogue were also dissected in the festival. While senior management consultant Arun Maira held fort on “leading, learning and listening”, policy analyst and researcher Vikram Sood discussed the ultimate goal and construction of narratives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/97-speakers-90-sessions-light-up-2nd-orange-city-literature-fest-virtually/articleshow/79481461.cms||Bhuvan Gupta
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong attacks Shah for using ‘divisive’ tactics ahead of polls||Hyderabad: Congress has deplored BJP for what it called “stooping down to communal politics” to win a few seats in elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. Senior leaders of the party found fault with Union home minister Amit Shah for coming to campaign in GHMC elections, but not coming to share the grief with the flood-affected families in the city. They also criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for trying to take credit for Covid-19 vaccine as if the vaccine would not be made if Modi did not visit the labs. “BJP is insulting the people of Hyderabad. How can Amit Shah ask for votes now when he did not come while people were marooned due to the floods? Is it necessary to stoop down to such low levels of politics that too for an election to a civic body” asked Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar. Congress also attacked Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, stating he was a failure in his own state wherein a Dalit woman was raped and burnt but he has the audacity to come to Hyderabad and say BJP would change the name of the city to Bhagyanagar. Former MP Madhu Yashki Goud said Lord Rama was a god to all Hindus, but the problem with BJP is that it also reveres Nathuram Godse. Congress would continue to chase and expose BJP’s double standards as long as it continues to praise Nathuram Godse. “Who is BJP trying to mislead? Is it not the fact that BJP won the Bihar election with the help of MIM. In Maharashtra polls too, BJP took the help of MIM to polarise votes. “In Hyderabad, the saffron party is trying to project MIM as a rival party only to polarise votes,” Madhu Yashki said The Congress leaders termed K Chandrasekhar Rao’s public meeting held on Saturday as a flop show and said the downfall of TRS has started. They appealed to the people to reject TRS, BJP and MIM, and vote for Congress for the development of Greater Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-attacks-shah-for-using-divisive-tactics-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/79482171.cms||Roushan Ali
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs raise awareness on ballot paper voting||Hyderabad: Resident welfare associations are circulating a video to raise awareness among 74.6 lakh voters in the GHMC polls about their right to vote and its importance. The video, which runs only about 90 seconds, is being circulated by the UFERWAS, an apex body of residential welfare associations (RWAs) in the city. “The UFERWAS, has taken the initiative to prepare this video based on the elections held for Chhattisgarh assembly, which used ballot papers. We have approached the Telangana State Election Commission’ (TSEC), and asked it to do similar videos to educate voters on ballot papers,” UFERWAS general secretary, BT Srinivasan told TOI. Ballot papers will be used in GHMC polls after a gap of 18 years, and the younger generation is unaware about this. This short video can help them exercise their vote correctly, Srinivasan said. The video has been sent to 4,320 RWAs, he said. Meanwhile, the Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) also aired this video through electronic media and other media platforms and appealed to voters to follow the procedure of ballot voting on polling day. The State Election Commission has made all arrangements to ensure polling through ballot papers in 9,101 polling stations across the GHMC limits. Some 1,122 candidates are in fray from 150 GHMC wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-raise-awareness-on-ballot-paper-voting/articleshow/79482175.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Amit Shah non-committal on changing Hyderabad’s name to Bhagyanagar||HYDERABAD: Home minister Amit Shah on Sunday remained non-committal on changing the name of the city to Bhagyanagar. Replying to a question on whether Hyderabad will be renamed Bhagyanagar, he said, “Those things cannot be talked of now.” Despite his response, reliable sources in BJP said that Amit Shah’s visit to Bhagyalakshmi temple in Old City was indeed not part of the original plan, which was changed. During the press conference, it was stated that the home minister’s visit to the temple was because of a personal wish to offer prayers. Shah had to cut short his road show in Secunderabad due to heavy crowds. He addressed the public during the road show and the press at the end point of road show. As soon he reached (delayed as per schedule) the city, he went to the Bhaygalakshmi temple and offered prayers. BJP leaders said that Amit Shah’s visit has given the required final push for the party ahead of polling. The road show was organised between Varaisguda and Sitaphalmandi, but did not proceeded till the last point due to heavy crowds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amit-shah-non-committal-on-changing-hyderabads-name-to-bhagyanagar/articleshow/79482174.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata gets ready to observe Gurpurab||KOLKATA: It’s a Covid year Gurpurab this time, so there’s bound to be some changes. But, there’s no dearth in enthusiasm and fervour as the city’s Sikhs and Sindhis start celebrating the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the first Sikh Guru, this year, albeit a little differently. There will be no celebrations at the Maidan this year, like the previous years and all the 15 gurdwaras and the only Sindhi temple of the city started the prayers and langars (community feeding) from Sunday onwards. The prayers were virtual while the arrangements at the langars have been done following social distancing norms. At gurdwaras like Sant Kutiya, Bhowanipore, Behala and Barrackpore, hourly sanitization activities are on, though very few are turning up physically to attend the kathas, kirtans and paaths and to light up lamps, waiting for the birth hour of Guru Nanak, which is at 1.20 am on Tuesday. The prayers will continue through Sunday and Monday, up to the designated hour on Tuesday, like every year. “While only some of us will be at the gurdwaras, the rest of the community will join us from their homes on virtual meets that have been elaborately organised in each gurdwara,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, spokesperson of the Behala Gurdwara. At langars, community members are joining in to prepare food but they are maintaining strict distancing norms and wearing masks and sanitising hands whenever required. “Guru Nanak is a symbol of peace and unification of mankind. We cannot celebrate without preparing food and distributing them among the hungry. So, we are maintaining safety protocols but going about our service pledges,” said S Avtar Singh of the Gurudwara Sant Kutiya. To hail the occasion of Sarbat da Bhalla or Wellbeing of All, the IHA Foundation, which is also run by Ahluwalia, is running a Langar on Wheels that has started visiting the needy people on the streets to feed them. The Sindhis, too, will not be celebrating at the Ramlila Grounds this year giving a break to their 10-year-old practice. This year the celebrations started virtually from Amrit Vela, which is the lone temple of the community in the city. “We live-streamed the kirtans and kathas from the temple on Sunday morning and we had the entire community joining us from home. We also ran a langar on Sunday and distributed food among the needy on Sudder Street,” said spokesperson for the community, Nanik Samtani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-gets-ready-to-observe-gurpurab/articleshow/79481332.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Syro Malabar Church land deal: Draft committee report suggests recovery of losses||IDUKKI: A seven-member draft committee appointed by Mar Antony Kariyil, metropolitan vicar of Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese of Syro Malabar Church, will submit a report to permanent synod demanding restitution for recovery of financial losses suffered by the archdiocese. According to church sources, the draft committee report found financial loss of nearly Rs 20 crore suffered by Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese after the controversial land deal in 2017. “The draft committee report was discussed in the presbyteral council on Thursday and pastoral council executive committee on Saturday. The final report of the draft committee will be submitted to the permanent synod under Syro Malabar Church soon,” a senior priest under Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese told TOI. “In June 2019, Pope Francis issued a letter directing use of legal mechanisms for restitution or recovery of the losses suffered by the archdiocese after the land deal. We demand the permanent synod to implement it,” said the priest. “We will not allow the sale of more land, including land in Kottappady, or hand over any other properties under Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese to resolve the financial issues,” he said. “The archdiocese now has Rs 23 crore debt, which includes Rs 4 crore as bank loan and Rs 19 crore borrowed from other sources. If the synod provides money we can repay all debts,” he added. “In May 2015, the archdiocese bought 23.22 acres at Mattoor, near Angamaly to set up a medical college. The archdiocese took a bank loan of Rs 59 crore for the purpose. It also decided to sell a plot of archdiocesan land to repay the loan. But the sale never happened and the debt increased. To pay off the loans, the archdiocese sold five properties during June 2016 to July 2017. These shady deals involving Cardinal Mar George Alencherry created a huge loss to Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese,” said the priest. The controversial land deal caused several internal issues within the church. Three committees under the church probed the land deal. On June 22, 2018, the Vatican appointed Palakkad bishop Mar Jacob Manathodath as apostolic administrator. On June 28, 2019, the term of apostolic administrator ended and Mar Alencherry returned to his post. Auxiliary bishops Mar Sebastian Adayantharath and Mar Jose Puthenveettil were suspended for raising a banner of protest. On August 30, 2019, the Vatican appointed Mar Antony Kariyil as metropolitan vicar of Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/syro-malabar-church-land-deal-draft-committee-report-suggests-recovery-of-losses/articleshow/79479683.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||SIT to re-investigate killings of 2 members of a family in 1984 riots||Kanpur: The special investigating team (SIT) set up to probe into a large number of of killings during 1984 anti-Sikh riots has started re-investigation into the murder of two members of a family, who were brutally beaten to death, during the violence that broke out in Kanpur in the aftermath of the assassination of the then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984. SP Balendu Bhushan, SIT's member secretary, said that the team was examining the number of such serious cases which were filed in the city in connection with the 1984 riots and have since been closed in the absence of evidence and eyewitnesses. After the consent of the family members of the victims, these cases will be reinvestigated and sent for trial again. “This is one of the 19 cases reported from K block area of Kidwainagar under the limits of Naubasta police station, wherein two members of a family of Sardar Purshottam Singh, identified as Gurdayal Singh and Shardool Singh, were brutally done to death on October 31, 1984. Purshottam, thereafter, lodged an FIR at Naubasta police station in this regard. The police, however, after finding no eyewitness and in the absence of evidence, filed a final report," an SIT member told TOI. "During the findings by the SIT, it came to light that few victims of the same case were residing in Punjab. After seeking permission from the victims, who are also eyewitnesses, we moved an application in the court. After the court granted permission, we have started the re-investigation into the case. Soon, the eyewitnesses would also be presented before the court to get their statement recorded,” he said further. The state government had set up the SIT on February 5, 2019, to inquire into the circumstances leading to the riots in which at least 127 people were killed in Kanpur. The team was set up after the apex court issued notice to the state government in August 2017 on a petition seeking an SIT probe into the 1984 riots. The four-member SIT is headed by retired UP DGP, Atul. The other members are retired district judge Subhash Chandra Agarwal and retired additional director (prosecution) Yogeshwar Krishna Srivastava. SP Balendu Bhushan Singh is its member secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sit-to-re-investigate-killings-of-2-members-of-a-family-in-1984-riots/articleshow/79482172.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Trichy||More flights to Trichy under Vande Bharat mission in Dec||Trichy: Air India Express has scheduled to operate around 135 flight services to various destinations including Singapore, Dubai, Kuwait, Sharjah from and to Trichy under the Vande Bharat mission in December to carry hundreds of Tamils still stranded due to the lockdown. According to airport sources, Air India Express will operate 62 services on the Singapore-Trichy-Singapore sector in December. The carrier will also operate flights between Dammam-Trichy sector on Saturdays.In Trichy-Doha-Trichy sector, the carrier will be operated on Saturdays. This apart, in the Trichy-Abu Dhabi-Trichy sector, Air India Express will operate on Mondays and Thursdays. Flights on the Trichy-Sharjah-Trichy sector would be ooperated on Wednesdays and Sundays.In Trichy-Dubai sector, the services will be available on Mondays and Tuesdays, while in the return direction flights have been scheduled on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays. Services will also be available on Sundays and Wednesdays between Trichy-Muscat sector, while on the Muscat-Trichy sector, flights will be operated on Mondays and Thursdays.Between Trichy-Kuala Lumpur-Trichy sector flights will be operated on Wednesdays. One service will be operated on December 21, between Trichy-Bahrain-Trichy sector. Air India and IndiGo Air are already operating around 60 services under the mission. While Air India is operating services on Wednesdays between Kuwait and Trichy, IndiGo Air is also operating flights on Thursdays and Saturdays between Trichy and Dubai. It is also operating flights on Fridays and Sundays between Dubai and Trichy. So far, Trichy airport has handled 62,800 passengers during this pandemic period. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-flights-to-trichy-under-vande-bharat-mission-in-dec/articleshow/79482182.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Civic body polls: Sharma appointed Rewari in-charge||Chandigarh: Haryana BJP on Sunday appointed former minister Ram Bilas Sharma as in-charge of the civic body elections in Rewari. Sharma’s appointment came during the discussion of senior BJP leaders with Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Vinod Tawde, in-charge of BJP Haryana affairs, during a meeting held in Gurgaon. BJP has also asked poll aspirants to apply to districts presidents. Civic polls are due in the municipal councils of Rewari, Ambala, Sonipat and Panchkula. Sources said besides discussing other issues, Tawde and Khattar interacted with election in-charges of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat during the meeting convened by Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar. Capt Abhimanyu is in-charge for Panchkula Muncipal Corporation, former Haryana BJP president Subhash Barala is in-charge of Ambala and Kanwar Pal Gujjar is in- charge of Sonipat civic body election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-body-polls-sharma-appointed-rewari-in-charge/articleshow/79482176.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Pride too close, prejudice out||AHMEDABAD: The recent expulsion of six lions from Jetpur underscores people’s unease at being in proximity with Gujarat’s pride. The Jetpur lions were ushered back to the Girnar sanctuary after Jayesh Radadiya, the minister of food and civil supply, urged the forest department to act. “The presence of the lions spurred fear in people and they requested me to have the big cats shifted,” Radadiya said. “Hence I wrote to the department.” Gujarat has recorded several instances of people roaring in protest when the magnificent beasts trespass into areas close to human habitations. In November 2019, a group of lions sauntered into Chotila taluka in Surendranagar. The local villagers vociferously demanded that the lions be removed. Similar demands from the people of a village near Veraval in Gir-Somnath district in mid-October fizzled out. The people wanted the lions in their area to be shunted out. But when the forest department sought a formal representation from the panchayat, nobody wanted to bell the cat. As for the Jetpur case, a senior officer said that the action was initiated after the minister’s letter was received. “To move the pride, it was radio collared. The lions’ movement indicates that they are about to reach the Girnar sanctuary,” the officer said. “We guided their movement back home using their location. The beat guards ensured that their travel was in the right direction.” A senior researcher, associated with various studies in Gir, said: “I have noticed that people in Saurashtra are now opposing the presence of lions in their area.” The researcher went on to say: “They fear that the lions can kill their cattle and even attack humans. Only those who earn money by illegal tourism want lions in their vicinity.” The researcher cited a study titled ‘Evaluation of human attitudes and factors conducive to promoting human-lion coexistence in the Greater Gir landscape, India’. He said the study has pointed out that 18.9% of people in the Greater Gir landscape did not want lions in their vicinity. The landscape extends across Amreli, Junagadh, Gir-Somnath, and Bhavnagar districts. The study has stated that “…older respondents showed a distinct indifference to lions and were particularly negative towards them if they had suffered livestock loss.” But, the study said: “Younger respondents expressed more positive attitudes and were also better informed about the movements of lions and human-wildlife conflict issues.” Unless lions give monetary gains to the villagers the chorus of hate will grow louder, a forest department officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pride-too-close-prejudice-out/articleshow/79480532.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Drugs smuggler operated in garb of TTE, arrested||NEW DELHI: This man dressed as a travelling ticket examiner (TTE) frequented Rajdhani Express trains and railway stations with confidence. His luggage, which always used to be two big bags, was kept in the custody of the train pantry staff or at times the guard or the coach attendant. After de-boarding, he would walk out towards the yard while checking random passengers’ tickets. However, when he was stopped by cops from Delhi Police’s railway unit on suspicion, it emerged that he was a notorious inter-state narcotics smuggler. Cops seized around 30kg of cannabis worth several lakhs of rupees from him. This time, he had brought the contraband from Assam via Dibrugarh Rajdhani. His handlers are being identified. Confirming the arrest, DCP (railways) Harendra Singh said that the accused has been identified as Sukhvinder Singh (36), a resident of Shashtri Nagar. The DCP said that a special patrolling team constituted to keep a surveillance on passengers around the platforms noticed a person wearing the uniform of a TTE leaving the platform near base kitchen in north yard of the New Delhi railway station. “He was carrying two bags on his shoulders and walking hurriedly. Such unusual movement alerted ASI Lalit. The TTE was stopped and questioned but his reply was not satisfactory,” the DCP said. A search of his bags was conducted and large quantity of ganja was found. He was arrested and the contraband seized under NDPS Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drugs-smuggler-operated-in-garb-of-tte-arrested/articleshow/79481357.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tiger kills girl, 2nd incident in Asifabad||HYDERABAD: A 15-year-old girl was killed by a tiger in Kondapalli in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district on Sunday afternoon just three days after a big cat was sighted near Peddavagu in Penchikalpet mandal in the district. This is the second tiger kill in the Kagaznagar forest division in 18 days in the same district, but officials said it was a different tiger. A few days ago a video shot by a farmer of a tigress drinking water from a stream in the district had gone viral. On Sunday, the tribal girl, Pasula Nirmala, was in a field in Mannewada hamlet when the tiger attacked and killed her. The girl’s two brothers had gone to fetch water from a stream when they heard her cries for help. When the boys started shouting, the tiger dragged Nirmala’s body about 15 metres inside the forest before vanishing into the forest area in Bejjur range. According to forest officials, the hamlet is located 4-5 km inside the forest area. Kondapalli is some 30 km from Digida village where a 22-year-old man, Siddam Vigneshwar, was killed by a tiger on November 11 in Dahegaon mandal in the same district. There are at least six ‘resident tigers’ in the forest area in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district and sometimes the numbers go up to eight with a couple of other big cats coming in from the neighbouring district. Vigneshwar had gone to a lake for fishing when the tiger attacked and dragged his body inside the forest. Here too the tiger abandoned the body after two men who had accompanied Vigneshwar raised an alarm. Forest officials said the tiger which killed Vigneshwar was possibly from Maharashtra. “That tiger has gone back into the forest area in Maharashtra. We verified this from the pug marks we were able to collect later,” Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district forest officer Shantharam told TOI. Shantharam said forest officials would gather the pug marks of the tiger in the incident in Mannewada hamlet. He said, as per procedures, two cages would also be set up in the area to catch the tiger. According to forest officials, tigers generally do not like any disturbance in their habitat and in fact move away from the area if they sense any human activity. If a tiger senses some danger, it is possible that it attacks. In this case it is being seen as that as the tribal hamlet of the Mannewar tribe is located not in the revenue area but inside the forest area. The forest department would pay a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the family of Nirmala like it did in the case of Vigneshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-kills-girl-2nd-incident-in-asifabad/articleshow/79482572.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Curtains for charged civil poll campaign||Hyderabad: Curtains came down on one of the most charged campaigns for the battle for the baldiya on Sunday. Though the city has been known for communal harmony with Muslims offering water during Ganesh processions and Hindus thronging Nampally Yousfain Dargah, Hyderabad has been hit by a vicious campaign by political parties in the past one month. Politicians have made comments on demolition of samadhis of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao, former chief minister NT Rama Rao, demolition of Charminar, Taj Mahal. beef biryani, pork biryani, taking politicking to a new low. State Election Commissioner C Partha Sarathi said police were issued directions to take stern action against hate speeches. He said four cases were booked against political leaders. BJYM national president and Bangalore South MP Tejaswi Surya was booked for “trespassing into the Osmania University campus with a rally by damaging the gate and giving provoking communal speech”. BJP Telangana president Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay, AIMIM MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi were booked for provocative speeches during their campaign to garner votes. Actor-turned-politician Vijayashanti too waded into the destroy-ghat controversy by saying, “Taj Mahal which is on the full tank level and Charminar, which has been obstructing traffic, should also be demolished.” Hyderabad MP AsaduddinN Owaisi taunted the BJP leaders and invited them to have biryani at Alhmauddillah Hotel, while MLA T Raja Singh said that he would feed pork biryani to Owaisi. On the other hand, TRS leader and minister K T Rama Rao had requested voters to choose between development and hate politics. Faisal Omer Mohammed, an entrepreneur, says, “Hyderabad is an example of development, unity and diversity. Vicious campaing is taking our city backwards to hate, casteism & divisive politics.” BJP openly claimed the fight was between them and AIMIM. BJP leader Ram Madhav says, “Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections have turned into a direct fight between MIM of Owaisi and BJP. Thanks to d collective efforts of Telangana BJP leaders TRS is receding as election date is nearing.” Political analyst and former MLC Professor K Nageswar said, “Instead of real issues like floods, traffic, civic infrastructure, the elections have been trivialised.” “Bhagyalakshmi temple has taken centrestage where BJP leaders Amit Shah and Bandi Sanjay visited. There is no city leadership. It’s all Modi-Shah and KCR-KTR. No mayor candidate was declared by any party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/curtains-for-charged-civil-poll-campaign/articleshow/79482190.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||What has NDA done for Hyderabad in last 6 years, asks KTR||HYDERABAD: Taking the attack into the BJP’s camp on the final day of campaigning for GHMC elections, TRS working president and municipal minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday sought to ask Union Home Minister Amit Shah about what the BJP-led NDA government has done for Hyderabad in the last six years. On Shah’s statement of BJP’s resolve to make Hyderabad as the IT hub of the world, KTR said: “Who brought the prestigious Apple, Amazon, and other major IT companies to Hyderabad? It is the BJP government which cancelled the ITIR project sanctioned by the UPA government for Hyderabad and acted against the hopes of youth in Telangana,” KTR said addressing road shows in the city. “Amit Shah is saying ours is Nizam’s culture. Mahatma Gandhi who is from your home state Gujarat has said in 1920 that Hyderabad culture is Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb and people live in religious harmony. Hyderabad stands as an example to the unity in diversity culture of India,” said KTR. Responding to Amit Shah’s statement on there were no communal riots in the county, KTR sought to remind Shah that communal clashes took place in Delhi during US president Donald Trump’s visit to India right under the center’s police jurisdiction. During the roadshows, KTR said, “BJP knows only two things, first is jumla and second is hamla.” Hyderabad has been peaceful for the past six years. There has not been a single incidence of communal tension. “Today, they only want to divide people in the name of religion. I urge you all not to support such parties,” said KTR. “Do surgical strikes on poverty, corruption and on those who commit crimes on women, not on the old city of Hyderabad” Today, for a few votes and seats they are spoiling the peace and harmony of Hyderabad,” KTR said reacting to Bandi Sanjay’s comments of doing surgical strike on old city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/what-has-nda-done-for-hyd-in-last-6-years-asks-ktr/articleshow/79482184.cms||Roushan Ali
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 8,500 commerce seats to lie empty this year||AHMEDABAD: Nearly 8,500 seats are empty in commerce courses in Gujarat University affiliated colleges after holding seven rounds of admissions. The admission committee has now decided to not hold any additional rounds of admission, said sources in GU. As a result, these 8,500 are likely to go empty this year, according to sources. However, individual applications have been started from students who are currently denied admission, the said. The seventh round of admission for commerce courses in GU was held for 9,000 seats in which about 1,500 fresh registrations were received by the committee. The committee had initiated the admission process for a total of 40,744 seats of various commerce courses including BCom, BBA and BCA this year. Faced with the challenge of filling up the large number of vacant seats after three rounds of online admissions, Gujarat University had decided to conduct a fourth round only for the 11,000-odd candidat. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8500-commerce-seats-to-lie-empty-this-year/articleshow/79481365.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Get set for adda over a cuppa at New Town’s coffee house||KOLKATA: New Town is set to get its own coffee house. The much anticipated New Town Coffee House, set up near the Amity University campus in Action Area II, is scheduled to be inaugurated by state urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim on December 3. The coffee house that is based on the concept of the existing one at College Street and has all modern amenities will be run by Café Ekante management of Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) that has been operating in Eco Park and has also set up a few outlets across New Town. “Apart from having a cup of coffee with snacks, people can also read newspapers, magazines and books at a small book corner inside the building. It will be a small extension counter of the New Town library,” said an official of Hidco. The idea to set up the coffee house came from an IIT-KGP study on the facilities and amenities that a city should have to be called a ‘Happy City’. Residents of the township are eagerly waiting for the Coffee House to open. “It will be nice to have such a hang-out zone where we can spend some quality time with friends or family,” said Kaustav Dey, a resident of New Town. Hidco authorities have been working on a project to set up small hang-out joints in New Town while a few have already come up. One such outlet is a carry-away or eat-in-the-open counter — named as ‘Ekante-on-the-Go’ — that serves rolls and other snacks and is located near the New Town bus stand at the first rotary island on the main arterial road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/get-set-for-adda-over-a-cuppa-at-new-towns-coffee-house/articleshow/79481364.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Will win more divisions than TRS: K’taka minister||Alleging that the TRS government in Telangana has failed in every sector such as infrastructure facilities, flood management and Covid-19 management except in electoral management in the past six years, Karnataka health minister and one of the BJP incharges, K Sudhakar said BJP will win more than the TRS in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls. The youngest cabinet minister was roped in the GHMC election campaign due to large presence of Kannadigas in Greater Hyderabad and aggressive in the politics told Koride Mahesh that people of Hyderabad disillusioned with the TRS and decided to give an opportunity to the BJP. Excerpts from the interview. n BJP central leadership has roped in many leaders from Bihar, Karnataka and even from Delhi for working out strategy in the GHMC elections. What is your strategy to ensure victory of the party? Political parties, especially national parties, utilize the services of leaders for election campaigns. This is basically help and strategic inputs to the local leadership. Even regional parties also dump leaders from other areas. For instance, TRS had made ministers and other elected representatives incharges for each division. I have been given incharge for nearly 35 divisions in Kukatpally, Malkajgiri, Qutubullapur and Uppal assembly constituencies. Am not only campaigning, but also helping the local division leaders. n It seems the BJP leadership is taking the election as a prestigious one? BJP leadership takes every election whether it is local body or Lok Sabha as important and prestigious. Of course, the GHMC polls are important as it will be a stepping stone for the assembly polls. n You have been campaigning in GHMC for the past 10 days as an election incharge, what is your assessment?  I have been campaigning in four assembly segments. Wherever I went, there was a strong resentment against the TRS as it had made similar promises in six major elections it had faced in the past six and half years. Now people have realised and decided to teach a lesson to the pink party. There is a undercurrent wave in favour of the BJP and people want to give an opportunity to the BJP and later at the state level. Our party will win more than TRS in this election. In previous GHMC elections, the BJP was fourth and now it gets No 1 slot. n What are the issues you are highlighting during the election campaign? We have been highlighting dictatorial attitude, family rule and undemocratic style of function of the government apart from failures in every sector. The state government miserably failed in flood management which got exposed during recent floods, Covid-19 management and also in general sectors. At the same time, we have been telling the people how the BJP ruling states have better managed in other sectors. n You are handling the health ministry in Karantaka state. What are your observations as far as Covid 19 management is concerned? The TRS government has completely neglected Covid 19 management in the past few months and as a result of this the gullible people are suffering. In Karnataka, the government is doing daily 1.25 lakh tests and 90% are RT PCR tests. In Telangana the number of tests are few thousands and only six per cent of them are RT PCR. When it comes to treatment, the BJP government in Karnataka has been providing free Covid-19 treatment to the infected. Medical facilities are being provided under Aarogya Karnataka and Ayushman Bharat. The TRS is neither providing treatment under Aarogya Sree nor joined Ayushman Bharat, GoI programme, due to Modi’s ‘Photophobia’ .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-win-more-divisions-than-trs-ktaka-minister/articleshow/79482189.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Trichy||2 transwomen held on Pocso charges||Trichy: Police arrested two transwomen on charges of forcing a 14-year-old transsexual boy to perform oral sex for money. According to police, the accused have been identified as Sathya, 30, and Aparna, 23, natives of Koothur near Samayapuram in Trichy district. They have been booked under the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act and under section 12 and 3(b) of the Pocso Act. In his complaint with the all women police station in Lalgudi, the victim, a native of Theni district, had stated that he met the two in Dindigul bus stand a week ago. After they introduced themselves, they exchanged their mobile numbers. Meanwhile, Sathya and Aparna contacted the boy through mobile phone and told him to come to Trichy. The boy arrived on November 25. The accused had assured him all help to undergo sex reassignment surgery. The same night, the accused forced him to drink liquor and took him to Samayapuram, where they forced him to perform oral sex with some strangers. Based on the complaint, police arrested the two. Meanwhile, opposing the arrest, a group of transwomen staged a protest in Lalgudi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-transwomen-held-on-pocso-charges/articleshow/79482187.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: ‘SAD insulted SGPC by making Bibi Jagir Kaur president’||CHANDIGARH: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab has strongly condemned the appointment of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former cabinet minister Bibi Jagir Kaur as Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president. The Punjab AAP alleged that Badals had appointed a tainted leader as SGPC president through lifafa (envelope) culture. Therefore, the AAP said, the SAD has once again hurt the dignity of Sikh institutions and has undermined the democratic system. Senior party leaders and MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Jai Krishan Singh Rodi, Kulwant Singh Pandori and Manjeet Singh Bilaspur, in a joint press statement, said the SGPC came into being after immense sacrifices when gurdwaras were under illegal control and the British Raj stooges were undermining the principles of the Sikhism and gurdwaras. By making a controversial politician like Bibi Jagir Kaur as president of this supreme body once again, Badals have proved their small thinking, as they had lost status in the Sikh cult and Punjab, AAP leaders said. Making Bibi Jagir Kaur the SGPC president clears the political and religious bankruptcy of the SAD, said Sandhwan. It also clears that the SAD no longer has a single leader who is certified by the entire Sikh community, which is why Badals have had to appoint an alleged controversial person as the SGPC president, said AAP leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-insulted-dignity-of-sikhs-supreme-body-by-making-jagir-president-sandhwan/articleshow/79482185.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||WhatsApp group admin arrested for tracking RTA, police officials||Yamunanagar: Police in Yamunanagar arrested a man who ran a WhatsApp group called ‘Bhaichara’ to monitor road transport authority (RTA) and police officials when they went to check movement of overloaded vehicles in their respective areas. The accused has been identified as Akram of Sadhaura town in Yamunanagar district. A case was registered against Akram under Sections 186 (whoever voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 353 (criminal force used to deter public servant from discharging his duty), 120-B (hatching a criminal conspiracy) and 117 (abetting commission of offence by the public or by more than 10 persons) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sadhaura police station on November 26. “Akram was produced in court at Bilaspur on November 27 and granted bail the same day,” said sub-inspector (SI) Balbir Singh, Sadhaura police station house officer (SHO). In his complaint, inspector Puran Singh said, “We had gone for checking of overloaded vehicles in Sadhaura area of the district on November 26. A car was chasing us for a long time and when we signaled the driver to stop, he did not. However, we succeeded in stopping the car. On checking the mobile phone of the car driver identified as Akram, we found that he was sharing our location on a WhatsApp group namely ‘Bhaichara’. This was causing us difficulty in catching overloaded vehicles.” Sadhaura SHO Balbir said investigation is being conducted with the help of the cyber cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/whatsapp-group-admin-arrested-for-tracking-rta-police-officials/articleshow/79482188.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Jacobite faction begins relay hunger strikes||KOCHI: Jacobite faction of Malankara Church on Sunday hinted at approaching central government for a solution in the church row even as they strengthened protests demanding a state government ordinance to prevent further loss of their control over churches. The Jacobites launched an indefinite relay hunger strike on Sunday demanding ‘justice’ for the faction and an ordinance in their favour so as to keep control over several important churches. Joseph Mar Gregorios, metropolitan trustee of the Jacobite Church, said on Sunday that they are making moves to apprise the central government about the denial of justice that they were facing. He added that even as they were demanding an ordinance, if no productive efforts are being made by the authorities on it, then the church would look into other ways, he said. The Jacobite faction on Sunday conducted hunger strikes across the state, including in 52 churches which they claim that the other faction has taken over from them. The group on Sunday also held protest gatherings across the state. The protests, led by bishops and priests, were held following Covid protocol. The Jacobite church has formed a 71-member core committee to coordinate the protests. Meetings are held in every diocese to coordinate the protests locally as well, sources said. The immediate major fear of the Jacobite faction is a possible takeover of the Kothamangalam Cheriyapally. The faction had become a concerned group ever since high court on November 11 pulled up Ernakulam district collector for not implementing the around a year-old directive to take over the church and hand it over to the vicar of the Orthodox faction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jacobite-faction-begins-relay-hunger-strikes/articleshow/79479711.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Police deny permission to Maratha outfit’s Aurangabad-Mumbai rally||Aurangabad: Stating that the city police has denied permission to its mashaal (torch) rally from Aurangabad to Mumbai, the Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha has cautioned that it would stage a hunger strike in front of the chief minister’s house to press for their quota demands in the near future.Chief coordinator of Maratha outfit Ramesh Kere-Patil on Sunday said that the city police have refused to give go-ahead to the proposed 10-day rally citing the pandemic.“Even though the total number of participants for the rally from Aurangabad was restricted on our side, the police authorities said that more supporters would have joined the march along the way, leading to crowding. Besides, the police also highlighted that Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is currently in place and assembly of five or more people is banned,” he said.Claiming that all its preparations for the rally have gone in vain, the Maratha outfit said it was giving the state government time till December 8 to meet the demands.“Instead of negotiating with the city police, we are planning to meet the state police chief directly on December 1 to seek permission for our rally. This time, we would seek permission for district-wise mashaal rallies from across the state,” Kere-Patil said.Besides restoration of the reservation in jobs and education for the Maratha community members, the Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha has also sought financial aid and government jobs for the families of individuals from the community who laid down their lives for the cause of the reservation. Fundings worth Rs 10,000 crore to the state welfare board for the Maratha community, setting up of SARTHI regional centre in Aurangabad and erecting the statue of Maratha warrior king Shivaji Maharaj in the Arabian sea are some of the other key demands of the Maratha activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-deny-permission-to-maratha-outfits-aurangabad-mumbai-rally/articleshow/79479722.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||SEC asks star campaigners to leave||Hyderabad: People who came to the city for campaigning should leave the city after Sunday 6 pm, stated SEC on Sunday. “After the campaign time ends in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, if the people who have been roped in by political parties including politicians, star campaigners or party workers stay in the city, it might create hurdles in the election process, there might be law and order issue too. As the campaign time has ended, I request them to leave GHMC limits,” said State Election Commission (SEC) commissioner C Partha Sarathi briefing media on Sunday. Cops were instructed to go around community halls, lodges and guest houses to check for people who have been roped in by political parties. Police were instructed to check id cards and keep a vigil on vehicles too. SEC also warned that action will be taken against people who convene, attend, join or address any public gathering after Sunday 6 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-asks-star-campaigners-to-leave/articleshow/79482199.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Tea stall owner booked for breach of Covid safety||AHMEDABAD: On Saturday, some local residents of Dariapur clicked photos of crowding at a tea stall and sent it to police, who later booked the tea stall owner, Mehmoodhussain Shaikh of Baluchawad for violation of social distancing. Shaikh was booked under Section 188 of IPC and relevant sections of Disaster Management Act. Praising the action of the local residents, police officials said that if such awareness is shown by every citizen, the spread of Covid-19 could be contained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tea-stall-owner-booked-for-breach-of-covid-safety/articleshow/79481370.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Faridabad Covid-19 count crosses 40,000 with highest death toll of day||Chandigarh: Faridabad topped the list of maximum deaths of the day, as Haryana reported 1,809 new cases and 26 new deaths of the day, which took the overall Covid-19 count of the state to 2,32,522 and 2,401 deaths. For the third consecutive day, Haryana reported more recoveries than the new cases. As many as 2,794 recoveries took the overall recoveries to 2,11,216 as recovery rate raised further to 90.84%. Now there are 18,905 active cases . A total of 347 patients are on oxygen support and 60 patients are said to be on ventilator support in Covid-19 care centres and tertiary care centres across the state. Meanwhile, the testing rate went up further to 1,39,677 tests per million and 35,40,820 persons have been tested so far. Maximum seven deaths have come from Faridabad, followed by six in Hisar, and five from Gurugram districts. Two deaths each have come from Karnal Rohtak and Bhiwani districts. While one death each has been reported from Sirsa and Kurukshetra districts Gurugram continues to top the highest list with 479 new cases. This took the district overall tally to 49,112 cases, 288 deaths and 6,160 active cases. Faridabad reported second highest with 380 cases taking the overall tally of the district to 40,152, cases 333 deaths and 3,766 active cases. Hisar reported the third highest with 130 cases where the total count has gone to 15,624 cases, 233 deaths and 1,411 active cases. While Sonipat reported 115 cases where total has gone to 12,918 cases, 64 deaths and 767 cases Jind saw 66 new cases, Rohtak and Panchkula districts had 64 new cases each, Panipat district 63, Kurukshetra and Ambala districts had reported 55 cases, Rewari 54, Jhajjar 52 and Bhiwani 41. Rest nine districts have reported less than 40 cases with the lowest four from Nuh district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/faridabad-covid-19-count-crosses-40000-with-highest-death-toll-of-day/articleshow/79482200.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||6 wanted criminals nabbed from Jind||Chandigarh: Haryana police have arrested six wanted criminals carrying a collective reward of Rs 1 lakh from Jind district. A police spokesperson said the police also recovered two illegal pistols, three cartridges and a car from the accused. Those arrested were identified as Sunil alias Sheela of Kharakrakji, Naveen alias Bablu of Pai (Kaithal), Sanjit alias Sachin from Sonipat, Shivam of Shamlo Kalan (Jind), Sombir of Sindhvi Khera, and Sahil of Nizampur (Sonipat). The spokesperson said Haryana DGP had declared a reward of Rs 25,000 each on the arrest of Sunil, Naveen, Sanjit and Shivam. Police had been looking for him for a long time. Preliminary investigations reveals that arrested most wanted criminals were wanted by Jind as well as police of Hisar, Kaithal, Bhiwani, Sonipat, Rohtak and Jhajjar districts in nearly 18 cases including that of murder, attempt to murder, loot and dacoity. They were arrested by a police team from a canal bridge over Gatauli-Shamlo road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-wanted-criminals-nabbed-from-jind/articleshow/79482195.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman harassed by neighbour in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A woman, 39, from the Juhapura area of city, on Saturday filed a complaint with Vejalpur police alleging that a man, 30, living in her negihbourhood sexually abused her by making obscene gestures when she was alone at the terrace of her flat on Friday. The woman said she had gone to the terrace to get clothes on Friday morning and at that time the accused Shoeb Ansari came there and began passing lewd comments. She called up 181 Abhayam helpline but later she did not file any complaint as accused was her neighbour. But on Saturday morning, when she went to buy milk, Ansari again stalked her and made obscene gestures. After which, she approached Vejalpur police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-harassed-by-neighbour/articleshow/79480539.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala to raise Rs 2,000 crore more through auction of securities||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government is planning to mobilize Rs 2,000 crore from the market by selling government securities through Reserve Bank of India by way of auction scheduled for December 1, 2020. This is the eighth time the cash-strapped state government has had to opt for market borrowing during the current fiscal. As per rules, the state has the right to raise funds proportionate to 3% of its GDP, with a cap of Rs 6,000 crore for every quarter. Though the Union government has agreed to increase the borrowing limit to 5%, following the Covid-19-induced crisis in the economy, the state’s limits would remain at 4% of the GDP as it has refused to agree with the conditions set by the Union government. The monthly wages outgo of the state borders Rs 4,000 crore, of which Rs 2,450 crore is for meeting salary expenses and Rs 1,550 crore for pension expenses. As is the practice, the government, while describing the purpose of the loan, has stated that the loan proceeds will be used for financing productive development programmes and projects to be implemented in the state. Consent of the central government has been obtained to the floatation of this loan as required by Article 293(3) of the Constitution, a government notification in this regard stated. The government security will be sold through the RBI, Mumbai office at a coupon rate to be determined by the central bank at a yield-based auction under multiple price formats. The result of the auction shall be displayed by the RBI on its websites on the same day. The payment by successful bidders will be made on December 2, 2020. The stock will be of seven- year tenure and would be reckoned as an eligible investment in government securities by banks for the purpose of statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) under Section 24 of the banking regulation Act 1949.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-to-raise-rs-2000cr-more-through-auction-of-securities/articleshow/79479727.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||We intend to make Maha police best in SE Asia: Anil Deshmukh||How was one year of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and yours as home minister? The first year of MVA government was spent mostly in fighting the Covid pandemic which we did successfully. Three parties in the government had smooth co-ordination under CM Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar. In doing so, much money and efforts were spent to put the infrastructure in place to fight the pandemic. Now, we can appeal to the people to follow the norms. As a home minister, I toured 31 districts to review the pandemic situation and also take stock of law and order. I used to stop at the nakas to speak to the cops to boost their morale. Everyday, me and my wife randomly called up the police personnel in different districts to know their well-being. What are the plans for police modernization? We intend to make Maharashtra police best in the South East Asia. I looking into best practices across the globe and will incorporate them in our system. At present, Mumbai has 5,000 CCTV cameras and more will be installed. We will first cover Tier-I cities with CCTV followed by Tier-II. Our Project 112 (Emergency response system) would be a milestone. Also gearing up to recruit 12,000 police personnel that would provide for Maratha reservation too. The Maratha leaders must trust us. We shall space the recruitment in such a way as to accommodate Supreme court orders too. What about the promised anti-rape ‘Shakti Act’ for Maharashtra? The Shakti Act for rape victims would make investigation, chargesheeting, and trial fast-tracked and time-bound process. Every step would have to be executed in a specific time frame. There could be provision for capital punishment too. The draft is being finalized. We are expecting the law to see the light of the day as soon as possible. How would you improve conviction rate? We are developing an app to increase the accountability of the public prosecutors and government pleaders. It will help monitor the performance and efficiency of every prosecutor and pleader. Earlier, there was no accountability and monitoring was less. The app would bring about drastic change in criminal justice system of Maharashtra. We can expect the rate of conviction rise from 47% at present to 80-90%. We are also brainstorming on improving the reporting time of the DNA and ballistic analysis through modern processes and technologies. Such results would be made available promptly. What are the plans for prison department? A special team under Addl DG Prisons Sunil Ramanand is studying the conditions in the jails across the state and contemplating the means to de-congest them. Our plan is to again introduce the global best practices of prison system in Maharashtra. We are also planning to shift the Nagpur Central Jail to a different location and develop the current place into something more viable and productive. Do you think the opposition tried to unsettle the government through issues like Sushant Singh Rajput suicide? Why are BJP and CBI now silent on their findings on the Sushant Singh Rajput case? Why are not coming out with the answer whether it was a suicide or murder? CBI has now merely become a political tool for interference. We had registered a case in TRP scam and suddenly too did the same. The ploy was to take over Maharashtra’s case too. We had to act to stop the interference. Also we found out through our cyber cell experts how BJP’s IT cell activists like Sameet Thakkar were targeting government by forming fake accounts and so on. We have arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/we-intend-to-make-maha-police-best-in-se-asia-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/79481380.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Schools’ closure extended till Dec 10: Vij||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has extended the date of closure of schools in the state to December 10 while keeping in view the threat of Covid-19 spreading in the state. Haryana health minister Anil Vij has asked the education department to keep schools closed. On November 20, the state government reordered the closure of schools till November 30, after around 150 students and teachers were found to be positive. Haryana had started the classes for Class IX to XII from November 2. On the first day, 75,683 students attended school. On November 18, the head count of student had reached 1,56,342. The fresh guidelines from Centre had already advised states to ensure closure of schools till December 31. However, the final call has to be taken by concerned government after having dialogue with stakeholders. On Thursday and Friday, the education directorate had communicated to chief secretary as well as additional chief secretaries of health and education, and health minister Anil Vij. Directorate had also informed the government that most officials and stakeholders who include parents and school managements as well as officials of district education offices had advised against opening of schools till December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/schools-closure-extended-till-dec-10-vij/articleshow/79482202.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||AIMIM sets eyes on West Bengal||Hyderabad: In the last public meeting on Sunday ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) said it will field candidates in West Bengal elections, scheduled to be held in mid- 2021. At the public meet, the party’s elected representatives from Bihar spoke of the party’s expansion plans across the country. adding that the party is eyeing voters in West Bengal. Later, two persons hailing from West Bengal residing in Hyderabad addressed the crowd in Bengali and showered praises on Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. “Even if you (the women who spoke in Bengali) had expressed your feelings about the party in actions, we would have understood it, “ said Imtiaz Jaleel, Lok Sabha MP from Aurangabad. Elected representatives of the party from Bihar and Jaleel emphasised that the BJP wants to dent the AIMIM’s presence in its hometown in order to affect the party’s pan-India activities. “The light of Hyderabad has reached Maharashtra, UP and Seemanchal and Bengal is waiting for light,” said Akhtarul Iman, AIMIM Bihar president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimim-sets-eyes-on-west-bengal/articleshow/79482203.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Employee held for stealing in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch on Sunday held Jigar Parmar of Vadaj who fled after stealing cash of Rs 1.62 lakh from the shop where he worked as a salesman. The shop is in Vaishali Complex on CG Road and it hires out suits and sherwanis. Parmar has confessed that on November 11, he had met with an accident near Palak Crossroads and suffered minor injuries. “He asked the shop owner, Gaurang Gadia, 26, of Vastral, for an advance. When Gadia refused, Parmar stole the money during lunch hours,” said an investigator. Police have recovered the stolen money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/employee-held-for-stealing/articleshow/79480560.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Proposed policy leaves owners of vintage vehicles in a jam||KOCHI: The move of the Union ministry of road transport and highways to start a separate registration policy for vintage and classic vehicles has put the owners of such vehicles in Kerala in a quandary. Though they are happy about the proposed policy, they are a bit sad as they will have to give up their cherished registration numbers, which gave the vehicles their vintage value. As per the proposed policy, vehicles which are over 50 years old – whose chassis, engine or body has not been overhauled – will fall in the vintage category. Kerala has a minimum of 500 such vintage vehicles, including cars and two-wheelers, and Ernakulam itself accounts for around 200 of them; including a century-old car, said the owners of vintage cars. “Norton, BSA, Royal Enfield, Java of 1960 are some of the two-wheelers in our vintage collection. We exhibit 70 cars and over 50 bikes at our annual exhibition. The proposed stipulation on chassis and engines are likely to affect some of them,” said Rinesh Ravi, president of Cochin Vintage Club that has 40 members. Some of the owners had overhauled their vehicles by replacing the original engines with diesel ones and a gearbox, thereby ‘losing’ the ‘original make’ tag. “Many vintage vehicles have undergone alterations and the nodal officer, to be appointed in each state, will assess the originality of these vehicles. Realizing the value of such vehicles, some owners restored them with original engines and gearbox,” said Ravi. Though maintaining such vehicles is an expensive affair, the passion to preserve these vehicles wins and owners spend lakhs of rupees to restore vintage vehicles while staying true to its original make. The registration of vehicles, which are 15 years old, are renewed every five years. To discourage people from using old vehicles, motor vehicles department imposes green tax on transport vehicles here, which are 10 years old. In the non-transport category, those that are 15 years old have to pay a paltry sum. “If the government tells us to scrap them, we won’t have an option. With the proposed registration policy, we can maintain historically-important vehicles,” said Naveen D, who owns 45 vintage vehicles in Walayar. “We will have bid goodbye to old registration numbers and that’s the anguish. If one wants to restore a vintage vehicle properly, he or she has to shell out Rs 2 lakhs and it can help maintain the vehicle for 10 years. The machinery won’t develop problems; but one has to take care of the brakes and oils and clean it periodically to prevent rusting,” he said.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/proposed-policy-leaves-owners-of-vintage-vehicles-in-a-jam/articleshow/79479758.cms||T C Sreemol
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||CAT held in city in three slots with strict guidelines||Ludhiana: The Common Admission Test (CAT) was conducted on Sunday in three slots at Satnam Infosol, Threeke road. The exam was very tricky, according to students, and witnessed thin attendance. It is conducted for those candidates who want to pursue a career in the field of management. CAT score is used by the IIMs for shortlisting of candidates for the next round of the selection process. As many as 650 applicants were registered to appear in CAT 2020 examination in Ludhiana. It was conducted in three shifts — first session from 8.30am to 10.30am, second between 12.30pm and 2.30pm and the third from 4.30pm and 6.30pm. The guidelines to ensure that the admission test is held smoothly were a bit strict as the students had to go barefoot and without garments like blazers and jackets. According to Hirdesh Madan, one of the experts, said, “Though the CAT application numbers were similar to last year, the centre reported poor attendance. This may actually mean a surge in CAT applications next year as quite a few students may have deferred their plan.” “CAT tests students on mathematics, English and reasoning ability. This year, the students were left a bit confused with respect to the pattern as the test-taking body reduced the test by an hour, but did not give a clear indication on the number of questions. On Sunday, the number was finally released and it was a bit of a surprise. The test had a total 76 questions spread across three sections The level of difficulty varied slightly across slots,” he added. Kushal Dudeja, an aspirant who is doing engineering from PEC, said, “I am satisfied with my performance. Though the number of questions was more than expected, however, I managed my time well.” Another student Bhavit Singla doing BCom said, “I found the verbal section to be most difficult, reasoning was tricky but math was easy and lengthy. The paper was on predicted lines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cat-held-in-city-in-three-slots-with-strict-guidelines/articleshow/79480549.cms||Mehak Jain
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC estate sub-inspector succumbs to Covid||Ahmedabad: A sub-inspector of the estate department of the South West Zone, Hitendra Rathod, 29, who was admitted to Arthav Hospital after testing positive for Covid, died during treatment on Saturday night. Rathod is probably the second AMC staffer to have died of corona. Earlier this week deputy general manager, Heritage cell, P K Vasudevan Nair had died of coronavirus. According to AMC officials, Rathod, who was under treatment, had a severe attack on Saturday night after which he was declared dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-estate-sub-inspector-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/79481373.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Shimla||Record 1,026 cases surface in Himachal Pradesh, 12 die||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 1,026 new Covid cases, its highest-ever for a day, and 12 patients succumbed to the virus, while 940 patients were discharged after treatment from hospitals across the state. With the latest figures, the state’s case tally has reached 40,003, 625 patients have died so far and 30,693 recovered, while 31 patients have moved out of the state. There were 8,644 active cases at the day’s end. Three deaths each were reported from Mandi and Kullu districts, two patients each died in Kangra and Shimla districts, while one death each occurred in Chamba and Hamirpur districts. Maximum 398 fresh cases were detected in Shimla district, 161 in Mandi, 120 in Kullu, 81 in Solan, 79 in Kangra, 45 in Bilaspur, 41 in Una, 36 in Hamirpur, 33 in Kinnaur, 17 in Lahaul-Spiti, 10 in Chamba and five persons tested positive in Sirmaur district. Highest 375 recoveries were also reported from Shimla district, followed by 296 in Mandi, 119 in Kullu, 89 in Solan, 17 each in Bilaspur and Chamba districts, 14 in Sirmaur and 13 patients were reported cured in Una district. A total of 525,941 samples had been tested for Covid-19 in the state till Sunday evening, out of which reports of 693 were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/record-1026-cases-surface-in-himachal-12-die/articleshow/79482205.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 805 new Covid cases, downward trend continues||HYDERABAD: Continuing the downward trend, the number of active cases in Telangana came down to 10,490 even as the state recorded 805 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases in the state are 2,69,223 while the death toll is 1,455. So far, 2,57,278 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection with a recovery rate that has been improving constantly. The current recovery rate in the state is 95.56%. This is higher than the national recovery rate of 93.7%. The breakup of Covid-19 cases in the state show that 70% cases have been asymptomatic cases, while 30% of patients were symptomatic. On Sunday, 46,280 tests were conducted in the state, raising the count of total Covid-19 tests conducted so far to 54.2 lakh. Telangana has now reached 1,45,631 samples testing per million population. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 131 new cases — the highest among all districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-805-new-covid-cases-downward-trend-continues/articleshow/79482209.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Mahendri: Officials push it as reserve, CM wants sanctuary||Nagpur: The Mahendri wildlife sanctuary proposal is taking dramatic twists and turns. While chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has agreed in-principle to declare Mahendri in Warud a sanctuary, chief wildlife warden’s office intends to make it a conservation reserve, which has reduced level of legal status. Ten days after Amravati CCF Pravin Chavan sent a negative report about the proposed sanctuary, the PCCF (wildlife) office on November 23 asked Chavan to send a proposal for conservation reserve as the issue will come up in the 16th meeting of State Wildlife Board (SWBL) slated for December 4. There are mind-boggling 11 conservation reserve proposals to be discussed and declared. Of this, Munia and Mogarkasa are in Nagpur; Mahendri in Amravati; Chandgad, Gaganbawda, Bhudargad, Vishalgad, and Panhalgad in Kolhapur; Jor-Jambhali and Mayani in Satara and Amboli-Dodamarg in Sindhudurg. It is raining conservation reserves in Maharashtra as if the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, doesn’t have any provisions for declaring national parks and sanctuaries. A group of five conservationists from Amravati comprising Kishor Rithe, Yadav Tarte, Jayant Wadatkar, Vishal Bansod, and Sawan Deshmukh have moved chief minister and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray against downgrading Mahendri. Earlier, the Thackerays have taken several green decisions in the interest of wildlife and forest. In a letter to Thackeray, the conservationists said the role of Amravati CCF was negative about Mahendri from the beginning. Melghat field director wants Mahendri to be notified a sanctuary as it will stop tree felling activity, which the territorial department doesn’t want. “The sanctuary proposal is being sidelined despite local politicians are positive about it. All NGOs and locals are also in support of the sanctuary, but it is being considered as a conservation reserve just because of opposition from Amravati CCF,” the letter addressed to Thackeray states. Mahendri, which connects Melghat-Pench-Satpuda tiger reserves, will be a stepping stone. It already has the presence of tigers, leopards, hyenas, wolves, wild dogs, 212 species of birds, and 60 species of butterflies. A 60sqkm area can be ideal for sanctuary. It will go a long way in water conservation and bring jobs to locals through ecotourism. “Presently, Mahendri is completely neglected as there is no protection. The entire 60sqkm proposed area doesn’t have the presence of villages, and as per the WPA, 1972 should be declared a sanctuary. There are some villages that have demanded to include them in the proposed sanctuary and relocate them. This can be done in the second phase as it provides an opportunity for villagers to record their opinion, suggestions, grievances before the collector,” the letter states. The memorandum also states that when the chief minister himself is favourable to declare the area as a sanctuary, the one-sided stand taken by the PCCF (wildlife) office is unjustified. Talking to TOI, a section of wildlife experts said, “Those areas which have been declared as conservation reserves earlier are not doing well as no management plans are prepared and all forestry activities are done as per the working plan only. It is for these reasons, officials don’t want sanctuaries. In 2014, Muktai-Bhavani in Jalgaon was declared a conservation reserve, but no management plan has been prepared yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahendri-officials-push-it-as-reserve-cm-wants-sanctuary/articleshow/79481403.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali sees lowest-ever recoveries in a week||Mohali: The indication of a second surge of Covid-19 has started reflecting in Mohali as in the past one week, the district has recorded lowest ever recoveries at just 145 at 15% recovery rate against 963 contracting the virus. This also sees a drop in the overall recovery rate to 84%, down by 11% in November and the active cases has also risen to 2,074 by 829 at the rate of 66.58% in the past seven days, which was moderately low at 1,245. The statistical data provided by the health department points out that on November 22, Mohali saw 116 recoveries in a single day and after that single day recoveries did not exceed more than seven a day, adding to a total of 145. Mohali has seen more recoveries than 145 in a single day in the past, which has now become a total of seven days. This has also affected the active cases count, which has risen formidably to 2,074 in the past seven days from much lower count of 1,245. There has been a rise of 60% in the rate of active cases in the past seven days, which was much lesser at 42% before and this indicates a second surge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-sees-lowest-ever-recoveries-in-a-week/articleshow/79481386.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s recovery rate for Covid-19 is 92%||CHANDIGARH: The city’s recovery rate for Covid-19 is 92% till date with most of the patients under mild and asymptomatic category, who have been discharged from home isolation. Till date, 15,926 patients have been recovered out of the total 17342 confirmed cases. “Those who are admitted to the hospitals are either with co-morbidities or are elderly. Others, who are found fit for home isolation, have mild symptoms and are in majority,” said a doctor at the UT health department. Also, these patients are discharged after 10 days of isolation. In November till date, 32,795 samples have been tested, while 2,225 patients have been discharged from home isolation. “The tests need to be enhanced so that more patients can be isolated. As the data reveals, asymptomatic patients are in large number, but they are the contacts of severe cases. They have been traced as contacts and not randomly,” said an official at the UT health department. He said, “If tests are done randomly, we will get more cases without symptoms and these are the spreaders. Those with low immunity can be infected from them.” The city’s total positivity rate is 7.5%, which is more than the adjoining states of Punjab and Haryana. Punjab’s total positivity rate since a week has been 3.6%, while Haryana’s is 6.7%. Chandigarh stands 10th in the all India slot. Its national average rate is 4% until November 27. Also, the weekly daily growth rate of infection is 0.6% in the city, while the national average is 0.5%. “We should not get complacent seeing the recovery rate as these are from the samples which have been tested. But the ones who have not been tested needs focus,” said a public health expert from the PGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/citys-recovery-rate-is-92/articleshow/79481390.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||GMR air cargo gets ready to receive vaccine consignments||HYDERABAD:Located at the epicenter of the vaccine production region of the country, the GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC) is set to play a pivotal role in the storage and transport of Covid-19 vaccine consignments and distribution of vaccines through state-of-the-art time and temperature-sensitive distribution system. It is a key stakeholder in the global vaccine logistics with facilities such as modern temperature, sensitive pharma and vaccine storage and processing zones.  While the central and state governments are readying infrastructure for distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine as and when it is approved for public use, the GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo too is readying to cater to increased cargo movement. “The terminal is equipped with various temperature zones from -20 to +25 degree Celsius and with state-of the-art equipment and cool containers to cater to product-specific requirements. It is equipped with GDP-certified temperature-controlled facility for handling temperature-sensitive cargo that is required for efficient transport and distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine,” said GHAC spokesperson. Further, the freighter parking stands are 50m away from the terminal, thereby minimising the ramp exposure timing and ensuring quick turnaround of the aircrafts. “We recently launched latest cool dollies, which is a mobile refrigeration unit for airside transportation designed to eliminate any temperature excursions and to maintain the unbroken cool chain,” said the spokesperson. The GHAC is also upgrading its infrastructure to double the capacity on both landside and airside to handle the upcoming surge in volumes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gmr-air-cargo-gets-ready-to-receive-vaccine-consignments/articleshow/79482218.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Goa||‘Enact law against love jihad in Goa too’||PANAJI: State coordinator of Hindu Janajagruti Samiti (HJS), Manoj Solanki, has written to chief minister Pramod Sawant, bringing to his notice what he alleged to be a case of love jihad in Goa. The HJS urged the chief minister to enact a law against love jihad in Goa, on the lines of that adopted by some other states in the country recently. “Recently, an incident of love jihad came to light at Collem, Dharbandora. A Hindu girl from Collem, Dharbandora, has filed a complaint with the police of being a victim of ‘love jihad’. Several incidents of love jihad have taken place in Goa in the past. In this context, the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti has demanded for an anti-conversion law and its strict implementation to curb incidents of ‘love jihad’ in Goa,” Solanki said in his memorandum to the chief minister.  “A special branch of police be set up at the state to handle and investigate into the cases of love jihad. All inter-faith marriages to be registered with the Court only,” Solanki said. HJS also called for monitoring of activities in madrassas that may be spreading such an idea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/enact-law-against-love-jihad-in-goa-too/articleshow/79482261.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Shatabdi to remain cancelled due to low bookings||CHANDIGARH: Off track since the farmers started their protest against the new agri laws, the Kalka- New Delhi Shatabdi Express will remain cancelled till further orders, according to Ambala division authorities. However, Paschim Express connecting Mumbai with Amritsar via Chandigarh has been short-terminated at Chandigarh. Now, the train will originate and culminate at Chandigarh and remains cancelled between Chandigarh and Amritsar. Apart from this, two more trains have been resumed, running weekly and biweekly. They are Chandigarh-Gorakhpur Express and Chandigarh-Patliputra Express. The other trains which have resumed are Jan Shatabdi Express, Bandra-Chandigarh-Amritsar Paschim Express, Lucknow-Chandigarh Sadbhawna Express, Daulatput Chowk-Chandigarh-Jaipur Intercity Express. Ambala divisional railway manager (DRM) G M Singh said, “We do not have any plans to resume Kalka Shatabdi Express as it is getting very low bookings. At present we are not even getting 30% to 40% bookings.” There is no plans to resume Himalayan Queen-Ekta Express which connects Kalka to Delhi and Rohtak and is also termed as one of the major connecting train to the toy trains running on Kalka-Shimla track. However, there has been a growing demand for Chandigarh-Amritsar Express as the train was popular among residents of Mohali. The train had been getting 250 to 300 passenger daily from Mohali. BOX: One train on Kalka-Shimla trackAmbala division said that no passenger trains have been resumed to and for Kalka. Only one train will keep plying on Kalka-Shimla heritage section. The lone heritage special train running between Kalka and Shimla has gained some occupancy as the train now is running with 25% capacity. The special Himalayan Queen Express is now running with 80 to 90 passengers. The lone train Himalayan Queen was resumed from October 20 after a closure for seven months due to Covid-19 pandemic and for the first few days the train covered the journey without any passenger||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shatabdi-to-remain-cancelled-due-to-low-bookings/articleshow/79481389.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jewel thief nabbed by crime branch||Ahmedabad: Crime branch sleuths on Saturday held one Kamlesh Rangwani, 47, of Naroda for stealing jewellery worth Rs 1.62 lakh from JB Jewellers in Vejalpur on November 11. He was held from near Danapith Fire Brigade Station. Crime branch officials said the accused confessed that he and his wife Punam, 43, had stolen the gold jewellery. Police have recovered two gold bangles from the duo worth Rs 1.60 lakh. Rangwani has a criminal record and about one and half years ago, he was caught by Sanand police for a similar offence. “He was also caught by Jaipur police in Rajasthan about four years ago for stealing jewellery from a showroom. We have handed over the accused to Vejalpur police,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jewel-thief-nabbed-by-crime-branch/articleshow/79480578.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19, Nivar take toll on sale of diyas this year||Trichy: Covid-19 and Cyclone Nivar have hit the sales of earthen diyas (lamps) hard as the traders recorded a drop of more than 50% in their sale this festival season, as compared to last year. However, handcrafted colourful diyas made by children with learning difficulties were a hit in Trichy, while Covid-19 has prevented people from taking part in festivals in temples this year. ‘Spastics society of Tiruchirapalli’, an NGO working for children with learning difficulties, was training children above 14 years in making value added diya as a pre-vocation training. But this year, children had to be kept away from work as they come in the high-risk category for Covid-19 infection. We procure clay lamps in bulk, and make value addition by doing colourful painting and drawings on them. These value-added diyas are sold for Rs 5 per lamp. Last year, the spastics society could sell about 10,000 diyas. But this year, the numbers came down to less than half as children could not be involved,” says C Shantha Kumar, director of the society. This year, the staff from the society and teachers took up the task. City college students were of good help for selling these value-added lamps in previous years. But educational institutions are closed this year. While the lamps are not available for public sales this year, we have been delivering to our regular customers based on request, he said. This year, the sale of raw diya or traditional clay lamp was affected because of the heavy rain over the last few days. The sellers were pinning their hopes on Karthigai deepam festival for sales after the dull Diwali season this year. They said they could sell only a few hundred diyas. M Palanivel, 40, who has been selling clay lamps over the last two decades at the Gandhi market, said people have not been showing interest in buying lamps this year. He was aiming to sell at least 10,000 lamps this season, but not sold even 2,000 over the last few days since Diwali. P Karpagam, 45, another seller from Kaliyamman Kovil Street near Chatram bus stand, said that sales were down during Diwali because of Covid-19. There were good sales last year. But this year, we had halved the procurement considering low sales but we could not sell even a few hundred diyas, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-nivar-take-toll-on-sale-of-diyas-this-year/articleshow/79482220.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 30, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath to address Mumbai honchos, roll out Film City blueprint on Wednesday||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will reach out to industrialists in Mumbai on December 2 to woo investments to UP after his symbolical launch of Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) bond at Bombay Stock Exchange. LMC had issued municipal bonds to raise Rs 200 crore under the Smart City project. Yogi would meet industrialists, bankers and film personalities at Hotel Trident, where he would discuss investments in UP and roll out a blueprint for the proposed Film City in Noida. Top government officials said, Yogi is scheduled to meet chairman of Tata Sons, N Chandrashekharan, Niranjan Hiranandani of Hiranandani group; chairman of Larsen & Toubro, SN Subramaniam; CEO of Siemens, Suprakash Chaudhary, besides chairman of FICCI Defence and Aerospace committee, among others. Yogi to hold talks with Ghai, KapoorHe would also interact with film personalities like Boney Kapoor, Subhash Ghai, Anand Pandit and Manmohan Shetty. Earlier, Yogi reached out to industrialists in Mumbai in December 2017, ahead of 2018 investors’ summit in Lucknow. Following this, the state government had organised ground-breaking ceremonies in which investment of Rs 2 lakh crore was materialised. A state government spokesperson said, the investment environment was conducive in UP considering a robust law and order situation and enhanced air connectivity. He said, new expressways, defence corridor, Jewar airport and Film City would further boost the state’s image. Watch Yogi Adityanath invites film fraternity for investment in the proposed film city in Noida||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-to-address-mum-honchos-roll-out-film-city-blueprint-on-wed/articleshow/79482222.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||OU warns colleges on fee default||Hyderabad: Osmania University (OU) has warned college managements offering MBA/MCA programmes on dues pertaining to affiliation and common service fees. Despite repeated reminders, many colleges have not cleared the dues. In a letter to all college managements, the university has now asked them to submit an undertaking by December 2 as a one-time measure, failing which they would not be considered for the Integrated Common Entrance Test-2020 counselling and extension of affiliation for 2020-21. “A letter has been submitted to the university that they will give an undertaking to the effect that dues, to the extent possible, be collected directly from TSCHE (Telangana State Council of Higher Education) from the fee paid by the candidates at the time of counselling/admissions,” the letter said. The college managements have to sign an undertaking which states that they don’t have any objection for TSCHE to deduct the equivalent to the dues or the extent possible towards the affiliation fee, common services fee etc, including earlier dues from the tuition fee that would be collected from the students during the academic year 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-warns-colleges-on-fee-default/articleshow/79482224.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Armyman’s wife killed, son injured||Patiala: A 42-year-old woman was murdered and her 13-year-old son injured in an attack on them at their home in Partap Nagar in the early hours of Sunday. The victim has been identified as Jaswinder Kaur. She was the wife of an Armyman posted in Himachal Pradesh. Police said her injured son was initially rushed to the military hospital but later shifted to a private hospital. Police said the daughter of the victim was sleeping over in her friend’s house in the neighbourhood. The daughter, in her early twenties, rushed home after her mother did not respond to her phone calls on Sunday morning. Police are unsure whether there were one or more attackers. Sukhwinder Singh Gill, station house officer, Civil Lines, Patiala, said, “The woman was attacked with some sharp-edged weapons on various parts of her body. The assailants had left after presuming the 13-year-old boy had died. It is a blind murder.” Police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/armymans-wife-killed-son-injured/articleshow/79481400.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre gives Rs 86 lakh solar power subsidy to Chandigarh administration||CHANDIGARH: The central government has released Rs 86 lakh subsidy to the UT administration for the second phase to install solar panels on residential building rooftops. However, the amount is only for up to 10 kilowatt installations, implying that big houses will not get any subsidy. Similarly, the subsidy for institutions too is closed. They will have to bear the full cost of installing the solar panels. Now up to 3 kilowatt installation of solar panels on a residential property, the owner of the property will get 40% subsidy from Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) of the administration. From 3 kilowatt to 10 kilowatt, the owner will get 20% subsidy from the UT, according to the guidelines of the central government. In another crucial decision, the applicant will not have to go to the administration to take the subsidy amount after paying the full money to the selected vendor to install the solar panel. The applicant will have to pay only his fee to the vendor and rest the UT will directly pay. According to records of the administration, over 3,000 buildings have solar panels on their rooftops comprising both commercial as well as residential buildings located in different sectors. Moreover, currently, Chandigarh has been generating around 37.51 MW energy from solar panels. Box: Applicants to face no hassles: DalaiDebendra Dalai, chief executive officer, Crest, UT administration, said, “We have now received the second phase subsidy amount to give to residents for installing solar panels. Files for installations have already reached the department.” “We will now directly pay the subsidy amount to the vendor, making it a hassle-free exercise for the applicant. As the solar panel installation has become popular, the subsidy has been stopped for a capacity over 10 kilowatt,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-gives-rs-86-lakh-solar-power-subsidy-to-admn/articleshow/79481396.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||2 farmers die in bike-car collision in Kamareddy||Hyderabad: Two persons died and another suffered injuries when their bike was hit by a speeding car coming from the opposite direction in Kamareddy district on Saturday night.  The accident happened on the outskirts of Mengaram village on Kamareddy-Yellareddy road on Saturday night when three farmers from Mombajipet village in Kamareddy district were travelling on a bike. “On the outskirts of Mengaram village, a speeding car coming from opposite direction, collided with the bike. The road curves at the accident spot and due to speeding, the car entered the other half of the road and hit the bike,” Lingapur police said. At the time of mishap, farmers Sangaraju, 27, Bhaskar, 26, and Balaraju, 28, were travelling on the bike. “Sangaraju was riding the bike. Neither the rider nor the pillion riders wore helmets. Due to the high-speed collission, Sangaraju and Bhaskar suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot. Balaraju was rushed to a nearby hospital with multiple injuries. His condition is stable,” Lingapur police said. After the mishap, the accused abandoned the car at the spot and fled from the scene. Police identified the driver of the car as Ganesh from nearby Rampur village. A manhunt was launched to nab him. A case was registered under Sections 304-A and 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-farmers-die-in-bike-car-collision-in-kamareddy/articleshow/79482238.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Meerut||Two teachers die in road accident in Bijnor||Bijnor: Two men died on the spot when an unidentified vehicle hit their bike on Dhampur-Nagina road on Saturday night. Both sustained grievous injuries in their abdomen and head, police said. The deceased were identified as Sahdev Singh from Sundar Colony of Dhampur town and Pradeep Kumar from Islamabad village under Barhapur town. Both were teachers. They were on way home from Nagina, where they had gone to spread awareness about their teachers’ association. The accident took place on around 10:30pm. Dharamveer Singh, superintendent of police, said their families had been informed. A case has been registered against the unidentified driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-teachers-die-in-road-accident-in-bijnor/articleshow/79478535.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Testing spike reduces hospitalization, deaths||Nagpur: While number of new patients of Covid-19 is increasing daily, some factors prove that the current spike is not exactly the second wave. TOI had earlier reported that the increased testing, especially in rural areas, is the main reason behind the fresh spike of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha. At the same time, aggressive testing has yielded good results. Now, a large number of asymptomatic positive patients are getting detected across the region. Most of them are allowed to stay under home isolation and don’t need hospitalization. Reduction in hospitalization rate is providing the much-needed relief to the health manpower of region. As patients are being detected at early stage of infection, chances of recovery are also more. With more serious patients surviving, case fatality rate of the region is also going down. As compared to the September peak when similar number of cases (1000+) were reported in the region, the case fatality rate now is significantly low. In September, the region had reported 2,428 deaths in 30 days as against 90,204 cases. In November, the region has reported 27,172 cases and 507 deaths in 29 days. This clearly shows that fatalities have gone down significantly. However, this does not reflects when we count only the average case fatality rate, which is still around 2.66% in Vidarbha. Picture becomes clearer when we consider the monthly average case fatality rate. The case fatality rate of September was about 2.7%. In October, number of new cases reduced to half as compared to September and reached 41,730 but the month reported 1,192 deaths for monthly average fatality rate of 2.85%. The same has reduced to 1.8% in November. According to experts, reducing deaths and hospitalization rate are two specific indicators of good control over infection. If hospitalization rate of Covid-19 patients is below 50%, authorities consider it as a good sign and chances of restrictions/lockdown go down significantly. As far as Nagpur district is concerned, out of total 4,978 patients under treatment, 3,654 (73.4%) are in home isolation. In Gondia, nearly 70% of 1,126 patients are at home. In Yavatmal, 382 out of 511 patients are in home isolation. Hospital beds are vacant in most districts of Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/testing-spike-reduces-hospitalization-deaths/articleshow/79481418.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 30, 2020||Goa||Inside Goa’s coal projects: Shippingministry, MPT differ, state clueless||MARGAO: As controversy rages over Mormugao Port Trust’s (MPT) masterplan that has envisaged the port to be developed as a coal/coke import hub, the latest set of official documents pertaining to the Sagarmala projects proposed in Goa has only accentuated the coal conundrum. If MPT, in an October 13 letter to the ministry of shipping, proposed that four projects under the port’s masterplan—two of which are among the Sagarmala projects—be dropped, an RTI reply of November 24 by the shipping ministry reveals that none of the projects proposed to be dropped by MPT figure in the list of projects already dropped by the Centre from the Sagarmala programme. What’s significant is that while three of the four projects proposed to be dropped by MPT are directly related to coal transportation through railway, the ones dropped by the ministry of shipping under Sagarmala have no co-relation with coal transportation or double-tracking. The shipping ministry’s reply comes nearly a fortnight after chief minister Pramod Sawant met shipping minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Delhi and said the Centre has assured him that Goa would not be turned into a coal hub and MPT would diversify into other sectors. Environment minister Nilesh Cabral also tried to put up a brave front by saying the chief minister would soon get a letter from the Centre that “coal will not be handled at MPT”. While Sawant and Cabral brazened it out, the Centre showed no inclination of putting any curbs on coal transportation or increasing the coal handling capacity. In a clear deviation from what the state government has been claiming, the shipping ministry has said the three projects that are listed to be dropped from Sagarmala are: Rail flyover between Majorda and Margao stations estimated to cost Rs 1,000 crore; development of coastal cargo and general cargo berth at a cost of Rs 203 crore; and development of Petroleum Oil and Lubricants (POL) berth at Mormugao for Rs 156 crore. MPT, on its part, had suggested dropping four projects from the masterplan: Deepening of approach channel to facilitate berthing of capesize vessels, development of two berths with connecting flyover at Vasco bay, outer harbour of iron ore and coal terminal and multipurpose terminal at Betul. The first two projects, estimated to cost Rs 194 crore and Rs 855 crore, respectively, had been included under the Sagarmala programme. The apparent contradiction between MPT’s missive to ministry of shipping, and the latter’s reply has led to a demand for the government to clear the air over the issues. “This appears to be another attempt,” said lawyer Savio Correia, “to confuse Goans after being unsuccessful in convincing them. All three agencies, the shipping ministry, MPT and the state government must together come clean on the matter. As it is, there is a tremendous trust deficit between the political class and the public. Such things will only widen the gap.” What’s ironic, said Corriea, is that the three dropped projects are non-polluting ones, while the coal capacity enhancement proposals under Sagarmala are still live in the list. Moreover, denials by the state government notwithstanding with regards to co-relation between coal transportation and double-tracking, MPT in its proposal to the ministry of shipping has clearly laid bare the fact that the at least two of the four projects to be dropped from its masterplan were linked to double-tracking of the South Western Railway route. Apart from citing high capital cost, drop in iron cargo and other factors as the reasons for dropping the “deepening of approach channel” project, MPT has clearly stated that “non-completion of SWR doubling” has rendered the project non-viable. As for the “outer harbour for iron ore and coal terminal” project, MPT’s proposal clearly acknowledges the project’s “dependency on railway doubling” and cites its “much delayed” status as a reason for proposing it to be dropped. Under the masterplan report for Goa, MPT is envisaged as a coal/coke import hub with a projected capacity of 51 MTPA (million tonne per annum) by 2035 to cater to existing and proposed steel plants in and around Karnataka’s hinterlands. The Sagarmala project envisages various infrastructural projects to evacuate this 51 MTPA coal/coke from MPT and enable a quick turnaround for the ships. Hence, it has proposed the double-tracking of Hospet-Vasco rail line, four-laning of NH-4 from Panaji to Belgaum and missing link of NH-17B connecting Verna and Ponda. In addition, several jetties are proposed along Goa’s rivers (national waterways) essentially for coal transportation. As reported by TOI earlier, the masterplan for Momugao port prepared in 2016 has laid much emphasis on completion of the double line railway track with last mile connectivity by 2019 “in order to improve the port’s evacuation capacity”. “Doubling of the line has to be completed with last mile connectivity by 2019 in order to ensure the port’s evacuation capacity is in line with terminal capacity and demand in the hinterland. This is the most important initiative and lifeline for the port operations in the future. Local government has to be pressurised from the Centre for the completion of doubling of the line,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/inside-goas-coal-projects-shippingministry-mpt-differ-state-clueless/articleshow/79481399.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
November 30, 2020||Goa||Resolve infra issues, cut red tape if MPT has to diversify: Exporters||PANAJI: If the government is serious about diversifying operations at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) and weaning it away from coal transportation, the state government needs to implement the recommendations made in the Export Strategy of Goa, said the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO). A 69-page document prepared by the federation and notified four days earlier, says that unnecessary red tape and lack of infrastructure keeps importers and exporters away from the major port. Work on the Export Strategy of Goa report began in 2018, and took three years to complete. The report said that the state government needs to constitute a task force committee comprising officials from MPT and exporters to examine the hurdles faced at the port. There is a cost and time disadvantage at MPT with a time delay of around 7-12 days when goods are moved through it. The cost to offload and preserve the cargo is also high, due to the lack of reliable power supply at the port. “Consignments at Tuticorin and Mangalore are cleared in a day or two, but it takes about 5-7 days in Goa. The clearance process needs to be expedited,” said the report. FIEO also said that identified delays in customs clearance and checks by authorities are also reasons why exporters and importers prefer JNPT in Mumbai. Around 150 containers of pharmaceutical goods are sent to Mumbai on daily basis for export from JNPT. Seafood exporters said that the lack of reefer plug points at MPT detracts seafood exporters. Due to the closure of the iron ore mining sector and restrictions on coal handling, MPT currently lacks the funds to build infrastructure at the port. FIEO has suggested that the state government should coordinate with MPT and put in a proposal under the Centre’s Trade Infrastructure for Export scheme (TIES) to create the required infrastructure. Resumption of the feeder vessel to JNPT should be explored, provided the industry and the state provide support and that the vessel gets priority berthing at JNPT, the report said. These issues will have to be addressed if the state government wants to reduce coal handling by 50% from the existing levels of and would ensure that it does not exceed 14-15 million tonnes, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/resolve-infra-issues-cut-red-tape-if-mpt-has-to-diversify-exporters/articleshow/79481409.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 30, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai school to take students on a ‘train ride’||TRICHY: Realising that many of its students had not travelled by a train, the administration of a rural government school in Pudukottai district has come up with an idea and painted the outer wall of the classrooms to resemble a train in order to treat the students once they return to school. While the teachers of the school were planning to take the students on a trip on a train, they had postponed it due to Covid-19 lockdown. However, the teachers decided to utilise the lockdown period to paint the walls to resemble a train and bring smiles on their students’ faces. Three teachers along with the headmaster spent Rs 12,000 to paint an 80 feet long wall on the corridor like a train and it took nearly a month to finish it. Some of the class X students who visited the school on Saturday for enrolling themselves for National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) were surprised to find the walls painted the way they were. S Antony, headmaster of the school recalled how he was surprised to find that only a few students of the school had travelled by a train. “While majority of the 230 students in the high school had not travelled by a train, we decided to take some of them for a train journey. As it didn’t materialise, we decided to give them the feel of travelling by a train at the school,” he said. R Rajendran, drawing teacher at the school, who was one the teachers who painted the wall, said that they have tried to include every detail of a train to make the painting look authentic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-school-to-take-students-on-a-train-ride/articleshow/79482243.cms||K Sambath Kumar
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Less than 1% Covid +ves in NMC’s CCCs||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s plan to isolate asymptomatic and mild symptomatic Covid-19 patients, who do not have isolation facilities at home, in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) has miserably failed. Less than 1% active Covid patients are in civic body-run CCCs. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on November 2 had directed civic officials to compulsorily isolate asymptomatic and mild symptomatic Covid-19 patients in the CCCs, to curb spread of the virus. As per district civil surgeon’s data, active cases in the district were 4,978 as on Sunday, of which 4,338 are from city and 640 from rural. Of the 4,338 cases in the city, around 900 were admitted in government and private hospitals. Around 250 new patients were under the process of admission. Of the remaining 3,188 patients, only 37 were in CCCs — 9 in VNIT CCC and 28 in Pachpaoli and remaining in home isolation. Total capacity in the three CCCs is over 1,400. NMC officials did not respond to TOI’s calls. Chairman of NMC’s health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja told TOI, “I met civic chief and suggested the plan. There are always chances of spread of the disease if people, who are not having isolation facilities at home, stay in their houses. Majority of patients do not have isolation facilities. Even patients from slums are availing home isolation facility. NMC administration should ensure effective execution of the plan as it is very crucial for ending the chain of the virus spread.” Since March 11 when the first Covid case was detected in the city, Covid positive persons, irrespective of symptoms, were compulsorily admitted in IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS. High and low risk contacts were also compulsorily quarantined in institutional centres. At that time, deaths were very less and spread was low. As the Covid cases started rising burdening the health care infrastructure, home isolation and home quarantine was allowed in the last week of July. Since then, the city has witnessed surge in cases and Covid deaths. On the other hand, NMC-run Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) have continued to be almost vacant. The civic body is functioning four DCHCs with a capacity of around 319 beds at LAD Square, Sadar, Pachpaoli and Imambada. On Sunday, DCHC situated at LAD Square was having 12 Covid patients and only 2 at Imambada, which is being run in association with Sai Mandir Trust. No patient was at the DCHCs located at Pachpaoli and Sadar. AIIMS, which is also a DCHC, was having 37 patients as on Sunday. Majority of private hospitals are functioning as DCHC and having more patients compared with the NMC’s. Corporator Dr Ravindra Bhoyar, who is coordinator of DCHC at Imambada, said, “NMC’s responsibility is to provide primary health care. The civic body is successfully running testing centres. It has converted primary health centres and hospitals into DCHCs to facilitate beds whenever cases increase and beds are not available. Therefore, there is nothing to worry about occupancy in NMC-run Covid hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-1-covid-ves-in-nmcs-cccs/articleshow/79481430.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist’s forest cover drops by over 2%||Aurangabad: More than 2% drop in Aurangabad district’s forest cover has been recorded over the period of last three year (till 2019), as per the latest report of the Indian State Forest. The reduction in forest area despite the presence of state-supported eco-battalion has generated angry reactions from nature activists. Besides Aurangabad, four other Marathwada districts — Beed (-11%), Parbhani (-8%), Jalna (-1.5%) and Hingoli (-1%) — have reported a decline in forest cover. Among other key districts, Nashik and Pune have reported 8% and 3% increase in the forest cover, respectively, whereas the green cover has reduced by over 9% in Kolhapur district. Hemant Chhajed, the ex-member of the state committee for forest lands, on Sunday accused the forest department of showing reluctance in protecting its own land. “As per official reports, Aurangabad district alone had around over 15,000 hectare of forest land under different encroachments since 2014. The forest department not only failed in removing these encroachments, but did not bother to prevent fresh encroachments, resulting into decline in the forest cover,” he said. Aurangabad district has total geographical area of 10,131 sqkm and the percentage of forest area stands at 5.61% as per assessment done in 2019 — a drop of 2.07% as compared to 2017. The district has around 568 sqkm forest area, out of which only 20 sqkm account for very dense forest, followed by 106.26 sqkm moderate dense forest and 441.67 sqkm of open forest. When contacted, chief conservator of forest (territorial) for Aurangabad division said the Indian State Forest report 2019 does not reflect the latest situation of forest cover in Aurangabad district. “The report concerned requires lot of data-processing at the national level. With concerted efforts on our own and with the help of eco-battalion, we expect certain increase in the forest cover as of now,” he said. Conservationists, however, have trashed such claims. “The forest department must present the data to support their claim instead of making vague statements,” wildlife photographer Waseem Quadri said. As per the aforesaid report, Nanded (2.76%), Osmanabad (2.66%) and Latur (1.02%) are three districts from Marathwada that have reported increase in the forest cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dists-forest-cover-drops-by-over-2/articleshow/79479816.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Some debris found, but MiG pilot still missing||PANAJI: With the search for the Indian Navy’s downed MiG 29KUB and its missing pilot entering the fourth day, search and rescue teams are racing against time to find naval pilot, commander Nishant Singh. While some debris from the twin-engine aircraft has been located, the naval aviator has not been found. The Indian Navy has deployed every available asset to search for the missing pilot, who is a qualified flight instructor. The Russian-built fighter crashed into the sea on November 26 after taking off from the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. The trainee pilot ejected safely and was rescued the same day. “Indian Navy’s search and rescue effort to locate the second pilot of the MiG-29K trainer aircraft which ditched off Goa on November 26 continues with extensive deployment of naval ships and aircraft,” an Indian Navy statement reads. In addition to the nine warships and 14 aircraft engaged in the search efforts, the navy has also deployed its fast interceptor craft to search waters along the coast. “Further, the marine and coastal police are on the lookout and nearby fishing villages have been sensitised,” it states. A naval official said that Dornier maritime patrol aircraft, the P-8i long range maritime surveillance aircraft and helicopters both from the INS Vikramaditya and from INS Hansa are scouring the waters off Goa for Singh. An Indian Air Force C-130 is also part of the search operations. So far, the Indian Navy have found debris from the landing gear, turbo charger, fuel tank, engine and wing engine cowling. Naval pilots use specialised safety gear while flying which includes an auto-inflatable life vests, known as the Mae-vest, a personal locator beacon, emergency location transmitter and a life raft. Pilots also train for water landing or ditching, ejections over water and water survival. Naval authorities will also be talking to the survivor for crucial details while also searching for the flight data recorder or “black box” to understand the circumstances that led to the loss of the fighter jet. Search and rescue helicopters were launched immediately from the INS Vikramaditya, while radar controllers kept track of the location where the aircraft was last recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/some-debris-found-but-mig-pilot-still-missing/articleshow/79481413.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 30, 2020||Trichy||‘Difficult to make students focus during online classes’||Trichy: While many of the schools are preparing students for the online half-yearly examination, many teachers said that the Diwali holidays have dampened their efforts as they are now finding it difficult to bring the focus of students back on the academic activities.Online classes became order of the day in the self-financing schools since Covid-19 lockdown started in March. While this was done to ensure that students do not lose track of their academics, it took some time for teachers to get accustomed to virtual mode of teaching.Students are still finding difficulties when it comes to concentrating on the virtual classroom sessions. “We have witnessed an increase in number of students skipping classes after the festival holidays,” said R Sahayaraj from Jegan Matha Matriculation school, KK Nagar.We found that they have been skipping the classes for close to a week, he said. This made us contact the parents and take steps to get their children to compulsorily attend the classes, he said. S Annlakshmi, a parent said that his son in Class VIII of a private school in the city has been refusing to attend classes saying that he is unable to understand the concepts.Apart from the holidays, lack of discussion and in-person interaction has made the students lose interest in the online classes, she said. Maatha matriculation school in Trichy sends link of pre-recorded online classes to parents for children from Class I-VII. While teachers coordinate with parents on making them watch the videos, online live sessions are organised for students from for the high and higher secondary classes.K Nalini, principal of Maatha matriculation school in Trichy said that bringing the focus back to the class for students on Monday and Tuesday itself is challenging after weekend holidays, extended holidays are even more challenging.We have asked teachers to talk to the parents of such students so that children pay attention in the classes that are being conducted online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/difficult-to-make-students-focus-during-online-classes/articleshow/79482266.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Professor kills self||Hyderabad: A 40-year-old professor in Hyderabad Central University (HCU) committed suicide by hanging himself to the ceiling on Sunday at his quarter inside university campus. Gachibowli police said that Rishi Bharadwaj, a professor in department of medical science, took the extreme step when his wife went to take a walk. By the time his wife returned home, he was found hanging using bed sheet. Police were informed by the university authorities. He left a suicide note but did not mention the reason for taking the extreme step. Police registered a case under they are investigating the case. Police said that he might had committed suicide due to personal problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/professor-kills-self/articleshow/79482271.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||Not impacted by new laws, Maharashtra farmers stare at losses||NAGPUR: As farmers in Punjab and Haryana are on a warpath against the central government, the peasants of Maharashtra — the state known for agrarian crisis — remains indifferent. Activists say even as this is one of the worst years for the farmers here, the dynamics in Maharashtra are different as compared to the northern states, due to which the new farm laws may not have an immediate impact. The rates of cotton and soybean, the main crops of the region, have improved but farmers have suffered losses in both, say activists. The farmers in Punjab and Haryana mainly cultivate wheat and paddy for which they depend on the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for procurement at MSP. They fear that dilution of the MSP under new laws will hamper their interests. Farmers in the state, including Vidarbha, since long have been exposed to the private traders. MSP intervention has happened only as and when needed, said observers. The state government has deferred the implementation of the three agriculture laws that allow sale of farm produce out of the APMC and contract farming apart from removing commodities like cereals, pulses, onions and potatoes from the list of essential commodities. Buying at MSP has also begun by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) in Vidarbha and cotton growing parts. Rates of soybean too are above the MSP. Despite everything, it’s a tough year for the farmers, say activists. “Rates of cotton and soybean have improved only because of a low output. Soybean produce has gone below half of the last year’s average, so is with cotton,” said Shetkari Sangathana veteran Vijay Jawandhia. Former MP Raju Shetti said protests were held in every district this month. “The new farm laws may not have an immediate impact on the farmers here but will certainly affect in the long run,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-impacted-by-new-laws-maharashtra-farmers-stare-at-losses/articleshow/79482859.cms||Shishir Arya
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||State move not to cut syllabus will hurt pupils, say academics||Nagpur: Senior academics feel that state government’s insistence on not trimming the SSC and HSC syllabus further will hurt students. The education minister’s recent statement to a media outlet on holding the board exam possibly in April or May is being interpreted by teachers as a move to not reduce the syllabus further more from the earlier 25% cut. Ashok Gavhankar, principal of Raosaheb Thawre High School and Junior College, said, “The state government is not realizing the blunder it is about to commit. Schools are closed in many places and there is no way the course can be completed. When CBSE has reduced its syllabus by 30%, there is no logic behind the state board’s decision to cut it only by 25%. Even that would have worked if schools had opened in October.” Zafar Khan, president of School Headmasters’ Charitable Association (SHCA), said, “The problem is that even the government is assuming that every student in the state has access to online classes. They have planned it by keeping students from decent socio-economic background in mind. It will be so unfair to my students who live in slums in Nagpur, have no access to online classes and then are forced to appear for SSC or HSC along with another who has been learning online throughout.” Dilip Bose, a senior academic, said the syllabus has simply reduced topics. “They should have cut certain chapters and not topics. Now we have a situation where many topics can’t be taught unless the deleted topics are taught first,” said Bose, secretary of SHCA. Sundeep Gaikwad, vice president of SHCA and principal of Mecosabagh Methodist High School, said, “When you are teaching topics, then the entire chapter has to be taught by default. Cutting out chapters would have been a better option. Now the situation is that many of our students have not had even a day’s schooling but within months they will be appearing for board exams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-move-not-to-cut-syllabus-will-hurt-pupils-say-academics/articleshow/79481432.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Neglecting us can cost TRS votes: Private teachers||Hyderabad: Claiming that the state government has completely neglected private teachers during the pandemic and in the past five years, private teachers working in about 6000 schools in the GHMC limits said that neglecting them further could cost dearer to the ruling TRS. Telangana Private Teachers Forum (TPTF) said that at least now the state government should conduct a meeting with the private teachers and address their long-pending demands. “There are more than one lakh private teachers in the GHMC limits. There are about another 30, 000 to 50, 000 non-teaching staff in the private schools. Losing our votes will have a negative impact on any party’s poll outcome,” said Shabir Ali, president, TPTF. He said that almost 25 teachers have committed suicide since the lockdown due to financial crisis and added that the state should take measures so that no teacher faces such crisis.  Teachers have been asking the state to give them an allowance of Rs 10, 000 per month for each teacher or ensure that school managements pay them full salaries, pay ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh to each teacher who committed suicide in the past eight months. Other demands of teachers include providing EPF, ESI, and insurance to all the teaching and non-teaching staff working in private schools, forming a committee to regulate private schools. Teachers questioned why the state is not thinking about private teachers when it has announced relief to all other sectors including the film industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/neglecting-us-can-cost-trs-votes-private-teachers/articleshow/79482284.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Liar, says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh; your govt to blame if Covid spreads, hits back Manohar Lal Khattar||CHANDIGARH: The war of words between chief ministers of Congress-led Punjab and BJP-headed Haryana, over the issue of agitation by farmers and the use of force by Haryana Police against them, continued on Sunday. Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh said his Haryana counterpart, Manohar Lal Khattar, could have used official channels or called up on his mobile phone, rather than making calls to his attendant, if he really wanted to talk to him on the issue, while the latter said the Punjab government would be responsible in case the Covid-19 situation got bad in the state, especially in Sonipat where thousands of protesters had gathered. “We have cleared our stand. The Centre has directed state governments to avoid any kind of gatherings in their states. (When) we decided we shall not allow any kind of gathering, (then) how come CM Amarinder Singh allowed farmers to agitate for two months?” Khattar said. The Punjab CM said if Khattar was so concerned about farmers spreading Covid in Haryana, he should not have stopped them within the state, but should have allowed them to move quickly to Delhi. Amarinder trashed call records released by Khattar as “complete fraud” and said flaunting a page of his own office register could not condone Khattar’s “lies”. Khattar had earlier said he had tried to contact Amarinder on the issue of protesting farmers many times, but could not connect. Khattar, interacting with media in Hisar on Sunday, attacked Amarinder for “use of inappropriate language”. “I tried to reach out to him a number of times. What to talk of acknowledging my efforts, he even tried to call me a liar? When we gave him the proof of call details, they did not utter a single word,” the Haryana CM said. However, Amarinder said by releasing call record copies, purporting to be of Haryana CM office’s attempt to get in touch with him, the Haryana chief minister had exposed his deception even more sharply. “If at all someone from his office called my residence, why were the calls made to an attendant? Why were official channels not used to get in touch with me?” said Amarinder. The Punjab CM added top officials of Punjab and Haryana had been in touch with each other on farmers’ issues for several days, yet none of these officials conveyed Khattar’s desire to talk to him at any point in time. “How many times in the past has Khattar used the attendant channel to get in touch with me?” asked Amarinder. Khattar’s private secretary had on Saturday released details of 13 telephonic calls made on November 23 and 24 to Amarinder, after the Punjab CM had denied receiving any calls from his Haryana counterpart. Earlier, Punjab CM had attacked Khattar for police action and said he would not speak to the Haryana CM till he apologised to farmers. On Sunday too, Khattar talked about presence of miscreants (separatists) among the agitating farmers who could cause law and order trouble in the state. “We have seen videos which clearly support the allegation. Besides, we have got certain inputs on which we shall not elaborate right now. This issue is under investigation and appropriate action will follow,” he added. Countering Khattar’s remarks that farmers should not block Haryana’s borders, Amarinder pointed out that it was Khattar’s government and police that had been blocking borders for three days by forcibly stopping farmers from proceeding to Delhi. Amarinder flayed Khattar’s persistent denial of use of force by Haryana Police, stating all visuals were a matter of public record captured by the media. He also said Khattar’s lies on the issue had been totally exposed by Haryana farmers themselves, as they had not only rejected their chief minister’s claims that no farmer from his state had joined the march, but had shown identity cards issued by the Haryana government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/liar-says-capt-your-govt-to-blame-if-covid-spreads-hits-back-khattar/articleshow/79481437.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Some doctors say Covid-19 virus getting milder||Nagpur: After observing a striking similarity between dengue and Covid patients a fortnight ago, GMCH medical superitendent Dr Avinash Gawande on Sunday said patient readings from last week show the coronavirus was probably getting less severe with positive persons not reporting fever but mostly cough and cold. “One inference can be that the virus is mild as it keeps mutating. I have been getting a lot of teleconsultation patients on a daily basis. Almost all say their entire family was having Covid. Most say they only have cough and cold. Even those having fever is not high grade as in the past,” he said adding that two weeks ago fever with chills was seen. This is quite different from August-September, when, if a family got infected, at least one or two members would turn moderately or severely ill. Some doctors at city’s private hospitals also claimed to have seen a similar trend while others didn’t observe any change. Seven Star Hospital’s Covid team in-charge Dr Mohan Nerker agreed now patients were generally reporting with cough and breathlessness. “We too observed fever in fewer patients. They are coming with bigger complications. They have a very short history of fever followed by weakness. Some have cough and are found positive in chest scan,” he said adding in August and September, high grade fever was common in Covid patients. Dr Hema Dhoble, head of Covid Unit at Suretech Hospital, Jamtha, said they were getting a mix of patients. “Some elderly or comorbid patients are having cough and fever after three to four days of testing. But it is not high grade fever. I feel this is because people are taking self-medication and starting pills like Dolo and Azee on their own,” she said. Dr Nerker too said younger patient were not needing hospitalization. Kingsway Hospitals’ internal medicine expert Dr Harwardhan Bora said people with cough and cold were patients of common cold and shouldn’t be confused with Covid patients. “People shouldn’t panic and get themselves tested to confirm. Common cold is rising due to seasonal flu. If it is associated with diarrhoea, breathlessness, comorbidity or old age, then be careful,” he said. Infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade too said not noticing fever is one possibility. “We are still getting critical patients. With winter onset, Covid is overlapping with regular flu. But people shouldn’t neglect it and get tested. Virus has tendency to mutate and might give different symptoms not reported earlier. Only NIV data can tell if virus is actually undergoing change,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/some-doctors-say-covid-19-virus-getting-milder/articleshow/79481441.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 30, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR announces two special trains||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced two special trains between Narsapur and Nagarsol. As per official release, Narsapur-Nagarsol special train (02713) will be pressed into service on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. The train is scheduled to leave Narsapur at 11.05 am and reach the destination by 6.55 am on the next day. In the return direction, Nagarsol-Narsapur special train (02714) will leave from Nagarsol at 12.50 pm on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday. The train is expected to reach Narsapur at 8.35 am on the next day. These special trains will stop at Palakollu, Bhimavaram Town, Akividu, Kaikalur, Gudivada, Vijayawada, Khammam, Warangal, Kazipet, Secunderabad, Kamareddy, Nizamabad, Basar, Mudkhed, Nanded, Purna, Parbhani, Jalna and Aurangabad in both the directions. The Narsapur-Nagarsol-Narsapur, a bi-weekly special train, has also been announced by the SCR. The Narsapur-Nagarsol bi-weekly special train (07231) will depart from Narsapur at 11.05 am on Friday and Sunday from December 11. The train will reach Nagarsol at 9.45 am on the next day. In the return direction, Nagarsol-Narsapur (07232) will depart from Nagarsol at 12.50 pm on Saturday and Monday from December 12. The train is scheduled to reach Narsapur at 9.40 am on the next day. Enroute, these special trains will also stop at Aurangabad, Jalna, Parbhani, Purna, Nanded, Mudkhed, Basar, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Secunderabad, Guntur, Mangalagiri, Vijayawada, Gudivada, Kaikalur, Akividu, Bhimavaram Town and Palakollu in both the directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-announces-two-special-trains/articleshow/79479875.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||43,600 healthcare staff sign up for shots in Pune, some hesitant||PUNE: A total of 43,600 healthcare workers, mainly employed at city hospitals and clinics, have so far signed up to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. They will be part of a database of names maintained by the PMC's health department on frontline workers eligible for priority inoculation. But the number still doesn't represent the true size of Pune's medical workforce. There are an estimated 60,000 healthcare workers in the city, who are involved in tasks ranging from patient care to administrative duties. Officials said quite a few of these workers appeared unwilling to receive the vaccine as they believed they already had immunity after likely infection. Many others, officials said, were waiting for support and more clarity on the vaccines from representative groups such as the Association of Physicians of India (API) and the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA's Hospital Board of India, said, "Most of the medical staff and non-medical staff in Pune have volunteered to take the vaccine. A small proportion of doctors and nurses have not yet registered." He added, "Some feel they do not need a vaccine because they say they may have some immunity due to past infection. But there are a few who are opting out because they believe the development process of the Covid vaccine has not been very transparent. There are people worried about the safety and efficacy of the shot." Vaccination among frontline workers is a voluntary exercise. The city's chief immunization officer Amit Shah, "The registration process is still on. A total 43,607 healthcare workers including doctors, paramedics and other non-clinical staff working with the doctors and hospitals have so far submitted their names." Unlike the swine flu pandemic in 2009-2010, when fewer doctors and paramedics were affected, Covid has had a substantial impact on frontline medical staff. Many have also lost their lives. "So healthcare workers, mainly doctors and nurse, will sign up for the vaccine as there is a lot of concern among them," a state health official said. Senior physician Mukund Penurkar, secretary of the API's Pune branch said, "All 350 physicians who are members of the API, Pune branch, have volunteered to take the Covid vaccine in Pune. As for validation, the API will certainly support a vaccine. This validation will be published in our journal soon." Experts said the priority vaccination phase will be closely observed by many. Epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee said, "The general public takes its cues from healthcare professionals. If they are themselves hesitant, it can have a trickledown effect. It is then crucial to boost confidence among our healthcare workers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/43600-healthcare-workers-register-for-vaccination-vaccine-hesitancy-among-few/articleshow/79482317.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 30, 2020||Goa||Release NIO report on diversion’s impact on Mhadei: Congress||PANAJI: BJP sold Mhadei for gains in the Karnataka election and is now shedding crocodile tears in Goa, Congress said here on Sunday. Congress has demanded that a report prepared by the National Institute of Oceanography on the impact of diversion of water on the river Mandovi should be released in the public domain. “It is strange when the chief minister says that out-of-court settlement is not possible over this dispute with Karnataka, when the neighbouring state is also ruled by BJP and the Centre too,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said. Sawant on Friday admitted that the water level at Mhadei basin has reduced and said that the BJP government is firm on a contempt petition filed against Karnataka for diverting the flow of Mhadei river and hence he will not go for out-of-court settlement. “People of Goa know that BJP has compromised Mhadei for political gains. But still an all party delegation met BJP leaders, now we are ready to demonstrate in front of the Prime Minister’s Office if Pramod Sawant is really serious about the Mhadei issue,” Chodankar said. “Actually Pramod Sawant should accept the mistake that the government initially failed to tackle the issue, rather than now admitting that water is reduced in Mhadei basin. Goans are not blind over the issue, but know that BJP compromised Mhadei to derive political dividend in Karnataka.” Chodankar alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-release-nio-report-on-diversions-impact-on-mhadei/articleshow/79482326.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Meerut||UP paper mills feel heat as Covid hits waste paper imports from Europe, US||Muzaffarnagar: Paper mills in Uttar Pradesh are at the risk of closure as the Covid-19 pandemic has hit waste paper imports from several European countries and the US. With the pandemic hitting the supply of raw material hard, industrialists are looking towards the government for help. There are as many as 120 paper mills in UP, of which 25 units operate in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli districts. Bearing the brunt of the raw material shortage, worried millers huddled at Sidhbali paper mill here on Saturday looking for a way out from the pressing situation. “We need government’s help in the form of a subsidy on the transportation of raw material from Mumbai’s dock (port) to Muzaffarnagar; otherwise, we will have to shut our units,” Bhimsen Kansal, a miller, told TOI.“As several European nations, including the UK, have entered another phase of lockdown with the Covid-19 cases multiplying rapidly, waste paper collection in those countries has been stopped, shooting the export price through the roof. Besides, there is a difficulty in the shipment of the waste paper consignments. All these factors together have resulted in a huge shortage of the raw material in paper mills in Uttar Pardesh, including Muzaffarnagar and Shamli,” added Kansal.Delhi is also a big exporter of waste paper for the paper mills and craft paper mills, but the national capital is also unable to provide the required raw material. Besides, hoarding of waste paper by local ragmen has also shot up the waste paper price, which is aggravated by the shortage of labourers. “Two months ago, the waste paper price was Rs10 per kg. It now costs us up to Rs 18 per kg. In such a scenario, we need a subsidy on transport from the government for our survival. As many as four paper mills have shut down in Muzaffarnagar, so far,” said Pankaj Agarwal, state president, UP Paper Manufacturing Association. “The 120 paper manufacturing units in the state, including as many as 25 mills in Muzaffarnagar and neighbouring Shamli districts, account for an annual turnover of Rs 15,000 crore,” added Agrawal.Notably, paper mills depend heavily on waste paper supplied from the US, the UK and other European nations, and various Indian cities, Delhi. Although the quantity of waste paper consumption in a unit depends on its production capacity, a paper mill needs nearly 30,000 to 1 lakh tonne of paper waste in a year.Ghaziabad-based paper mill owner Punit Kumar, too, said, “Nearly eight paper manufacturing units functional in Ghaziabad and Noida facing a huge shortage of paper waste. My unit operates only four or five days a week due to the shortage of waste paper.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-paper-mills-feel-heat-as-covid-hits-waste-paper-imports-from-europe-us/articleshow/79479867.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Parents to sit on indefinite strike at Shaheed Smarak in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Parents of children studying in private schools here will launch an indefinite protest at Shaheed Smarak from Monday demanding a quick decision on the fee issue and strict action against schools who are blocking children from online classes. Schools have asked parents to deposit 70% of the fees by November 30. One private school has even clamped a fine of Rs 15 per day for any delay. Sanyukt Abhibhavak Sangh in Rajasthan has announced that they will start their protest against schools for forcefully charging fees and blocking students from online classes. Abhishek Jain, a member of the organisation, said they were fed up with complaints with schools forcing them to pay fees. “There is a need for government’s intervention regarding the dictatorial attitude of private schools. The matter is pending in the court and students have been blocked from online classes. This is not acceptable and government must intervene,” said Jain. There other demands including putting a cap of 25% school fees this year, unanimity in syllabus reduction among all school boards and schools should make public their reserve funds. Sunil Yadav, member of All Rajasthan Parents Forum, said private schools were violating the norms of the high court. “When Rajasthan High Court has already said that until a decision is announced, private schools cannot force parents to pay fees. Many parents are complaining that their kids were being harassed for payment of fees. This is contempt of court,” said Yadav. All Rajasthan Parents Forum has lodged a complaint in the office of district education officer naming 64 parents being harassed by 17 private schools of the city. “We will meet the education minister regarding this and if they don’t take any decision, our organisation will hit the streets,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-to-sit-on-indefinite-strike-at-shaheed-smarak/articleshow/79481446.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed woman dead in leopard attack; big cat avoids capture||AURANGABAD: A woman was killed in a leopard attack on Sunday evening in Pargaon Jogeshwari village of Ashti taluka of Beed district, taking the total number of causalities in such attacks to three. According to sources from the forest department, the middle-aged woman had gone to her cotton farm where the leopard attacked her. “The latest cases of human-animal conflict in Ashti taluka are very unique. The leopard is selective in attacking humans. The big cat did not harm any cattle which is a very strange behaviour, ” wildlife warden for Nanded division Atindra Katti said. The leopard, which is being traced by over a dozen teams of the forest department, along with drones, remained elusive till Sunday night. The forest department which has deployed multiple teams in search of the leopard, has been facing public pressure over the repeated attack by the wild animal on villagers. On Friday, a 10-year-old boy was mauled to death by a leopard in a farm in Ashti taluka of Beed district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-woman-dead-in-leopard-attack-big-cat-avoids-capture/articleshow/79479891.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Four held with sex-boosting party drug MD worth Rs10L smuggled from Mumbai||Nagpur: In a raid on Saturday, a consignment of 256 gms of Mephedrone (MD) drugs worth around Rs10.24 lakh was seized from a peddler having links with Mumbai-based inter-state dealers. While four persons were arrested, three are on the run. MD, a party drug and sex enhancer, has been in high demand in the city, especially among youngsters. Mumbai-based dealers like Amir Khan Atik Khan are the main suppliers to the city’s narcotics networks. Earlier, city police chief Amitesh Kumar had issued a strict warning to the crime branch to crack down on narcotic dealers and bust their dens. A special team from the crime branch, which deals with narcotics cases, had laid a trap and nabbed Phoolsingh Patti from Vaidyanath Chowk where he had gone to collect a parcel from a bus which had come from Mumbai. Patti was directed to reach the spot by Mumbai-based dealer Amir Khan Atik Khan. It’s learnt that Patti was sent to collect the consignment on behalf of Yash Punyani and Mohd Amir Malik. Punyani had sent Prashant Sute to collect his consignment from Patti. Sute too landed in the police trap set up by senior inspector Sarthak Nehete and his team comprising naik constable Rajesh Deshmukh, constable Nitin Mishra and others. Later, the police also netted Mohd Asif who worked for Malik and Azhar Patel from a place near Mayo Hospital where he had come to collect MD from Patti. “The MD racketeers started bringing narcotics from Mumbai via busses in small packets,” said Nehete, who worked on the inputs under the supervision of ACP Sudhir Nandanwar, DCP Gajanan Rajmane and additional CP Sunil Phulari. Last week, Nehete’s team had nabbed Patel’s younger brother Sohail and also seized MD. Patti, Sute, Patel and Asif were produced before the court which remanded them in police custody till December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-held-with-sex-boosting-party-drug-md-worth-rs10l-smuggled-from-mumbai/articleshow/79481449.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb Cong chief hits out at PM||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday said the cold shoulder given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to farmers’ concerns during his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme spoke volumes of the insensitivity and apathy of BJP towards the issue of farmers. Stating that the PM’s statement reflected the NDA’s arrogance, Jakhar said it made it clear that neither the BJP government was sincere in resolving farmers’ concerns through negotiations nor have any respect for their sentiments. The Punjab Congress president also assailed the PM for saying that these laws had benefitted farmers and these laws had been framed in consultation with all stakeholders. Jakhar said in reality these laws had been framed in consultation with corporates only to the detriment of farming community. The Punjab Congress president also said the PM must tell the nation if the maize farmer, whom he referred to in Sunday’s Mann Ki Baat programme, had received minimum support price (MSP) for the maize crop. Jakhar said if agriculture laws were really pro-farmer, the BJP government must explain why payment of Rs 12,000 crore to sugarcane cultivators was still pending and not paid within three days as stipulated in the new laws. Jakhar said as a matter of fact these farm laws were worse than demonetisation and would have far severe repercussions in coming days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-cong-chief-hits-out-at-pm/articleshow/79481439.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||Highest active cases across Ravet, Kiwale, Chinchwad||Pimpri Chinchwad: Ravet, Kiwale, and Chinchwad, all located in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s B ward, have the highest active Covid-19 cases at present, stated a report from the civic health department. According to the report, on November 25, there were around 415 active cases in B ward, followed by E ward with 293 cases. The area under E ward includes Bhosari and Dighi, where many industrial units are located. With 155 cases, A ward has the lowest number of active cases across all eight wards under PCMC. Additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said that B ward had reported very few cases initially but the number started to grow after August. However, due to its industrial units E ward remained a hotspot for many weeks. Patil added that the reason for the most number of positive cases in residential wards, such as B ward, is due to increased testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/highest-active-cases-across-ravet-kiwale-chinchwad/articleshow/79482323.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||Rural function halls to be fined for large gatherings in Pune||PUNE: The Pune rural police on Sunday said they will registered FIRs against owners of function halls, hotels and restaurants if they allow gatherings of 50 or more at their establishments. “We took this decision after observing increasing crowds at weddings across the district,” Pune rural superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh told TOI on Sunday. “We have observed more than 1,000 people gather at wedding venues. This is not acceptable and we have asked the officers to meet the owners of these establishments. They will be apprised of the social distancing norms prescribed by the government. We have asked the owners to get guest list from the families of the bride and groom and only allow people on that list. We have so far registered 12 FIR in this regard across the district,” he said. There are over 500 wedding halls in 13 tehsils, and around 400 hotels and resorts where various functions are held. Most them are along state and national highways, police said. Deshmukh said many Mumbai residents prefer to hold weddings in Lonavla. In rural areas, people take out long processions and hire a DJ. “Our endeavour is to stop this practice to contain Covid-19 spread through weddings,” Deshmukh added. The Wadgaon Nimbalkar police recently booked a groom and a DJ for one such procession at Modve village in Baramati tehsil. “We filed an FIR to make an example of them,” assistant inspector Somnath Lande said. Meanwhile, owners of these establishments expressed their inability to limit the number of guests are they are overridden by the families. “We have lost a lot of business when we limited the number of guests. At least 100 people should allowed to attend a wedding,” Santosh Awte, owner of a wedding hall in Khed tehsil, said. Sagar Mohite, a hotelier, agreed, and said, “They make emotional appeals and are even ready to spend extra for more guests. While we refuse, many others accept the contract as they have suffered losses,” Mohite said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-function-halls-to-be-fined-for-large-gatherings/articleshow/79482319.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Education department plans regulatory body for private universities||JAIPUR: The state higher education department is mooting a regulatory body for private universities. The body will regulate the degree programmes, duration, PhD, teaching staff and form a cell to safeguard the interest of students. The state has 83 private universities which is highest in the country. The move came after the department is flooded with complaints against these universities by the students. Also, the inability under present framework is such that the department has to issue an advisory for the parents and students to cross check the university’s affiliation and validity of the courses before taking admission. “The creating of the regulatory body is in drafting stage and will soon roll out details It is purely done to safeguard the interest of students,” said a higher education official. He added that the absence of any proper mechanism has shot up the complaints and delays the redressal. “The existing system gives undue powers to these universities and whenever we clamped down on them, they take legal remedy. The move has nothing to do with the autonomy of university but just to make them more accountable,” said an official. Commenting on the move, Puneet Sharma, higher education expert, said that the government can strengthen the existing rules and force the compliance of the statutory bodies like AICTE or the UGC. “The state has to be very careful in creating a body else it will become another source of corruption. Most of the issues surfacing with the private universities have to do with the compliance of the set rules. The suo moto disclosure of all information on the website can drastically minimise the complaints,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/edu-dept-plans-regulatory-body-for-pvt-universities/articleshow/79481442.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Meerut||Two teachers die in road accident in Bijnor||Bijnor: Two men died on the spot when an unidentified vehicle hit their bike on Dhampur-Nagina road on Saturday night. Both sustained grievous injuries in their abdomen and head, police said. The deceased were identified as Sahdev Singh from Sundar Colony of Dhampur town and Pradeep Kumar from Islamabad village under Barhapur town. Both were teachers. They were on way home from Nagina, where they had gone to spread awareness about their teachers’ association. The accident took place on around 10:30pm. Dharamveer Singh, superintendent of police, said their families had been informed. A case has been registered against the unidentified driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-teachers-die-in-road-accident-in-bijnor/articleshow/79479895.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 30, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad schools to stay shut till December 13||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: In the latest order issued on November 28, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar has said that civic and private schools located in the corporation limits will remain closed until December 13. Earlier, schools were asked to remain shut until November 30. Hardikar said that since Covid-19 tests of a number of teachers remain pending, they have decided to further delay resumption of academic activities. Mayor Usha Dhore said that there will be no haste in the resumption of classes at schools in the coming days. “We will review the Covid-19 situation on or before December 13 as well before deciding on whether to resume schools or delay reopening further,” she said. Dhore added that many parents are still concerned about their wards’ safety, hence it will not be wise to resume schools rightaway. Meanwhile, schools have been advised to comply with all safety guidelines that have been notified earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-civic-schools-to-stay-shut-till-dec-13/articleshow/79482327.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||‘Congress minister’s kin contesting against Rajasthan govt laughable’||JAISALMER: Taking a dig at Rajasthan government’s cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said that it is laughable that Mohammad is supporting and helping his brothers contest independently against the government. The situation has become strange for Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Shekhawat said during his stay in Jaisalmer. He said that the Covid situation is very frightening in state. The government is hiding the figures and is praising itself. He further said that nepotism is in the DNA of Congress. The entire party is working to appease one family. When the problem is at the base then its effect trickles. Other parties associated with nepotism whether it is Farooq Abdullah’s party in Jammu and Kashmir or Stalin’s party in Kanyakumari, all are working together on one agenda to remove Modi whereas BJP under the leadership of Modi is working on ‘Bharat Banao’. With regard to many members of Gaji Fakir family contesting elections, he said that the situation is really laughable as 4-5 brothers of Gehlot’s cabinet minister are contesting elections as independent candidates against the party’s authorised candidates and the minister is supporting them by campaigning for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mins-kin-contesting-against-govt-laughable/articleshow/79481451.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||Massive serosurvey covering 14,500 residents in Pune Metropolitan Region to kick off early December||PUNE: A serosurvey of 14,500 people in the Pune Metropolitan Region will start from the second week of December, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Sunday. The study is set to be the largest ever assessment of antibody prevalence in the region. "The cost of this exercise will be borne by the district administration. The 21-day survey is expected to commence from the second week of December," Rao said. It will be carried out by experts from the National Institute of Virology in Pune, who had submitted the study proposal a month ago to the divisional commissioner. On Sunday, NIV officials said they had not yet received a confirmation from the divisional commissioner's office. Subhash Salunke, technical advisor to the state on Covid-19, said, "A comprehensive serosurvey is very much needed to assess Covid's true spread in the district. Currently, we don't have scientific evidence to understand the real situation. We have been relying on case detections via RT-PCR and antigen tests, which is not the correct method." He added, "The SARS-CoV-2 virus has clearly infected a large number of people, but it is still not clear how many. This massive serosurvey will provide that crucial bit of information." Results from Pune's first serosurvey, released in August, showed seropositivity nearing 60% in some slum pockets, with an overall 50% positivity. But that survey, experts said, was inadequate as it was limited to just 1,644 citizens across five high-incidence zones of Pune city. Experts from the Savitribai Phule Pune University, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) and Pune Municipal Corporation had carried out the survey. A Pimpri Chinchwad serosurvey carried out in October found antibodies in 34% of 5,000 surveyed residents. But experts said the prevalence of some level of immunity among the surveyed could be over 50% as T-cell mediated protection can continue even after antibodies disappear from the blood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/massive-serosurvey-covering-14500-residents-to-kick-off-early-december/articleshow/79482325.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 30, 2020||Rajkot||3 detained for stealing grains from fair price shop||Rajkot: A trader and two labourers were detained for allegedly stealing grains from the godown of a fair price shop in Mundra of Kutch district on Saturday night.Police said accused Virat Sampat and two labourers were stealing grains from shop owned by Sampat Mehta in Gundifaliya locality of Mundra. “The accused were transferring the PDS grains meant for ration card holders into gunny bags without government seals,” said an official from Bhuj border range police.The seizure included 54 sacks of wheat worth Rs 54,000, 50 sacks with Indian Food and Civil Supply Department's seals worth Rs 50,000, 88 sacks of rice worth Rs 92,400, 11 sacks of pulses worth Rs 22,000, 68 ration cards, a laptop worth Rs 25,000, a finger print device and a WIFI dongle, both worth Rs 1,000 each.“We have informed the food and civil supply department of the state government about the seizure and the detention. The accused will be formally arrested after the food and civil supply department lodges a complaint against them and they undergo the mandatory Covid-19 test,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/3-detained-for-stealing-grains-from-fair-price-shop/articleshow/79479918.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Absconding accused shoots at cop in Dholpur||DHOLPUR: A police constable was shot at when he had gone to nab two absconding accused in Vinti Pura village under Mania police station of Dholpur on Sunday. Head constable Ashok Rajawat sustained injuries in his thigh and was referred to the civil hospital in Dholpur for further treatment. Police said that the accused were part of a four-member interstate vehicle lifter gang who had escaped from a Covid-19 centre on October 18 in Dholpur. The four accused Ajit Kumar, Kalyan Singh, Vikas and Aakash had been arrested by Basedi police for lifting vehicles. Thereafter, a court sent them to police custody in a Covid cell in a local hospital. All four had escaped from there. "Rajawat got a tip-off that two of the accused were going to attend a marriage ceremony in Vinti Pura village. He reached the venue not knowing that the two accused were joined by another absconding accused Mukesh Singh in the marriage. The accused identified the constable and held him hostage for hours. They beat him mercilessly and shot him in the thigh before leaving the venue," said a police officer investigating the case. Kesar Singh, SP, Dholpur, told TOI that Rajawat was shot at by Mukesh Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/absconding-accused-shoots-at-cop-in-dholpur/articleshow/79481447.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Greens seek PM help to ban painkillers for saving raptors in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: As raptors in Jorbeer, an Important Bird Area (IBA), are continuously falling prey to drugs used by veterinarians, environmentalists have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the state chief wildlife warden to ban two drugs to treat livestock. In a fortnight, carcasses of seven raptors of three different species including black kite, Egyptian vulture and steppe eagle were recovered from the carcass dumping site, located nearly 12km away from Bikaner. As majority of carcasses of treated farm animals containing non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are dumped at this site, green activists are alleging these drugs for the raptor deaths. Dr Dau Lal Bohra, PhD (animal microbiology & wildife), ornithologist and conservationist, who has been working on vultures for several years said, “My letter was forwarded to the department of animal husbandry and dairying, (GOI) and directions have been given to take necessary action on the grievance. The government in 2006 had banned diclofenac for veterinary use after deaths of raptors were recorded. However, many companies have started making painkiller such as ketoprofen and aceclofenac, which are equally harmful.” The letter dated November 19 reads, “Aceclofenac and ketoprofen in cattle are equally toxic as diclofenac and can kill vultures. A study shows that aceclofenac painkiller administered to cattle was rapidly metabolized into diclofenac, hence treating domestic ungulates with diclofenac or aceclofenac poses the same risk to vultures. Similarly, many researches also established that Ketoprofen is toxic to Gyps Vultures and they died after feeeding on carcasses of cattle that died within hours of treatment. Ketoprofen residues are 25 times higher in kidney than in cattle liver tissue.” A veterinary doctor in animal husbandry department, who wished not to be quoted said, “In 2015, Tamil Nadu banned ketoprofen. These are a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) similar to diclofenec and administered in animals for fever, pain and inflammatory conditions such as soft tissue injury, surgery, joint effusions and others. These medicines are injected in cattle including sheep, goat, cow and many others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/greens-seek-pm-help-to-ban-painkillers-for-saving-raptors/articleshow/79481452.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ajmer||Woman branded with hot iron in Bhilwara||AJMER: A 40-year-old woman was branded with hot iron at Chalaniya temple in Kundiya village of Shahpura block of Bhilwara. The woman fainted and was taken to Shahpura government hospital from where she was referred to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in Bhilwara. Police have registered a case against three accused, including relatives of the woman, who fled the village. Police have registered a case under IPC sections as well as Rajasthan Prevention of Witch Hunting Act. According to Shahpura police, the woman went to a temple at Chalaniya where a woman identified as Santoshi Devi said there was a witch inside her and asked the woman to pay Rs 1,000 to conduct special prayers. Following this, three woman and two men came and forcefully took the woman in the temple and branded her with hot iron. They also thrashed her asking the witch to leave her body. The woman shouted and cried for help and then fainted. Santoshi Devi then told the woman's relatives that she was a witch and therefore needed more treatment. She also warned them not to report the incident to anyone. The victim was rushed to the hospital. She had burns on her forehead and many parts of her body as well as bruises all over the body. Doctors reported the matter to police and referred the victim to Bhilwara. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/woman-branded-with-hot-iron-in-bhilwara/articleshow/79481455.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai colleges prepare to reopen campus for PG, research students||CHENNAI: After months of online classes due to the pandemic, city colleges are preparing to open up campuses to postgraduate science and technology students and research scholars from December 2. Guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) require boarding students to undergo 14 days quarantine before attending in-person classes. Sources in various colleges said parents of a majority of students are not willing to send their wards to colleges due to fear of contracting Covid-19. Many institutes have finished online classes for UG second and third year students and PG final year students. Online semester exams are likely to begin next week and some colleges plan to allow PG students into campuses only from next semester. “We plan to let research scholars into our campus from December 2,” said Thomas Amirtham, principal of Loyola College. The college is planning to conduct semester exams for UG and PG students from the first week of December. A survey conducted by the college showed 65% of parents were not willing to send their children for in-person classes. “We are discussing with the heads of departments about reopening our campus from next semester. They’ll brainstorm and come up with ways to conduct classes, practicals and maintain social distancing. But single-occupancy hostel rooms may not be affordable for many of our students,” Amirtham added. Paul Wilson, principal of Madras Christian College, said the college is ready to reopen as per directions from the government and has even prepared standard operating procedures for hostels, classrooms. “But parents aren’t comfortable sending their children to campuses. Of 300 students we inquired, only around 30 were willing to return to campus from December 2. Parents have a lot of questions and reservations for which we don’t have answers,” he said. DG Vaishnav College is working on evolving SOPs and the institute has comparatively less PG science students making social distancing possible, principal S Santhosh Baboo said. SRM Institute of Science and Technology plans to allow students pursuing medical courses to return to campuses. “Some research scholars are back and PG students can either return to campus or contineu to attend classes online,” said Sandeep Sancheti, vice-chancellor. The deemed university may split engineering students into two or three batches for practical classes. “Theory classes will be held online only,” he said. He said the biggest challenge with reopening campuses would be facilitating 14-day quarantine for hostel students. Many state universities including University of Madras and Anna University will take a final call on Monday about reopening campuses for PG students and research scholars. “We have called for a meeting of hostel wardens to decide protocol to be followed in hostels after reopening,” said S Gowri, vice-chancellor of University of Madras. Anna University has also convened a meeting on Monday to decide on reopening and issues such as quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-colleges-prepare-to-reopen-campus-for-pg-research-students/articleshow/79481453.cms||A Ragu Raman
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Crime branch rescues 4-yr-old girl from child selling racket, arrests 5 women and a man||Nagpur: The crime branch busted a child selling racket and rescued a four-year-old girl, who was going to be sold off for Rs2.5 lakh. Five women and one man were arrested in the daylong action from different places on Saturday. Prima facie, police feel the racket is part of a bigger illegal surrogacy and adoption racket. The women are hired as surrogate mothers illegally and deliveries are done clandestinely with the help of doctors at small clinics. More arrests are likely. The racketeers used Aadhaar card of childless couples to create fake parents of the child in the hospital records. City police chief Amitesh Kumar had kicked off a secret mission sometime back to track down child trafficking agents in city. The agents are known to push minors into begging and other nefarious activities. The latest action is part of Kumar’s larger plan to break the trafficking nexus operating in city. Sharmila Khakse, Shaila Manchalwar and Surendra Patle were taken into custody after they were caught red-handed trying to sell the four-year-old girl to undercover cops near Medical Square. It’s learnt Manchalwar had last week sold off her own 12-day-old son through Khakse for Rs3.5 lakh. Following their interrogation, a police team led by senior inspector Sarthak Nehete picked up Surendra’s wife Pooja, Manorama Dhoble and Laxmi Rana, who worked as commission agents. Police sources said the mastermind of the racket, Khakse, operated from Indora in north Nagpur. She lured childless couple by promising to get them children bypassing the legal adoption system. The crime branch, under supervision of DCP Gajanan Rajmane and Addl CP Sunil Phulari, have procured seven-day custody of the five women and Patle after producing them before the court. The police team included assistant PI Suraj Suroshe and sub-inspector Atul Ingole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crime-branch-rescues-4-yr-old-girl-from-child-selling-racket-arrests-5-women-and-a-man/articleshow/79481460.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Sikar leads in enrolment chart||JAIPUR: Sikar has recorded 10% of the total state gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education institutes in 2019-20, while its share in the state population is around 3.3%. District-wise figures released by the higher education department said Jaipur’s share in the GER was 17% compared to its 10% share in the state population. The total enrolment recorded was 1,19,6,501. The figures have surprised experts that a district which lies in the arid region (Sikar) has the second-highest GER. “The twin cities — Sikar-Jhunjhunu — are blessed with progressive communities which has encouraged their children to attain education. The rising sense of competition for government jobs and the army has continued to fuel the aspiration of youngsters leading to rising in GER,” said Zubeda Mirza, associate professor of history, S K Government Girls College, Sikar. She claimed that Sikar had the highest number of defence personnel in the country and ranked first in government jobs in the state while highlighting the benefits of the high GER. The dusty district is also second in terms of a number of colleges in the state. Unlike Jaipur, majority of its enrolment comes from local communities. Jhunjhunu has fourth highest enrolments in the state. The foundation for the strong higher education was laid by the entrepreneurs from both the districts based across the globe but invested heavily in education by running and supporting institutes. Jaipur is leading the state as it is the state capital added with its wide connectivity with the rest of the state and other regions. “The city has the second-highest number of colleges attracting students from several states in the country,” said Puneet Sharma, a higher education expert, while cautioning that the high rise is due to the high percentage of non-Jaipur students enrolled here. He claimed the local enrolment is way less than the population percentage of Jaipur. The disappointment has come from Udaipur and Kota divisions where not a single district has made it in the list of top districts. The Udaipur division includes districts such as Udaipur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, Rajsamand, Pratapgarh. The overall enrolments of 1,31,572 here are slightly less than the total enrolment of 1,19,825. “The division is dominated by tribal population which is marred by issues like wide migration among youngsters for work, poverty and poor social security indicators. The poor show in urban centres is also due to migration of students for education. The state should design a special campaign or drive for enrolments by opening colleges in tribal areas,” said Chandra Shekhar Sharma, a history teacher at Meera Girls College, Udaipur. Similarly, the poor show is displayed by Kota division which includes Kota, Baran, Jhalawar and Bundi. The lowest enrolment of 3,401 was recorded from Jaisalmer which is among the poorest in the country. The desert district is the only one which has colleges in a single-digit or six.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sikar-leads-in-enrolment-chart/articleshow/79481465.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: MSRTC plans temperature checks before boarding||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is finally considering temperature checks for passengers before they board its buses in view of a recent spike in Covid cases throughout the state. State transport minister Anil Parab said he would review the situation this week. “We are thinking of starting temperature screening soon. But first, a system needs to be developed for the same. We will also take a call by the end of this week about whether the inter-state bus service needs to be stopped temporarily,” the minister told TOI. MSRTC’s managing director, Shakhar Channe, had recently said, “MSRTC buses are properly sanitized before and after each trip,” he told TOI. In the Pune division alone, each day witnesses a movement of around 4,500 buses. The average passenger footfall that the Pune division records daily at its four major bus stops — in Swargate, Wakdewadi, Pune Station and Pimpri — rests at around 90,000. Ramakant Gaikwad, the divisional controller of the Pune division said they would be starting the temperature screening only after the headquarters sanctions it. In August, when the MSRTC had resumed inter-district services, the Pune authorities had taken the initiative and used to conduct temperature checks at Swargate and Wakdewadi bus stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/msrtc-plans-temperature-checks-before-boarding/articleshow/79485591.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 30, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: MSRTC plans temperature checks before boarding||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is finally considering temperature checks for passengers before they board its buses in view of a recent spike in Covid cases throughout the state. State transport minister Anil Parab said he would review the situation this week. “We are thinking of starting temperature screening soon. But first, a system needs to be developed for the same. We will also take a call by the end of this week about whether the inter-state bus service needs to be stopped temporarily,” the minister told TOI. MSRTC’s managing director, Shakhar Channe, had recently said, “MSRTC buses are properly sanitized before and after each trip,” he told TOI. In the Pune division alone, each day witnesses a movement of around 4,500 buses. The average passenger footfall that the Pune division records daily at its four major bus stops — in Swargate, Wakdewadi, Pune Station and Pimpri — rests at around 90,000. Ramakant Gaikwad, the divisional controller of the Pune division said they would be starting the temperature screening only after the headquarters sanctions it. In August, when the MSRTC had resumed inter-district services, the Pune authorities had taken the initiative and used to conduct temperature checks at Swargate and Wakdewadi bus stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-plans-temperature-checks-before-boarding/articleshow/79485592.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 30, 2020||Goa||Neura locals against 4-laning plan of Pilar-Old Goa road||PANAJI: Neura residents have opposed the government’s plans to widen the 11-km long Pilar-Old Goa road, as it would necessitate demolition of some heritage houses, commercial structures, religious shrines and affect the rural ambience of the village. The road is a link between NH4-A and NH66 through Neura, Mandur, Azossim and Carambolim. At a meeting on Sunday, under the banner of ‘Save Neura’, they sought a special gram sabha meeting to discuss the road-widening issue. A majority of the structures along the road, including a few centuries-old houses and some religious shrines with unique architecture in these linear villages may have to be partly razed, they said. “The 400-year-old house of Bernardo Peres da Silva, the first and only native governor during Portuguese rule will be affected,” former law secretary and villager Pramod Kamat said. “The century-old Dhondeshwar temple, with two ancient deities, Kareavoilo and Chavdekar, are near the road,” a villager, Shashikant Sawant, said. Kamat said the government should take people into confidence and carry out a survey and assessment before taking up the work. Other speakers objected to the lack of transparency in a project with wide ramifications. “The people, under present conditions, are happy with the peaceful rural setting. The proposal will affect the village’s heritage landmarks and character,” Save Neura convenor Amilcar Alvares said. Highlighting the ecological damage, Dr Fernando Noronha said, “The fallout will be in terms of noise pollution, increasing heat due to concretisation and cutting of trees, and loss of identity for the village,” he said. In 2009, a gram sabha had demanded the denotification of this road as a major district road and retaining its six-metre width while finalising Regional Plan 2021, Jorge Ferreira, a villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/neura-locals-against-4-laning-plan-of-pilar-old-goa-road/articleshow/79482350.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Defunct tubewell in Barmer spews fire, gas||JAISALMER: Inflammable gas is leaking from a dried up tubewell at Kishlu village in Barmer giving the entire area a huge scare. The tubewell has continued to discharge gas and fire since then. The district administration sent a QRT team of Vedanta Oil and Gas Company to inspect the spot. Reportedly, this is surface localised gas and is a natural phenomenon. On Thursday, the tubewell had caught fire due to the gas and villagers had informed the police. SP Anand Sharma said that Vedanta company at Barmer was contacted and their experts have visited the spot but no serious fire was witnessed. Vigil is being maintained and strict security arrangements have been made. Prima facie, it is surface localised gas and is a natural phenomenon It is likely to stop on its own in 1-2 days. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said on getting the information, officers were sent to the location on the same day. He said that no damage has been caused by the fire and villagers have been warned not to go near the spot. tnn Watch Rajasthan: Inflammable gas leaks from defunct tubewell in Barmer, spreads panic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/defunct-tubewell-in-barmer-spews-fire-gas/articleshow/79481457.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: MSRTC plans temperature checks before boarding||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is finally considering temperature checks for passengers before they board its buses in view of a recent spike in Covid cases throughout the state. State transport minister Anil Parab said he would review the situation this week. “We are thinking of starting temperature screening soon. But first, a system needs to be developed for the same. We will also take a call by the end of this week about whether the inter-state bus service needs to be stopped temporarily,” the minister told TOI. MSRTC’s managing director, Shakhar Channe, had recently said, “MSRTC buses are properly sanitized before and after each trip,” he told TOI. In the Pune division alone, each day witnesses a movement of around 4,500 buses. The average passenger footfall that the Pune division records daily at its four major bus stops — in Swargate, Wakdewadi, Pune Station and Pimpri — rests at around 90,000. Ramakant Gaikwad, the divisional controller of the Pune division said they would be starting the temperature screening only after the headquarters sanctions it. In August, when the MSRTC had resumed inter-district services, the Pune authorities had taken the initiative and used to conduct temperature checks at Swargate and Wakdewadi bus stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-plans-temperature-checks-before-boarding/articleshow/79480699.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 30, 2020||Pune||Private bus operators’ biz dips over testing norms||Pune: The private bus operators are witnessing a drop in the number of passengers travelling to Maharashtra after the state issued guidelines for conducting Covid tests and thermal scanning of travellers coming from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa. “We are yet to come out of the financial mess resultant of the lockdown and the fresh rules have hit us again. We have witnessed a drop in passenger movements from the states of Goa and Gujarat. Private buses run to and from different states, including Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, etc, and we fear that the new regulations will hit the passenger traffic in the above sectors as well,” Kiran Desai, secretary of the Pune bus owners’ association told TOI. When it comes to Pune, each day witnesses an average of around 200 private luxury buses coming to the city from the states of Gujarat and Goa. The average passenger traffic in these buses presently stands at between 30% and 49%, Desai said. “The passenger traffic has dropped by around 7 to 10%. It is a bad sign for us considering the current issues we are facing. While the orders and regulations issued by the state government cannot be ignored, we are trying our best to ensure safety of the passengers. Some of us have kept the maximum seating capacity to 50% despite getting orders from the state government to run buses at full capacity,” said another transporter. “Many travellers are now thinking twice before boarding a bus. We have had some passengers cancelling the tickets because they did not want to be stuck in queues at the state borders for testing and scanning,” another transporter said. Balasaheb Khedekar, president of the Pune Luxury Bus Association, said, “The number of passengers are fewer and hence the temperature checks are happening fast.” Shefali Gandhi, who was preparing herself to travel to Ahmedabad to see a sick relative of hers, said that she was unsure now. “I don’t have the funds to travel by air. However, with the new regulations in place, I think I will wait to see how things pan out in days to come,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/private-bus-operators-biz-dips-over-testing-norms/articleshow/79480702.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Two youths arrested for keeping illegal arms in Jaipur||JAIPUR: As part of its ongoing campaign against smuggling of arms, the Amber police here on Sunday arrested two youths for possessing illegal weapons. One of the arrested youth had uploaded his photograph with a pistol on a social networking platform. Divulging the details, Rajiv Pachar, deputy commissioner of police (North), stated that arrested accused Navratan Saini (21) had recently uploaded a photo on social media with a weapon. “The matter initially went to the cyber cell. A special team investigated and traced him. He was arrested and a case under appropriate sections of IPC and Arms Act has been lodged against him,” Pachar added. Police stated that the technical surveillance and other means of communication helped them to arrest the accused. “He was also intimidating public by posting his picture with a weapon on the social networking platform,” he added. Similarly, a 23-year-old youth identified as Shakeel, a resident of Agra in Uttar Pradesh, was arrested for allegedly possessing a country-made pistol from Walled City area in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-youths-arrested-for-keeping-illegal-arms-in-city/articleshow/79481474.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Bareilly||Decks cleared for turtle conservation in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: The district administration will soon be signing a memorandum of understanding with US-based international organization, Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA), for setting up a turtle rescue and conservation centre on the banks of Phulhar lake at Madhotanda village in Pilibhit’s Kalinagar tehsil. A decision to the effect was taken on Sunday after district magistrate Pulkit Khare and India programme director of TSA inspected a 2.5-acre land on the banks of the lake, where river Gomti originates. The rescue centre will comprise a turtle breeding centre, an interpretation centre, research centre and a theme park. The conservation programme will cover over 300 wetlands in the district with an aim to notify those with diverse aquatic species by the state Wetlands Authority, said DM Khare. Pilibhit is one of the five most sensitive districts in UP prone to turtle poaching and illegal trading, according to the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). Shailendra Singh, TSA director, said Pilibhit is home to 12 identified species of turtles out of the total 26 species found in India. These include seven turtle species listed in schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Phulhar lake has a sizable population of the Indian soft shell turtle, one of the schedule I species. The TSA will primarily be involved in monitoring of turtle species, their population and rehabilitation. The turtles will be kept at the rescue centre till judicial order is obtained for releasing them in a safe water body, Singh explained. The TSA will soon organize a training session for the forest personnel as well as local stakeholders as community participation is vital for the turtle conservation programme, Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/decks-cleared-for-turtle-conservation-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79478611.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 30, 2020||Ajmer||‘Shahi Snan’ called off in Pushkar this year||AJMER: Due to Covid guidelines in place, no ‘Shahi Snan’ (royal bath) took place in Pushkar on the occasion of the religious fair on Saturday. A few sadhus, however, came to the temple town for the holy dip, but they were not allowed because of the guidelines in place. Till last year, ‘Shahi Snan’ by sadhus, Nagas and Aghoris remained an attraction as it drew lakhs of devotees and tourists. Also, the ‘Maha Snan’ on Monday on the occasion of full moon of Kartika month of Hindu calendar has been called off. A symbolic ‘Shahi Snan’ was performed by the Acharya of Sainacharya Ashram of Pushkar. Meanwhile, devotees are coming to Pushkar on the occasion of religious fair to perform rituals, but their numbers are low. Police security has been beefed up in the markets, on ghats and even near temples so that devotees follow Covid guidelines. The district administration has already cancelled the international cattle fair and those farmers who came with their cattle were turned back and an appeal was made to farmers not to come to Pushkar. Looking at the possibilities of heavy rush on Monday, police and administration have made arrangements to follow social distancing. The administration clarified that devotees are not being stopped to enter the temple and offer prayers, but they are ensuring that social distancing is maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/shahi-snan-called-off-in-pushkar-this-year/articleshow/79481464.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chennai||Adambakkam colony submerged, in sewage||Chennai: Four days after Cyclone Nivar blew through, residents of a few parts of the city have been struggling with stagnant water, while those at VV Colony in Adambakkam are trying to cope with overflowing sewage. “This is not the first time sewage has entered our houses. It has been happening for two years,” said Latha, a resident of the colony. After almost every spell of heavy rain, the manholes fill up sending a reverse flow of sewage into houses. “Our backyard is now filled with foul smelling muck. The entire colony is stinking,” she said. V Rama Rao, a resident activist from Nanganallur, said they had raised a complaint with Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB), popular as Metrowater. “The engineers and top officials responded promptly and have pumped out a part of the sewage. However, more than 30% still had to be cleared,” he said. The residents then pumped out the rest, hiring trucks. “We appreciate the fact that the officials responded. However, this requires a permanent solution. We cannot raise a complaint every time and pumping out the drainage cannot be a solution,” said Latha. When contacted, a senior Metrowater official said the blockage was due to low-lying houses in the area. “There are many manholes that used to be cleared using pumps regularly. But now it is done based on complaints. It needs to be cleared periodically,” he said. S Vijayan, an expert in the sector, said there was no problem with regard to the design of the pipelines and construction of the pumping stations and sewage treatment plants. “The problem is that there are many blockages. Maintenance is an issue, it should be done [regularly] using high-end machines. The other issue is that the capacity of the treatment plants in many areas needs to be increased,” he said. The problem is more severe during the rainy season, he admitted. All water from stormwater drains enters sewage treatment plants, Vijayan said. “Monsoon preparedness only includes desilting. But there is no preparedness from Metrowater. They [Metrowater officials] need to find a solution for the extra flow of water from the SWD in the city, which is not concentrated sewage. They need to ensure that the drains have the capacity to handle the additional sewage flow,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/adambakkam-colony-submerged-in-sewage/articleshow/79481478.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: MSRTC plans temperature checks before boarding||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is finally considering temperature checks for passengers before they board its buses in view of a recent spike in Covid cases throughout the state. State transport minister Anil Parab said he would review the situation this week. “We are thinking of starting temperature screening soon. But first, a system needs to be developed for the same. We will also take a call by the end of this week about whether the inter-state bus service needs to be stopped temporarily,” the minister told TOI. MSRTC’s managing director, Shakhar Channe, had recently said, “MSRTC buses are properly sanitized before and after each trip,” he told TOI. In the Pune division alone, each day witnesses a movement of around 4,500 buses. The average passenger footfall that the Pune division records daily at its four major bus stops — in Swargate, Wakdewadi, Pune Station and Pimpri — rests at around 90,000. Ramakant Gaikwad, the divisional controller of the Pune division said they would be starting the temperature screening only after the headquarters sanctions it. In August, when the MSRTC had resumed inter-district services, the Pune authorities had taken the initiative and used to conduct temperature checks at Swargate and Wakdewadi bus stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msrtc-plans-temperature-checks-before-boarding/articleshow/79485593.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Students from poor background face problems in online learning||JAIPUR: Children from poor backgrounds studying in elite private schools under the Right to Education Act are finding it difficult to keep pace with the online classes due to absence of resources at home. A study by two advocacy groups says that most children are short of mobile phones, internet connections, laptops and content in full graphics and illustrations, making it impossible for them to comprehend the lessons. Also, the online class modules require parents to teach/assist in completing homework, which in most cases, was not available for these children. Eight-year-old Jameel Khan (name changed), studying in an elite school in Jawahar Nagar, had performed miserably in the assessment test conducted before Diwali. His school conducts two online classes in the morning and one in the evening. Khan, a class III student is lucky to use his mother’s smartphone but this year, he is finding it difficult to understand subjects like Science, Maths and English. “Most of the times, his school teacher shares links of Youtube videos, whose content goes beyond our understanding. The teacher teaches with the help of some comic characters on digital screens with a very fast speed. They give homework after every class on WhatsApp which my son is not able to do on his own. I fear that he is losing interest in studies and remains quiet during the entire session,” said Rehman Khan, father of Jameel. His biggest worry is that the teacher has warned them that his son has stood last and if it continues, he may not be promoted to the next class. Saurabh Kanwaria, a student of class IV in a private school in Mansarovar, has a similar story. His parents work as peons in a private college, drawing half their salaries during the pandemic. They skipped the Environment Day and Diwali Celebration held virtually by their son’s school since they were not in a condition to meet the requirements set by the school. “Every second day, the school asks for 5-10 printouts which cost Rs 50. Also they ask to submit homework on the school website or email it to them which is not possible on mobile phones,” said Ram Kanwaria. Pranjal Singh, director of Abhyutthanam Society working for RTE children, says that these children are facing discrimination by the schools which gets exposed in online teaching. “These children require special attention but what is being done is they are being completely pushed out of the radar of teachers during classes. In some cases, their attendance doesn’t matter to the schools as in one case, a child was not attending classes since November 1 but the school hardly called the parents to find out the reason. This situation will further create a class divide between RTE and non-RTE students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-from-poor-background-face-problems-in-online-learning/articleshow/79481498.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||Shekhawati region fast emerging as education hub||JAIPUR: The twin cities of Sikar and Jhunjhunu have 15% of the state’s total educational institutes, making Shekhawati region the emerging education hub in Rajasthan.  Both the cities have been among the worst in terms of education until the government eased rules for private players to establish institutes in 2001. Sikar district is the only one in the state which has jumped its enrolment three times from 39,718 to 1,19,825 from 2013-14 to 2019-20. While Jhunjhunu has doubled its enrolments from 38,798 to 75,806 in the same period. Both the districts yet again have a lion share of 16% total gross enrolment ratio in higher education. Barring Jaipur, no other state has made significant gains in the enrolments in the same period. Explaining the phenomena, former principal of government college in Sikar, Shashi Induliya said enterprising community from Nawalgarh, Baggad, Chidawa, Mukhungarh in Jhunjhuhu and Fatehpur, Laxmangarh, Sikar in Sikar has laid the foundation by establishing educational institutes. “They invested heavily in building schools and colleges giving quality education to the youths here. The social and political leadership here has always prioritized education is a reason that both the cities have got a good share of government colleges and schools,” said Induliya. It is interesting to note that Sikar and Jhunjhunu share in enrolment at the school level is slight above their actual population. For instance, Sikar’s share in school enrolment was 3.41% in 2018-19 while its population share in the state is also 3%. Its total enrolment was 6.67 lakh against 1.74 crore total enrolment in the same year. The turnaround at the higher education institutes is also due to less dropout rate, higher number of colleges gives good choices for students and favourable social conditions is making a difference. The next wave begins with the opening of private universities and world-class schools in the region. Some of the institutes have been ranked best in the country in terms of infrastructure that attracting students from Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR). Even the communities which are behind the state average have been doing well here. For example, the share of Muslim community in schools and colleges here is quite higher than the rest of the state. In the state, the share of minorities in GER in slight above 3% while in Sikar the rough estimates say is above 6%. “Like the Jat community, Muslims too invested heavily in building education institutes, especially for girls. It is the reason that share of girls in GER is more than the boys. The political, social and religious leaderships are collectively responsible for the much-needed change,” said Ashfaq Kaimkhany, a social activist based in Sikar. Another significant change which is building the image of twin cities as a coaching hub for defence exams. Over the years, the strong legacy of its people going for armed forces have created the opportunity for coaching centres. Both the cities have close to 50 coaching centres of its kind preparing students for NDA, CDS and SSB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shekhawati-region-fast-emerging-as-edu-hub/articleshow/79481493.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Meerut||Man found hanging hours after thrashing wife||Bijnor: A 28-year-old man was found hanging from a tree on Sunday morning, hours after he allegedly thrashed his wife following an altercation with her in Bijnor's Mukhtiyarpur village under Najibabad police station area. The injured woman was taken to hospital, police said. The deceased, identified as Narendra Kumar, went missing from his house on Saturday evening. Family members searched for him but to no avail. Passerby spotted his body hanging from a tree on Sunday morning and informed police. Lakshmi Nivas Mishra, SP (city), said, "Body of the deceased was sent to district hospital for an autopsy. A probe is on. It came to the fore that Narender Kumar had thrashed his wife in a fit of rage. She had filed a complaint against him earlier on Saturday. He was upset when he learnt about it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-found-hanging-hours-after-thrashing-wife/articleshow/79479929.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 30, 2020||Chennai||Bad FoB, subway along GST Road put pedestrians in peril||Chennai: Dysfunctional escalators of the foot overbridge in Chromepet and badly maintained subways in Tambaram have forced pedestrians to risk their lives and walk across the ever-busy Grand Southern Trunk (GST) Road. GST Road is the third deadliest road in the city for pedestrians. Every year, at least 70 of them die while using the 15-km stretch between Pallavaram and Tambaram. While the FoB was constructed to reduce the fatality and escalators introduced to make them more user-friendly, the escalators have not been working since Diwali. Pedestrians now cross the road, a highway, at traffic signals or even jump over medians. V Santhanam, a local civic activist whose leg was left seriously injured by goons while exposing Veeraraghavan Lake scam in 2003, said it is very difficult to climb up the escalator under repair. Users are left with little choice as stairs are on the other side of the road. “Public are taken for granted as the highways department has not even placed a board saying the escalator is under repair. There is no contact number advertised to report a grievance either,” he added. Besides, vehicles are parked all along the platform and people end up walking on the main road, he added. In response, a senior official from the Saidapet division of the state highway department said the escalator was under maintenance and that service engineers were trying to resolve issues associated with the hand rail. “It will be ready for public use in a day or two,” he assured. At Tambaram, the pedestrian subway continues to be ill-lit and is almost never cleaned. “Even during the day, one can find tipplers consuming liquor in the subway,” said R Sridhar, a civic activist from Kurinji Nagar in Tambaram. The Tambaram police say regular patrolling and arrests were done to prevent such nuisance and related-crimes. They also claim that accident rate has dropped on the stretch following efforts to ensure that traffic signals worked even when it rained heavily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bad-fob-subway-along-gst-road-put-pedestrians-in-peril/articleshow/79481511.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Temples light up for Karthika Pournami in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Karthika Pournami, considered the most auspicious day of the month, was celebrated with fervour across the city. Residents celebrated the day by lighting lamps while the Kanaka Durga temple was illuminated with ‘Koti Deepotsavam’, conducted by temple authorities. While devotees mark the day by taking a holy dip in the Krishna river and offer special prayers at temples across the city, officials prohibited bathing in the river this year as part of Covid-19 safety protocols. Large numbers of devotees, however, offered special prayers at Durga Ghat and lit lamps in banana stems. Old Sivalayam, Rama Lingeswara Swamy temple at Yenamalakuduru, Vijayeswara Alayam and other temples of Lord Shiva drew crowds of devotees throughout the day. Devotees also gathered for the Koti Deepotsavam at the Kanaka Durga temple and lit earthen lamps. “Karthika Pournami is a special day to worship Lord Shiva. One should fast for a day and offer special prayers after sunset, lighting lamps. Darshan of Lord Shiva at the temple is a must after performing Kedareswara Puja,” said Siva Prasada Sharma, Sthana Acharya of the temple. Jwala Thoranam will be lit in the temple and devotees will walk under burning paddy straws hung from the main entrance of the temple. This ritual is believed to give good health and prosperity, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/temples-light-up-for-karthika-pournami/articleshow/79479951.cms||Venu Lanka
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Fresh FIR in naval graft case||Hyderabad: CBI has booked a fresh first information report (FIR) in the pending case of alleged corruption in the office of garrison engineer of naval dockyard at Visakhapatnam. Though an FIR was booked earlier, as then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu’s government withdrew consent, it was not taken up. Now, with the current government giving general consent, a fresh FIR was booked. CBI has booked Prashant Shivhare, garrison engineer of naval dockyard at Vizag, under criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act. CBI had initially booked an FIR in March 2019, where accused O Srinivasa Rao had received alleged bribe reportedly on behalf of Prashant, KS R Someswara Rao, assistant garrison engineer, and PV Rama Rao, junior engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fresh-fir-in-naval-graft-case/articleshow/79482348.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 30, 2020||Chennai||Cruelty to fish often overlooked: Activists||CHENNAI: In Injambakkam, off ECR, is a nursery that sells plants and pots of all kinds. Among its innovations is a Chinese bamboo in a transparent pot that contains a live fish. “People may think it’s cruel but it’s a beta fish, a fighter fish and can live in this space,” says the owner. “You can remove the plant, take out the fish and clean it, and change the water.” Experts and animal welfare activists disagree, saying fish can die without enough oxygen, suitable habitat, clean water and enough space. Live fish are often sealed into keychains, pendants and sold in bottles filled with coloured water in the name of creativity, a cruel practice that has been condemned by animal welfare activists across the country. That’s why, Delhi-based activist Abhinav Srihan launched a Facebook page, Feel For Fish. “Few people take the cruelty meted out to fish seriously. There is a belief that fish don’t feel pain or aren’t as intelligent as other animals, but fish are sentient beings,” says Srihan. “The trend in metros is to sell fish in bottles filled with coloured water. Edible colour – yellow, orange, blue and pink – added to the water to make it look attractive is toxic to fish.” In Chennai, till a few years ago, live fish encased in key chains and pendants were sold in Burma Bazaar, says Chinny Krishna, co-founder, Blue Cross of India. “Cruelty against fish is not taken seriously as people feel they are not sentient, but they do feel pain. Angling is allowed though people rip the hook off the fish and throw them back into the water.” On ‘Feel For Fish’ Srihan has put up rescue videos to create awareness and inspire people in other cities to do the same. “We wanted to spread awareness about what is happening to aquatic life,” says Srihan. Even the practice of keeping goldfish in bowls is cruel, he adds. “You need to create a suitable habitat depending on the species, have temperature control, air filters and ensure they have enough oxygen,” he says, adding that many gold fish develop S-shaped spines due to being kept in cramped spaces. Fish are also often sold by the roadside. “They are sensitive to sound and temperature, so you need to keep them in a quiet place. When you bring them home, you need to put the jar or bag in the aquarium for some time before transferring them as any sudden shock can kill them,” says Srihan. Chennai-based animal welfare activist Antony Rubin says cruelty to fish is often overlooked. “Even if you want to lodge a complaint, the police won’t take it seriously. But if anyone is selling live fish, they should be registered as per the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Amendment) Act, 2018,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cruelty-to-fish-often-overlooked-activists/articleshow/79481542.cms||Priya Menon
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||AP to conduct energy conservation tourney||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) will conduct AP Energy Conservation Awards-2020 this December as part of National Energy Conservation Week. Secretary for energy Srikant Nagulapalli said AP has been playing a proactive role in promoting energy conservation and energy efficiency measures. “The state has set a target of saving 15,000 million units (MU) of energy in a phased manner in coming years. The industry sector alone has successfully saved 2,386 MU of energy by implementing energy efficiency measures,” said Srikant. During the review of national energy conservation week activities, the secretary directed APSECM officials to make arrangements for the successful conduct of Energy Conservation Week and the competition. Officials informed the secretary that APSECM is taking the assistance of National Productivity Council (NPC), an autonomous organisation under the Union ministry of commerce and industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-to-conduct-energy-conservation-tourney/articleshow/79479964.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Meerut||Two charred to death after tempo collides with tree in UP||MEERUT: Two persons were charred to death in UP after a container tempo in which they were travelling collided with a roadside tree, turned turtle and landed in a ditch. The impact of the accident was so severe that the tempo caught fire after a blast. The incident occurred in the Syana area of Bulandshahr district on Sunday. The two deceased were returning from Hapur when the accident took place, police said. According to Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar, there was a blast in the LPG cylinder kit installed in the vehicle and the tempo turned into a ball of fire giving no time for the two trapped inside to escape. The bodies were burnt beyond recognition and based on the registration number of the vehicle, the identity of the deceased could be established. Syana circle officer (CO) Alka said the deceased were identified as Umradaraz, 28, and Mukhtar, 55 - both residents of the district's Khanpur area. "The duo were returning from Hapur after completing the service work of the vehicle," the Syana CO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-charred-to-death-after-tempo-collides-with-tree-in-up/articleshow/79479948.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||4 Nagpurians score 100 percentile in MHT-CET||Nagpur: There were a few reasons for Nagpurians to be proud, as four local students scored 100 percentile in the MHT-CET exams. Since their scores and names were made public by the exam conducting body, there was no ambiguity in the results. In the physics-chemistry-math (PCM) group of MHT-CET, Nagpur’s Prasad Kukde bagged the perfect 100 percentile. Neighbouring Wardha’s Bhushan Kohpare was the only other Vidarbha student on the PCM list of 100 percentile scorers. In the physics-chemistry-biology (PCB) group of MHT-CET, Vidarbha students had a field day. Nagpur’s Janhavi Chafle, Smit Walke and Arya Chati scored 100 percentile. Same score was bagged by Chandrapur’s Vaideshi Loya, and Amravati’s Keyur Deshmukh and Omesh Nichat. TOI spoke to a couple of these high scorers and they said the results were along expected lines. Janhavi Chafle said, “After attending classes I devoted 8 to 10 hours a day for self-study. The lockdown period was beneficial for me as I could focus on studies for maximum hours.” Chafle added, “I solved practice papers and made a note of mistakes that were made so that I could rectify them later, while revising. I have taken admission in AIIMS Nagpur for my undergraduate studies.” She said the exam was of ‘medium’ difficulty level. “I felt chemistry was easy, biology was comparatively difficult whereas physics was of medium difficulty.” Prasad Kukde said preparation for JEE Advanced helped him a lot in MHT-CET. “The exam wasn’t a big task for me as I had already prepared a lot for JEE Advanced. It helped me solve the CET paper and I was able to score well. The paper was balanced with tough and easy questions and Maths was the easiest section for me.” He has already confirmed his seat at IIT Bhubaneswar in the computer science (CS) stream. “My AIR in JEE Advanced was 2,038 and there is a lot of scope in the CS field due to progress and demand for technology,” said Kukde. While the percentile system is used in other exams like JEE too, academic Panini Telang is not a fan. “In percentile system your performance is tied to the topper of your group, which is the group that gets the same set of question paper. Then the normalization of scores happens, which I find very amusing,” Telang said. “You can normalize statistics but here you are applying the same formula on intelligence, and that’s faulty,” he added. MHT-CET is for students seeking admission to undergraduate courses in engineering and non-MBBS, dentistry or medical-related streams (ayurveda, pharmacy etc). AT A GLANCE Students appeared PCM: 1,74,679 PCB: 2,11,925 Gender wise for both streams Male: 2,22,563 Female: 1,64,021 Transgender: 20 Exam centres In Maharashtra: 187 Rest of India: 10 Exam pattern Mode: Online only Days: 16 Sessions: 32 Number of 100 percentile scorers PCM: 22 PCB: 19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-nagpurians-score-100-percentile-in-mht-cet/articleshow/79482347.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Business||Jan Dhan, cash transfers boost ATMs in Bharat||BENGALURU: With Jan Dhan accounts and the government’s direct benefit transfers (DBT), ATM usage has gone up in rural areas. This is most clearly seen by the trend of increased usage of ‘white-label operators’ ATMs, which are used only in rural and remote parts of the country. From just 2% of total ATM transactions in India in 2014, these white-label ATMs now make up 12% of total transactions. ATM players say that the main reason for this is that over seven years, the number of debit cards in India has doubled to 86 crore as of September 2020. And of those cards, 35% (30 crore) are RuPay ones issued to PM Jan Dhan Yojana accounts. “We are seeing rural demand growing despite the pandemic. One of the reasons is that the rural economy has not been as severely impacted as the urban one with the lockdown,” says K Srinivas, CEO, BTI Payments, a white-label ATM operator. The government’s assistance to BPL workers during the pandemic is also held to have helped in part the industry take a quantum leap from 9.5% in September 2019 to 12% in September 2020. India’s ATM industry has grown 3% to 2.5 lakh ATMs, while white-label ATMs grew 14% to 24,195 as of September 2020. The higher growth percentage of white-label ATM (WLA) operators is an indication of rural growth but its not limited to that — banks have also been expanding in rural regions. However, the ATM industry numbers (3% growth) do not reflect that as the expansion was offset by the 10-PSU-bank merger plan, which led to closure of ATMs in urban areas. “The rural economy is certainly growing on the back of direct benefit transfers. We have seen that in rural branches — majority of customers are using Yono app or ATMs, and come to branches only for non-payment/ fund-transfer transactions,” said Abhijit Mazumdhar, CGM, Karnataka circle, SBI, which has 58,762 or roughly a quarter of the country’s ATMs. Watch With Jan Dhan & direct benefit transfers, ATM usage gone up in rural areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jan-dhan-cash-transfers-boost-atms-in-bharat/articleshow/79482863.cms||Rachel Chitra
November 30, 2020||Meerut||Army man posted in J&K ‘kills self’ in UP’s Shamli||Meerut: Kuldeep Kumar, 36, an Army personnel posted with Jat regiment in Jammu and Kashmir allegedly committed suicide at his rented place in Vikas Nagar locality within the Kotwali police station limits of Shamli district. Police were alerted about the incident after the landlord got suspicious and checked on Kuldeep who was found dead. The reason behind the extreme step is yet to be ascertained, police said. According to police, Kuldeep was on leave and had come to his house on November 13. Married with two children, Kuldeep was alone in the house. His body was found hanging in a room of his rented accommodation. The family, including wife and children, who were visiting a relative, were later informed about the incident. No suicide note was recovered from the place and the local police are trying to ascertain the motive behind the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/army-man-posted-in-jk-kills-self-in-ups-shamli/articleshow/79479961.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Ministers assess flood damage, tell officials to protect Somasila dam||NELLORE: Ministers M Gautham Reddy and Anil Kumar Yadav, during their review of the flood situation on Sunday, directed officials to take proactive measures to reduce pressure on the Somasila dam and Penna barrage by releasing additional water in order to protect the projects. The officials were told to keep plans ready to handle continuing floods from the upstream to the projects. The ministers also visited flood-hit areas in Nellore city and interacted with those affected. Speaking to locals, irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav said the government will provide alternative housing sites to residents near canal bunds. Yadav advised locals not to construct homes near canal bunds and drains which had resulted in the inundation of colonies in the city. Later, the ministers assessed the Somasila project where industries minister Gautham Reddy said they would compensate farmers for their losses. He asked officials to maintain 70 tmc (FRL) in the reservoir and release additional flow downstream. Officials explained that the project may receive another 80,000 cusescs over the next few hours. The industries minister asked officials to evacuate those living in low-lying areas. He also asked officials to expedite work on second phase of the Somasila project as chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had given the green light. Gautam Reddy asked officials to take measures for the Somasila project in the wake of IMD’s warning over another cyclone in the coming week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ministers-assess-flood-damage-tell-officials-to-protect-somasila/articleshow/79479975.cms||Samdani MN
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||CSTPS denies oil discharge in Irai, source untraced||Chandrapur: The Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) claimed there is no oil discharge from its plant into the nullahs connecting the Irai river. Chief engineer, CSTPS, Pankaj Sapate claimed they have not lighted up any of their units in the last 10 days, hence there is no question of oil spillage from their part. A few days ago, environmentalist Suresh Chopne had filed a complaint with Chandrapur regional office of Maharashtra State Pollution Control board (MPCB) after spotting a thick layer of oil floating on the river at Datala Point. MPCB officials have started probe but the source of oil leakage remains untraced. Sapate claimed they MPCB has found nothing after inspecting the plant. “A third party agency appointed by us too has found no spillage. CSTPS has adopted ‘Zero Liquid Discharge’ policy,” he said. “While all the effluent from the plant is treated and water reused, the sewage carrying Ranvendli nullah coming from Durgapur and Tukum, and passing through CSTPS is also treated at grit filter, an adsorbent developed by NGO Jalbiradari, and then the water passes through lime dosing which is a primary process of water filtration,” he said. He maintained that CSTPS has installed four effluent treatment plants (ETP-I to IV) and entire treated water is being reused for ash disposal. “The effluents are regularly analysed by MoEF&C recognized agency. Online continuous effluent quality monitoring stations are installed at all four ETPs and are connected to CPCB and MPCB server. CCTV cameras are also installed at ETP’s discharge point to ensure zero discharge,” he said. According to the chief engineer, for permanent treatment of Ranvendli sewage CSTPS has installed sewage treatment plant worth Rs42 crore. “We are also associated with CSIR-Neeri, Nagpur, for the betterment and rigorous implementation of Ranvendli sewage,” he said. Greens also suspect some new source of oil spillage into Irai river this time. Chopne claimed there is a thin and transparent layer of oil over the water, suggesting it to be of automobile oil, while CSTPS uses furnace oil, which is thick and greasy. He suspected it to be flowing from some oil spillage in WCL area of Durgapur or from some automobile hub.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cstps-denies-oil-discharge-in-irai-source-untraced/articleshow/79482366.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 30, 2020||Goa||Drugs worth over Rs 36 lakh seized from 4 places in Goa's Pernem||PANAJI: Goa police seized drugs worth over Rs 36 lakh from four different places in Pernem taluka and arrested four people, including an Austrian national, on Sunday. The Anti-Narcotic Cell (ANC) of Goa police had received information that a huge quantity of charas had entered the state and was distributed in Pernem taluka. Accordingly, police formed teams to verify the information and conduct searches. Police said that they are still collecting information about the source of the drugs. The ANC caught Chhatra Singh, 36, a native of Uttarakhand, from a rented room at Dando in Arambol and seized 2.1kg of charas, approximately worth Rs 10.5 lakh. In the second case, Chandan Singh, 35, a native of Rajasthan, was arrested with 2.3kg of charas, approximately worth Rs 11.9 lakh, after receiving information that a person will come to deliver drugs at a petrol pump in Arambol. Similarly, in the third case, the ANC had information that a person was likely to come to Kepkarwada, Arambol, to deliver the contraband. Police said that they laid a trap and caught Raju Lama, 35, a native of Himachal Pradesh with 2.5kg of charas, approximately worth Rs 12.5 lakh. Pernem police caught a 43-year-old Austrian national Stefan Hechenberger with charas, approximately worth Rs 1.2 lakh from Thorlebag, Keri, Pernem, after receiving information, PI Jivba Dalvi said. Sources said that the accused has a history of drug peddling. He was arrested by Goa police in 2008. Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena had recently said that Goa police want a drug-free state as narcotics tarnish the state’s image. Asked why the police force does not reach the source of the drugs, Meena had said that instructions in this respect have been given to the force and in some cases they have done it. “Our emphasis is on tracing the sources,” the DGP had said. Last week, Pernem police have seized cannabis plants, ganja and charas worth Rs 20 lakh from Korgao, Pernem and had arrested two accused arrested in the case. During the raid, ganja worth Rs 8,600, charas worth Rs 5.6 lakh and cannabis plants worth Rs 14 lakh were seized. In the last two months, six raids on a cannabis plantation have been conducted at Pernem. Panaji: Goa police seized drugs worth over Rs 36 lakh from four different places in Pernem taluka and arrested four people, including an Austrian national, on Sunday. The Anti-Narcotic Cell (ANC) of Goa police had received information that a huge quantity of charas had entered the state and was distributed in Pernem taluka. Accordingly, police formed teams to verify the information and conduct searches. Police said that they are still collecting information about the source of the drugs. The ANC caught Chhatra Singh, 36, a native of Uttarakhand, from a rented room at Dando in Arambol and seized 2.1kg of charas, approximately worth Rs 10.5 lakh. In the second case, Chandan Singh, 35, a native of Rajasthan, was arrested with 2.3kg of charas, approximately worth Rs 11.9 lakh, after receiving information that a person will come to deliver drugs at a petrol pump in Arambol. Similarly, in the third case, the ANC had information that a person was likely to come to Kepkarwada, Arambol, to deliver the contraband. Police said that they laid a trap and caught Raju Lama, 35, a native of Himachal Pradesh with 2.5kg of charas, approximately worth Rs 12.5 lakh. Pernem police caught a 43-year-old Austrian national Stefan Hechenberger with charas, approximately worth Rs 1.2 lakh from Thorlebag, Keri, Pernem, after receiving information, PI Jivba Dalvi said. Sources said that the accused has a history of drug peddling. He was arrested by Goa police in 2008. Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena had recently said that Goa police want a drug-free state as narcotics tarnish the state’s image. Asked why the police force does not reach the source of the drugs, Meena had said that instructions in this respect have been given to the force and in some cases they have done it. “Our emphasis is on tracing the sources,” the DGP had said. Last week, Pernem police have seized cannabis plants, ganja and charas worth Rs 20 lakh from Korgao, Pernem and had arrested two accused arrested in the case. During the raid, ganja worth Rs 8,600, charas worth Rs 5.6 lakh and cannabis plants worth Rs 14 lakh were seized. In the last two months, six raids on a cannabis plantation have been conducted at Pernem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drugs-worth-over-rs-36l-seized-from-4-places-in-pernem/articleshow/79482395.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Meerut||UP govt seeks progress report of tap water supply to schools Dec 31||MEERUT: State government has sought details of the progress of Jal Jeevan Mission, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, by December 31. Under the mission, all schools and anganwadi centres in UP are to be connected with tap water supply within 100 days of the announcement. “It should be noted that under Jal Jeevan Mission, a 100-day initiative to connect all the schools and anganwadis with water, aims at preventing typhoid, jaundice and other water-borne diseases. The project is to be completed by January 10, and in this regard, a progress report is sought from all the districts by December 31,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP, in his order. The initiative includes connection of water supply to all the handpumps in the schools, running water facility in all the toilets and at multiple hand washing units. “All the schools have to ensure that a timeline of the funds received, utilized and setting up of the running water facilities is given,” said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-seeks-progress-report-of-tap-water-supply-to-schools-dec-31/articleshow/79479983.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for double murder in Tirupur||TIRUPUR: Within a fortnight after murdering his friend over a petty quarrel and was on the run from police in Tirupur, a middle-aged man murdered another friend in cold blood. He got arrested for the second murder and was in prison when police investigating the first murder found out that he was the culprit. It has come to light now that the accused was arrested for another murder way back in 2018 also and that he was facing that case too. Narrating the incidents, a police officer said that the accused Shankar from Madurai was staying with his friend Isakkimuthu from Tuticorin in a rented room on College Road in Tirupur. Both were working in garment units. Since the first week of November, both Shankar and Isakkimuthu was not seen by the neighbours and the doors of their room were locked. When bad odour started emanating, neighbours grew suspicious and informed police. Police broke open the door and found the body of a man in the barrel. The body was identified to be that of Isakkimuthu. Since Shankar was missing, police suspected his role, but he was not reachable over phone. When they obtained his call records and telephoned numbers in the list, they were stumped to know that Shankar was arrested and lodged in Coimbatore central prison for a murder. Inquiries revealed that Shankar had knocked the head of Isakkimuthu with a stone leaving him dead after a petty quarrel when they were drinking alcohol. He dumped the body in the huge plastic barrel in the room and stayed there for the next couple of days in the same room. After that, he started staying with his friend Ilamparithi in the latter’s room. On November 12, Ilamparithi and his roommate Anbarasu had a quarrel. Shankar who intervened murdered Anbarasu in a similar way by hitting his head with a stone. The next day, Shankar and Ilamparithi were arrested by the Anuparpalayam police and remanded to Coimbatore central prison. Tirupur north police who were investigating the murder of Isakkimuthu sought the court for his custody. The court granted one day custody, when Shankar confessed to have murdered Isakkimuthu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-double-murder-in-tirupur/articleshow/79481546.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad techie, parents die in accident in Dallas||HYDERABAD: An information technology (IT) professional, G Bharath Reddy from Hyderabad, and his parents have died in a road accident in Dallas, Texas in the USA. Bharat Reddy’s sister G Mounika Reddy, also a software engineer and working there, has suffered critical injuries. “Mounika requires multiple surgeries for the injuries she has suffered,” a relative of the family, Yugandhar Reddy, a resident of Ramanthapur, told TOI on Sunday. He said from the preliminary information they received, the accident occurred on November 27 (Friday) in the USA. There were six people in the car which met with the accident. The family was reportedly on their way somewhere or returning home after a function when the accident took place. The family has relatives in the US, who have approached the local police and the hospital where 31-year-old Mounika has been admitted. In July, 28-year-old Bharath Reddy had invited his parents G Narasimha Reddy and mother Venamma, residents of Turka Yamjal in the city, to Texas so that they could stay with them.  Narsimha Reddy, who works as a bus conductor in TSRTC, went with his wife as his children said since they were working from home due to Covid situation, they could stay with him. The couple were to return on January 1, 2021. However, tragedy stuck and they died in the road accident in Texas. The relatives in Hyderabad do not have any details as to how the mishap took place. The family originally hails from Peddachinthakunta village of Marikel mandal in Narayanpet district and settled in Turka Yamjal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-techie-parents-die-in-accident-in-dallas/articleshow/79482365.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Low pressure becomes well-marked over Bay of Bengal||VISAKHAPATNAM: A well-marked low pressure formed over the Bay of Bengal on Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD issued a forecast that the system would develop into a depression in 36 hours from Sunday and reach south-coastal Andhra Pradesh. Under its influence, south-coastal AP would receive rainfall at many places and heavy rainfall at isolated places on December 1 and 2. The low pressure system formed over the south Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast Bay of Bengal on Saturday. It is likely to concentrate into a depression by November 30 and intensify further thereafter. “The impact of the low pressure system would be higher on neighbouring Tamil Nadu than us. But it is too early to talk about further developments of the system. We have given a forecast upto December 2 when there would be rains across south-coastal AP,” an IMD official said. Squally weather with wind speeds reaching a maximum of 90kmph are expected along the coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/low-pressure-becomes-well-marked-over-bay/articleshow/79479990.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 17-year-old boy arrested for molesting 5-year-old girl||COIMBATORE: The rural police on Saturday arrested a 17-year-old boy, who molested a five-year-old girl at his house in a village on the city outskirts. The minor boy was working as a labourer and was addicted to alcohol, police sources said. “After the girl, who was playing in front her house, went missing on Friday evening, her mother started a search for her. She found the girl in the boy’s house. The boy had tied her up and molested her. With the help of neighbours, the woman forcibly opened the door and rescued her daughter. Locals thrashed the boy before handing him over to police,” a police officer said. The boy was booked under Section 9 (M) read with 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. He was lodged in the observation home for juveniles at Lakshmi Mills junction. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17-year-old-boy-arrested-for-molesting-5-year-old-girl/articleshow/79481553.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Coimbatore||70% of dist’s Covid cases are secondary contacts||Coimbatore: Data from the health department shows that 70% of the district’s Covid-19 cases are secondary contacts. The number of such cases as on November 27 was 33,844. “These are the people, who have been infected by touching a surface touched by an infected person,” said a senior government official. “This includes people who live in the same apartment or on the same street of a positive patient. They were mostly detected via fever camps.”Epidemiologist and former director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy said the cases could have been prevented by following a stricter hand washing process and hand hygiene at public places. “This is the reason we have been harping on washbasins at public places and offices,” he said.The data shows that 80 out of the 150-odd cases declared daily are contacts of positive patients. “At least 50% of the people, who test positive, are contacts of positive patients and the figure has actually reduced because of increased awareness on prevention norms,” Kolandasamy said. While 70% of the cases are secondary contacts, 9% or 4,700-odd cases are primary contacts or people who live in the same house or work in close contact with positive patients. “These are people who could have prevented getting infected by wearing mask and hand washing, because they are prone to aerosol transmission and fomite transmission,” the doctor said.Only 21% of cases, or a little more than 10,000 people, are index patients or people who have tested positive despite having no known contact with a containment zone, positive patient or had a recent travel history. “Though they account for hardly a fifth of the total cases, they are the source for the remaining 79%. Our target is to bring down index patient cases, or people with no known contact history. If this happens, our cases will drop to double digits,” said the government officer.Meanwhile, the district recorded 148 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 48,572. With 50 people getting discharged, the number of active cases climbed beyond the 900 mark to 919. This takes the total number of patients recovered to 47,041, which in turn led the recovery rate to marginally dip to 96.8%. The district also recorded one more death, taking the toll to 612. The victim was a 70-year-old man, who died four days after hospitalization in CMCH on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/70-of-dists-covid-cases-are-secondary-contacts/articleshow/79481550.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||FAIFA seeks aid for tobacco cultivators||Guntur: The Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) on Sunday called upon the Centre to announce a special relief package for farmers who suffered crop losses due to cyclone Nivar. The body said that the cyclone had affected livelihoods of millions of FCV tobacco farmers from Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts. Addressing the media, FAIFA general secretary PS Murali Babu said the FCV farming community has faced losses of over Rs 6,000 crore due to drop in crop production — from 325 million kilos in 2014-15 to 210 million kilos in 2019-20. He said the situation of FCV farmers had worsened due to the pandemic. “Just when the farmers were trying to recuperate from their heavy economic losses, heavy rains which took place immediately after plantation, shattered farmers’ confidence as they are now set to lose massive amounts,” Murali Babu said. He added that over 30,000 hectares had been planted in the traditional tobacco-growing region — Prakasam and Nellore — and 40% of the crop has been affected due to inundation. FAIFA vice-president Gadde Seshagiri Rao said farmers in the northern light soil (NSL) region were also badly hit as incessant rains flooded their fields just weeks after completion of sowing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/faifa-seeks-aid-for-tobacco-cultivators/articleshow/79480010.cms||Samdani MN
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Seafarer who escaped from pirates in Nigeria recounts ordeal||Hyderabad: Even a week after returning from Nigeria, Jarjana Shankar Rao is yet to recover from the harrowing experience he had gone through with pirates and later at the jail. The seafarer’s ship ‘MT Apecus’ was attacked by the pirates in Nigerian waters on April 19, 2019. Interestingly, Shankar Rao was not captured by the pirates as he followed what Tom Hanks told his crew in the ‘Captain Phillips’, the Hollywood film released in 2013. Rao hid himself in the engine room and the pirates took five Indian seafarers captive. Interestingly, Rao told his fellow seafarer and friend Avinash that he had a bad dream in which his ship was attacked by the pirates. “I had a dream just the previous night that our ship would be attacked by pirates. I told this to my Avinash in the morning. The dream came true and it was a nightmarish experience for me,” Rao told TOI from his home in Vizianagaram. The events that played out on that day on April 19, 2019 are still fresh in his memory. “But I would like to erase those memories and not allow any fear to creep in again,” he said. Though he escaped from the pirates, his joy was shortlived as he along with the rest of the crew — from Nigeria and Ghana — was arrested by Nigerian authorities as their ship entered the Bonny anchorage without permission. After languishing in the Nigerian jail for over a year, Rao was back home on November 22, thanks to the intervention of the Indian High Commission. It turned out be an emotional reunion with his relatives and fiancée Divya in Vizianagaram. His parents passed away a few years back. His fellow seafarers, who were taken captive by the pirates, were released on June 27, 2019. Recollecting the incidents of that fateful day, Rao said that he seldom realised that engine room was not a safe place. The first thing the pirates do is that they go to the engine room to switch off the engines. When the armed pirates boarded the deck of MT Apecus, instinctively Shankar rushed into the engine room. What saved him was that the chief engineer of the ship had also come into the engine room and switched off the engine. The pirates left the room as the engines were shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seafarer-who-escaped-from-pirates-in-nigeria-recounts-ordeal/articleshow/79482388.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Airport gets base flight||Coimbatore: A base flight has returned to the Coimbatore airport for the first time since the lockdown was imposed eight months ago. IndiGo has decided to base a flight in Coimbatore, from where it will fly to Mumbai.IndiGo began operating the flight on November 22. It departs from Coimbatore at 6.15am and arrives in Mumbai at 8.40am. It departs from Mumbai at 8.20pm and lands in Coimbatore at 9.55pm.The flight will be parked in the airport for nine hours. While long-term base flights will create job opportunities in mechanical and aeronautical sectors, it will provide an early morning flight option for frequent visitors to Mumbai.While the airport will get to charge the airline a parking fee, because the flight is parked for more than three hours, it will not benefit from the VAT concession for base flights in tier II cities. “While they depart before 7am, filling one part of the criteria, the flight lands well before 11pm. However, the airline is trying to tweak the schedule, so it lands slightly later and can make use of the VAT concession,” said airport director R Mahalingam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/airport-gets-base-flight/articleshow/79481551.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Two brothers drown in Kolarpathi tank||Coimbatore: A 25-year-old Kovilmedu resident and his 20-year-old brother drowned in Kolarpathi tank on the Perur -Nagarajapuram Road on Sunday.The Vadavalli police identified them as A Ananthan and his younger brother A Hari. “They were passing through the area on a motorcycle along with their friend S Madan, 23, of Kovilmedu. They had a few drinks and were intoxicated. The bike skidded off the muddy road and the trio fell down. When they ventured into the lake to wash their clothes, Hari spotted a lotus flower and tried to pluck it, but he drowned. Ananthan, who tried to rescue Hari, also drowned,” a police officer said.Madan informed passersby, who alerted police. A police team retrieved the bodies with the help of locals.The brothers were bachelors and were working in a lathe workshop, sources said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-brothers-drown-in-kolarpathi-tank/articleshow/79481580.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Karthika Deepotsavam observed at Tirumala||TIRUPATI: Spiritual fervour marked the Karthika Deepotsavam festivities observed at the Tirumala temple on Sunday. The abode of Lord Venkateswara was illuminated with ghee-lit lamps in specially designed earthen clay pots called ‘Mookullu’ which were carried in a procession inside the hill temple by priests and officials led by the Jeeyar Swamis and TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy on Sunday evening. Later, the temple complex, from the Mahadwaram to the sanctum sanctorum and sub-shrines, were lit up with ghee-lit lamps. The TTD had cancelled the conduct of various arjitha sevas at the temple on Sunday in view of the Karthika Deepotsavam festival. TTD executive officer KS Jawahar Reddy IAS, additional EO AV Dharma Reddy and other officials took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/karthika-deepotsavam-observed-at-tirumala/articleshow/79480023.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 30, 2020||Coimbatore||37 new Covid cases recorded in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris saw a surge in new cases of Covid-19 when it reported 37 cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 7,392, even as 11 patients recovered and were discharged on the day. So far, 7,169 patients have recovered and discharged from various health facilities in the district with the recovery rate at 96.9%.Of the 182 active cases, at least nine people are being treated at government facilities in Coimbatore while 10 are admitted in private hospitals in the city. While 27 patients are kept in home quarantine, the remaining patients are treated at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides two Covid care centres.Of the 37 new cases, five cases will be cross notified to Coimbatore district, according to a health official. Of the remaining new cases, six were reported from Ooty town, Gudalur block 15 cases. The rest of the cases were reported from Kotagiri and Coonoor blocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/37-new-covid-cases-recorded-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79481559.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Fliers shed Covid-19 fear, pack bags||Coimbatore: The pandemic situation and the resultant recession don’t seem to have stopped people from flying. The passenger traffic at the city airport alone has increased by 14.4% in October.In September too, when the Covid-19 cases were on the rise in the district, the city airport had seen the number of flyers going up by 22,000 from the August footfall.While attributing the rise in passenger traffic to the increase in flight services, airport authorities said it was also a sign of the state’s economy becoming active again.As per the data available with the Airport Authority of India (AAI), the city airport had handled 76,470 passengers in October, up by 9,678 from 66,792 in September. It is a massive 70% jump compared to 44,786 passengers in August and 150% rise from 30,644 passengers in July.R Mahalingam, city airport director, says, “We are seeing a jump in passenger traffic every month. One of the reasons is airlines are adding new flights and destinations monthly.”Coimbatore is currently connected to six cities, including Bengaluru, Hyderabad, New Delhi and Mumbai. “We have a direct flight to Ahmedabad, which was not there earlier,” says the airport director.In October, the city airport had seen a total of 899 flights, up by 81% from 493 flights in July. In that month (Oct) alone, the city had seen an additional 139 flights. “Airlines are still in the process of adding more flights,” says Mahalingam.However, the passenger traffic has only reached 30% of the pre-Covid times. The airport had handled 30 lakh passengers last year, when the monthly average of flyers stood at 2.5 lakh. “At the rate that it is improving, we hope the passenger traffic to hit the pre-Covid times in a few months,” says the airport director.Officials say this is also a sign of the economy picking up. D Nandakumar, industrialist and managing director of Selvam Agencies, says, “We are seeing more people flying for business and other reasons. People are also feeling safer flying because we hear that the air in flights is decontaminated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fliers-shed-covid-19-fear-pack-bags/articleshow/79481584.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Rajkot||Two killed in car-SUV collision||Palanpur: Two persons were killed when the car they were travelling in had a tyre burst, resulting in the collision with an SUV coming from the opposite direction near Okaliyaro village of Malpur taluka in Aravalli district on Sunday morning. Police said the victims, Jagdish Patel (37) from Jadhar village and his farm labourer Ramabhai Bhil from Malvav village, both the villages of Sabarkantha district, were killed on the spot.“Patel, who was driving the car, lost control over the vehicle after a tyre burst. His car broke the divider, crossed over to the opposite lane and rammed into an SUV coming from the opposite direction,” said an investigating official. One Vivek Kumar from Mumbai, who was travelling in the SUV, received minor injuries in the accident. The police registered a case of accidental deaths on Kumar’s complaint. The car driven by Patel was so badly mangled that it had to be cut open to extricate the bodies of Patel and Bhil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-killed-in-car-suv-collision/articleshow/79480052.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Unmoved by new agri laws, state ryots face crop losses||Nagpur: As farmers in Punjab and Haryana are on a warpath against the central government, the peasants of Maharashtra — the state known for agrarian crisis — remains indifferent. Activists say even as this is one of the worst years for the farmers here, the dynamics in Maharashtra are different as compared to the northern states, due to which the new farm laws may not have an immediate impact. The rates of cotton and soybean, the main crops of the region, have improved but farmers have suffered losses in both, say activists. The farmers in Punjab and Haryana mainly cultivate wheat and paddy for which they depend on the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for procurement at MSP. They fear that dilution of the MSP under new laws will hamper their interests. Farmers in the state including Vidarbha since long have been exposed to the private traders. MSP intervention has happened only as and when needed, said observers. The state government too has deferred the implementation of the three agriculture laws that allow sale of farm produce out of the agriculture produce market committees (APMC) and contract farming apart from removing commodities like cereals, pulses, onions and potatoes from the list of essential commodities. This week a bonus of Rs700 a quintal was also announced for paddy procurement by the state government. Sugar cane growers already get what is called fair and remunerative price (FRP). This is the least which the sugar factories have to pay, or else can face action. Buying at minimum support price (MSP) has also begun by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) in Vidarbha and cotton growing parts. Rates of soybean too are above the MSP. Despite all the factors, it’s a tough year for the farmers, say activists. The MSP for cotton is at Rs5,800 a quintal. Apart from CCI procurement, private traders too are offering up to Rs5,700. Soybean rates are above MSP of Rs3,880 a quintal. “Rates of cotton and soybean have improved only because of a low output. Soybean produce has gone below half of the last year’s average, so is with cotton. If the shortage has increased the rates, it may be of a little help for the farmer,” said Shetkari Sangathana veteran Vijay Jawandhia. He said there are reports of farmers plucking off cotton plants to replace it with gram, but only those with irrigation facilities can go for a second crop. Former member of Parliament from Swabhiman Paksha, Raju Shetti said the district wise protests were held in every district this month. “The new farm laws may not have an immediate impact on the farmers here but will certainly affect in the long run,” he said. Shetti said there is a need to ensure that farmers are mandatorily paid the MSP by private traders as it happens in sugar cane. The mill cannot pay less than the FRP. He accepted that it was a bad year with soybean and cotton growers facing major losses. Kishore Tiwari, the chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), said procurement has begun for even crops like maize which is not a major produce. However, losses in cotton and soybean are much more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unmoved-by-new-agri-laws-state-ryots-face-crop-losses/articleshow/79482394.cms||Shishir Arya
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Expect revolution on election day, expecting a good verdict: Kishan||Hyderabad: Union minister of state (MoS) for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Sunday said a silent revolution is waiting to happen in the city on the polling day, December 1. Addressing a press conference along with senior party leaders, he said the family politics would come to an end in the state. “The response from people is evident that we will get very good verdict,” he said. BJP OBC national morcha president K Laxman said that there was going to be major changes in TRS in the coming days and many voices would be heard from that party. “Our national party leadership is standing with us...” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/expect-revolution-on-election-day-expecting-a-good-verdict-kishan/articleshow/79482398.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Traffic cop hangs from bonnet for 500m after goon drives car into him||NAGPUR: Head constable Amol Chintamwar of Sakkardara traffic division was driven for around half-a-kilometre on a car’s bonnet after gangster Akash Chavan drove the vehicle into him on Sunday. Chavan has been booked for attempt to murder. It’s learnt Chintamwar and his team was engaged in a drive against black films on car windows at Sakkardara Square when they tried to stop Chavan’s car. Chavan, who was with his girlfriend, drove into the traffic team. Chintamwar, who was in front of the car, had to jump on to the bonnet to save himself. He held on to the bonnet until Chavan had to slow down the car near Ayurvedic Layout. Chavan was detained and brought to Sakkardara police station along with his girlfriend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traffic-cop-hangs-from-bonnet-for-500m-after-goon-drives-car-into-him/articleshow/79482399.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Isaac hits out at VACB over KSFE raids, warns of action||ALAPPUZHA: Continuing his attack on the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) over the agency’s raid on Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) branches, finance minister T M Thomas Isaac on Sunday said the government will order an investigation on the ‘lapses’ by the agency and actions will be taken to ensure such mistakes are not repeated. “The VACB should have acted sensibly. I don’t know why the agency raided KSFE branches. I have heard about the reasons for the raids from media, they do not have a vigilance angle. The financial inspection wing and the Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG) had earlier conducted such inspections. I came to know that what the vigilance claimed to have uncovered is what those agencies had reported earlier,” the minister said. Isaac said the media reports in this connection have been similar and seems to have been orchestrated. “The state government will investigate it,” he said. The minister said he was not against the raids conducted on Saturday, but the manner in which they were carried out. “Vigilance can conduct a suo motu probe. I have no objection to the raids as well. But I am against the manner they were carried out. It should have been done in a proper manner,” he told reporters in Alappuzha. The minister said that such investigations should not be handled lightly. Such actions will tarnish the credibility of a financial institution, he added. Even if investigations are conducted, the findings should be placed before the government instead of revealing them through the media. The investigation should not end up degrading the institution, the minister said. “The opposition is using this as an opportunity to tarnish the institution’s image. If it is destroyed, it will help them and private financial institutions. Both opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and Union minister V Muraleedharan are looking to stir up a controversy from all this,” he said. “The KSFE has grown into a financial institution with a turnover of Rs 50,000 crore. It has become a profitable institution. What does the opposition leader want to investigate? The KSFE is facing only the legacy problems that emerged during the time of UDF,” he said, adding that BJP doesn’t mind ruining KSFE’s reputation as it doesn’t have anything to do with it, the minister said. Responding to Muraleedharan’s statements, he said the Enforcement Directorate cannot destroy KSFE. “We don’t fear such threats. Nobody has the freedom to do whatever they like. People of Kerala are with the state government and not with the BJP,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/isaac-hits-out-at-vacb-over-ksfe-raids-warns-of-action/articleshow/79480043.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Agra||Agra varsity academic session begins but results of 12 courses still pending||AGRA: The new academic session has officially begun but Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University administration is yet to declare results of 12 undergraduate and post-graduate courses. The state government had earlier directed that all results be declared by October 31. University officials said the declaration of results has been delayed as several colleges have not sent the marks of practicals and viva. The university has declared results of 86 out of the total 98 courses for 2019-20. Results of 12 courses are yet to be declared. These include law courses, B.Ed, B.Com, BA and post-graduate courses in different subjects. Earlier, BSc final-year results of 72 of the total 624 affiliated colleges were declared, while complete results, including several other courses, have not been declared yet. Agra University registrar Rajeev Kumar said, “The delay in the declaration of results is caused by the self-financed colleges as some of them have not sent the marks of practical exams. The entire matter will be discussed at the upcoming examination committee meeting and strict action will be taken against these colleges for causing inordinate delay in the declaration of results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-varsity-academic-session-begins-but-results-of-12-courses-still-pending/articleshow/79480032.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kochi||‘CPM leadership will examine raids in KSFE’||Thrissur: The CPM acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan on Sunday said the party will examine the circumstances which led to the vigilance raids in the KSFE branches, and will make a comment only after that. Responding to questions at a ‘Face-to-Face’ programme organized by the Thrissur Press Club, Vijayaraghavan, however, conceded that divergent views have surfaced even from his own party about the raids. “KSFE is a reputed financial institution. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac has made some opinions about the raids. Some other views have also been expressed publicly. Party leaders have not been able to sit together and analyze what had actually taken place. We will come out with a clear stance after we discuss among ourselves,” he said. Asked about the reported criticisms levelled by the leader of opposition Ramesh Chennithala against Isaac for attacking the vigilance raids in KSFE, Vijayaraghavan said Chennithala supports vigilance raids when they are targeted against the LDF government-controlled institutions like KSFE, but becomes furious when vigilance officials zero in on him or other Congress leaders. Asked about the latest disclosures in the solar case, he said primacy should be given to the statement of the survivor, and not to the statements of people who have joined the Congress. Vijayaraghavan, who is also the LDF convener, alleged the UDF and Congress have entered into unholy alliances with different communal groups in different parts of the state in the local body elections, and this would eventually be helpful to the divisive forces. Asked about the controversies triggered by the appointment of his wife Prof R Bindu as vice-principal of Sree Kerala Varma College, he said appointments to the educational institutions can be done only by complying with the rules and regulations stipulated by the relevant agencies. There are stipulated criteria for such appointments like qualification and seniority, and it can be assumed that those rules and regulations have been complied with, in this appointment, Vijayaraghavan said. The LDF convener also made a scathing attack on the BJP-led government at the Centre for the authoritarian manner of dealing with the ongoing farmers’ agitations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-leadership-will-examine-raids-in-ksfe/articleshow/79480056.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Agra||67 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 9,165||Agra: At least 67 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 9,165. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College (SNMC) and two employees of the district hospital. Also, 75 Covid patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 9,165 cases reported in the district, 8,296 [90.5%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases in the district decreased from 713 on Saturday, to 704 on Sunday. Moreover, a 55-year-old man died while undergoing treatment at the SNMC. The resident of Rajpur Chungi locality was suffering from diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other medical conditions. According to the health department, the Covid patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 165 deaths have been reported in Agra district. The current Covid sample positivity rate in the district is 2.6% and the fatality rate 1.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/67-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-9165/articleshow/79480037.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||Rs 1cr aid to martyr Satai’s family||Nagpur: State government has sanctioned Rs 1 crore aid to the family of martyr Bhushan Satai from Katol who had laid down his life fighting Pakistani infiltrators at Srinagar on November 13. Satai, a jawan of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), had joined the department in 2010. State home minister Anil Deshmukh, also MLA from Katol, had expedited the process to ensure the martyr’s family got the monetary compensation without hassles. Deshmukh, who was present during the funeral of the martyr, had promised the family of every possible help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs-1cr-aid-to-martyr-satais-family/articleshow/79482402.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Dip in Hindu population in Old City; experts differ: Bandi Sanjay||HYDERABAD: The Census 2011 religion-wise population figures don’t corroborate with BJP state president Bandi Sanjay’s statement over the decline of Hindu population in the Old City area. During the last day of campaigning, he said Hindu population in Shalibanda, Aliabad, Uppuguda, Gowlipura and Chatrinaka were on the decline. “Who destroyed their properties, who occupied their land,” questioned Bandi, adding that if BJP comes to power in the ensuing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls, he will drive away Rohingya from the Old City. Later, speaking to TOI, Bandi said that it is an established fact that Hindu population is on the decline in the said areas. “Hindus generally don’t dismantle their ancestral homes. But because their houses were being ruined by certain parties, many Hindus have left.” However, an analysis of the Census 2011 religion-wise figures released in August 2015 indicates that the Hindu population in Hyderabad stands at 20.46 lakh, while there are 17.13 lakh Muslims in the city, with experts saying the population was much more than what the numbers suggest. Experts attributed the supposed decline in population to migration of people from the Old City, which they claim has nothing to do with religion. “Development in the Old City area has been neglected for years. Therefore, those who are not keen to expand their livelihoods in an undeveloped area would have migrated to other areas. Because of migration, there could be decline in certain pockets. However, the migration has nothing to do with either Hindus or Muslims,” said Dr Chiranjeevi Kolluri, president of Hyderabad Deccan Democratic and Secular Alliance, adding that the BJP should not divide the country on the basis of religion and should learn to rule from the Nizams, who protected even the non-Muslims during their rule. Experts said that even today, many people from Hindu communities continue to stay in the Old City. “We can find Bengalis, Marwadis and Gujaratis among many others living in harmony with the Muslim population. There is definitely no truth to the statement that Hindus have left because of Muslims as there are many families who continue to live there for generations even now,” said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-dip-in-hindu-popn-in-old-city-experts-differ/articleshow/79482400.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 30, 2020||Nagpur||NHAI promise to transplant 1,900 Ajni trees just an eyewash: Activists||Nagpur: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) intends to transplant hundreds of age-old trees from Central railway’s land in Ajni, a technique which has repeatedly failed in the city. TOI has been regularly reporting about the severe environmental damage that will occur if the proposed transport hub and inter-modal station comes up at Ajni. The Rs1,288.81 crore project is coming up on land which is a thriving biodiversity habitat of bird and animal species amid thousands of trees planted during the British era. As per documents procured under Right to Information (RTI) by senior citizen Ashish Kumar Ghosh, 1,222 trees will have to be chopped off for construction of the station. Apart from this, over 700 trees will be felled for schools, housing, health care centre, railway offices and other buildings. In a press release on Saturday evening, NHAI stated that as per the detailed study report, 1,940 trees will be felled. It also proposed transplanting maximum number of these trees. Calling this an eyewash, environment experts said that transplantation of said trees will not be successful. “It has been time and again proven that transplantation of trees is nothing but a failure in our region. Authorities try to fool people by using relocation of trees to make the case for projects. This is nothing but a scam,” said environment activist and former honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das. Environment activist Anasuya Kale Chhabrani, who is also executive member of environment NGO Paryavaran Prerna Vidarbha, agreed with him. “Transplantation here is not done in the way it should be done. The city has a record of transplantation failures. Moreover, when such age-old trees with huge girth and wide spread of roots are disturbed, they will automatically die. Very few species can be scientifically transplanted.” As reported by TOI, previous transplantation of trees carried out by MahaMetro at Patwardhan School ground in Sitabuldi, a residential colony in Mihan, and other locations has failed miserably. Not even 10 % of the trees could survive. In its release, NHAI further stated that it will carry out compensatory afforestation of 25,000 trees on available vacant land of the agency. However, raising doubts over this too, activists pointed out that NHAI has a bad track record of compensatory plantations. “The survival rate has been very poor,” said Chhabrani. Citing lack of space, Das said, “Authorities themselves claim there is not enough space available to plant trees. If trees are cut in Ajni and compensatory plantation is done in far-off areas, it will disturb the ecological balance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nhai-promise-to-transplant-1900-ajni-trees-just-an-eyewash-activists/articleshow/79482408.cms||Manka Behl
November 30, 2020||Rajkot||Two killed in car-SUV collision||Palanpur: Two persons were killed when the car they were travelling in had a tyre burst, resulting in the collision with an SUV coming from the opposite direction near Okaliyaro village of Malpur taluka in Aravalli district on Sunday morning. Police said the victims, Jagdish Patel (37) from Jadhar village and his farm labourer Ramabhai Bhil from Malvav village, both the villages of Sabarkantha district, were killed on the spot.“Patel, who was driving the car, lost control over the vehicle after a tyre burst. His car broke the divider, crossed over to the opposite lane and rammed into an SUV coming from the opposite direction,” said an investigating official. One Vivek Kumar from Mumbai, who was travelling in the SUV, received minor injuries in the accident. The police registered a case of accidental deaths on Kumar’s complaint. The car driven by Patel was so badly mangled that it had to be cut open to extricate the bodies of Patel and Bhil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-killed-in-car-suv-collision/articleshow/79480073.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Goa||Centre notifies Goa green bodies to issue some environment clearances||PANAJI: The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has constituted the state-level environment impact assessment authority (SEIAA) and the state-level expert appraisal committee (SEAC), which will be headed by Suhas Jagannath Godse and Gautam Vikas Desai respectively. The two committees have been empowered to issue environment clearances to mines smaller than 100 hectares. They can also issue ECs to townships, e-waste and hazardous waste treatment facilities, etc. The SEIAA will decide issues based SEAC recommendatiions, and while the latter must try to reach a consensus, if it can’t the majority view will prevail. The chairmen and members of both the bodies will hold office for three years, and all of them are bound to declare the organisations they have been associated with, to avoid conflict of interest. The notification has forbidden chairmen and members not to undertake any consultation or associate themselves with the preparation of environment impact assessment (EIA) and environment management plans (EMP) for projects. It also stated that if any chairman or member has provided services for any project proponent, they must recuse if the proponents’ projects come up before the bodies. The government of Goa, according to the notification, must notify an agenty to act as secretariat for the authorities, and shall provide all financial and logistical support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-notifies-state-green-bodies-to-issue-some-environment-clearances/articleshow/79482410.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||40,000 cops to be deployed for GHMC election bandobust||HYDERABAD: Over 40,000 police personnel will be deployed across the three police commissionerates in the city for GHMC elections bandobust on Tuesday to ensure polling process gets completed without any untoward incidents. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said 22,000 cops would be deployed for the election bandobust in 4,979 polling stations of 89 wards in the commissionerate jurisdiction. The polling stations have been categorized as normal, sensitive, hyper sensitive and critical based on various parametres. “Police pickets will be put in place at 293 hyper sensitive polling stations. Striking force and emergency response teams will be available along with six teams of armed police,” Anjani Kumar said. So far, 4,187 licensed weapons have been deposited and 3,066 history sheeters have been bound over. Police seized Rs 1.45 crore cash during checks along with Rs 10 lakh worth liquor and narcotics. After analysing 65 election-related complaints, 55 cases have been booked and 49 non-bailable warrants (NBWs) have been executed. “Over four lakh CCTV cameras are being monitored and, at DCP and ACP offices, round-the-clock monitoring rooms have been set up. Voters have to park their vehicles 200 metres away from the polling station,” the commissioner said. In Cyberabad commissionerate limits, 13,500 police personnel would be deployed to ensure trouble-free polling across 2,569 polling stations in 38 wards. Also, 770 polling stations have been identified as sensitive. Flag marches have been conducted and 11 flying squads and 11 static surveillance teams were working round-the-clock. So far, 588 firearms have been deposited and 186 history-sheeters have been bound over. All polling stations have been geo tagged and social media was being monitored to prevent spreading of rumours. In Rachakonda limits, 8,000 cops would be deployed across 30 wards. Of the 1,640 polling stations, 498 stations were categorized as sensitive and 101 as hyper sensitive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40k-cops-to-be-deployed-for-ghmc-election-bandobust/articleshow/79482403.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Bailey bridges, alternative road likely to be closed||KOLKATA: It’s good news for people living in Alipore and New Alipore. The Bailey bridges linking the two areas — and the alternative road that was being used while the new Majerhat bridge was being built — are likely to be closed after Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is due to inaugurate the new bridge that day. A portion of the old flyover across Eastern Railway’s Sealdah-Budge Budge rail tracks collapsed on 4 September, 2018. A new cable-stayed bridge has now replaced the old one. For the last two years, vehicles have been plying through the double carriageway the state public works department (PWD) had built as an alternative to the south Kolkata lifeline that linked the city centre with New Alipore, Behala and beyond. The new road — a southward extension of Alipore Avenue — runs across a boat canal and the rail tracks to the east of Majerhat bridge. For the new road, ER had to install a temporary level-crossing next to it to allow vehicles to pass through the rail tracks. Since new level-crossings are banned across India and the old ones are being increasingly closed to minimize accidents, Railway Board gave permission to use it till October, 2021, assuming the new bridge may be built by this time. But there was a rider. “The level-crossing must be closed as soon as the new bridge is commissioned,” a state official told TOI. Without the level-crossing, the road, which includes two Bailey bridges, linking Alipore and New Alipore, automatically falls defunct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bailey-bridges-alternative-road-likely-to-be-closed/articleshow/79481661.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 30, 2020||Kochi||UDF wants probe into ‘black money’||Alappuzha: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) must investigate the findings of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) to determine if KSFE was used to convert black money into white money, UDF convener M M Hassan said. Speaking to reporters, here, on Sunday, the Congress leader said finance minister T M Thomas Isaac should reveal who is ‘mentally unstable’ enough to order VACB raids on Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd.  “The action could not be without the knowledge of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is in charge of the home department,” he said. Despite the fact that every department handled by Isaac, including treasury, is under the scanner for financial irregularities, the FM has been intolerant to related investigations, Hassan alleged. He said allegations of corruption levelled against the LDF government are all coming true.  “By registering fake cases against the opposition leader and UDF MLAs the chief minister is engaging in the politics of vendetta. He is flustered by the corruption charges and criticism of his government. The finance minister has slammed the investigations into KSFE and KIIFB. But there is no other way to know if the former principal secretary to the CM, M Sivasanker, used KSFE to convert black money. Both Sivasankar and Isaac are close friends,” he said. Hassan said UDF will organize agitations in all panchayats on December 2 from 5pm to 6pm demanding the resignation of the CM and the dropping of fake cases against UDF MLAs and the opposition leader. “A virtual rally will also be organized at noon on December 5,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-wants-probe-into-black-money/articleshow/79480071.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Agra||Kids at Agra juvenile home living in dirty conditions||AGRA: As many as 171 children at the state government-run juvenile observation home in Agra have been living in the unhygienic condition in the absence of proper cleaning, noted principal magistrate of Agra district juvenile justice board Yogesh Kumar Yadav who along with board member Sonam Chaturvedi had conducted an inspection on the premises at Jagner road on October 29. The children were suffering from the stink emanating from the toilets and bathrooms as the premises were not being cleaned every day, noted Yadav, adding that there was no teacher at the centre to teach the children. Expressing his concern in a report sent to district magistrate Prabhu N Singh, Yadav said the poor sanitation and hygiene at toilets and bathrooms were unhealthy for the children living at the centre. Terming the situation “highly objectionable”, Yadav directed the centre supervisor to ensure proper cleaning of the toilets and bathrooms with disinfectants in the morning as well as in the evening. The juvenile observation home had no teacher for the education of the children in violation of the Right to Education (RTE) Act. Taking cognisance of the matter, the principal magistrate directed the district probation officer (DPO) to ensure the appointment of a teacher and sought a compliance report. The principal magistrate also found a guard room at the main gate of the centre non-operational and directed the officials to ensure proper security arrangements at the centre. District probation officer Luvkush Bhargava, meanwhile, said, “The maintenance of sanitation and hygiene at the juvenile observation home is being monitored closely. Besides, a teacher will also be appointed at the centre, and the guard room will be made operational following the juvenile justice board order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/children-at-agra-juvenile-home-living-in-unhygienic-condition-no-teacher-at-centre/articleshow/79480051.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kochi||CM should expel Isaac: Union min||Thiruvananthapuram: Union minister V Muraleedharan here on Sunday said that the state cabinet has lost its collective responsibility and the open criticism of state finance minister T M Thomas Isaac against the KSFE raids by state vigilance department exposed the same. Muraleedharan said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan should expel the finance minister from his cabinet if the latter did not trust the vigilance under the CM. “Not just central agencies, state agencies too have started exposing the corruption in Pinarayi Vijayan government. It’s vigilance that said there was corruption in Wadakkanchery Life Mission project and Kerala State Financial Corporation. It’s the vigilance that registered cases against CM’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar and raided KSFE offices. These self-explanatory developments have diffused the CPM claims that Union government was playing politics using central agencies,” Muraleedharan said in a meet-the-press programme. After sitting idle for four-and-half years on cases involving UDF leaders, the LDF government has started taking action against them. “The LDF might want to expose the UDF leaders as they want to put them on the defensive. But it has given people a chance to weigh both the fronts and leaders,” he said. Mulareedharan said the effective distribution of ration by the Union government during the lockdown had saved thousands of people from starvation and death. To a question, Muraleedharan said that it was wrong to assume that farmers across the country or even in all states in north India were on the war path against the Union government. “The critics, including opposition parties and the agitators, are not able to point out what is wrong with the provisions in the new agriculture bill that provide them freedom to sell their products in markets of their choice. Such a system is already in place in Kerala. The protesters are only from Punjab and Haryana. They are either farmers who misunderstood the new bill or are the ones organized by middlemen,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-should-expel-isaac-union-min/articleshow/79480079.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Agra||Posing as Amit Shah’s nephew, man tries to dupe Agra MLA, arrested||AGRA: A news story, published in TOI four years ago, helped an Agra MLA and his son identify a conman before he could cheat them just like he swindled a legislator’ aide in Ujjain by posing as the nephew of Union home minister Amit Shah. The accused, who tried to dupe BJP MLA Yogendra Upadhyaya, was arrested on Sunday. MLA Upadhyaya claimed that he is the same person who had duped Naresh Sharma, an associate of BJP MLA Dr Mohan Yadav in Ujjain four years ago. Upadhyaya told TOI that he recently received a call from a person from Ahmedabad, who identified himself as Viraj Shah, nephew of the home minister. “The man had asked help in buying a hotel in Agra a few days ago. On Saturday, he again called me up but as I was in Delhi. I told him to meet me there and we would go to Agra together,” Upadhyaya said. Instead of meeting the MLA in Delhi, the man reached Agra, said the MLA, adding that he again called him and asked for help in moving around. “I called my son Vatsalaya to help him out. And then he went to a shop and bought clothes worth Rs 40,000 and expected my son to pay the bill,” said Upadhyaya, adding that his son immediately called him up to tell that he did not have the money to pay the bill. Getting suspicious, the MLA called his younger son Alaukik to check the man’s antecedents. Luckily, he found a news clip in Times of India, in which the man posing as Amit Shah’s nephew had duped an associate of the Ujjain MLA in 2016, the MLA said. “He immediately sent the news clip to his brother who was with the alleged ‘fraud’, identified in the news story as Yash Amin, a resident of Gandhinagar, to confirm,” Upadhyaya said. Agra SP Botre Rohan Pramod said, “The accused has been taken into custody to ascertain his identity and the matter is being inquired. An FIR has been registered against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/posing-as-amit-shahs-nephew-man-tries-to-dupe-agra-mla-arrested/articleshow/79480070.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Dakshineswar Metro: Third rail gets power||Kolkata: For the first time, electricity was charged along the third rail of Metro’s 4-km Dakshineswar extension on Sunday.The third rails supply power to the rakes through the third rail current collector (TRCC). The power connectivity to the third rail has been going on for the last one week. “But the charging was done for the first time today. This is being done for trial, to check whether the system is functioning well,” an official of implementing agency Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) told TOI.The power connection is prelude to trials for the Dakshineswar Metro, which is veering towards commissioning. The 4-km extension of the city’s existing north-south stretch to the temple town of Dakshineswar may be launched in end-December, Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi had said when he inspected the stretch on a trolley on November 10.The tracks and the two stations — Dakshineswar and Baranagar — dotting the 4-km extension of India’s oldest Metro, which currently operates along 27km from Kavi Subhas station in New Garia, are ready. “But the entire system must be in place before the 4km new line gets off the block and the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) comes for his inspection,” a senior RVNL official said. The CRS, under the ministry of aviation, gives the safety nod to any new Metro project across India.The crucial Train Protection Warning System (TPWS) equipment, a sophisticated software that prevents accidents, arrived from Germany’s Siemens in November and is now being tested. Had the TPWS not run into lockdown restrictions, Dakshineswar Metro, would have been launched in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dakshineswar-metro-third-rail-gets-power/articleshow/79481689.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Beats and rolls to drum up support||Kozhikode: A percussion artist contesting from Mullankolly panchayat in Wayanad is seeking votes by doing what he does best playing chenda. Chandrababu K K, who has been a chenda artist for nearly the last two decades, is literally trying to drum up support with his beats and rolls during house visits while campaigning. On many days, he leaves for the campaign in the morning strapping a chenda to his shoulder along with fellow artists. During house calls, he plays the chenda for some time before seeking votes and signs off by singing folk songs. “I take chenda along with me during the campaign as people know me more as a percussion artist than a politician,” said Chandrababu, who is the LDF candidate in the 15th ward in the border panchayat of Mullankolly. Chandrababu is usually accompanied on house visits by a couple of his fellow instrumentalists on chenda and cymbals, apart from party workers. He has been active in the percussion and folk-art scene for long and has been part of the Surabhi Chenda Melam troupe and Nattarivu Vamozhi Pattu Kootam, a collective of around 18 folk artists, including youths from tribal communities, who have used the income from the art pursuits to continue their studies. “The chenda has helped me jazz up the campaign. People know that we are coming on hearing the drum beats and they gather in front of their houses. Also, during colony visits, we don’t need to visit all the houses as all people there would have assembled on hearing the beats. Now, people have started to joke that they won’t vote for me if I visit their houses without a chenda,” said Chandrababu. Chandrababu, who is contesting the elections for the first time, said that though he would like to cover all houses in the ward with his chenda, it is not possible as houses are situated far apart in many places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/beats-and-rolls-to-drum-up-support/articleshow/79480100.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Agra||Only five online tickets for adults, three for kids for Agra's Taj Mahal at a time||AGRA: Visitors to the Taj Mahal can now book only five tickets for adults and three for children at a time after a new rule was implemented by the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) on Saturday to curb black-marketing of tickets, which had become routine after re-opening of the monument. Earlier, a person could book 20 tickets online for the historical building at a time. Confirming this, superintending archeologist in ASI (Agra circle) Vasant Swarnkar said that the entry of children under 15 years would continue to be free. He added the restrictions on purchase of tickets will be applicable to other monuments across Agra, including Fatehpur Sikri and Agra Fort. He added that all visitors’ identities will be printed on each ticket, which was earlier available but had stopped last year after travel agents and tour operators urged the ministry to remove the cumbersome process of filling the name of each tourist while booking tickets online. “The visitors' entry will be allowed only after verifying their identity from photo IDs like passport, driving licence, voter ID, PAN among other documents,” Swarnkar said. ASI officials claimed that all tickets for the Taj Mahal were booked for the weekend but footfall at the monument was recorded low —4,301 on Sunday and 3,957 a day earlier due to farmers’ protests at the Delhi border. As per norms, number of visitors are calculated on the basis of the total number of adults and children visiting the Taj — which is capped at 5,000 — a daily limit of visitors fixed by the cultural ministry since the mausoleum reopened after the Covid lockdown on September 21. Notably, Swarnkar had written to the district magistrate and police about the black marketing of tickets after receiving complaints from tourists in the beginning of November. Later, police arrested half a dozen people for reselling online tickets and booked them under section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Local tourism industry has resented the move and called it a retrograde step. Tourism Guild Agra’s vice-president Rajiv Saxena said the issue of black-marketing of tickets could be resolved by increasing the number of visitors. “The aim should be to provide hassle-free access to the monument instead of applying more rules,” he said, adding that social distancing norms can easily be maintained at the Taj Mahal due to unlimited space inside the monument.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/only-5-online-tickets-for-adults-3-for-kids-for-taj-at-a-time/articleshow/79480087.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 30, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit: Boy escapes from madrassa alleging torture, rescued||PILIBHIT: A 12-year-old boy who ran away from a madrassa alleging torture was rescued by members of child helpline in Pilibhit. The child alleged that he was beaten and chained when he tried to escape from the religious school in Jahanabad area, the members said. According to the coordinator of the child helpline, Nirbhan Singh, “The fleeing child was chased by madrassa staffers and they caught him at Nehru park in Pilibhit city. But they fled after some locals assembled there after hearing the child’s cry. Later police approached the child helpline and the victim was given into its custody. “The boy was then produced before the CWC for further action,” Singh said. Local police are now waiting for a report from the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) to register a case. Singh said that the child was admitted to the madarsa by his parents a few months ago but he was reluctant to study there. The chairperson of CWC, Zeenat Jahan, told TOI that the boy was sent for the medical examination at the district government hospital where he was also tested for novel corona. Due to two consecutive holidays on November 29 and 30, the boy was given to the custody of his parents. A report in the matter will be sent to police on December 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/boy-12-escapes-from-madrassa-alleging-torture-rescued-handed-over-to-parents/articleshow/79479235.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 30, 2020||Ranchi||NCC requests CM for land, water body for naval unit||Ranchi: The Jharkhand unit of National Cadet Corps (NCC) on Sunday requested the government for land and a water body in order to set up a naval unit in the state. Speaking at the concluding ceremony of NCC’s Constitution Day celebrations here, group commander of Ranchi NCC group Brigadier Manish Tripathi said, “We are running seven NCC units at the moment and are planning to start a naval unit here. We are ready with the required infrastructure and manpower and now, all we require is a water body and land.” Tripathi further said that their cadets have always helped the government in all its works, whenever required. Citing an example, he said, “During Chhath Puja, our cadets swung into action to guard the ghats, enforce social distancing norms and did other work at short notice. And they did a commendable job.” Chief minister Hemant Soren, who was present at the programme, assured NCC of the support required to fulfill their endeavours. He appealed to them to set up their regional headquarters in the state capital. “I request you to consider setting up the regional headquarters here so that NCC can undertake more activities and thereby, engage more and more youngsters of Jharkhand,” he added. Currently, NCC’s regional headquarters is located in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ncc-requests-cm-for-land-water-body-for-naval-unit/articleshow/79480892.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Vadodara||Shops to open today in Vadodara; no seal, flouters to be fined||VADODARA: In a major turnaround, the civic body has permitted shops in the city to operate normally from Monday. The decision was taken during a joint meeting of the Vadodara Vepar Vikas Association (VVVA), Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials, Vadodara BJP MP, Ranjan Bhatt and city BJP chief Dr Vijay Shah on Sunday. Also, no shops, if found flouting Covid-19 guidelines, will be sealed. The traders were upset after VMC suddenly decided to shut down busy markets like Mangal Bazaar, Kadak Bazaar, fruit and flower market that witnessed heavy rush for three days. “The shopkeepers have already suffered huge losses during the lockdown. Now another shutdown will inflict even more problems. So, we decided to make a presentation to the government,” said Paresh Parikh, convenor, VVVA. The association members met BJP leaders on Sunday and also expressed their concerns to Dr Vinod Rao, officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19. “The wedding season has just begun, so keeping shops closed would put further financial stress on the traders. The authorities have permitted us to open shops from Monday. We have promised the civic body to follow all the guidelines strictly,” Parikh told TOI. “Also, it has been decided that if found violating Covid-19 guidelines, shops will be can penalize the owners for flouting rules. It will not seal the shops,” Parikh said, adding that the traders’ body has been opposing the sealing of shops for the past 10 days.  The civic body on Saturday cracked down on the malls and shops that were flouting the guidelines. Three malls and one superstore was sealed apart from some shops. On Sunday, the busy markets like Mangal Bazaar, Nava Bazaar and Kadak Bazaar bore a deserted look. Most of the traders didn’t dare to open their shops as they feared action by the civic body. Constant announcements warning the shop-owners to keep the shutters down were also made in the old city markets. “The traders had been facing losses and such crackdown only increased our problems. The decision to re-open shops has come as a relief for us,” said Jay Thakore, president of Mangal Bazaar Shops Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/shops-to-open-today-no-seal-flouters-to-be-fined/articleshow/79479889.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ranchi||Festive special trains extended till Dec 30||RANCHI: The South Eastern Railways (SER) and East Central Railways (ECR) zones have announced to extend the operations of their festival special trains to cater to the passengers. The announcements, which were made on Saturday and Sunday, came as a surprise for many who had hoped for gradual reinstatement of the trains which are grounded since March 24, a day after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to limit the spread of Covid 19 virus. In a statement issued on Saturday evening, the SER said Hatia-Yeshwantpur-Hatia special, Tatanagar-Yeshwantpur-Tatanagar special, Hatia-Lokmanya Tilak-Hatia special, Tatanagar-Danapur-Tatanagar special, Hatia-Purnia Court-Hatia special, Tatanagar-Chapra-Tatanagar special, Hatia-Islampur-Hatia special, Ranchi-Howrah-Ranchi special & Tatanagar-Howrah-Tatanagar special trains will operate till December 30. Hajipur based ECR issued a statement on Sunday announcing the continuation of Ranchi-Patna Puja special till December 30. On Saturday evening, the zone had announced to extend the operations of Dhanbad-Patna special, Barkakana-Patna special, Ranchi-Bhagalpur special (via Dhanbad) and Dhanbad-Howrah special until further orders. “When flights and inter-state surface transport services have started functioning normally, what is the logic behind running special trains where passengers are being charged 1.5 times the fare of regular trains which are now grounded?” questioned Ashish Kumar, a Ranchi resident planning to travel to his native Patna with family to attend a family function early next month. Passengers headed to different destinations complained of unavailability of tickets. With railway guidelines mandating only passengers with confirmed tickets on board the festival specials, many missed their ride home. “The problem still persists. Now, one has to even book berths in general compartments,” Subodh Kumar, a Purnia bound passenger, said. The SER introduced many festive specials without Jharkhand government’s consent ahead of the Durga Puja. Before Diwali, the state transport department had cleared the railways to gradually reinstate the regular trains which are grounded since lockdown was imposed. Railway officials refused to comment when contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/festive-special-trains-extended-till-dec-30/articleshow/79480695.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 30, 2020||Ranchi||Banna Gupta promises medical protection law for doctors||RANCHI: State health minister Banna Gupta on Sunday said the Jharkhand government was committed to the safety and security of doctors and will reinitiate the process to implement the Medical Protection Act. Speaking on the sidelines of a ceremony organised by the Jharkhand State Health Services Association (JHASA) at IMA Bhavan on Sunday, Banna said doctors employed with the state health services proved their worth during the Covid-19 crisis and they are the real warriors and the state government will always take care of their interests. Taking a jibe at the previous BJP government led by Raghubar Das, Banna said, “The medical protection bill introduced by the BJP government was an eyewash as they never tried to get the bill passed through the assembly. Our government will not make any such mistake and I will meet chief minister Hemant Soren regarding the matter.” Banna also felicitated newly elected members of JHASA during the programme and promised doctors to address their issues. “The manner in which I represent my people, I congratulate all newly elected members of JHASA to continue representing the interest of doctors and Banna Gupta will always be at their service,” the minister said. Addressing the event, state secretary of JHASA, Dr Bimlesh Kumar raised issues of doctors with the minister, including the implementation of Medical Protection Act in the state, providing childcare leave to women doctors and constituting of specialised cadre for doctors with super specialty degrees and paying them salaries based on their qualification. He also urged the government to provide vehicles and incentives to doctors posted in rural areas. “It has been our long-standing demand to provide a remuneration hike and promotions according to the Dynamic Assured Progression Scheme on the lines of the central government. It is being provided once in 13 years, which is affecting the seniority and career progression of doctors working in government hospitals. Apart from this, payment of salaries on time and incentive to doctors on rural posting are a few other demands that are important and we would request the health minister to kindly accept them,” said Dr Bimlesh Kumar. After hearing out the requests raised by JHASA office bearers, Banna assured doctors their demands will be considered. “My elder brother is a doctor and many who are present here are like my elder brothers. I assure you that I will take up your issues very seriously and will try to sort it out at the earliest. I invite you all to come and meet me with your problems so that we could resolve them at the earliest,” Banna added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/banna-promises-medical-protection-law-for-doctors/articleshow/79480684.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 30, 2020||Ranchi||Gurudwaras do away with shoba yatras, elaborate langars||RANCHI: The Sikh festival of Guru Nanak Gurpurab will be held on Monday in a low-key manner this year, officials of different gurudwaras here said on Sunday. A delegation representing Sikh outfits from Jamshedpur had recently met with the chief minister and demanded issuance of guidelines in view of Gurpurab, but the state government had not officially made any declaration till the filing of this report. Talking to TOI, the president of Krishna Nagar Colony Gurudwara, Harminder Singh Bedi, said: “All the six major gurudwaras in the city have decided to not take out any shobha yatras (processions) this year. We will only hold satsang from 8am-11am and again from 9pm-12am. Devotees coming to the gurudwara will have to follow all the protocols prescribed by the government while attending religious places.” The secretary of Ranchi Gurudwara, Gagandeep Singh Sethi, said that city gurudwaras have decided to hold divan kirtan at the same time this year. “The divan kirtan will be held only for two hours starting 9am. This time, we are keeping it short and all gurudwaras will organize it during the same time to avoid crowding. We request the devotees to visit the gurudwara in their locality or the one nearest to their residences and not travel far to attend divan kirtan,” Sethi said. He added that the langar (feast) will also be held for a shorter period unlike other years. “We will observe Gurparab at the Gurunanak School, which has a vast open ground. Langar will be held here during divan kirtan. Unlike past years, we have opted for the buffet format this time and curtailed the menu,” Sethi said. Bedi, however, said that they have completely done away with the on-spot langar. “We will distribute food packets to devotees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gurudwaras-do-away-with-shoba-yatras-elaborate-langars/articleshow/79480881.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 30, 2020||Ranchi||Revenue collection drops by Rs 5,000 crore in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government’s income through revenue receipts and taxes has fallen by over Rs 5,000 crore from the last year. In between April 1 and October 31 of the ongoing fiscal, the state government collected total receipts worth Rs 30,753.27 crore. The government’s earnings between the same period in the 2019-20 FY stood at Rs 35,068.82 crore. The state’s earnings from revenue receipts and tax revenue (from direct and indirect taxes) stood at Rs 27,534.23 crore and Rs 17,699.43 crore, respectively. The state’s earnings from its share of central taxes stood at Rs 9,845.43 crore, which fell by Rs 1,670.62 crore from last year. The state’s own tax revenue, which comprises excise duty, SGST, stamp duty, land revenue and registrations among others, stood at Rs 7,586.4 crore. It fell by Rs 983.13 crore from this period in the last fiscal. The earnings through non-tax revenue stood at Rs 9,834.8 crore. The state’s gross earnings hovered around Rs 65,000 crore in the last fiscal. “Even though the revenue collection suffered a jolt due to the lockdown, there certainly are green shoots developing in the past few months. Various sectors like transport, mining and others are picking up gradually, which is a good sign,” finance secretary Himani Pandey told TOI. Months after assuming office, finance minister Rameshwar Oraon had tabled a Rs 85,000 crore budget in March this year for the 2020-21 FY and pegged the fiscal growth at 7.2%. But eight months after its tabling, the government’s spending has been under 30% of its budgetary allocations. Pandey said while 86% of the budgetary allocations were cleared for spending, there were issues of procurement of raw materials and manpower during the lockdown which hindered the spending. Oraon, who is recovering from Covid-19 at his Ranchi home, said: “The state exchequer suffered heavy losses due to the lockdown. In the first quarter, we had practically no revenues coming in from VAT on petroleum products, excise and mining royalties. Now, we are hopeful that revenue collection is headed towards normalcy.” The minister added that plans are afoot to shore up additional revenue by imposing taxes through the forest department and the operations of three iron ore mines in Chaibasa area. Following the cabinet’s nod, the government imposed new VAT on petrol and diesel and additional cess on mining of minerals such as coal, iron ore, bauxite, limestone and manganese to shore up revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/revenue-collection-drops-by-rs-5000-crore-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79480748.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||Al-Qaeda suspect walks free 12 days after getting bail||JAMSHEDPUR: City-based Al-Qaeda terror suspect Kalimuddin Mujahiri, who was arrested last year for allegedly giving shelter to the banned outfit’s top recruiter in the sub-continent — Abdul Rahman Ali Khan Kataki — at his home, walked out of Ghaghidih Central Jail on Sunday, 12 days after he was granted bail by the Jharkhand high court. Mujahiri was granted bail by the court of justice Kailash Prasad Deo on several conditions, including depositing two sureties of Rs 25,000 each. A resident of Azadnagar, Mango, Kalimuddin was arrested by a special team of the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS-Jharkhand) from Tatanagar railway station on September 22 for allegedly giving shelter to Kataki, alias Haider alias Masood, during his visits to the city. The 46-year-old, who runs the Jamia Mohamed Bin Abdullah Madrassa in Azadnagar, is also accused of having links with Jamshedpur-based Al-Qaeda suspect Abdul Sami, alias Ujjair alias Hassan. He was produced in Jamshedpur court, after being charged with Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other relevant sections of the IPC, following which he has handed a prison term. His lawyer Dalaichandra Panda said, “Two important preconditions — providing bank details of my client to Bistupur police station and giving an undertaking to police that my client would use only one mobile number for all his future communications — consumed a lot of time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/al-qaeda-suspect-walks-free-12-days-after-getting-bail/articleshow/79480786.cms||B Sridhar
November 30, 2020||Ranchi||No deaths, 198 new cases in state||Ranchi: On Sunday, Jharkhand recorded 198 fresh cases against 214 recoveries and no casualty due to Covid-19. While Chatra, Khunti, Giridih, Lohardaga, Pakur and Koderma reported no cases, Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 69 and 29 cases, respectively while Bokaro and Jamtara reported 15 and 10. Other districts reported less than 10 cases together. A total of 1,08,984 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,05,883 have recovered from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-deaths-198-new-cases-in-state/articleshow/79480739.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Covid toll crosses 9,000 but daily deaths dipping now||NEW DELHI: On Sunday, Delhi recorded 68 Covid-19 fatalities - the lowest since November 7 - even as the total death toll breached the 9,000 mark. Delhi is the fourth state in the country to register more than 9,000 Covid-related deaths so far after Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Delhi has more to cheer about apart from the falling death toll. The number of fresh cases remained below 5,000 and the positivity rate under 8% for the second consecutive day on Sunday, signs that the capital may have finally seen off the worst in its battle against the third and deadliest pandemic wave yet. Delhi reported 4,906 new cases on Sunday, slightly lower than the previous day's count of 4,998. On Friday, Delhi had reported 5,482 coronavirus cases, and 5,475 cases a day before. The capital had recorded 8,593 cases on November 11, the highest single-day spike till date but the number of cases and the positivity rate has been declining since then. At 1.6%, Delhi's case fatality rate is slightly higher than the national average of 1.45%. Cases Below 5,000 And Positivity Rate Under 8% For Second DayNumber of cases and deaths go further down — it’s going down since Nov 7. Delhi govt is working very hard. Our doctors, nurses and all other corona warriors are working round the clock. I urge you all to continue to observe all precautions,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday. With a total of 64,186 tests carried out in the last 24 hours, including 29,839 RT-PCR tests, the positivity rate on Sunday was 7.6%. The number of active cases dipped to 35,091, compared with 36,578 active cases on Saturday. The total number of patients in home isolation is 21,337. The death toll reached the figure of 9,066, out of which 2,555 or 28.2% deaths were recorded this month, the highest in any month till date. The average deaths reported per day this month is 88.1, which is much higher than the 75.6 deaths a day reported in June, when the city witnessed its first wave of Covid-19 cases and a total of 2,269 deaths. This month has also seen 1,79,942 cases till Sunday, which is 31.7% of all Covid-19 infections reported in Delhi since March 2, when the first case was reported. “Positivity rate was down to 7.24% from 15.26%. It has become less than half since November 7, which is a sign of relief as it means that the outbreak is on perpetual decline,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday. “RT-PCR tests were ordered to be increased by the central government, however the labs do not have that much capacity. We are doing our best to provide each and every result on them. As far as the decreasing number of cases is concerned, we only take into consideration individuals whose reports have been duly provided,” Jain added. Delhi had reported a record 69,051 Covid tests on Saturday, including 33,147 RT-PCR tests, with an overall positivity rate of 7.2%. The positivity rate of the RT-PCR tests was 12.6%, the lowest this month and so was the 2.2% positivity rate of rapid antigen tests. The breakup for Sunday was not available. “To understand the peak of the third wave, we should look at the peak positivity rates of RTPCR tests, antigen tests and overall tests. This happened on November 7, when the positivity rate of RT-PCR tests was as high as 30.2%, antigen tests was 8.4% and overall positivity rate was 15.2%. This when the overall tests were quite high at 50,754 on November 7 and the number of new cases was 7,745,” a statement from Delhi government claimed. Of the total 18,661 Covid beds in hospitals, 10,418 or 55.8% were vacant on Sunday, while 332 of 1,493 ICU beds with ventilators and 1,092 of 3,519 ICU beds without ventilators remained vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-covid-toll-crosses-9000-but-daily-deaths-dipping-now/articleshow/79482872.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Solar power to give 150 Delhi schools Rs 17 crore per year||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has set up rooftop solar projects atop 150 school buildings under a central government scheme, creating a revenue stream with potential savings of Rs 433 crore for the institutions struggling with high maintenance costs amid disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The projects, with a total capacity of a little over 21MW, will reduce the annual power bill of the schools by Rs 8.8 crore and allow them to earn an additional Rs 8.5 crore from sale of surplus electricity to discoms. Together, the savings and the earnings will be more than Rs 433 crore over the 25-year life cycle of the solar projects, data showed. The West Vinod Nagar government school, located in deputy CM Manish Sisodia's constituency, houses India's largest rooftop solar project with a capacity of 195kWp (kilowatt peak) built by Delhi-based Oakridge Energy. The project will save the school Rs 8 lakh in power bill and yield earnings of Rs 7.7 lakh a year. The schools didn't have to invest any money. Powering ahead: Next target to solarise 1,000 schools in two yearsThe entire project cost was borne by the developers chosen through competitive bidding. Under the scheme, the Centre pays 25% of the installation cost once a project is completed. The developers recover the remaining cost over the 25-year life cycle. In Delhi’s case, developers will sell power at Rs 3.13 per unit, which is a discount of 65% on discom bills. Discoms BSES or NDPL will pay Rs 5.65 per unit to schools for each unit of solar power flowing into the grid. Others said the AAP government’s implementation allowed the 150 projects to be completed with minimal delay in spite of Covid disruptions. “Unlike other states that tell developers to find government buildings for solarisation, the Delhi government identified the schools, thrashed out bid norms and draft contract with them before floating the tender. As the contracts were pre-approved, there was no hitch in signing after the tenders were awarded,” an executive of another company said requesting anonymity. Oakridge CEO Shravan Sampath said besides being financially beneficial for schools, the projects will cumulatively save 63,000 tonnes of CO2 over the project life and contribute to Delhi’s and the country’s rooftop solarisation targets. Oakridge bagged 15 school rooftop projects in the tender floated by Delhi government in July 2019 and is targeting to solarise 1,000 schools and educational institutions by 2022. Under tender terms, the projects were to be commissioned in May 2020, or nine months of the tender award. But work stalled from February, first due to material supply disruptions caused by Covid shutdowns and then the countrywide lockdown. Work restarted in May and an extension was granted till October 5. All the projects were completed within this timeline. No wonder many in the industry say Delhi has set an example on how states can benefit from central schemes if they embrace the welfare of citizens instead of politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/solar-power-to-give-150-delhi-schools-rs-17-crore-per-year/articleshow/79482876.cms||Sanjay Dutta
November 30, 2020||Goa||Ponda students’ school commute hit||PONDA: Ever since physical classes resumed for Class X and XII students from November 15, Pale-resident Abhishek Chawhan has been in a quandary about how to travel to his school, which is located 15km away in Ponda. Though schools have partially reopened, most public buses connecting Ponda to surrounding areas continue to remain off the roads. “Since there are no good schools offering education beyond the secondary level in Pale, most students from here travel either to Ponda or Sakhali, which are over 15km away. Until March 2018, mining companies were providing transportation,” said Class XII student Chawhan. After this, students would have to walk a distance of 1.5km in Pale to catch a bus. With the pandemic, these buses too, are hard to come by. Since the Unlock guidelines, despite daily life normalising slowly, public bus service has not resumed to the pre-Covid level in Ponda and surrounding areas as private operators are finding the number of passengers insufficient to make the trips viable. As a result, passengers across Ponda are regularly seen stranded at bus stops. Ulhas Narvekar from Khazan-Pale said his village is about 1.5km away from the main road and over 30 children have to walk this distance twice a day to catch a bus. “The state government should intervene and resolve this issue. Government can probably persuade mining companies to restore the bus service as some iron ore transportation has resumed,” said another parent Sunil Tari. Prakash Naik, a regular commuter travelling to Sakhali from Ponda, said he has difficulty getting to office on time as two buses, which were plying the route in the morning, have stopped service. “I have to take the longer route now, travelling via Banastarim-Marcel-Amona to reach Sakhali,” he said. A similar situation is seen with the passengers travelling to villages like Dabal, Nirankal, Priol, etc. They have to wait a long time, at times for hours, for their buses to arrive, said Pandurang Kunkalienkar from Priol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-students-school-commute-hit/articleshow/79481049.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Limited operations at 3 ISBTs as a precautionary measure||NEW DELHI: The Kashmere Gate Inter-State Bus Terminal, which has been catering to up to 700 buses from neighbouring states since it reopened after seven months on November 3, saw only 73 buses arrive on Sunday. The ISBT, in fact, remained shut on Friday and Saturday due to the ongoing protests by farmers, which has affected inter-state movement of traffic. "As most of the buses at Kashmere Gate ISBT arrive from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, very few could be seen on Sunday. However, the ISBT was closed on Friday as a precautionary measure by the district administration to avoid crowding in the absence of adequate number of buses," an official said. Sources said since a large number of buses couldn't arrive at the ISBT on Friday due to the choked border points between Delhi and Haryana, chaotic scenes were witnessed at the ISBT. It is then that it was decided to close the ISBT as a safety measure. Before the Covid outbreak, 3,467 buses arrived to the capital dailyy and the largest number of these - 1,636 - arrived at Kashmere Gate ISBT, followed by 1,210 at Anand Vihar ISBT and 621 at the facility at Sarai Kale Khan. The combined number had come down to around 1,700 after the ISBTs reopened earlier this month due to a cap of 50% on the number of arrivals, implemented as part of a SOP to ensure social distancing measures at ISBTs. On Sunday, a total 876 buses arrived at the three ISBTs, with the highest - 638 - at Anand Vihar ISBT, followed by 165 buses at Sarai Kale Khan ISBT. "The number of buses was higher at Anand Vihar ISBT as buses from UP and Uttarakhand arrive here and there wasn't much traffic disruption on Delhi-UP border. However, there was a congregation of farmers at this border on Sunday too, which resulted in around 25% reduction in the number of buses arriving at the ISBT," the official claimed. "There wasn't much problem in Sarai Kale Khan ISBT too as mostly buses from Rajasthan arrive here. The major problem is on GT-Karnal Road and that's why Kashmere Gate ISBT has been the worst affected," the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-limited-operations-at-3-isbts-as-a-precautionary-measure/articleshow/79482881.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 30, 2020||Faridabad||Borders sealed and supply snipped, veggie prices shoot up in Gurugram, Faridabad||GURUGRAM: The farmers’ protest against the three agriculture laws have led to a surge in the price of vegetables in Gurugram, Faridabad and other adjoining districts. The rates have spiralled mostly because of the lack of supplies, which have been hit because the borders are sealed and the trucks carrying vegetables are stuck. The prices of vegetables have seen a 20-25% rise in the wholesale market, while the rates in the retail market have almost doubled in the past one week. Dev Kumar, president of the Gurugram Sadar Bazar vegetable market vendors’ association, said the sealing of borders had affected the supply of vegetables and fruits to the Azadpur mandi. “Gurugram is totally dependent on the Azadpur mandi. We are now feeling the heat of the farmers’ protest. Azadpur has seen a shortage of supply since Friday. This has had a cascading effect on the price of vegetables and fruits. Since the trucks are stuck for long, many of the items are getting spoilt,” he added. Vendors feared the prices are unlikely to come down in the next few days if the protests continue. Potato, which usually costs Rs 20-30 a kilo round the year, is now being sold for Rs 60. Similarly, the price of onion has increased from Rs 40 to Rs 80 per kg. A kilo of tomato is selling at Rs 80. PS Dalal, a wholesale trader at Khandsa mandi, said that during this time of the year, a new crop of potatoes usually comes from Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. But the supplies have been hit now because not only are trucks stuck at the borders, transporters are also reluctant to send new vehicles as they fear the protests can turn violent anytime. “Vegetable supplies from Sonipat, Rohtak and Fatehabad have been hit badly because of the protests. They have stopped the supply of vegetables, fruits, milk and other items to cities. Naturally, the prices have soared in the wake of dwindling supplies,” Dalal said. Traders in the retail markets, which cater directly to the city residents, are also feeling the pinch. “There is a 30-40% drop in supplies since Saturday. On Sunday, the wholesale prices were up by about 20%,” said Amit Kumar, a trader at Khandsa. The protests have also cut short milk supply. The milk plants in Gurugram and Faridabad received 5,862 litres on Sunday against a daily average of 76,000 litres. However, a senior official at one of the plants assured they have sufficient stock of milk and the supply would not be affected much. However, he warned milk supply from his plant could be hit if the agitation continued for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/borders-sealed-and-supply-snipped-veggie-prices-shoot-up-in-ggn-fbd/articleshow/79482910.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Borders sealed and supply snipped, veggie prices shoot up in Gurugram, Faridabad||GURUGRAM: The farmers’ protest against the three agriculture laws have led to a surge in the price of vegetables in Gurugram, Faridabad and other adjoining districts. The rates have spiralled mostly because of the lack of supplies, which have been hit because the borders are sealed and the trucks carrying vegetables are stuck. The prices of vegetables have seen a 20-25% rise in the wholesale market, while the rates in the retail market have almost doubled in the past one week. Dev Kumar, president of the Gurugram Sadar Bazar vegetable market vendors’ association, said the sealing of borders had affected the supply of vegetables and fruits to the Azadpur mandi. “Gurugram is totally dependent on the Azadpur mandi. We are now feeling the heat of the farmers’ protest. Azadpur has seen a shortage of supply since Friday. This has had a cascading effect on the price of vegetables and fruits. Since the trucks are stuck for long, many of the items are getting spoilt,” he added. Vendors feared the prices are unlikely to come down in the next few days if the protests continue. Potato, which usually costs Rs 20-30 a kilo round the year, is now being sold for Rs 60. Similarly, the price of onion has increased from Rs 40 to Rs 80 per kg. A kilo of tomato is selling at Rs 80. PS Dalal, a wholesale trader at Khandsa mandi, said that during this time of the year, a new crop of potatoes usually comes from Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. But the supplies have been hit now because not only are trucks stuck at the borders, transporters are also reluctant to send new vehicles as they fear the protests can turn violent anytime. “Vegetable supplies from Sonipat, Rohtak and Fatehabad have been hit badly because of the protests. They have stopped the supply of vegetables, fruits, milk and other items to cities. Naturally, the prices have soared in the wake of dwindling supplies,” Dalal said. Traders in the retail markets, which cater directly to the city residents, are also feeling the pinch. “There is a 30-40% drop in supplies since Saturday. On Sunday, the wholesale prices were up by about 20%,” said Amit Kumar, a trader at Khandsa. The protests have also cut short milk supply. The milk plants in Gurugram and Faridabad received 5,862 litres on Sunday against a daily average of 76,000 litres. However, a senior official at one of the plants assured they have sufficient stock of milk and the supply would not be affected much. However, he warned milk supply from his plant could be hit if the agitation continued for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/borders-sealed-and-supply-snipped-veggie-prices-shoot-up-in-ggn-fbd/articleshow/79481080.cms||---
November 30, 2020||World||Days after Shringla visit, China defence minister in Nepal to boost military ties||KATHMANDU: China’s defence minister General Wei Fenghe on Sunday met Nepal PM K P Sharma Oli and held talks with the country’s army chief General Purna Chandra Thapa on various issues of bilateral interest, aimed at bolstering military cooperation and taking the existing friendly ties to a new height. This is the highest-level visit from China after President Xi Jinping’s two-day state visit that took place in October last year. Wei’s visit comes days after foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla wrapped up his maiden two-day visit to Nepal. In the first week of November, Indian Army chief General M M Naravane paid a three-day visit to Nepal aimed at resetting bilateral ties. General Wei held talks with General Thapa at the army headquarters. “Bilateral discussions were held at the delegation-level mainly on issues pertaining to resumption of training and student exchange programme and follow up on defence assistance,” a statement by the Nepal army said. Wei viewed both the proposals “positively and affirmed that the bilateral cooperation should resume as soon as possible,” it said. He also pledged to provide additional assistance to the Nepali army in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The Nepali army expressed confidence that “the visit will help in strengthening and expanding the cordial military-to-military relations.” Wei paid courtesy calls on President Bidya Devi Bhandari and PM Oli. Wei told reporters that his visit will promote military cooperation between Nepal and China. “China and Nepal have been enjoying a close relationship for a long time, and I am here to take that relationship to a greater heigh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/days-after-shringla-visit-china-defence-minister-in-nepal-to-boost-military-ties/articleshow/79482898.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Goa||Six years on, Goa’s most expensive road stretch remains incomplete||COLVA: Six years on, the most expensive stretch of two-kilometre long road, from Mungul to Colva, is yet to be completed. Goa Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) has already utilised a whopping Rs 16 crore on this road stretch, which was meant to resemble Parliament road in Delhi. Work, however, has been at a standstill for sometime now. In 2018, the project was handed over to the PWD for works including laying of dividers, asphalting and four-laning of the road. All this would be done at an additional cost of Rs 11.6 crore. This takes the cost of the two-kilometre road to an astronomical Rs 27.6 crore. Public works department (PWD) executive engineer for roads Prasad Panandikar said the file was sent for expenditure sanction 10 days back and it is now up to the government when to give financial approval. On July 29, 2019, chief minister Pramod Sawant had assured Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao on the floor of the House that the road would be completed by May 2020. Almost six months have gone by since that deadline, but the file is yet to get financial approval. Alemao told TOI that he has been pursuing all the projects in his constituency and that the Mungul-Colva road file is now with the finance department. He said he is positive that the road would be completed by February 2021. GSIDC had taken up the work on this road way back in 2014 when the current incumbent chief minister was its chairman. The work included construction of drains along the length of the four-lane road with cross drainage at strategic location, a service duct for pulling cables. Subsequently, the pace of work came to a standstill. Work picked up speed in 2016 and efforts were made to complete the road in all aspects for the international summit BRICS as VVIPs and delegates would be travelling on this route. After the conclusion of the summit, work came to a standstill again. In 2019, Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao had said that the residents of Colva and Seraulim were on the verge of “losing hope with the government” due to the delay in completion of the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/6-years-on-goas-most-expensive-road-stretch-remains-incomplete/articleshow/79481157.cms||Nisser Dias
November 30, 2020||Goa||Bicholim starts imposing fines for no-mask||141 words Bicholim: After the Sakhali municipal council (SMC), now authorities from Bicholim municipal council (BMC) have started imposing fines on people within its jurisdiction for not wearing face masks in public places, especially during the weekly Wednesday market. BMC chairperson Rajaram Gaonkar told TOI that the civic body has started imposing fines to avoid the spread of Covid-19 for the second time, which he said was currently within control. Of special concern is the Wednesday market which has shoppers converging from many parts and people are seen without face masks at the local market. Gaonkar said that BMC along with Bicholim police have started the fresh drive to fine people to avoid the spread of coronavirus. Chairperson Rajaram Gaonkar, Bicholim PI Mahesh Gadekar and mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit have requested people to use face masks at all times while roaming in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-starts-imposing-fines-for-no-mask/articleshow/79481165.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Doctors save 16-year-old with 2cm-long metal lodged in his spine||NEW DELHI: Doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital managed to save the life of a 16-year-old boy from Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, who had a 2cm-long piece of metal lodged into his spine. Devesh was using a crude device to scare off monkeys and birds by filling a metal pipe with potash and sulphur and blasting it when a piece of the pipe pierced his neck. Doctors were surprised at how the teen was miraculously alive. "The metal had twisted and damaged his neck. It had pierced 1.5cm of the cervical bone and damaged his thyroid gland, narrowly missing the great blood vessels, wind and food pipe. It was just touching the spinal cord," said Dr Rupinder S Chahal, vice-chairperson of the department of spinal surgery. Dr Sangeet Agarwal, consultant for head and neck surgery, said the operation was challenging due the location and nature of the injury. "Another challenge was to not only save but also to repair the injured thyroid gland. It was difficult to remove the metal shard in one piece, which was crucial, as otherwise it would have required a major reconstructive surgery," he added. Leaving the metal could have led to more complications, said Dr Chahal. "This was crude metal with chemicals and could have caused infection and foreign-body reaction. Moreover, metals are known to travel in the body. Movement of a few millimetres could have damaged the spinal cord and proved fatal," he added. Devesh is now fit and will be discharged soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-doctors-save-16-year-old-with-2cm-long-metal-lodged-in-his-spine/articleshow/79482904.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||China to build a major dam on Brahmaputra river: Official||BEIJING: China will build a major hydropower project on Brahmaputra river in Tibet and a proposal for this has been clearly put forward in the 14th Five-Year Plan to be implemented from next year, the official media on Sunday quoted the head of a Chinese company tasked to build the dam as saying. Yan Zhiyong, chairman of the Power Construction Corp of China, said China will "implement hydropower exploitation in the downstream of the Yarlung Zangbo River” (the Tibetan name for Brahmaputra) and the project could serve to maintain water resources and domestic security, the Global Times reported. Speaking at a conference on Thursday, Yan said the project was clearly put forward in the proposals for formulating the country's 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) and its long-term goals through 2035 made by the Central Committee of the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC), it quoted an article on the WeChat account of the Central Committee of the Communist Youth League of China on Sunday. "There is no parallel in history… it will be a historic opportunity for the Chinese hydropower industry," Yan told the conference organised to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the founding of the China Society for Hydropower Engineering. The 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025) and National Economic and Social Development and the Long-Range Objectives Through the Year 2035 were adopted by Plenum - a key policy body of the CPC - last month. Details of the plan were expected to be released after the formal ratification by National People's Congress (NPC) early next year. Proposals for dams on the Brahmaputra have evoked concerns in India and Bangladesh, the riparian states, and China has downplayed such anxieties saying it would keep their interests in mind. As a lower riparian State with considerable established user rights to the waters of the trans-border rivers, the Indian government has consistently conveyed its views and concerns to the Chinese authorities and has urged them to ensure that the interests of downstream States are not harmed by any activities in upstream areas. China has already operationalised the $1.5 billion Zam Hydropower Station, the largest in Tibet in 2015. About the new dam, the Global Times report said that speculation about China planning to build a "super hydropower station" in Medog county, where the Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon is located, have circulated for years. Medog is the last county in Tibet which borders Arunachal Pradesh. In his address, Yan said that the hydropower exploitation of the Yarlung Zangbo River downstream is more than a hydropower project. It is also meaningful for the environment, national security, living standards, energy and international cooperation. According to the report, the mainstream of the Yarlung Zangbo River has the richest water resources in Tibet Autonomous Region, about 80 million kilowatt hours (kWh), while the 50-kilometer section of the Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon has 70 million kWh that could be developed with a 2,000-meter drop, which equals more than three Three Gorges power stations in Hubei province. Tibet has about 200 million kWh of water resources, accounting for 30 per cent of the total in China. The 60 million kWh hydropower exploitation at the downstream of the Yarlung Zangbo River could provide 300 billion kWh of clean, renewable and zero-carbon electricity annually. The project will play a significant role in realising China's goal of reaching a carbon emissions peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality in 2060, he said. "It is a project for national security, including water resources and domestic security," he said, noting that the project will also smooth cooperation with South Asia. The hydropower station could generate income of 20 billion yuan ($three billion) annually for the Tibet Autonomous Region, he said. India and China established Expert Level Mechanism (ELM) in 2006 to discuss various issues related to trans-border rivers. Under existing bilateral Memorandums of Understanding, China provides hydrological information of Brahmaputra River and Sutlej River to India during the flood seasons. Under the arrangement, China provides flood season data of the Brahmaputra river between May 15 and October 15 every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-to-build-a-major-dam-on-brahmaputra-river-official/articleshow/79482906.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Goa||Devotees partake of traditional feast at Bordem’s ‘pavaner’||KERI: As a tradition of celebrating seasonal food and its nutritional properties, Pavaner, an age-old ritualistic offering of traditional Goan food to the presiding deities, which is also followed in Bordem in Bicholim, was observed on Saturday. Until a few decades ago, Bicholim was known for its agrarian lifestyle and for the different varieties of rice and other food grains grown there. On the first day of tulsi vivah, insignias — locally known as tarangas — of the folk deities Shri Ravalnath and Shri Bhutanath are brought out in a procession. For five days, these tarangas visit the family homes of Bordekar, Ravalnathkar-Pal, Mahamayakar-Pal and Saterkar-Pal. On each day, the head of the families welcome and worship the tarangas. For the pavaner, every family prepares special traditional Goan food and after offering it to the folk deities, the food is offered to all the devotees taking part in the procession. The food which is served on banana leaves includes par boiled rice (ukade tandul), kulatachi pitti (a spicy soup like preparation made from the horse gram) and khatkhate (a spicy preparation made from seasonal tubers like yam, locally known as suran, sweet potato, locally known as katyo kangyo, air potato locally known as karane, and other seasonal produce, like pumpkin, banana, and other vegetables). “Our tradition of pavaner represents the facets of Goa’s traditional recipes. During this ritual, devotees assemble to relish the food offered. In the past, our villagers grew pakhad, a primitive variety of indigenous rice, kulith or horse gram and other seasonal tuber crops. During the winter season, traditional foods not only give nutrition, but also provided energy required to face the winter chill,” member of the temple committee, Rohidas Pal, said. Sunil Pal from Bordem said that though the village’s cuisine is today influenced by modern values, the tradition of pavaner has been retained. “We have maintained the tradition of offering food that is specially cooked in huge utensils with a lot of hard work and devotion,” he said. Pavaner tradition is also observed in Pernem taluka, besides Bicholim. This year Pernem restricted the celebrations due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/devotees-partake-of-traditional-feast-at-bordems-pavaner/articleshow/79481276.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 13 years on, 110 villages under BBMP lack infrastructure||BENGALURU: Thirteen years and two civic elections after they were merged into Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to become Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, 110 villages on the outskirts continue to wallow in administrative apathy. That some of these villages are part of high revenue-yielding areas like Mahadevapura, Whitefield and Sarjapur has not helped them get proper roads and basic amenities like bus stands. “We do not have a single footpath; we are forced to stand on the main roads for buses or cabs,” said Suhas Gupta, a software employee of a private company located on Sarjapur Road. Three years after these villages joined the city civic body, the first civic polls were held in 2010 and five years later, BBMP got its second elected body. Elections are due now and the government is coming up with various excuses to delay them. Among the reasons cited is the need to increase the number of wards to ensure better administration. But there seems little hope of things changing on the ground. Debanjani Mukherji, a resident of Thubarahalli, says that for four years now she has only seen the road condition deteriorate. “They only do some bit of pothole filling, but not a single stretch in neatly asphalted. BBMP only keeps giving false hopes,” she added. Not just Thubarahalli, all 110 villages hardly have footpaths, and if they do, they are filled with hawkers and parked bikes, said Mukherji, adding: “It’s a total failure of the system.” With the lockdown lifted and things getting back to normal, many software companies located in Whitefield and Mahadevapura have resumed operations. Techies are getting back to their workplace and are relying on public transport for the same, but poor infrastructure is a big obstacle. Recently, Whitfield Rising posted a picture of people standing on the footpath and waiting for a bus, prompting Twitter user Chethan Kumar to comment, “...We are not a smart city for 10 years [sic].” Prajwal Acharya, a software employee working near ITPL, said people don’t even know that a bus stop actually exists at the spot. “They stand at a common place and the bus actually stops there. We don’t have a proper bus stand. We just stand near a local shop and the buses make a halt. This in turn hinders traffic movement. Nobody monitors things,” said the BTM Layout resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/13-years-on-110-villages-under-bbmp-lack-infra/articleshow/79480816.cms||Nithya Mandyam
November 30, 2020||Vadodara||More than 150 students clear CSEET||Vadodara: More than 150 students from the city have cleared the CS executive entrance test (CSEET), which was conducted by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) on November 21. ICSI had conducted home proctored online exam and has created a record of sorts by declaring the results of the pan-India exam within a week. CSEET has replaced the erstwhile CS foundation exams. Now, it will be held four times a year in the months of January, May, August and November. Four students from the city – Alan Philip, Janki Patel, Aman Lalwani and Devanshi Dave – have scored 172 marks out of 200 (86%) in the test. Two other students – Vedant Brahmbhatt and Krishma Sadiwala – have scored 85.5 % and 84.5 % respectively. Alan, who had topped his school in CBSE Class XII exams as well, wants to become a legal and financial consultant. Aman, who wants to become a successful company secretary, wants to assist his father in family business. While Janki wants to complete her CS and later move to United Kingdom and practise corporate laws there, Devanshi, a second year B Com student wants to pursue MBA in finance to become an expert in corporate finance and law after completing her CS. Vedant, a stock enthusiast, aims to be a successful practising company secretary while Krishma wants to carve her own identity by adding CS to her name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-than-150-students-clear-cseet/articleshow/79479930.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||SC/ST panel can’t order restoration of land: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: The quasi-judicial Karnataka Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Commission has no authority to order resumption/restoration of granted land. The high court made this observation while quashing the proceedings initiated against 75-year-old Gangamma of Buklapura village in Shivamogga district. The court pointed out that under the provisions of Karnataka Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act, 1978, for any order passed by an assistant commissioner, the appellate authority is deputy commissioner. Justice M Nagaprasanna said that a reading of the provisions of Karnataka State Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act, 2002, an enactment under which the SC/ST commission has been created, would lead to an unmistakable interpretation that the functions entrusted to the body are in the nature of investigation and examination of various safeguards provided to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. “The provisions of the Act do not clothe the commission with such powers to entertain the petition that is filed by a grantee seeking restoration of land and to investigate the matter,” the judge pointed out . In the case on hand, one H Jayappa had complained to the commission against Gangamma, seeking resumption of land in Gowdanayakanahalli village, Shivamogga taluk. He contended that he is the legal heir of one Appaji Devaru, to whom the land was originally granted in 1978 and who leased it to Gangamma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sc/st-panel-cant-order-restoration-of-land-hc/articleshow/79480813.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Goa||59-year-old woman dies in road accident||Margao: Saligao-resident Yolanda Martins, 59, died after the two-wheeler on which she was riding pillion collided with a truck at Margao, Sunday evening. Police sources said Martins, who fell to the ground with the impact, was rushed to Hospicio hospital, Margao, where she was declared brought dead. The rider of the vehicle, Anita Shirodkar, suffered minor injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/59-year-old-woman-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/79481330.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Amul to launch procurement of milk in 3 districts on December 2||AMARAVATI: In what could be a game-changer moment for rural economy, milk giant Amul will launch procurement of milk from farmers in three districts on December 2. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s decision to rope in Amul will pump oxygen to the cooperative dairy sector in the state. Despite being one of the largest producers of the milk in the country, the farmers in the state could not reap rich dividends due to the dominance of private players. The private dairies have exploited the poor farmers, squeezed milk and monies to fill their own kitties leaving the producers in tatters. The cooperative milk producers unions (district dairies managed by the government) were systematically weakened over the last two decades giving a lot of space to the private dairies to occupy. This has pushed the milk producers into troubles as the dominant private dairies offered very low returns prompting millions of farmers giving up the cattle rearing and milk production. YS Jagan Mohan Reddy realized the seriousness of the issue during his interactions with the rural poor during his near 3500-km long padayatra. After taking over the reins of the state, YS Jagan directed the officials to bring Amul on board to bring cheers back on to the faces of milk producers. “Milk procurement under AP-Amul project will take off in Prakasam, Chittoor, and Kadapa districts with distribution of cheques to dairy farmers by the chief minister on Wednesday,” said animal husbandry minister Sidiri Appala Raju. He said that the state government had signed an MoU with Amul to encourage milk cooperative societies, especially those run by women. Experts in the dairy sector say Amul’s entry will bring many farmers back into milk production. Since the government has set its focus on empowering women through dairy development, it is going to change the milk production scenario in the state. “We are immensely happy to be back in milk production as we purchased cattle thanks to the support from Jagananna Cheyutha scheme,” said Manikyamma of Darsi village of Prakasam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amul-to-launch-procurement-of-milk-in-3-districts-on-dec-2/articleshow/79480514.cms||Samdani MN
November 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra crosses 1 crore Covid-19 tests, 20% population screened||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Sunday crossed the one crore Covid-19 tests landmark. With this, the state has screened nearly 20 per cent of its population. Only a few states have carried out a crore tests so far. Andhra Pradesh continues to retain the top spot in highest number of tests (1,87,587) per million (ten lakh) population. The state has come a long way in ramping up testing infrastructure. After overcoming the odds of there being no testing facilities in the initial weeks of the outbreak in February and March, the state stuck to the scientific basis of aggressive testing despite growing infection numbers. The state leveraged various new testing modalities and facilities validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Right from carrying out antibody tests in the beginning to the gold standard RT-PCR tests, the state enhanced its testing footprint through rapid antigen tests, HIV viral load testing labs, CBNAAT (cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test) machines, converting buses into mobile sample collection centres and testing at the state borders. Truenat machines, previously procured to detect tuberculosis, have become the mainstay for coronavirus testing in the state. Once the disease had become prevalent in the state, the health department also took advantage of the pooled testing method to maximise efficiency of the testing. The matrix pooling method was particularly used for the railway passengers and migrants coming from other states. Dr K Rambabu, the state nodal officer for Covid-19, said that the state stuck to its strategy of aggressive testing, tracing, detection and treatment right from day one of the outbreak. “This strategy helped the state in better Covid-19 management,” Dr Rambabu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-crosses-1-crore-covid-19-tests-20-population-screened/articleshow/79480523.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Talk to farmers without riders, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: CM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged the Centre to hold talks "immediately and unconditionally" with the protesting farmers at Delhi-Haryana borders at Singhu and Tikri. The farmers' protests have received support from Aam Aadmi Party and Delhi government has also arranged for tents, water, mobile toilets, meals and other facilities at Sant Nirankari Samagam ground. Delhi Police had offered the site to the farmers, but only a few of the demonstrators had moved in, preferring the border points. "The central government should talk to farmers immediately and without any conditions," Kejriwal tweeted. "There should not be any terms and conditions pertaining to deliberations with the farmers," said Delhi home minister, Satyendar Jain, commenting on the Union home minister's directions that the Centre will speak with the farmers once they reach the designated spot for demonstrations. Jain said that the farmers' problems should not be ignored. "They are our providers and should be tended to immediately, and be allowed to carry out their peaceful protest. We have to respect the efforts they have made to come from their homes all the way to Delhi to voice their opinion," he said. Regarding the lack of oxygen supply in Delhi due to the agitation that has affected movement at border points, Jain said: "There was an initial hiccup for a few hours, but it was resolved immediately and supply was restored. The oxygen supply comes from Rajasthan and is a life-saving necessity. Therefore, it will be made available in abundance." On Friday, Jain had rejected Delhi Police's request to use the nine stadiums in the city as temporary prisons in view of the "Delhi Chalo" protest march. Jain had written that Delhi government was against putting farmers into prisons. He had further commented that the farmers' protest was peaceful and non-violent and demonstrations were the constitutional right of every law-abiding citizen of the country. Before the request was officially rejected by Delhi government, several AAP MLAs had also requested the government to deny permission. On Saturday, Jain had also said that Delhi government was facilitating the visit of the farmers and all necessary amenities will be taken care of. The north district administration opened a Covid testing centre at the ground on Saturday, which was followed by a massive temporary hall put up for meetings, tented accommodations, mobile toilets, installation of a high-mast, amidst visits by AAP functionaries and Delhi government officials. Watch Farmers' protest: Centre must hold unconditional talks, says Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/talk-to-farmers-without-riders-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/79482917.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Couple held for ‘illegal stay’ in India given bail by judge||MUMBAI: After spending 28 days in jail, a Bandra couple who were arrested on charges of illegally staying in the country have been granted bail by a sessions court. The man, said to be a Nepali national, and the woman, said to be a Bangladeshi national, have lived in the country for at least 28 years. The court relied on a high court order to say that until the allegations made against them are established in a “fulldressed trial” they are entitled to be released on bail. Granting the relief to Lal Singh Vishwakarma (56) and his wife, Sunita Vishwakarma (48), last week, judge R M Sadrani said: “It is clear that applicants are residing at least from last 28 years in India. Applicants are having some documents like PAN card and Adhaar card issued by Government of India. Trial will take time to commence.” The judge said that they were to give their detailed address and phone number at the time of furnishing bail. Lal Singh, purported by the prosecution to be a Nepali national, sought bail through his advocates A Z Mookhtiar and Adnan A Mookhtiar, submitting that he moved from Punjab to the city in 1965, married his wife, alleged to be a Bangladeshi national, in 1992, and had three children, who are studying here. He said that prior to his move, his family had been residing in Punjab from 1949. The defence also submitted that even assuming the case of the prosecution to be true, no document is required for a person coming from Nepal to India as per the treaties between the two countries. The defence also submitted that the couple had been falsely implicated through incorrect information given by people who wanted to grab their house property. They had been booked under sections of the Passport (Entry Into India) Rules, the Foreigners Order, and the Foreigners Act. The maximum sentence attracted in the case is five years imprisonment. The two were arrested on October 31. The prosecution’s case is that a raid was conducted at their home after the police received “secret information” about their illegal entry into India. It was further alleged that when the police inquired with them, they noticed that as per the “tone” of their speech, Lal Singh was Nepali and Sunita was Bangladeshi. Dissatisfied with the information the couple gave, they arrested the two. The couple’s earlier plea for bail was rejected by the magistrate’s court on November 5 on the grounds that they would abscond. They then moved the sessions court seeking bail. The prosecution opposed the bail pleas on the grounds that the couple were unable to produce their birth certificate, which they said was one of the essential documents to prove their Indian citizenship. “Even the applicants have not produced school-leaving certificates. Applicants are residing in India from the last 28 years illegally,” the prosecution argued. Granting bail, the court directed the couple to be present at the Bandra police station as and when required. “Applicants shall not leave India without previous permission of the court,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-couple-held-for-illegal-stay-in-india-given-bail-by-judge/articleshow/79482902.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Goa||Inspect possible encroachment on Mandovi at Reis Magos: Coastal body||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has directed Water Resources Department (WRD), directorate of settlement and land records (DSLR) and one of its expert members to carry out inspection of an alleged illegal construction found on the banks of the Mandovi in the CRZ no-development zone (NDZ). Reis Magos panchayat had complained that the encroachment has been made on riverine land. The Reis Magos Panchayat Development Committee had complained about the constructions carried out within NDZ by a local couple and, subsequently, the GCZMA had issued show-cause notices to the alleged violators. The site of the alleged illegal construction has also been inspected by the DSLR and the structures in question were mapped. In June this year, the GCZMA at its meeting, said that its expert member will carry out an inspection of the alleged illegality and both the complainant as well as the violator would receive the report post June 11. They were asked to accordingly file their replies based on the expert member’s report. In July, at the GCZMA hearing, the complainant told the authority that the illegal structures are not reflecting in the survey plans, that a compound wall has been constructed by encroaching on land meant for road widening works, while the structure has also encroached on riverine land of the Mandovi. Meanwhile, the alleged violators have told GCZMA that, much prior to the CRZ Notification 1991 coming into force, one of the structure was already existing in the property. “And much prior to the constitution of the GCZMA, the GSCCE had already approved another structure within the same property against which there were no observations made by the GCZMA expert member about any extensions carried out beyond the plinth area,” the alleged encroacher told the GCZMA. He also stated that even in case there have been deviations from the approved plans, GCZMA is not the appropriate authority to deal with it, but the Town and Country Planning Department has to look into the matter. The GCZMA, at its meeting in September, considering these arguments said, “Authority directed to carry out inspection of possible riverine encroachment by conducting an inspection by officials of the WRD, Expert Member and officials of the DSLR and submit the report at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/inspect-possible-encroachment-on-mandovi-at-reis-magos-coastal-body/articleshow/79481369.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Online slots for Bhavani Deeksha to open soon||Vijayawada: The Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastams is planning to conduct Bhavani Deeksha Viramana in adherence with Covid-19 protocols. The temple trust board, which earlier announced dates for Deeksha, has now issued guidelines for devotees. Giri Pradakshina and tonsuring have been cancelled. Temple trust board chairman Paila Sominaidu said that Bhavani Deeksha relinquishment will be conducted in a similar way as the Dasara celebrations. “We have decided to implement the guidelines strictly. Only ten thousand devotees will be permitted every day for relinquishment. Online slots will open soon.” Meanwhile, Guru Bhavanis have requested the temple management to provide current booking tickets along with online booking. “The temple trust board has made online booking mandatory for relinquishment. A huge number of Bhavani devotees are farmers and are unaware of online booking,” said M Prasad Guru Bhavani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/online-slots-for-bhavani-deeksha-to-open-soon/articleshow/79480541.cms||Venu Lanka
November 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||At 98.2%, AP now has highest recovery rate among states||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh achieved the highest recovery rate among all states by attaining 98.2% discharge rate as of Sunday. The recovery rate in other states like Bihar, Assam and Odisha has been in the 97% range. For Andhra Pradesh, which suffered one of the worst outbreaks in the country, it now seems that the state has been gradually coming out of the clutches of the pandemic. Of the 8,67,683 Covid-19 cases recorded in the state, including 620 fresh infections on Sunday, 8,52,298 patients were declared cured. There are only 8,397 active cases. The toll increased to 6,988 as seven more patients succumbed to the disease. The recent report released by Niti Aayog on ‘mitigation & management of Covid-19 practices from India’s states & union territories mentioned about various innovative practices and integrated approach adopted by Andhra Pradesh in its Covid-19 management. The report highlighted the two different tools developed by the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) - one for tracking the individuals placed in home quarantine on a real-time basis and another for tracking the travel history of Covid-19 patients. The tool developed by the SDMA alerts the district authorities, if any person in home quarantine goes beyond a 100-metre radius from their residence. The other tool, which helps track the travel history of Covid-19 positive cases, uses mobile tower signals to determine the places visited or travelled by the patients. Andhra Pradesh started screening passengers arriving in the state from February 2020, followed by 14-day quarantine. The health department could track the foreign returnees along with their primary and secondary contacts through several rounds of door-to-door surveys. The household surveys were also used to identify the suspected cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-98-2-ap-now-has-highest-recovery-rate-among-states/articleshow/79480536.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai lawyers urge CJ to put physical hearings on hold, root for e-courts||MUMBAI: The Bombay Bar Association (BBA) and several senior lawyers on Sunday requested Bombay high court chief justice Dipankar Datta to rethink a move to bring back physical hearings in place of the video-conferences that have become the norm since the lockdown began. They have urged the chief justice (CJ) to continue with virtual courts till at least December 31, after which, they said, it may be reassessed. The video conferencing mode has been “already successfully used for many months,” said the BBA. The group wrote a letter to the CJ early Sunday morning to reconsider Friday’s order by which almost the entire high court at the principal seat in Mumbai would go physical from December 1, albeit on an ‘experimental basis’ till January 10. Physical hearings were suspended in the last week of March when the numbers of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra were less than 50. About 15 lawyers, including senior counsel V A Thorat, Prasad Dhakephalkar, Shirish Gupte and Amit Desai, urgently sought the choice to appear virtually or physically. They cited a “24 per cent” rise in active Covid-19 cases in the past week alone in Mumbai. The BBA held a meeting around 4 pm to discuss the issue. Its secretary advocate Birendra Saraf said it had received feedback from many lawyers “expressing grave concern on the making of physical appearances mandatory in so many courts given the pandemic.’’ The BBA resolved to seek a modification from the CJ to add three more benches for matters that require to be physically heard like final hearing of writ petitions and appeals, as was suggested on November 25, and to allow for a “hybrid system” if more courts are to be added. It said if the hybrid system is not possible, video-conferences (VCs) may continue till end of 2020. The association also offered to seek technical help in ensuring that a hybrid system can be seamless, so that more lawyers who are unable to operate virtually can start appearing physically. The BBA also suggested more links in its room and at the library to enable lawyers to access the virtual platform. The letter said several high courts had resumed physical hearing but reverted to VCs due to a resurgence in Covid cases. It also pointed out that under rules for physical hearings, entry of litigants would be restricted, but in a VC, they could participate better. Continuing with virtual courts would also ensure that many lawyers who returned to their hometowns would not have to come back to the city, it said, thus reducing the influx into Mumbai. The lawyers cited a Delhi HC order which directed a trial court to permit video conferencing to a lawyer who challenged an order by a trial court for his physical presence in a matter. The BBA said, “technical difficulties faced in operating hybrid hearings have been successfully overcome in several High Courts like Delhi and Rajasthan.” The lawyers' letter said, “Other countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Germany, Italy and many other in Europe have also been forced to go into another lockdown after an unregulated opening of public spaces and institutions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-lawyers-urge-cj-to-put-physical-hearings-on-hold-root-for-e-courts/articleshow/79482899.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 30, 2020||Goa||State forms two panels to amend registration acts||Panaji: The Goa government plans to amend the Registration Act, 1908, and the Society Registration Act, 1860, along with the respective rules drafted under the laws. The government on Thursday also constituted two committees, both headed by state registrar Brijesh Manerkar, to deliberate over the required amendments. While the draft amendment for the Registration Act, 1908, needs to be submitted in six months, the government has given four months to draft amendments for the State Amendment in the Society Registration Act. Serving officers and retired government officers have been appointed on the committee to work on the amendments. “The committees have been formed to suggest amendments in view of the various changes made within the department and the reforms brought in. The scope of the committee is to suggest amendments in view of the new scenario,” said chairman of the two committees and state registrar-cum-head of notary services Brijesh Manerkar. The department has moved to online registration from the earlier manual or physical registration process and thus the new process has to be incorporated in the law. Former state registrars P S Bodke and P V Sardessai have also been appointed on the committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-forms-two-panels-to-amend-registration-acts/articleshow/79481376.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Proddatur MLA to donate Rs 1 crore||Tirupati: Prodattur MLA Rachamallu Sivaprasad Reddy announced on Sunday that he will give his 45 months’ pay, which amounts to nearly Rs 1 crore, towards flood relief for farmers of his constituency. The YSRC MLA visited Kummaripalle village of Rajupalem mandal with revenue officials and inspected the crop damage caused by Cyclone Nivar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/proddatur-mla-to-donate-rs-1-crore/articleshow/79480563.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 30, 2020||Goa||Goa govt lying about 10,000 jobs, no budgetary provisions: Congress||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s announcement, that 10,000 government jobs will be created, is an election gimmick as the BJP-led government has not made any corresponding budgetary provision for salaries, Congress said on Sunday. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that with the government’s financial situation still precarious, the state could ill-afford to take on additional wage liability. “If the government wants to release 10,000 jobs then the financial implication is Rs 350 crore per year, if one calculates based on the minimum government wage. There is no provision in the budget for these jobs,” Chodankar said. He went a step ahead and said that if the state’s financial situation has really improved, the government should release Rs 4,000 – Rs 5,000 to unemployed youth in the state, as promised by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar. “Suddenly zilla elections are being planned and then the chief minister announces 10,000 jobs. It is clear cut that the government is trying to influence voters to vote for BJP,” Chodankar said. He said that the Congress is in favour of the zilla panchayat elections being held but only if the elections don’t lead to an increase in the Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-lying-about-10k-jobs-no-budgetary-provisions-congress/articleshow/79481385.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||SP lends helping hand to farmers||Tirupati: Tirupati SP Avula Ramesh Reddy set aside his uniform and joined a group of farmers and agricultural labourers working at their fields near Cheropalli village of Srikalahasti mandal on Sunday. The senior police official folded his trousers and lent a helping hand to working farmers. Later, he handed over ration to a group of farmers. Tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sp-lends-helping-hand-to-farmers/articleshow/79480566.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Rajampet MP visits cyclone-hit areas||Tirupati: Rajampet MP PV Midhun Reddy inspected areas devastated by the recent Cyclone Nivar on Sunday. Accompanied by party legislators Meda Mallikarjuna Reddy, Chintala Ramachandra Reddy, the MP visited the Pincha project near KV Palle mandal in Chittoor district that got washed away in the cyclone and assured that the project would be restored at the earliest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rajampet-mp-visits-cyclone-hit-areas/articleshow/79480576.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 30, 2020||Goa||Anticipatory bail plea of 2 boys in theft case rejected||PANAJI: A local court has recently rejected the anticipatory bail application filed by two youth from Fatorda apprehending arrest in a case of alleged stealing of liquor in their jackets from a supermarket in Calangute. Three youth stole five liquor bottles worth Rs 19,000 from a supermarket. Two liquor bottles were recovered from one of the accused who was arrested. The appellant’s advocate M Nazareth stated that the applicants, aged between 19 and 20, are young boys with no criminal antecedents. Public prosecutor A Talaulikar however stated that theft under Section 380 IPC is punishable with seven years imprisonment and a fine and submitted to the court that since August 2020, 60 liquor bottles have gone missing. With the help of CCTV cameras, the staff recovered two liquor bottles from one of the accused who was caught red-handed. The two youths proceeded on their vehicle after one of their accomplices was caught. In August 2020, the supermarket audited liquor bottles and found shortage of about 60 liquor bottles and then viewed TV footage of cameras. They then found accused lifting bottles in their shirt and wearing a jacket above. A watch was kept on customers moving in the liquor section and thereafter a complaint was lodged against them. “Hence, for the reason stated herein above the anticipatory bail application deserves to be dismissed as there is prima facie involvement of the applicant in the crime,” additional sessions judge, Mapusa, Kshama M Joshi stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anticipatory-bail-plea-of-2-boys-in-theft-case-rejected/articleshow/79481401.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Goa||GFP seeks Unesco aid to ‘save’ Old Goa||Panaji: GFP has written to Unesco World Heritage Centre and the International Council on Monuments and Sites (Icomos) in France saying that heightened development around Old Goa could put historical monuments that dot the village at risk. Party president Vijai Sardesai, who wrote the letter on behalf of GFP, informed the international organisations that the state government plans to bring Old Goa under the Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority (PDA) jurisdiction. “This is a brazen act of poaching and encroachment of boundaries determined by the Unesco in 1986. Under these new provisions, the government of Goa could allow building height to reach 30m in various commercial zones as against the current 9m height restriction,” Sardesai said. On November 20, town and country planning (TCP) minister Chandrakant Kavlekar announced that the TCP board had agreed to extend the area of the Greater Panaji PDA beyond Kadamba Plateau to Old Goa. GFP already called on the government to immediately withdraw the decision before the feast of St Francis Xavier, which is celebrated on December 3. Sardesai said the state government may ignore the demand and move ahead with the development of high-rise structures close to the Unesco sites. GFP asked Unesco and Icomos to intervene and “stand united” with Goans. The letter has been addressed to director of Unesco World Heritage Centre Mechtild Rossler and vice-president of Icomos Rohit Jigyasu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-seeks-unesco-aid-to-save-old-goa/articleshow/79481415.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Goa||Truck falls into ravine, driver escapes||Ponda: The driver of a trailer truck had a miraculous escape, on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, when the vehicle he was driving plunged into a 30m-deep ravine on Anmod Ghat. Andhra Pradesh-native Venkata Subbiah P, 46, was driving on the ghat section on the Goa-Karnataka national highway when the accident occurred at around 1.45am. The driver was rescued after firefighters attached to Ponda central fire station cut open the truck cabin. The victim escaped with only minor injuries to a leg. The trailer was negotiating a sharp turn, when unaware with the road dimensions, the driver drove the trailer off the road into the deep george, said a source. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/truck-falls-into-ravine-driver-escapes/articleshow/79481431.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chennai||I-T searches unearth Rs 450 crore unaccounted income in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: In a multi-city operation, the income tax department has unearthed ₹450 crore of unaccounted income after searches at properties linked to ex-director of an Information Technology Special Economic Zone (IT-SEZ) and a prominent stainless steel supplier in Chennai on Friday. Searches were conducted at 16 places in Chennai, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Cuddalore. “The evidence unearthed include unaccounted assets worth about ₹100 crore accumulated by the ex-director and his family members in the past three years,” the department said. The SEZ developer claimed bogus work-in-progress expenses of about ₹160 crore in a project under construction, it added. Transactions worth ₹2,300 crore routed through Mauritius Bogus expenses were claimed by the SEZ developer, including capital expenses of ₹30 crore through consultancy fees and inadmissible interest expenses to the extent of ₹20 crore. The I-T department also unearthed transactions of ₹2,300 crore routed as an investment through Mauritius. “The shares of the SEZ were sold by its erstwhile shareholders, a resident and a non-resident entity, which routed its investment through a Mauritius intermediary, for about ₹2,300 crore in 2017-18,” tax authorities said. However, the capital gains out of this sale transaction were never disclosed to the I-T department. “Investigation is in progress to determine the undisclosed capital gains in the hands of both the shareholders. Other land transactions involving cash payments and an issue relating to Compulsory Convertible Debentures are also under examination,” according to I-T. The evidence found in the premises of the stainlesssteel supplier revealed that the supplier group has been engaged in tax evasion and money laundering. The quantification of unaccounted income is estimated to be around ₹100 crore, the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/i-t-searches-unearth-rs-450-crore-unaccounted-income-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79482973.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
November 30, 2020||World||Joe Biden to nominate Tanden, Rouse and others to economic team||President-elect Joe Biden plans to nominate Center for American Progress Chief Executive Neera Tanden as director of the Office of Management and Budget and economist Cecilia Rouse as chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, the Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday. Biden, a Democrat, also plans to pick Wally Adeyemo, a senior international economic adviser during the Obama administration, to serve as Janet Yellen’s top deputy at the Treasury Department, the Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. Economists Jared Bernstein and Heather Boushey will be nominated to serve as members of the Council of Economic Advisers, the report added. A representative for the Biden campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Tanden, Rouse, Adeyemo, Bernstein and Boushey could not immediately be reached for comment on Sunday. Before taking the reins at the Center for American Progress, a center-left think tank, Tanden was a healthcare adviser in former President Barack Obama's administration. She was also an adviser for Democrat Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign. Rouse, a labor economist at Princeton University, whose research has focused on the economics of education, previously served as a member of Obama's Council of Economic Advisers. Adeyemo was a senior White House national security adviser for international economics during the Obama administration, as well as a top aide to former Treasury Secretary Jack Lew. He is currently president of the Obama Foundation Bernstein, one of Biden's closest aides, served as his chief economic adviser as Biden, then the vice president, and Obama fought to pull the United States out of the Great Recession. He was tasked with calculating and explaining how many jobs the Obama administration's hard-fought recovery act saved in 2009, and was widely expected to have a similarly prominent role in a Biden administration, Boushey is known for research focusing on how inequality can hinder economic growth. The chief executive and co-founder of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, a progressive economic think tank, Boushey has been working with the Biden team as an unofficial economic adviser. Just like Obama did in 2009, Biden will inherit a struggling economy facing serious near-term challenges. Nearly 14 million Americans, many who used to be employed in the restaurant and hospitality industries, are receiving unemployment benefits that expire on Dec. 26, and the coronavirus' continued surge means there is no telling when they might be able to go back to work. Biden’s economic agenda is likely to focus on getting the country past the coronavirus crisis, both as a health and economic issue. A lot will depend on passage of a pandemic relief package and the distribution of a vaccine that is expected in early 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-to-nominate-tanden-rouse-and-others-to-economic-team/articleshow/79482979.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rajinikanth meets followers today, will hear their ‘voice’ on party rollout||CHENNAI: Actor Rajinikanth has kept alive the suspense over his political entry, convening a meeting of Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM) office bearers on Monday. Sources close to the actor said he would elicit views of RMM functionaries about his political foray against the backdrop of his health and the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. “Rajinikanth will be present at the venue,” said a person in constant touch with the actor. “This will be his first public appearance after the pandemic set in leading to lockdowns since late March this year.” There has been talk about his meeting with Amit Shah when the Union home minister visited the city last weekend, but that never happened. Sources said Rajini would briefly address the functionaries on Monday to explain the state of his health, the caution from his doctors against his making public appearances under the cloud of Covid pandemic and his earlier promise to them about entering politics in time for the assembly election in Tamil Nadu slated for April-end. “Thalaivar is keen to listen to the views of RMM district secretaries on his future course of action. In a way, he will be placing the onus on RMM functionaries to show him the way,” a source said. “It will be a closed-door meeting with less than 50 people in all,” the source added. The Monday meeting is in line with his October 29 statement, when the actor said he would take a final call on his entry into politics after consulting the functionaries of RMM. Rajini tweeted after a ‘statement’ detailing his health condition and the pandemic as reasons for his dilemma over taking the political plunge was leaked. He disowned the statement, yet acknowledged that the details about his health were true. In March, Rajinikanth told reporters he wished to see an “uprising” among the people seeking a “change” from the Dravidian parties that have been governing the state for more than 50 years. He said he did not wish to become the chief minister but would nominate the best qualified person for that post, if his party won the election. On December 31, 2017, Rajinikanth told his fans at a gathering in the same venue that he would address his mandram, that he would enter politics in time for assembly elections and put up candidates in all the 234 assembly segments. “I will propagate spiritual politics,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajinikanth-meets-followers-today-will-hear-their-voice-on-party-rollout/articleshow/79482986.cms||D Govardan
November 30, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot hospital fire: 5 booked for negligence||RAJKOT: Five persons including chairman of Gokul Lifecare Pvt Ltd were booked for negligence that resulted in the death of five Covid-19 patients in Rajkot's Uday Shivanand Hospital on Thursday midnight. The offence was lodged by Malaviyanagar police station on Sunday evening after the special investigation team (SIT) detected irregularities in the building structure and fire fighting systems. Police booked Dr Prakash Modha, chairman of Gokul Lifecare, that runs the hospital which was designated for Covid treatment two months ago, along with Vishal Modha, Dr Tejas Karamta, Dr Tejas Motivaras and Dr Digvijay Jadeja. SIT headed by deputy commissioner of police, Manoharsinh Jadeja found that the exit gate of the hospital was blocked due to some obstruction of machineries and there was no ventilation for the smoke to be released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-hospital-fire-5-booked-for-negligence/articleshow/79482981.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chennai||Drought-prone Chennai now water-sufficient?||Two years ago, amid one of Chennai’s worst water crises, a Union ministry of water resources warning that the city would become water starved triggered panic among residents. This year, a little more than a month into the northeast monsoon, almost all gloom has been dispelled. The groundwater table has been recharged and even areas not covered by Metrowater’s piped supply have achieved self-sufficient status. J Sarvanan, a hydrogeologist, said the water table across sandy strata in areas such as Adyar had increased considerably, while it increased moderately in the hard rock region stretching from Alandur to Tambaram. In North Chennai, where the soil is mixture of sandy strata and clay, water is easily available in places such as Madhavaram, Manali and Tiruvottiyur. “One need not dig deep here,” he said. In the western parts of the city, particularly in places such as Anna Nagar, the water recharge in the clayey soil would be relatively less when compared to areas with sandy strata, he said. Weathered rocky areas too would have good groundwater, with water available at depths of 40ft-50ft, he said. In November, Saravanan said, he generally got at least a few calls from residents across the city seeking solutions to improve the groundwater table. This year, he said, the overall situation was good and there have been no calls from residents. A senior state public works department (PWD) official said they had taken several steps to reduce water runoff from Poondi reservoir, one of the four supplying to Chennai city, including building six check dams along the stretch where the excess water from the reservoir used to flow. Before the check dams came up, excess from the Poondi reservoir would be released into the Kosasthalayar river before it reached the Bay of Bengal. The check dams have also helped recharging well fields in the surrounding areas and residents have been able to get groundwater easily without going deep, he said. “Construction of check dams has helped in storing a total of one million cubic feet (mcft) of water, which otherwise ran off,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drought-prone-chennai-now-water-sufficient/articleshow/79483007.cms||P Oppili
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: As MBBS colleges prepare to reopen, RT-PCR test must for students, staff||BENGALURU: Just as with arts and engineering colleges which reopened a fortnight ago, students and faculty of MBBS colleges, which are slated to reopen on Tuesday, will have to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR tests and produce the report to be allowed back on campuses. The government has allowed all medical, dental, Ayush, paramedical, nursing and pharmacy colleges affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) to reopen from December 1. K Sudhakar, health minister, has requested colleges to adhere to safety guidelines prescribed by the government. As per standard operating procedure issued by RGUHS, staff and students must undergo the test in ICMR-approved state government laboratories. They must obtain reports no later than three days before rejoining college (between November 28 and 30 for classes from December 1). Any student who develops symptoms must take an RT-PCR test afresh. Students must also produce consent letters from parents. In its SOP document, RGUHS has asked institutions to evaluate “local situations” and implement the advisory accordingly. “Institutions may plan to reopen their campuses in a phased manner, ensuring safety, health and wellbeing of all students and staff. They should be flexible in their plan and should be ready to handle any eventuality arising due to Covid-19,” RGUHS states. Every institution has also been asked to constitute disaster and medical emergency (preparedness and management) teams (DMET). Each team must have a public health specialist, microbiologist, psychologist, medical social worker and counsellor. The team should be updated periodically on medical emergencies and/or disasters. A nodal officer must be appointed in other health sciences institutions who can take up DMET activities. MoU should be made with the nearest medical college/hospital/ appropriate bodies for DMET training and execution of activities. Social distancingThe varsity has directed classes to be divided into different batches if class strength is more than expected. It has said in-person classes should be conducted for only 1/3rd of capacity in different batches. It has suggested avoiding many assignments which may demand frequent travel outside the campus. Protocol for examsCollege authorities must prepare a micro-plan on the number of students, classrooms, teachers, staff, seating arrangements for students, vehicles and movement plan, marking of boxes on the floor outside the examination hall, etc. Colleges have been asked to train invigilators and staff prior to examinations. Students must report at least one hour prior to the scheduled time. Infected students must take exams in a separate centre/room. They must inform the college beforehand and produce a medical certificate from their treating physician certifying that they are fit to sit for the examination. The candidate must also submit “risk consent” to take the exam. BOX: Warding off the virusOnly colleges that are outside containment zones to function. Students and staff living in containment zones barred from attending classes on campus. All institutions with healthcare facilities (hospitals) must continue patient-centric care and academic activities cautiously. Only one student per seat is allowed on college buses. Each bus should carry only 1/3rd its capacity to maintain physical distance. Precautions for hostels Hostel students travelling from international destinations need to enrol on http://sevasindhu.karantaka.gov.in/Sevasindhu/English. All hostel establishments must have adequate light and a good ventilation system. Fumigation/disinfection/ sanitisation must be carried out in the hostel regularly. These activities need to be documented on a housekeeping checklist. A separate restroom should be provided exclusively for students to freshen up as soon as they return from hospital, with facilities to dip clothes in disinfection solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-as-mbbs-colleges-prepare-to-reopen-rt-pcr-test-must-for-students-staff/articleshow/79482993.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chennai||As low pressure system intensifies, Chennai braces for more rain this week||CHENNAI: After a lull, the southern suburbs should get ready for heavy rain this week as the low pressure system in the Bay of Bengal has developed and will turn into a depression in 36 hours. It will intensify further and edge closer to the Tamil Nadu coast by Wednesday. It is expected to trigger heavy rain of more than 10cm in the southern suburbs of the city and also in the southern districts of the state. An IMD statement said, "Yesterday’s low pressure area over south Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast Bay of Bengal and equatorial Indian Ocean has developed into a well-marked low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining areas of south Andaman Sea and equatorial Indian Ocean. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression during the next 36 hours and likely to intensify further." The huge system, currently spread over the sea between Andamans and Sri Lanka, will cause heavy rain in Kanyakumari and Tuticorin districts from Tuesday onwards. The rain will become extremely heavy and very heavy in the southern and western districts, the next day. IMD has forecast extremely heavy rain in Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Kanyakumari, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar districts, while isolated places at Theni, Madurai, Sivagangai and Pudukkottai are expected to get heavy to very heavy rain. Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvallur, Karaikal, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram will also be drenched. A met official said that the system may not impact the city like Cyclone Nivar, baring a possibility of heavy rain in the southern suburbs. Though there was only a 'trace' of rain at Nungambakkam on Saturday night, many areas of the city received good rain towards late evening and night on Sunday. Many areas in the coast, between Chennai and Pudicherry and some parts till Nagapattinam, received rain on Sunday night because of the impact of the low pressure system. However, the day was bright with the temperature touching 30°C in Chennai. Another round of rain in the southern suburbs will recharge the groundwater in the city. The heavy rain caused by Cyclone Nivar had converted a 11% rainfall deficit to 31% surplus. The city has got 808.2mm rain since October 1 as against the 615.5mm expected till now during the northeast monsoon season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-low-pressure-system-intensifies-chennai-braces-for-more-rain-this-week/articleshow/79483013.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Trio leases out 100 houses taken on rent, lands in soup||BENGALURU: Two men and a woman, who were running a company that took properties on rent and leased them to generate capital for their construction project, landed in custody after their business ran into trouble in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Manohar Nenavath, his wife Sheetal Manohar and Ranjan Davamani, who claimed to be running a property management firm, are the accused. They were able to make Rs 7.5 crore by leasing out over 100 properties that they had taken on rent. They sealed their lease deals after putting out advertisements in online marketplaces like OLX. In their complaint to Banaswadi police, 42 victims said they were cheated by the gang that leased out flats and houses in and around HRBR Layout, east Bengaluru, before vanishing with the money. On Sunday, the victims came to Banaswadi police station on coming to know that Ranjan, the kingpin, had been arrested. Ranjan claimed he was bankrupt and was not able to repay their money. Kiran Kumar K, a resident of Prabhushree apartment in HRBR Layout, said he saw on OLX an advertisement offering a flat on lease in October 2018. He approached the advertiser, Ranjan, the next day and in a week, the three-year lease agreement was sealed with Kiran paying Rs 17 lakh. Manohar and Sheetal had claimed they run a property management firm. According to Kiran, the accused paid rent to the flat owner but stopped it in June this year. Following this, the house owner approached Kiran, who then realised he had been conned. Kiran approached Banaswadi police and filed a complaint on November 20. Police have booked a case under IPC sections 406 for breach of trust and 420 for cheating. Kiran soon found that there were many like him who had given money to the trio to lease out flats and houses which had actually been taken on rent in HRBR Layout. Sheetal and Ranjan, who had signed the lease agreement with Kiran, had told him that the flat owner was living abroad and appointed them to lease out the building. Police said the accused have collected Rs 7.5 crore in the form of lease amount and were paying rent of Rs 10 lakh a month to owners of the flats and houses. They had invested the money in a construction project but the works were stalled due to the pandemic. Once they failed to pay the rent, house owners approached the lessees and the fraud came to the fore. Some victims said the original owners of the properties did know about the lease deeds that Ranjan and others were entering into. “I took a flat on lease paying Rs 14 lakh in Kalyan Nagar and the owner was aware of the agreement. The problem started this year when Ranjan and others stopped paying rent. The owner began insisting I vacate the flat but how could I do it without my money. I am told that Ranjan and others are bankrupt,” Sanjay, a software professional, said. “There are a lot of gangs in Bengaluru who claim to be owners of flats/houses or agents and lease them out. They invest the cash in some other businesses and pay rent to landlords, while in some cases, they run away with the money,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/trio-leases-out-100-houses-taken-on-rent-lands-in-soup/articleshow/79480812.cms||Kiran Parashar
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||GJM factions trade GTA funds charge||Darjeeling/Siliguri: The general secretary of GJM’s Bimal Gurung faction, Roshan Giri, said on Sunday that his party’s decision to ally with Trinamool Congress was a political strategy to gain ground for the 2024 Lok Sabha election. Meanwhile, Bengal urban development minister Firhad Hakim reached Siliguri and held talks with senior Trinamool leaders. Giri arrived in Kurseong for his first public meeting since going underground during the 2017 statehood agitation. “It is our strategy to extend support to TMC to defeat BJP and ensure Mamata Banerjee remains Bengal chief minister. In the 2024 Lok Sabha election, we will support the party that will work to fulfil our demands,” he said. “BJP only says ‘dekhenge’, ‘karenge’ and ‘ho jayega’ (we will see, we will do, it will happen). But they have not done anything for us in more than 12 years.” He questioned GTA’s spending and termed Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa “traitors”. He held them responsible for the displacement of hundreds of GJM activists. Tamang faction spokesperson Keshavraj Pokhrel said Giri’s charges were only to hoodwink people. “Everyone talks about restoring democracy in the Hills. However, today they (Gurung faction) held a public meeting. Could this be possible without democracy? As for the funds of GTA, let Gurung and Giri give details of utilization during their tenure,” he said. The Tamang faction has announced that it will hold a counter-rally in Kurseong on December 1, but it is not clear whether Tamang or Thapa will be present. Gurung, who has been entrusted by Trinamool to camp out in the Dooars to block Gorkha votes, will be in Siliguri on December 6 to address a public meeting. Hakim arrived in Siliguri, where he is scheduled to unveil a statue of Mahatma Gandhi near the Head Post office. He is further set to participate in a mega rally by TMC on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gjm-factions-trade-gta-funds-charge/articleshow/79481717.cms||Deep Gazmer
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Status quo on security cover for ex-minister||Tamluk (East Midnapore): Suvendu Adhikari is now posing a headache for the East Midnapore police. Adhikari has refused to take his ‘Z’ security escorts, pilot and trail cars, but police cannot withdraw this till it is downgraded or withdrawn. The assessment is made by a state committee, including the Intelligence Branch, which maps the scale-up according to threat perceptions. The district police, which provides for the vehicles, and IB’s Security Unit, which provides personal security officers, cannot withdraw them on their own. According to a senior East Midnapore district official, they are maintaining a “status quo” on the issue, indicating they have not formally withdrawn his security detail. Suvendu was seen travelling in a private car with only a driver in an apolitical meeting on Sunday. The threat perceptions also factored in possible Maoist attempts on his life. A person in the know claimed, “The police have requested Suvendu to continue with his police escort till a formal decision is taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/status-quo-on-security-cover-for-ex-minister/articleshow/79481740.cms||Suman Mondal
November 30, 2020||Vadodara||Joshi is NDDB interim chairperson||VADODARA/ ANAND: IAS officer and joint secretary in the union fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying ministry, Varsha Joshi, will take over as interim chairman of the Anand-headquartered National Dairy Development Board (NDDB). According to sources, Joshi, who will replace Dilip Rath, whose tenure gets over on December 1, will take over charge soon. Her appointment as the dairy board’s interim chairman effectively ends long-drawn speculations on Rath getting another extension. Rath, who was serving as managing director (MD) of NDDB and later had held the additional charge of the post of chairman since August 1, 2016 had assumed the chairman’s post for the first term on December 1, 2016. Later, the appointments committee of the cabinet had approved re-nomination of Rath as NDDB chairman for a further period of two years with effect from December 1, 2018. Rath, also a former IAS officer, had taken premature retirement from the service to join NDDB as MD in 2011. His appointment as chairman in 2016 had come in the backdrop of NDDB’s former chairman T Nanda Kumar stepping down as chairman. It is worth mentioning here that speculations are still rife on who will take over as regular chairman of NDDB. “The process for appointment of regular chairman has started,” said a source close to the development. Some prominent names from Gujarat’s dairy sector are doing rounds since quite some time. But NDDB’s chairmanship which was being held by dairy professionals started shifting towards IAS officers since 2014. Interestingly, NDDB’s founding chairman and Father of India’s White Revolution late Dr Verghese Kurien had never missed an opportunity to criticise IAS officers and bureaucracy as his dislike for ‘babudom’ was quite known. Kumar, a retired IAS officer, had quit half-way before his five-year term was to end in March 2019 citing ‘personal reasons’. He was appointed as the chairman of NDDB on March 3, 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/joshi-is-nddb-interim-chairperson/articleshow/79479924.cms||Prashant Rupera
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Cured of Covid? Beware of after-effects, warn Kolkata doctors||KOLKATA: Once you have had Covid, a negative test may indicate you’re virus-free, but you may not be out of the woods just yet, doctors have cautioned. As the pandemic continues to rage, a growing number of Covid survivors are being struck by post-recovery complications — even weeks after testing negative — that are often turning out to be more threatening than the viral attack itself. Even though the fatality rate is low in such patients, the Covid-triggered ailments are proving to be persistent with a long-term health impact, especially in the case of elderly patients with co-morbidities, say doctors. One in every three non-Covid patient now admitted at Kolkata’s private hospitals is a Covid survivor, they claim. The post-recovery complications witnessed so far are wide-ranging: from minor ones like mild breathing distress, insomnia or lack of appetite to severe symptoms like breathlessness, lung fibrosis and myocarditis (inflammation of heart muscle). There have been numerous cases of arrhythmia, sudden cardiac failure or brain stroke among Covid survivors. Covid can’t be taken to be cured once the patient tests negative, feels Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. “The after-effects may show up within three weeks to three months of the patient testing negative. A growing number of elderly patients are developing fibrosis and pulmonary embolism, which are fatal in some cases. Even a sudden cardiac arrest is now being taken to be a post-Covid complication. A substantial number of our non-Covid patients now fall in this category,” says Jain. According to Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar, the post-recovery period is critical for Covid survivors. “A large number of elderly patients are returning with fibrosis, which is a direct fallout of Covid. Pulmonary embolism has also been common. Besides, we have a large number of patients with moderate to severe breathing distress, which is persisting for weeks, forcing some of them to remain on oxygen support,” says Dhar. Myocarditis, a condition triggered by viral attacks that can be fatal if detected late, has also been frequently diagnosed among Covid survivors, according to city cardiologists. Since the principal symptom of the ailment — shortness of breath — is similar to that of Covid itself, it is often being missed, leading to an aggravation, warn doctors. “It’s usually caused by viral attacks, including Covid. The heart muscles turn weak, failing to pump and leading to heart failure. Since it’s easy to miss, the patient should immediately be put through tests like ECG to check if the breathlessness seems to be lasting longer than usual or is more intense,” says Anjan Siotia, interventional cardiologist at BM Birla Heart Research Centre. In fact, says Dhar, Covid myocarditis is among the four serious fallouts of the viral attack. “The most severe could be a cytokine storm or a hyper-immune response, followed by secondary infections that could lead to sepsis. Pulmonary embolism comes next and the fourth is myocarditis,” he says. Any viral infection can lead to myocarditis, which has so far been detected among 2%-3% of Covid patients, says RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) intensivist Sauren Panja. “If not treated early, myocarditis can lead to hypotension, urine drop, low blood supply to organs and affect functioning of the brain, kidneys and liver,” he adds. Covid-induced encephalopathy, too, has been frequently detected though it has been relatively harmless in most cases. Actor Soumitra Chatterjee, however, was an exception. The 85-year-old succumbed to the cerebral disorder more than 35 days after recovering from Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cured-of-covid-beware-of-after-effects-warn-city-docs/articleshow/79482406.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 30, 2020||Ranchi||Special licence required to sell tobacco products in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee and the Mango Notified Area Committee on Saturday issued notifications mandating shops and kiosks selling tobacco products to get a special license. The order came into force on Sunday. As per the order, shops selling tobacco products will not be able to sell other items like chips, biscuits, chocolates and bread. Any tobacco seller found storing or selling non-tobacco products will be liable for legal action. Sources said that the state health department had directed the civic bodies to act tough against tobacco sellers operating without proper licence and ensure that those having it do not sell any other items. The move has been welcomed by health professionals. Dr Anita Banerjee, formerly with the MGMMCH, said: “The move of the administration will result in fewer tobacco shops and, in turn, impact the availability of cigarettes and pan masalas.” She, however, pointed out that steps need to be taken on the ground too. Although gutka is banned in the state, it is easily available in every neighbourhood, Banerjee added. Teacher Joyoti Roy said shops near schools should not get any license to sell tobacco products. She added that students are developing the habit of smoking or chewing gutka and pan masala owing to the availability of such products. Meanwhile, tobacco sellers felt their business would be adversely affected by the decision of the civic bodies. A shopkeeper in Sonari market said on the condition of anonymity that officials would harass them even more for bribe after this decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/spl-licence-required-to-sell-tobacco-products-in-steel-city/articleshow/79480697.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 30, 2020||Ranchi||State rolls out pineapple cultivation scheme on pilot basis in 7 dists||Ranchi: The state agriculture department has rolled out a scheme on a pilot basis to promote the cultivation of pineapple in seven districts covering a total of 22 hectares. The move follows a recommendation in this regard from the state’s premier agri-varsity — Birsa Agriculture University (BAU) — to boost the income of farmers. State horticulture director Varun Ranjan said, “We are implementing this scheme on an experimental basis in seven districts —Sahibganj, Bokaro, Godda, Dhanbad, Garhwa, Simdega and Koderma. In Sahibganj, we are taking up cultivation on four hectares and the other districts are doing so on three hectares each.” The official added that an investment of Rs 3 lakh is required per hectare, out of which the government is providing 40% subsidy to farmers. “We are hopeful that more farmers would be interested in cultivating pineapple in the days to come,” he said. Ranjan added that even though the project has started on a small scale, it can usher in prosperity for the state’s farmers. The chairman of BAU’s horticulture department, Dr K K Jha, said that they had recommended the agriculture department to take up pineapple cultivation based on the successful trial conducted at the varsity’s nursery. “The pineapple is a tropical plant and conditions required for its growth are available in Jharkhand. Our experiments have shown good results. I am happy the government has finally rolled out this scheme from this year,” Jha said, adding that it usually takes 16 months for the first crop to bear fruit. Notably, BAU is currently also experimenting with two exotic fruits — avocado and dragon fruit — at its nursery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-rolls-out-pineapple-cultivation-scheme-on-pilot-basis-in-7-dists/articleshow/79480706.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 30, 2020||Surat||Fireman drowns in swimming pool||Surat: A 23-year-old fire fighter, who knew how to swim, drowned in a swimming pool on Sunday. Police said the deceased, Ketan Pol, was a marshal in the fire and emergency department of SMC. Basant Pareek, chief fire officer, SMC, told TOI: “Pol was a marshal posted at the Varachha fire station and he was a good swimmer. On Sunday, his off day, he went with a colleague to a swimming pool near Valkas village near Surat and they were practising swimming techniques. Primary details suggest that while he was taking an underwater deep breath, the incident occurred.” “After taking a deep dive when Pol did not come out on the surface, his colleague found him unconscious in the poo and rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead on arrival,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fireman-drowns-in-swimming-pool/articleshow/79480272.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Will continue to work as people’s servant: Suvendu||Mahishadal (East Midnapore): In his first public meeting after resigning from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet and as Haldia Development Authority chairperson, Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday chose to prioritise people without mentioning the party, saying his “allegiance is with people” and he would continue working as a “people’s servant” who “will be on the streets to fulfil his commitments to them”. Suvendu spoke from an apolitical platform in Mahishadal in East Midnapore on the day senior Trinamool Congress ministers Rajiv Banerjee, Sujit Bose and Bratya Basu, in an attempt to consolidate the party support base, addressed two party programmes in Haldia and Contai, both Adhikari family turf. Speaking briefly, Suvendu said: “People should have the final word. The Constitution of the country emphasises it is ‘for the people, of the people and by the people’. Every arrangement under it should put people first. It is people who will have the last word. It is their overwhelming support in such huge numbers that will help me to continue to work for them.” The rebel leader did not take any questions. Trinamool leaders, a regular feature in his apolitical meetings earlier, were conspicuous by their absence from Mahishadal. Trinamool’s preparatory meetings were also meant to canvass for chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s public meeting in West Midnapore on December 7. Sources close to Suvendu indicated he might go to Nandigram on Monday to attend a religious programme. He has several apolitical programmes lined up till mid-December. Programmes in Tamluk will cover Khudiram Bose’s birth anniversary celebrations, Satish Chandra Samanta’s birth anniversary on December 15, and the formation of Tamralipta Jatiya Sarkar on December 17. The political engagements of Suvendu’s father Sishir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu Adhikari, both MPs, are not immediately known. In Contai, Basu, while fielding questions on Suvendu, said: “He is still in the party and we do attend apolitical meetings.” He, however, added: “Leaders may leave the party, but a party is made by its workers.” Basu refused to speak further. In Haldia, Banerjee said: “In politics, people decide their leaders. Trinamool has only one leader in chief minister Mamata Banerjee and we all are workers.” Bose did not say anything on the Suvendu issue, instead targeting BJP for fanning mistrust and half-truths among people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-continue-to-work-as-peoples-servant-suvendu/articleshow/79481771.cms||Suman Mondal
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip responds to ‘goonda’ barb, hits out at TMC||Kolkata: BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, responding to Abhishek Banerjee’s “goonda” barb, said on Sunday it was a sign of Trinamool Congress’s fear and that the party was weakening. Ghosh said in the last panchayat elections, not a single BJP candidate could contest in Diamond Harbour with ‘goondas’ and police keeping watch. On the ‘bhaipo’ controversy, he quipped, “People in Bengal are intelligent, they know who bhaipo (nephew) is.” “In the panchayat polls, our candidates were assaulted — even women were beaten up — near the Alipore treasury office. Now they are worried that they have to step out and attend public meetings. We are not saying anything, their own party leaders are speaking out. When people are deserting them, they are feeling the heat,” he said. On the ‘bhaipo’ barbs, the BJP Bengal president added: “Whenever there is any issue, people say bhaipo. We all know who bhaipo is. We say it with love and affection and no ill-will.” Ghosh indicated that party president J P Nadda will attend programmes in the districts, adjoining Kolkata. “Both Amit-ji (Union home minister Amit Shah) and Nadda-ji will attend programmes in the coming months,” he said. On Hills politics, Ghosh said without naming Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), “We had an alliance partner in the Hills and the two groups in the ally party started fighting among themselves. TMC tried to take advantage of the situation. People in the Hills do not support Gurung or Binay Tamang. They are instead with BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-responds-to-goonda-barb-hits-out-at-tmc/articleshow/79481809.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||Muslim village conducts last rites of Hindu neighbour||Burdwan: In an exemplary instance of communal harmony, Muslim neighbours of a 70-year-old Hindu man at Jamuria village in west Burdwan conducted his funeral along with his family on Sunday. Ramdhani Rajak’s family happened to be the only Hindu household among 230 Muslim families in Desher Mahan village, around 200 km from the city. Rajak lived with his wife and a mentally challenged son while his elder son lives in Kolkata. The 70-year-old had died of head injuries almost 10 hours after falling from a tree, after being refused treatment at five private hospitals in West Burdwan, Durgapur and Jamuria as he had not undergone a Covid test. The neighbours took him from one hospital to another and after his death, gathered wood and carried the body to the banks of the Ajoy river where his elder son performed rituals. “I am thoroughly indebted to the neighbours. Had they not been beside us, it would have been impossible to manage everything on our own. They not only tried their best to give proper treatment to my father but after his death, they arranged everything and even paid for the funeral,” said Ramvilas, who was able to reach Jamuria from his Salt Lake home only on Saturday evening. Locals said Rajak was well-known among villagers as he used to wash and iron clothes and deliver them back to the households for a living. “When we heard he had met with an accident, we immediately took him to a hospital. We visited five hospitals in Ranigunj and Durgapur, but none admitted him. Some said ICCU was not available while others said he couldn’t be admitted without a Covid test. By the time one hospital admitted him, he died,” said Sheikh Firdaus, a neighbour. Firdaus said they took the body back to the village and set up a tent outside his house. “Early on Sunday, we set off for the last rites along with his family and cremated him following all Hindu rituals. We don’t think we have done something exemplary. We had never differentiated between his family and us in our village. He was one of our own,” said Firdaus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/muslim-village-conducts-last-rites-of-hindu-neighbour/articleshow/79481591.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal sailor among 14 Indians rescued from Yemen hotel||KOLKATA: A shipping crew assistant from Murshidabad and 13 other Indian sailors, who had been confined to a hotel in Yemen’s Sanaa since February, were rescued by a team of external affairs ministry officials on Sunday. Officials TOI spoke to said they were working to transport them back to India by next week. TOI on Sunday had reported how the crew — 14 Indians, five Bangladeshis and an Egyptian — had been taken into custody by the Yemeni Coast Guard on February 12 after docking in the war zone due to bad weather. Murshidabad’s Hiron Seikh Siddiki was able to contact his family only three months after the incident. His family had been running from pillar to post for his release since then. An NGO, Karna Subarna Welfare Society, got in touch with the ministry of external affairs on November 16, following which things started moving. “We took up the matter with the MEA. Our patron, advocate Vandana Shrivastava, was in regular contact with ministry officials following up on the case. India doesn’t have an embassy in Yemen. Embassy officials from neighbouring Djibouti went to their rescue. All 14 Indian sailors have been issued temporary passports and efforts are being made to get them back home at the earliest,” said Mati-Ur-Rahman, an NGO official. Speaking to TOI over a Whatsapp call, Siddiki said there were times during his 9-month long detention that he thought he would never be able to go home again. “The first four days were the worst when we were kept under detention at the port and were treated like terrorists. Later, we were shifted to a hotel but even then, we were not allowed to leave the premises. The embassy officials seemed like a godsend to us. It feels good to be finally free,” he said. Siddiki’s father, Seikh Abu Bakkar, said the family was waiting anxiously for his return. “We will not allow him to sail any more. He will stay with us and work here from now on,” Bakkar said. Yemen has been witnessing a multi-sided civil war since late 2014, mainly between two factions: the Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi-led Yemeni government and the Houthi armed movement, along with their supporters and allies. Both claim to constitute the official government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-sailor-among-14-indians-rescued-from-yemen-hotel/articleshow/79481632.cms||Sukumar Mahato
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Woman says duo took her SUV on rent, sold it||BENGALURU: A woman, accused of opening fire at her husband thrice in an alleged attempt to kill him inside their SUV in May 2017, said two men who had taken her four-wheeler on rent cheated her by selling it. Bandepalya police have booked a case of cheating and forgery on the basis of the complaint filed by Hamsaveni, 49, a resident of Haralur village and employee of a private company. Hamsaveni alleged that the SUV had been seized by Suryanagar police in the shooting case and was later released on the court’s directions. She told police she had purchased the Toyota Fortuner by availing Rs 25 lakh loan from a bank in 2015. After Hamsaveni allegedly attempted to kill her husband, Sai Ram, on May 5, 2017, Suryanagar police had seized the vehicle. “I was unable to pay EMI dues because of financial problems. Two persons, identifying themselves as Pasha and Manish, came to my house in December 2018. They said they are representatives of the bank from which I had availed the vehicle loan. When they pressured me to pay EMIs, I sought time. But they declined to give me time,” she stated in her complaint. Hamsaveni further said that she owed the bank about Rs 8 lakh towards the car loan and the duo offered her Rs 50,000 monthly rent for the car. They promised to return the car soon after the loan was cleared. According to Hamsaveni, the duo cleared her car loan and took a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the bank in April 2019. She later learnt they had sold her car using forged documents. Bandepalya police are looking for Pasha and Manish. Husband, wife had a tiff over daughter’s marriageOn the evening of May 5, 2017, Hamsaveni and her husband Sai Ram were travelling in their SUV on Hosur Road. Ram was at the wheel. The couple got into an argument over their daughter’s marriage. Beaten by her husband, Hamsaveni allegedly lost her cool and took her husband’s licensed pistol out of the car’s glove compartment and shot at him thrice in the abdomen. Ram managed to get out of the car and hopped on to a BMTC bus. Hamsaveni was accused of driving the SUV and chasing the bus. She managed to stop the bus, get into it and attack him again. Passengers in the vehicle caught her and saved her critically injured husband. Suryanagar police arrested her on charges of attempted to murder. Trial in the case is yet to commence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/woman-says-duo-took-her-suv-on-rent-sold-it/articleshow/79480808.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Hospital employee arrested with 310 LSD strips received from Netherlands||BENGALURU: Investigation into an international drug racket busted by Bengaluru police earlier this month has revealed that the racketeers had sent a consignment of 310 LSD strips to a city hospital address, where one of the employees was supposed to have received them and passed on to local peddlers. In a joint operation, Central Crime Branch (CCB) and Hebbagodi police arrested Arun Antony, who is from Kerala and worked as an x-ray technician at a leading hospital on Hosur Road. Arun had received the consignment from the Netherlands. It was ordered through the darknet by paying in bitcoins. Police also recovered 310 LSD strips from Arun.  Police had in the first week of November busted a major drug racket, arrested 10 peddlers and recovered 660 lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) papers, 386 methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) tablets, 12 grams of MDMA crystals and 10 grams of cocaine powder. Continuing their probe, police found Arun had received the consignment on his friend Ganesh Pillai’s insistence. Arun was to hand over the parcel to Amal Baiju. Pillai and Baiju were arrested along with nine others. Sharing details of the order, police said the consignment had a god’s photo on it and was packed like a festival gift. Arun told police his job was only to receive the order andhand it over to Amal. Arun was promised Rs 40,000 for each consignment. “We came to know that they were planning to sell each LSD strip for Rs 4,000 in Bengaluru and other parts of the state,” said police. The hospital said it has sacked Arun following his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hospital-employee-arrested-with-310-lsd-strips-received-from-netherlands/articleshow/79480801.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Abhishek Banerjee returns BJP’s ‘Bhaipo’ fire, says ‘name me if you dare’||MUCHISAH (SOUTH 24 PARGANAS): Breaking his silence on the sharpening attacks against him by BJP, and by some within his own party, Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday dared the senior BJP leadership to name him while levelling allegations, if they had courage. Dismissing Suvendu Adhikari’s parachute-lift metaphor, Banerjee warned dissenters that the party was like their “mother” and no party worker would “forgive treachery with mother”. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had come to Diamond Harbour in May 2019. He had said bhatija ka batti gul hone wala hai (the nephew will be in trouble). They say bhatija, bhaipo (nephew) but lack the courage to take my name. My name is Abhishek Banerjee and I dare you to name me,” Banerjee said at a packed Muchisah football ground in Diamond Harbour. “There is a reason for it,” he continued. “Every time they have done that, I had taken legal steps. In 2017, Mukul Roy after defecting had claimed in Esplanade that I own Biswa Bangla. He had to run to courts. Every senior leader who had done that had to face legal action.” “But I do not fear that,” Banerjee said, naming senior BJP leaders as “outsiders” and alleging that state BJP president Dilip Ghosh was a “goon and a mafia”. Ghosh later responded to the barbs. Referring to allegations within the party, Banerjee said: “In Trinamool Congress, none can drop in a parachute; neither has one risen in a lift. The party is like a mother to us. And Trinamool workers will never forgive those who do treachery with their mother.” The parachute-lift remark was made by Adhikari, which were read as a tacit reference to Banerjee’s increasing party clout. Banerjee said: “Leaders — in our party — did not happen overnight. Neither did they have multiple posts. In 2014, the party asked me to contest Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha seat. Had I used a parachute or a lift, I could have contested South Kolkata, where I stay. I had, along with you, walked to doorsteps. Nearly 50% of people here didn’t want to vote then. They were aggrieved by their former MP.” “But you had blessed me and returned me again, with the highest votes, in 2019,” he continued. “When Mamata Banerjee named the party Trinamool, it was always the party worker — and people — she prioritised. It is their sacrifice and devotion that makes a party, not the leaders.” “But if someone bends their spine, parrots other interests, then remember — party workers will give them a fitting reply,” the MP said. “We in Trinamool believe the party formed by Mamata Banerjee is our mother. Mamata Banerjee did that after years of struggle” he said. Attacking BJP for its “fake nationalism and religious polarisation”, the MP said: “I challenge any senior leader to debate with me on development. Let us debate on the work done by Mamata Banerjee in nine years and your work in the last six years. Let there be a competition on work done. I will be there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/abhishek-returns-bjps-bhaipo-fire-says-name-me-if-you-dare/articleshow/79481716.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
November 30, 2020||Ranchi||BSL spent Rs 26 crore in 5 years to remove encroachments: RTI||BOKARO: The Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), a unit of SAIL, has paid around Rs 26.40 crore as duty allowances to home guard jawans for conducting anti-encroachment drive in the past five years. According to an RTI information, the whopping amount spent on anti-encroachment drive excludes other expenses like fuel cost, charges of hiring earth movers and salary of BSL employees and officials involved in the operation. The RTI was filed by an activist and advocate, Bhagwan Das. The amount spent is roughly about 6% of SAIL’s total profits in the second quarter of the current financial year 2020-21. During Q2 FY 21, the SAIL has posted a profit of Rs 393.32 crores. Notably, there are 20 home guard jawans deployed in the encroachment branch under the town and administration department of the BSL. However, large parts of the Bokaro Steel Township are still encroached, notwithstanding the investment made to remove them. The BSL township comprises 10 sectors spread over 17,000 acres. There are around 37,000 quarters in the township. As per BSL records, more than 2,000 acres of land inside its township and on the outskirts have been encroached upon and more than 700 quarters are illegally occupied. Encroachment leads to other problems like illegal water tapping and electricity theft, adding a further burden on the company. “While regular demolition and anti-encroachment drives are conducted by the BSL and the district administration, encroachment resurfaces,” remarked an official, adding that more than 200 hutments were demolished for the expansion of the Bokaro airport in Sector-12 in 2019, but the area got re-encroached. Das said: “It was quite shocking to learn that the BSL has spent about Rs 26.40 crores on removing encroachers.” He added that as per the RTI reply, the company paid Rs 550 as duty allowance per day to each of the 20 home guard jawans. “The BSL didn’t reveal the names of the jawans and the officers,” he said. BSL’s chief of communication Manikant Dhan said, “The company is looking into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsl-spent-rs-26-crore-in-5-years-to-remove-encroachments-rti/articleshow/79480686.cms||Divy Khare
November 30, 2020||Hubballi||Kannada groups resist calls to split Belagavi||BELAGAVI: Pro-Kannada organisations have expressed reservations over renewed calls to split Belagavi into three districts, saying this is not the right time for such a move as the border dispute with Maharashtra has not been resolved. The Yediyurappa government’s decision to carve out a new Vijayanagara district from Ballari has prompted demands in some quarters to create Chikkodi and Gokak districts from parts of Belagavi. A few days ago, Congress working president Satish Jarkiholi urged the government to trifurcate Belagavi for ease of administration. With 14 taluks and 18 assembly constituencies, it is one of Karnataka’s largest districts. Raghavendra Joshi, a senior Kannada activist, believes trifurcating Belagavi may upset the balance of Maratha and other communities in the region and further complicate Karnataka’s border row with Maharashtra. Instead, the government could consider forming only Chikkodi district from parts of Belagavi. Ashok Chandaragi, who heads the action committee of Belagavi district Kannada organisations, said past attempts to split the region had failed. In 1997, the then CM JH Patel decided to trifurcate Belagavi, triggering massive protests by pro-Kannada organisations. On September 21, 1997, Patel said in the assembly that he was withdrawing the decision as the border dispute had not been resolved. Deepak Gudaganahatti of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike said that the talk of splitting Belagavi appeared to be a political tactic to influence Maratha voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kannada-groups-resist-calls-to-split-belagavi/articleshow/79483056.cms||Shreyas HS
November 30, 2020||Noida||Grow your veggies, eat them too: Schools show the way ahead in UP||GREATER NOIDA: State government schools are now growing vegetables in the backyards to supplement midday meal kitchens. While many districts in Uttar Pradesh have been working on the initiative, Poshan Vatika, for the past two years, Gautam Budh Nagar has just started working on the scheme with around 400 anganwadis growing vegetables on small scale. The education officer of the district says the same is expected to be replicated in primary and junior schools for which preparation is going on. Schools, however, think it is easier said than done because there is a sheer lack of infrastructure, water supply and manpower support. “There are around 1,500 anganwadis in the district and we have started this initiative to help spread information and awareness among young students about the value of nutritious food. The vegetables were planted and everyone was free to consume what was being grown. So far, some 400 anganwadis in the district have such gardens,” Anil Singh, the chief development officer of Gautam Budh Nagar said. The programme is also being replicated in government schools. Though none are ready at the schools yet, the district inspector of schools (DIOS), Neeraj Pandey, said it is likely that several schools would soon be having these gardens. “We have informed some schools in Greater Noida to start preparing for these gardens. I’m sure they will be working on them in some time,” he said. However, a junior high school in Dehda village, which has a plot of land and has been identified by the education department as a prospective kitchen garden destination, is far from prepared for one such. “We have received no information or notification from the government or the education department. There is some land on the school premises, but so far we, have no knowledge about any kitchen garden. Water supply and electricity are a big problem in these schools. Also, there is not even a sweeper for the school, so a kitchen garden looks like a distant possibility,” a teacher at junior high school in Dehda said. The initiative to create kitchen gardens in schools compounds and anganwadis to help generate awareness about nutrition was introduced by the state government two years ago, however, it is yet to proliferate uniformly across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/grow-your-veggies-eat-them-too-schools-show-the-way-ahead/articleshow/79481849.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Lake activists want trees saved||BENGALURU: Conservation activists on Sunday morning gathered on the banks of Benniganahalli Lake next to Old Madras Road in Pail Layout, near KR Puram, to assess the impact infrastructure projects will have on it. The Benniganahalli Lake Trust had commissioned the exercise in the backdrop of imminent threat to trees in the lake’s vicinity due to the Metro project. While 119 trees are likely to be affected, 91 are facing the axe. The volunteers took a walk around the lake to identify areas of encroachment, pollution and spots infested with water hyacinth. The activists decided to get people to the lake every alternate Sunday to spread awareness about the issues pertaining to it. They will be conducting activities like yoga and cycling, display posters and use social media to spread awareness. Spread over 15 acres, Benniganahalli Lake was revived last year. Trust secretary NH Subramanian said: “We are not against development. We would be more than happy if the Metro station here is named after the lake. But there is a need to sit and discuss if we can bring down the numbers trees that will have to be cut.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lake-activists-want-trees-saved/articleshow/79480832.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cab users happy with call centre norm, oppose surge-pricing rider||BENGALURU: The Centre’s Motor Vehicle Aggregators Guidelines — 2020 evoked mixed reaction from passengers, drivers and aggregators in the city. The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) on Friday issued guidelines for cab aggregators like Ola and Uber. As per the norms, city taxi fare will be the base fare chargeable to customers availing aggregator services. “The base minimum fare chargeable will be for a minimum of 3km. This is to compensate for dead mileage and distance travelled and fuel utilised for picking up customers,” the guidelines said. “The aggregator will be permitted to charge 50% lower than the base fare and a maximum surge pricing of 1.5 times than the base fare,” it said. This means passengers may have to pay more during peak hours or rainy season, when the demand is high. It also urged aggregators to establish a call centre with a valid telephone number and operational email address, which should be deployed on the app. As per the new rules, 24x7 operations with assistance should be provided for riders and drivers in English, Hindi and respective regional languages. “It’s a good decision to ensure a 24x7 call centre to address customer complaints. Currently, there is no such facility. But the government’s move to impose surge pricing may increase fare,” said Anita K, a regular cab user. Sources say cab aggregators like Ola and Uber are unhappy about the guidelines. Both were unavailable for comments. Further, the guidelines state: “The driver shall receive at least 80% of the fare applicable on each ride and the remaining charges will go to the aggregator... On cancellation of a booking by a driver or rider, a penalty of 10% of the total fare not exceeding Rs 100 will be imposed.” In case of cancellation by the rider, the fine will be shared by the driver and aggregator. Tanveer Pasha, a cab union leader, said: “These guidelines are in favour of the aggregators and drivers were never consulted before framing them. A driver should get at least 90% of the fare per ride. Further, there is no complaint-redressal mechanism.” K Radhakrishna Holla, president of Karnataka State Travel Operators Association, which runs traditional taxis, however, welcomed the move. “This will bring cab aggregators under a regulatory mechanism and also ensure welfare of drivers,” he said. Carpooling normAccording to the guidelines, women passengers availing carpooling will be provided the option to pool only with other female passengers. However, it is unclear how this will be implemented. “Carpooling only with women passengers may not be practical all the time and it could even increase waiting time for cabs. They could implement this only at night, otherwise those travelling with male relatives or friends through carpooling might get affected,” said Ananya Krishnan, a resident of Koramangala. “Already our business is dull due to Covid. We don’t know the implications of these new guidelines. But aggregators have reduced our incentives over the years despite rising diesel prices. We are now looking for a steady income to pay vehicle EMI and also for other expenses,” said K Manjunath, an app-based cab driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cab-users-happy-with-call-centre-norm-oppose-surge-pricing-rider/articleshow/79480825.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Noida||Gangster Act: 13 booked, Rs 600 crore properties seized||GHAZIABAD: District police said 13 criminals have been booked under the Gangster Act this year and properties worth around Rs 600 crore have been confiscated. Ghaziabad police have also prepared a dossier of 9,527 criminals who are active in the district for the past 10 years. This dossier will be sent to the administration for the implementation of the Gangster Act upon them. A senior police officer said, “We are making a separate list of top hundred criminals booked for murder, loot, snatching, burglary and other crimes.” This year, Ghaziabad police registered 133 cases under the Gangster Act and booked 499 other people. Police have also taken action against 718 people under the Goonda Act. According to the officers, strict action against Ravi alias Avinash, Subhash Yadav, Krishnapal Yadav, Gourav Rana, Brijesh Alias Hanuman has sent a strong message to anti-social elements in the district. Ravi has been smuggling liquor from Haryana and Punjab to different districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. More than 24 cases have been registered against him in Ghaziabad and other cities of the state. On May 9, police attached his two properties worth Rs 6 crore – one guesthouse in Indrapuri and the other a plot of 175 sqm in Modinagar under Section 14 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986. On September 18, the Ghaziabad police attached the property of Subhash Yadav and his son Monish Yadav, both dreaded criminals who were allegedly found involved in several cases of attempt to murder, cheating and extortion. More than 14 cases have been registered against Subhash while over seven cases have been registered against his son in Ghaziabad, Delhi and other NCR cities. “We have attached their property worth Rs 2.75 crore in Kaushambi under Section 14 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gangster-act-13-booked-rs-600cr-properties-seized/articleshow/79481875.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
November 30, 2020||World||Joe Biden chooses an all-female senior White House press team||WILMINGTON: President-elect Joe Biden will have an all-female senior communications team at his White House, reflecting his stated desire to build out a diverse White House team as well as what's expected to be a return to a more traditional press operation. Biden campaign communications director Kate Bedingfield will serve as Biden's White House communications director. Jen Psaki, a longtime Democratic spokeswoman, will be his press secretary. In a different area of the White House operation, Biden plans to name Neera Tanden, the president and CEO of the liberal think tank Center for American Progress, as director of the Office of Management and Budget, according to a person familiar with the transition process granted anonymity to speak freely about internal deliberations. Four of the seven top communications roles at the White House will be filled by women of color, and it's the first time the entire senior White House communications team will be entirely female. President Donald Trump upended the ways in which his administration communicated with the press. In contrast with administrations past, Trump's communications team held few press briefings, and those that did occur were often combative affairs riddled with inaccuracies and falsehoods. Trump himself sometimes served as his own press secretary, taking questions from the media, and he often bypassed the White House press corps entirely by dialing into his favorite Fox News shows. In a statement announcing the White House communications team, Biden said: ``Communicating directly and truthfully to the American people is one of the most important duties of a President, and this team will be entrusted with the tremendous responsibility of connecting the American people to the White House.'' He added: ``These qualified, experienced communicators bring diverse perspectives to their work and a shared commitment to building this country back better.'' Bedingfield, Psaki and Tanden are all veterans of the Obama administration. Bedingfield served as communications director for Biden while he was vice president; Psaki was a White House communications director and a spokesperson at the State Department; and Tanden served as a senior adviser to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and helped craft the Affordable Care Act. Others joining the White House communications staff are: Karine Jean Pierre, who was Vice President-elect Kamala Harris' chief of staff, will serve as a principal deputy press secretary for the president-elect. She's another Obama administration alum, having served as a regional political director for the White House office of political affairs. Pili Tobar, who was communications director for coalitions on Biden's campaign, will be his deputy White House communications director. She most recently was deputy director for America's Voice, an immigration reform advocacy group, and was a press staffer for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. Three Biden campaign senior advisers are being appointed to top communications roles:  Ashley Etienne, a former communications director for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, will serve as Harris' communications director.  Symone Sanders, another senior adviser on the Biden campaign, will be Harris' senior adviser and chief spokesperson.  Elizabeth Alexander, who served as the former vice president's press secretary and his communications director while he was a U.S. senator from Delaware, will serve as Jill Biden's communications director. After his campaign went virtual due to the coronavirus pandemic, Biden faced some of his own criticism for not being accessible to reporters. But near the end of the campaign, he answered questions from the press more frequently, and his transition team has held weekly briefings since he was elected president. The choice of a number of Obama administration veterans many with deep relationships with the Washington press corps also suggests a return to a more congenial relationship with the press. As head of the OMB, Tanden would be responsible for preparing Biden's budget submission and would command several hundred budget analysts, economists and policy advisers with deep knowledge of the inner workings of the government. Her choice may mollify progressives, who have been putting pressure on Biden to show his commitment to progressive priorities with his early staff appointments. She was chosen over more moderate voices with roots in the party's anti-deficit wing such as Bruce Reed, who was staff director of President Barack Obama's 2010 deficit commission, which proposed a set of politically painful recommendations that were never acted upon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-chooses-an-all-female-senior-white-house-press-team/articleshow/79483085.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Congress, BJP spar over NR Santhosh’s suicide bid||UDUPI/MADIKERI: Congress on Sunday demanded a speedy probe into the alleged suicide attempt by chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s political secretary and grandnephew, NR Santhosh, even as BJP accused the opposition of trying to politicise a family’s private matter. State Congress chief DK Shivakumar said that an inquiry should be conducted before evidence was destroyed, prompting a sharp reaction from senior BJP members, who accused him of creating controversies to gain attention. Congress has alleged a political dimension to Friday’s reported suicide bid, while BJP maintains that Santhosh’s actions were driven by personal reasons. Shivakumar, who was in Udupi district on Sunday, claimed that Santhosh’s wife had indicated that there was political pressure, and police should investigate it. He clarified that he was not blaming anyone, but people should know the truth. “It is a serious issue as Santhosh is the chief minister’s political secretary. As the head of an opposition party, I cannot sit quietly. Family issues may not be the reason. There are no family disputes and no burden of loans,” Shivakumar said. “Santhosh is not a layman; he had played a major role when BJP formed the government in the state. Only an investigation will prove whether a mystery video is linked to the suicide attempt.” Shivakumar had claimed on Saturday that he heard about a problematic video. “Some confidential matters are involved. The chief minister and others were blackmailed. This is what I was told by many people,” he said, without providing any material to support the claims. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai responded to the statement by saying an inquiry would be conducted if Congress shared the video. On Sunday, revenue minister R Ashoka slammed Shivakumar, accusing him of twisting facts to create unnecessary controversies. “Once Santosh is discharged from the hospital, he will disclose the reasons,” Ashoka added. Municipal development minister KC Narayana Gowda insisted that personal factors had triggered Santosh’s step. Yediyurappa’s son and state BJP vicepresident, BY Vijayendra, also accused Congress of spreading rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-congress-bjp-spar-over-nr-santhoshs-suicide-bid/articleshow/79483081.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Congress, BJP spar over NR Santhosh’s suicide bid||UDUPI/MADIKERI: Congress on Sunday demanded a speedy probe into the alleged suicide attempt by chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s political secretary and grandnephew, NR Santhosh, even as BJP accused the opposition of trying to politicise a family’s private matter. State Congress chief DK Shivakumar said that an inquiry should be conducted before evidence was destroyed, prompting a sharp reaction from senior BJP members, who accused him of creating controversies to gain attention. Congress has alleged a political dimension to Friday’s reported suicide bid, while BJP maintains that Santhosh’s actions were driven by personal reasons. Shivakumar, who was in Udupi district on Sunday, claimed that Santhosh’s wife had indicated that there was political pressure, and police should investigate it. He clarified that he was not blaming anyone, but people should know the truth. “It is a serious issue as Santhosh is the chief minister’s political secretary. As the head of an opposition party, I cannot sit quietly. Family issues may not be the reason. There are no family disputes and no burden of loans,” Shivakumar said. “Santhosh is not a layman; he had played a major role when BJP formed the government in the state. Only an investigation will prove whether a mystery video is linked to the suicide attempt.” Shivakumar had claimed on Saturday that he heard about a problematic video. “Some confidential matters are involved. The chief minister and others were blackmailed. This is what I was told by many people,” he said, without providing any material to support the claims. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai responded to the statement by saying an inquiry would be conducted if Congress shared the video. On Sunday, revenue minister R Ashoka slammed Shivakumar, accusing him of twisting facts to create unnecessary controversies. “Once Santosh is discharged from the hospital, he will disclose the reasons,” Ashoka added. Municipal development minister KC Narayana Gowda insisted that personal factors had triggered Santosh’s step. Yediyurappa’s son and state BJP vicepresident, BY Vijayendra, also accused Congress of spreading rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-congress-bjp-spar-over-nr-santhoshs-suicide-bid/articleshow/79487987.cms||---
November 30, 2020||India||Two shot within 24 hours of Nitish’s security review||PATNA: Two people were gunned down in separate Patna localities on Sunday, within 24 hours of CM Nitish Kumar chairing a high-level meeting to review the law and order situation, reports Ramashankar. Around 1.30am, schoolteacher Saika Parveen (40) was killed for resisting a robbery attempt in the autorickshaw in which she was travelling with her husband to Patna Junction. Later around 4pm, fish trader Kiran Sahni (35) was shot dead under Danapur police station area. The twin murder drew sharp criticism from opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-shot-within-24-hours-of-nitishs-security-review/articleshow/79483101.cms||Ramashankar
November 30, 2020||Hubballi||Bagalkot: Kurubas step up stir for Scheduled Tribe status||BAGALKOT: Kurubas intensified their campaign for the Scheduled Tribe (ST) status on Sunday, with a prominent seer urging elected representatives from the community that they should be prepared to resign if the government failed to fulfil the demand. “If required, our MLAs, MLCs and ministers should quit their posts in the interest of the community,” Shri Eshwarananda Puri Swamiji of the Kanaka Guru Peetha Kaginele, Hosadurga Matha, said at a community gathering in Bagalkot. The appeal comes days after he and members of the Kuruba ST campaign committee met chief minister BS Yediyurappa. The seer reiterated the demand that Kuruba MLCs AH Vishwanath, MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar should be appointed as ministers as they helped BJP form the government last year. The three were among 17 Congress and JD(S) rebels who quit the coalition, handing BJP an advantage. “Yediyurappa should compensate them by fulfilling his promise of inducting them into his cabinet,” he said. On the absence of Siddaramaiah, a Kuruba, at the gathering, the seer said that the opposition leader and former chief minister had expressed support for the cause. But rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa, also a Kuruba, was critical of Siddaramaiah. “I asked Siddaramaiah several times to join us in the agitation, but he never came. He should publicly state his reasons for not attending the meet,” he added. The community plans to organise a mega padayatra to Bengaluru, to pressure the central and state governments to provide the ST status. “The padayatra will begin from Kaginele on January 15 and culminate in Bengaluru on February 7,” the seer said. Eshwarappa also urged community members to prepare for the padayatra, but clarified that the protest was not against the central or state government. “It is to seek our right,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bagalkot-kurubas-step-up-stir-for-scheduled-tribe-status/articleshow/79483097.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Restaurant offers 10% off if bill is paid in Rs 10 coins||BENGALURU: Amid continuing reluctance by many retail businesses to accept Rs 10 coins notwithstanding assertions by the Reserve Bank of India that they are legal tender, a restaurant on Nrupathunga Road has launched a campaign to encourage their use. Hotel Nisarga Grand, located inside the YMCA compound, offered its customers from October 1 a 10% cut in the bill if the entire amount is paid in Rs 10 coins. “The response has been huge as more and more people are tendering their bills in Rs 10 coins,” Krishna Raj, proprietor of the hotel, told TOI. Krishna Raj from Kundapura in Udupi district said since RBI is going slow on printing of Rs 10 notes, people are suffering as coins are rejected by most businesses. On average, a mid-size restaurant in Bengaluru needs 50,000 notes or coins of Rs 10 and as there is a shortage of such notes in circulation, he thought it fit to launch the campaign. His aim is to encourage fellow hoteliers and small businesses to accept and circulate coins. Known as Trupti Hotel for over 25 years, the establishment was taken over by Raj four years ago. The hotel is frequented by people from all walks of life as many courts, hospitals, government offices and colleges are located in its vicinity. According to Raj, one customer went back to his house to bring 70 such coins, dined again and settled the bill. Every day, about 2,500 such coins are being tendered at the hotel. Raj said he has not given them back to customers as change or deposited in the bank. Once the move gains momentum, customers will accept the coins without complaints, he said. The move has been appreciated by Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya, who tendered some coins to settle his bill, and BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/restaurant-offers-10-off-if-bill-is-paid-in-10-coins/articleshow/79480831.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Vadodara||Door-to-door survey confirms post-Diwali coronavirus spike||VADODARA: The number of people with Covid-19 symptoms is on the rise in the city post Diwali. The data of the 13th round of door-to-door surveillance carried out by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) suggests that more Barodians now have suspected Covid-19 symptoms compared to pre-Diwali. In the first round of the surveillance conducted between July 8 and July 12, 3,483-odd individuals were found symptomatic. Of these, 2,604 were found to have moderate symptoms like acute respiratory infection (ARI), influenza like illness (ILI) and fever and 32 with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). The numbers had later started declining but in mid-September, the total number of such symptomatic patients again increased to 2,030 when VMC conducted seventh round of door-to-door surveillance from September 15 to September 19. Between November 23 and November 27, VMC teams came across 2,215 such symptomatic patients. Of these, 1605 patients had moderate symptoms, 578 mild symptoms while 32 had SARI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/door-to-door-survey-confirms-post-diwali-coronavirus-spike/articleshow/79479943.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||‘112’ centre to work with outsourced staff in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A year after the government launched a common emergency number ‘112’, the police department has decided to hire manpower from private firms to operate the helpline’s command centre or Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) in Bengaluru. The Centre launched the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) to put in place an integrated emergency response system with a single emergency number (112) to address different exigencies of citizens. As part of the initiative, capital cities of all states will house a PSAP to respond to various emergencies using 112. The new 24/7 PSAP centre here is being designed to address all emergency signals received from citizens through voice call, SMS, e-mail, panic SOS signal, ERSS web portal and other features. In Bengaluru, an ad hoc facility is already functioning, where all the calls made to 100 get diverted, but the new one will make the integrated number fully functional. The police department has floated Rs 15-crore tender inviting companies to provide manpower for making the 24/7 PSAP operational to handle these emergency signals and provide assistance available to people within the best possible time with the help of police, fire & rescue, health services, etc. The firm will provide 157 people — 150 to attend calls, six floor coordinators and one project manager. Of the 150 call takers, 50 will work in each shift with two coordinators while the project manager will have a general shift. “The ERSS tracks the rescue and service vehicles of all services in real-time on a digital map of the state/UT. This will help direct the right vehicle to reach the spot in time,” the department said. Once this facility is operational, all the existing emergency numbers like 100 (police), 101 (fire and rescue) and 108 (ambulance), 181 (woman and childcare) etc. will be integrated to 112. Earlier, the Centre launched a mobile app called ‘112 India’ aimed at helping citizens to quickly raise a request for help when in an emergency, by pressing a button to send alert messages with location data and make an emergency call to 112. This new facility in the city will also aid the service agencies concerned to reach out to the requester quickly. This will be the nerve centre of the 112 emergency helpline with smaller facilities expected to be set up in districts and commissionerates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/112-centre-to-work-with-outsourced-staff/articleshow/79480821.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Five miscreants fight with welder at midnight, stab him to death||BENGALURU: A gang of miscreants allegedly stabbed to death a welder at Gangondanahalli near Chandra Layout past Saturday midnight. Abdul Sahil, 22, was talking to his friend at 1am when five miscreants passing by stopped and picked up an argument with him. They stabbed Sahil multiple times before fleeing. Sahil’s friend, Arafat, told police he was helpless as the attackers were armed with knives and daggers. Arafat rushed Sahil to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. Chandra Layout police have taken up a murder case based on Arafat’s complaint. Cops said they have some clues about the killers based on CCTV footage but are yet to ascertain the motive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/5-miscreants-fight-with-welder-at-midnight-stab-him-to-death/articleshow/79480815.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Patna||Upendra Kushwaha attacks Tejas Yadav, ‘offers’ olive branch to Nitish Kumar||PATNA: After his hopes of revival dashed in the recently concluded state assembly elections, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha has seemingly begun to look forward to his ‘ghar wapsi’ into the JD(U) led by Nitish Kumar, who is leading the NDA government in the state, observers feel. Kushwaha indicated it twice in the last 48 hours by criticizing leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for making personal attacks on Nitish on the floor of the House on Friday during the discussion on the governor’s address to the joint session of the state assembly and legislative council. When asked on Sunday if his tweet and the formal statement should be treated as an indication of his desire for ‘ghar wapsi’ to the JD(U), Kushwaha said, “No. At present, it has nothing to do with ‘ghar wapsi’. But you are at liberty to look at it in the ways you like to see.” Tejashwi had referred to the purported remarks made by Nitish on his family during electioneering and made personal attacks in on the CM in the House. Kushwaha had taken a leaf from there that day itself and tweeted criticizing Tejashwi for the kind of language he used to attack Nitish and then followed it up while talking to this newspaper on Sunday. “The kind of ‘abhadra (uncultured)’ language Tejashwi used in the assembly against Nitish is highly condemnable. Chhih, chhih! Is the assembly meant for such a ‘radi-betkhauki (tit for tat)’ fight?” Kushwaha tweeted. On Sunday he said, “Personal attack, if it is in ‘ochhi bhasha (degrading language)’, cannot be justified in any way. If such a situation arises in the case of Nitish even in the future, I will be on his side. In fact, in such matters, I will be on the side of any such victim.” Kushwaha, who has been trying to find his moorings for himself and his party in the state, is now without an MP or MLA of his party. In 2014, his RLSP had won three parliamentary seats as part of the state NDA and then two assembly seats next year. However, the 2020 assembly elections proved to be naught for his party and he has been trying to figure out his future. In the process, he has willy-nilly sent overtures of friendship to Nitish from whom he had fallen out, earlier, observers feel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/upendra-kushwaha-attacks-tejas-yadav-offers-olive-branch-to-nitish-kumar/articleshow/79483148.cms||Abhay Singh
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Our way or the highway: Farmers say they're ready to camp through winter||NEW DELHI: The third day of the blockade at Delhi's five major borders saw more tractor-trolleys pouring into the capital from Singhu border, extending the already long line of vehicles on Delhi-Chandigarh highway for several kilometres. On Sunday, the farmers said they were prepared to camp for a long period, possibly even spending the winter on the borders if their demands were not met. Farmers' groups said some would be sent back home after 11 days, following which others would arrive with more essentials. Read AlsoTalk to farmers without riders, says Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalCM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged the Centre to hold talks "immediately and unconditionally" with the protesting farmers at Delhi-Haryana borders at Singhu and Tikri."We won't budge until the Centre listens to our demands. We sat for 40 days in Punjab, but the Centre didn't pay any heed to us. The same thing will happen if we move to Burari," said Nirmal Singh, a farmer from Gurdaspur. He added, "Sending some people back home after 11 days will ensure more supplies are brought and farmers will not tire out in the cold. We will not vacate this highway." Read AlsoKisan jam: Another front opens at GhazipurStopped thrice from entering Delhi, about 700 farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws passed by Parliament have decided to camp at UP Gate till December 3, when the second round of ministerial talks on the issue are scheduled.While free langar was being served by Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee on one side of the road, the other carriageway housed thousands of trucks. As TOI took a long walk down the highway, farmers could be seen cooking meals and taking a nap on mattresses. Most trucks had been filled with essential items, including speakers for music. Read AlsoDelhi: AAP slams Centre for being ‘anti-farmer’The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday demanded that Union home minister Amit Shah resolve the issues by listening to them immediately.Gurdyal Singh, another farmer from Gurdaspur, said each group had rations to last them several months. "We have made these tractors and trucks our homes for the time being. We are comfortable and won't move until the new farm laws are repealed," he added. Each member of the various groups, most being from the same village, had been assigned a specific task, including washing utensils or clothes. A free medicine service under the banner of "Kisaan Mazdoor Ekta" had sprung up over the last 24 hours. Rajinder Singh, who was distributing free medicine and had arrived on Saturday evening, said most people approaching them had sore throats, blisters and fever. "We have all the basic medicines available, including those for diabetes and other common ailments. More medicines will arrive in the next couple of days," he added. United Sikhs, an international NGO, had set up a camp to treat farmers injured during the clash on Friday. "Due to the water cannons, many farmers suffered injuries. Many others have throat and eye infections from the tear gas shells. We are also distributing masks, sanitisers and drinking water to them," said Parvinder Singh Nanda, director of the voluntary organisation. Balkarn Brar, state president, All India Kisan Sabha (Punjab), said over 500 farmer organisations had reached Delhi's borders. "The Prime Minister says we are being misled or that we haven't understood the laws. He has been stating this for over a month now. But they have presented us with nothing but figures on how they will benefit us. Farmers are already suffering and not receiving minimum support price in UP and Bihar. The same will happen in other parts of the country too," he added. Watch Protest against farm laws: Farmers harden stance, threaten siege of Delhi for months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/our-way-or-the-highway-farmers-say-theyre-ready-to-camp-through-winter/articleshow/79483239.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 30, 2020||India||Tied up in a knotty law, some interfaith couples opt to convert||Mohammed was from Bihar, and Pavitra from Mangalore was his boss at a telecom company. The two fell in love during a training programme in Mumbai, and despite family opposition, wanted to spend their lives together. But since Pavitra’s father wanted to get her married off, the two hit the road, going to Hyderabad, Delhi and then Dehradun. There, they tried getting married under the Special Marriage Act,1954, which allows interfaith couples to marry without converting, but were repeatedly discouraged by district officials who said their marriage wouldn’t work and asked them to apply in their hometowns instead. Fearing separation, they opted for a nikah. “I had no objection to Pavitra following her religion but we were desperate. How long could we keep running? We were afraid of someone asking us why we were living together,” he recalls. But their ordeal was far from over. A few days later, police showed up at their doorstep and took Pavitra back to Mangalore, where she claims she was forcibly kept for a few months. Finally, she managed to talk to him and travel to Delhi to get married officially. But even then, it took several months for them to get legally married under the Special Marriage Act (SMA) in August 2019 due to the one-month residency requirement in Delhi and official delays in sending notices and verification. Mohammed and Pavitra’s tumultuous path to wedlock shows why even couples who don’t wish to convert have to opt for religious weddings rather than face the long procedural and bureaucratic hassles of SMA. One of the main problems with SMA is the notice that is displayed at the marriage registration office for a month. Amrita Garg, an advocate at the High Court of Punjab and Haryana who aids such couples, says that this provision has the unintended effect of alerting vigilante groups and disapproving family members. “Sometimes, such notices have been sent to the families of the couple, often leading to violence and honour killings, defeating the purpose of enacting this legislation,” she says. Then there is the human angle. “To my mind, the greatest problem is the wide power given to marriage officers, the first stop for all couples wishing to marry. They appropriate the role of marriage counsellors and abuse their position to create obstacles.” Recently, couples in Kerala found their pictures and personal details leaked and circulated on social media with allegations of ‘love jihad’. Athira Sujatha, who was among those whose details were shared on Facebook and WhatsApp before her marriage in December 2019, wrote a Facebook post tagging state legislators which then led to the applications being removed from the government website in July. “They simply didn’t mention that these applications were under SMA,” says Athira, who hasn’t changed her religion. Renu Mishra of Lucknow-based Association of Advocacy and Legal Initiatives says that couples are often daunted by the Special Marriage Act. “When we tell couples that the notices might be sent to their homes, they get scared and rarely return,” she says. Garg says that they often come across couples who convert to their partner’s religion to marry under the personal laws of that religion just to avoid the long and cumbersome procedure under SMA. “However, such conversions have become difficult with legislations to pre vent them in states such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” she says. “This, effectively, places such couples in a Catch-22 situation.” Delhi-based NGO Dhanak, which offers legal, financial and psychological support to inter-caste and interreligion couples, often receives requests from such couples who want to travel to the national capital from other states to tie the knot under the SMA. “They want to change their jurisdiction as they lack faith in the local administration of their place,” says co-founder Asif Iqbal. “Moreover, locals in smaller cities tend to inform the families.” But even this requires a mandatory one-month stay in Delhi, which is often difficult and costly for young couples on the run. Time is often a luxury that interfaith couples don’t have. Fleeing from their families, Anu* and Ashfaq* had a quick Arya Samaj marriage, and then applied for licence under SMA after getting court protection. However, their plans were derailed by the Covid-19 lockdown. After waiting in Delhi for two months, they ran out of money and returned to their home state but hope to save enough to return soon and formalise their union. “In such cases, religious marriage presents an instant solution,” says Dhanak’s Iqbal, adding that they have been getting requests from couples who had a religious marriage a year or two ago but now want to get it registered under SMA because of insecurity over the proposed new laws. *Names changed on request||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tied-up-in-a-knotty-law-some-interfaith-couples-opt-to-convert/articleshow/79483259.cms||Sonam Joshi
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||The women making waves||BENGALURU: Tanvi Jagadish learned how to swim at the age of 12 and was drawn to surfing and standup paddleboarding, or SUP. Four years later, she had a top three finish in a race at the West Marine Carolina Cup, US, described as one of the world’s largest gatherings of paddleboarders. The Mangaluru native, now 20, is regarded as one of the first female proponents of SUP in the country. She is part of a growing community of women surfers who are driving the popularity of water sports with their exceptional skills and challenging stereotypes at the same time. Comments like “surfing is not meant for girls”, “it’s not a real sport”, and “you will ruin your hair and complexion” have failed to deter them. “There have been many challenges. When I was a teenager, I had to convince my parents of my career choice and explain to them that my happiness lies in being in the ocean. I would wake up at 3am to train and ensure that I also had enough time to study and eat properly,” says Tanvi. “At the age of 16, I had won six national championships in SUP and was selected to participate at an international meet. I didn’t have the money and people advised me to wait for a year. But I didn’t give up and went for crowdfunding. I produced a strong performance and helped India have a presence at the ISA World SUP and Paddleboard Championship in Fiji in 2017.” Tanvi, along with her friend Rohan R Suvarna, started the Kadal Centre for SUP, surfing and yoga in Udupi last year. An online poll that said many women wanted to surf but didn’t want to learn it from a male instructor prompted her to open the school. She is thought to be the first certified female instructor from the region. “On Women’s Day, 40 women came forward to learn surfing. The response was great,” she says. “I am forever grateful to my cousin, Nihal, who introduced me to water sports at Mulki.” The town of Mulki is a popular destination for water sports in Dakshina Kannada district. Aneesha Nayak, 19, began competing in swimming events in Puttur at the age of 9, but found greater joy in surfing. Within six months of learning the activity, she participated in a national competition, winning the third prize. She trained in Lakshadweep, and her passion has taken her to Indonesia, Portugal and Sri Lanka. “Every wave is different. It can be challenging, but I feel a strong connection with the ocean,” she says. Aneesha, who has taken a break from academics, describes her mother, Shaila, as her pillar of strength, someone who has always supported her. Currently, Aneesha is recovering from an injury and plans to teach surfing in Odisha by the year-end. Last year, she was part of the initiative ‘Paddle Paddle Charity’, conducting sessions on women empowerment, surfing and ocean rescue in Sri Lanka. She has also featured in documentaries. “The journey has been amazing so far. I was part of the film ‘Chicks on Boards’, which offers a peek into the universe and culture of women surfers. I also worked in Kopal Goyal’s documentary, ‘Project Wild Women’, which captures the passion and struggles of female adventure sports athletes,” she says. “People who felt uncomfortable about the freedom I had and questioned my future are now appreciating my success.” Puttur-based Sinchana Gowda and her parents also faced scepticism and negativity when she started chasing the waves at a young age. But the family encouraged her despite struggling to pay for her enrollment in competitions. “Whenever my mother, Meenakshi, sought financial help, so I could participate in a surfing event, people would tell her that it was not the right sport as we lived slightly away from the coast. Many advised her to ensure that I wore clothes with full sleeves,” Sinchana recounts. The commerce student won various competitions between 2015 and 2019. The May-September period is considered great for surfing, but this year, there have been no professional activities because of the pandemic. “I am hoping for a promising 2021. I continue to follow a strict fitness regime and practise skateboarding every day. Prakash D’Souza, the PT instructor at my college, has been very supportive,” says Sinchana. “It is always a thrill to explore new surfing destinations and meet amazing people from across the world.” Atita Verghese, a 27-yearold skateboarder from Bengaluru, spent the lockdown practising her wave-riding style in Goa. She, along with her partner Mikkjel, had travelled there in February and could not return as Covid-19 curbs kicked in. “Though the waves have not been consistent, I have been surfing since February,” she says. She was introduced to the sport in 2012. “A surfer named Velu and the Aloha Surf School in Agonda, Goa, where he used to work, gave me the biggest gift of access,” she says. “It’s certainly not easy to get into surfing in India, mainly because you need to have access to the ocean and be able to afford all the equipment. The sport is growing in India, but equipment is not widely available.” In 2015, Atita had launched the ‘Girl Skate India’ project to encourage girls to experience skateboarding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/the-women-making-waves/articleshow/79483253.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 30, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP only knows 'jumla' and 'hamla': KTR on last day of GHMC campaign||HYDERABAD: Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) working president KT Rama Rao on Sunday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party on the last day of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election campaign saying that the BJP only knew two things: 'jumla' (fake promises) and 'hamla' (attack). Speaking at campaign rallies at Goshamahal, Sanath Nagar, and Secunderabad constituencies, Rao also asked what the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance had done for the city in the last six years. "Tell me what NDA did to Hyderabad in the last six years? Who brought the prestigious Apple, Amazon, and other major IT companies to Hyderabad? It is the BJP government which cancelled the ITIR project sanctioned by the UPA government for Hyderabad and acted against the hopes of youth in Telangana. BJP knows only two things, first is jumla and second is hamla," Rao said. "Union Minister Amit Shah is saying ours is Nizam culture. Mahatma Gandhi, who is from your own Gujarat in 1920 said Hyderabad culture is Ganga-Jamuna 'tehzeeb' and people coexist here peacefully and the city stands as an example to India," he added. Commenting on Shah's statement that no communal riots took place in the county, the TRS leader reminded the Home Minister that communal clashes took place in Delhi during US President Donald Trump's visit right under the centre's police jurisdiction, and that news was published in the New York Times, Washington Post, damaging the image of Delhi. With the visit of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for campaigning in the elections, KTR mentioned the recent gang-rape in Hathras asking, "You know right what will happen in Telangana when crimes happen against women?" He further said, "Hyderabad has been peaceful for the past six years. There has not been a single incident of communal tension. Today, they only want to divide people in the name of religion. I urge you all not to support such parties." Rao also reacted strongly to the state BJP president Bandi Sanjay's "surgical strike" comment saying, "Do surgical strikes on poverty, corruption and on those who commit crimes against women, not on Hyderabad. Today, for a few votes and seats they are spoiling the peace and harmony of Hyderabad." He further said that the BJP government was on a selling spree, and if given the chance, they would sell GHMC too. The party president further went on to highlight the achievement of the presidents, calling Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao a "futuristic leader" for expanding the Keshavpuram reservoir which would ensure drinking water in Hyderabad for the next several years. He further mentioned the Kalyana Lakshmi, KCR Kit, Annapurna Canteen, Basthi Dawakhana, Ambedkar Overseas scholarships, Jyothirao Phule scholarship, among many others, adding that the TRS government would resume Rs 10,000 financial assistance from December 7 onwards. The GHMC elections are set to take place on December 1, and the city is witnessing a triangular contest among the ruling party in the state, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), AIMIM, and BJP, which recently bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in the recently concluded by-polls. National president JP Nadda recently held a roadshow in Hyderabad on Friday and slammed the opposition parties for terming the upcoming election a "gully ka chunav" (street elections).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-only-knows-jumla-and-hamla-ktr-on-last-day-of-ghmc-campaign/articleshow/79483350.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Delhi||Kisan jam: Another front opens at Ghazipur||NEW DELHI/GHAZIABAD: Stopped thrice from entering Delhi, about 700 farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws passed by Parliament have decided to camp at UP Gate till December 3, when the second round of ministerial talks on the issue are scheduled. The farmers, who are protesting under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), also threatened to block the Loni border if the Centre did not take any decision on repealing the laws. The Bhim Army also lent its support for the farmers and its president, Chandrashekhar Azad, is also expected to join the protest later. On Saturday, too, farmers from several west UP districts had tried to cross over to Delhi but were stopped at the Ghazipur border. They then returned to UP Gate and launched a sit-in demonstration there. Sunday was no different. Nearly 700 farmers tried to enter Delhi three times after breaking the police barricades at Ghazipur but were stopped by the huge force that had been stationed there. Farmers in groups of 30-40 arrived at UP Gate around 9.30am and tried to climb on the barricades, but were sent back by a posse of Delhi Police. The protesters made the second attempt around 11am, but this time, too, they failed to cross into the capital. Around 3.15pm, a group of farmers shouting anti-government slogans made another unsuccessful attempt to enter Delhi. The farmers, many of whom had brought dry ration to cook meals, then announced they would camp at UP Gate until the Centre allowed them for talks. Rajvir Singh, vice-president of BKU in UP, said they would not budge until the issues were addressed. "If the government wants to talk with the farmers, why wait till December 3? Why not today?" asked Singh. "We only want a written assurance from the Modi government that the system of MSP will continue as earlier," he added. Farmer Guddu Pradhan had come from Bulandshahr along with 300 others on Saturday afternoon. "We have come prepared with food arrangements for a month because the government, which came to power with our support, is not hearing us now. We have been forced to hit the streets for our rights. We are waiting for directives from our leader. If required, we will break the barricades too," the farmer added. Pradhan also asserted the need for MSP. "Due to the lack of proper norms, sugarcane, rice, wheat and maize are being sold at half the price. This has caused huge losses for the farmers who have been unable to get genuine prices for their crop. They have not paid electricity bills and children's fees and are finding it hard to maintain the household expenses. This is why we are asking them to fix the MSP," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kisan-jam-another-front-opens-at-ghazipur/articleshow/79483354.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
November 30, 2020||Vadodara||Short-circuit in AC sparks minor fire||Vadodara: A minor fire broke out at a closed apartment near Natubhai Circle in the city on Sunday afternoon. The fire brigade officials said that a short-circuit in an air-conditioner in one of the rooms of the apartment had caused the fire. Neighbours saw smoke emanating out of the house following which they alerted the owner. “When we reached the house, it was locked due to which thick smoke had accumulated. We broke open the glass windows and doors to remove the smoke,” said a fire brigade official from Vadiwadi fire station. Although the fire was limited to just one room, the firemen had to put on breathing apparatus due to the smoke to douse the flames. The fire was doused within 30 minutes, but the smoke charred the house and the furniture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/short-circuit-in-ac-sparks-minor-fire/articleshow/79479956.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Hassled with delays, residents in Sector 51 seek piped gas supply||GURUGRAM: Residents of several group housing societies, including New Shivalik, Abhinandan, Arzoo and Manmeet in Sector 51, have expressed concern over the delay in the laying of underground pipelines for piped natural gas(PNG) supply in the area. Residents say they are hassled over the delay in the delivery of LPG cylinders, particularly during the Covid lockdown, and that PNG is the need of the hour. Despite pleading with various authorities in the past three years, they allege, no concrete steps have been taken to ensure PNG supply in the area till date. BB Patnaik, president of New Shivalik Apartments RWA, said, “PNG is hassle-free as compared with the LPG cylinder supplies, particularly during a pandemic when several restrictions are in place. We have been urging various authorities to expedite the laying of PNG pipelines for long, but achieved nothing till date.” Patnaik claimed to have found that the IGL had sought permission from MCG for the laying of PNG pipelines. “But permissions are still awaited. It is beyond any reason why the authorities are adopting a negligent attitude in the matter when there is a health emergency and pollution is at all-time high. Half of the city has already got the PNG pipeline, why is our sector being deprived of clean fuel?” Despite repeated attempts, MCG officials could not be reached for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hassled-with-delays-residents-in-sec-51-seek-piped-gas-supply/articleshow/79482409.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Action sought against officials in certificate scam||GURUGRAM: MCG chief Vinay Pratap Singh has sought strict action against erring engineering wing officials, including two executive engineers and three contractors, for irregularities in payments against development works. In a letter to additional chief secretary of Urban Local Bodies department SN Roy, Singh has sought action against executive engineers Gopal Kalawat and Pankaj Saini, assistant engineer Vicky Kumar and junior engineer Vinod and contractors Dilawar Singh, Rajkumar and Pawan Balhara. Singh said that these officers were involved in submitting reports for payments from civic funds by submitting fake work satisfaction certificates of ward members and making fake entries in the measurement books and putting up the bogus bills for payments of development works out of corporation funds. “This amounts to embezzlement and fraud,” he said. During inquiry by joint commissioner Pardeep Ahlawat, it was found that these three contractors registered with MCG were involved in the process of payments. “These contractors were found guilty by the officer. The registrations of these contractors have been revoked with immediate effect and the process for their blacklisting has been initiated,” the letter said. When contacted, Singh told TOI that in order to check the repetition of such incidents in future; a format has been devised for the issue of works satisfaction certificates that hich will be issued by the ward committee consisting five members, constituted u/s 10 of Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and Haryana Municipal Citizen's Participation Act, 2008. For past few weeks, MCG had been receiving complaints that final payments of the development works including repair of roads and streets, drains, laying of sewer lines etc. are being put up before the drawing and disbursing officers along with a “work satisfaction certificate” from the ward member, to the effect that the work has been executed is satisfactory. Singh further requested ACS Roy to take strict action under the Haryana Civil Services Rules, 2016 against these erring officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/action-sought-against-officials-in-certificate-scam/articleshow/79482491.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
November 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Vaccine task force to meet on December 1||GURUGRAM: A meeting of the district task force on Covid vaccine management is scheduled for Tuesday. The task force comprises officials of the health department, the deputy commissioner, IMA, and representatives of the United Nations Development Programme and the World Health Organisation. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “We are identifying health workers in the district. The list is incomplete. We are adding all beneficiaries. We have asked private hospitals, too, to share their staff details. We will have a meeting on December 1 regarding the management of the vaccine and beneficiaries.” He added that this will be a weekly practice, where the task force will meet and discuss development. Frontline workers will be given the vaccine in the first phase. After identifying all beneficiaries, the department will prioritise health workers above the age of 60 or those with comorbidities. On Sunday, the city added 479 new Covid cases, taking the tally to 49,098. Five people succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/vaccine-task-force-to-meet-on-dec-1/articleshow/79482460.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Covid centre to submit report on best practices||GHAZIABAD: The integrated Covid command and control centre has expanded in the past eight months and currently, 13 wings are operating with 100 staff members, including 70 from the health department, who are working in shifts. The centre monitors all Covid-related activities, from allocating facilities to keeping tabs on elderly and pregnant women. Last week, during a visit, state principal secretary (health) Alok Kumar had asked the district administration to submit a report on the centre so that the best practices can be replicated. A team from Meerut had also visited the centre. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said new wings are being added to the Covid centre according to requirement. An additional district magistrate-level officer has been appointed to oversee the daily operations. The centre has Covid portal wing where details of patients from all Covid hospitals are collected, counselling and facility allocation wing from where patients are told about home isolation and hospital admissions and there is a medical helpline wing, which looks after complaints related to Covid sampling, sanitisation and hospitalisation. The centre also has an ILI/SARI booth-level wing from where booth officers can call up people in their respective areas and trace symptomatic patients. Elderly and pregnant women are also monitored from the centre. Recently, a Covid hospital monitoring and patient feedback wing, and a drone surveillance wing to monitor Covid protocol violations have been added by the administration. “It is a one-stop window for all Covid-related issues. Staff members are being pulled up if we get any complaints regarding their work through social media, phone calls or from the grievance portal,” the DM said. A senior official said home isolation wing calls up patients daily. In case a patient’s condition is deteriorating, the officials make arrangements to shift the person to a hospital. When the lockdown started, the control room started working as a district disaster control room from March 26 and another control room at MMG District Hospital under the health department started keeping tabs on Covid patients. Initially, the control room looked at issues related to implementation of lockdown norms, sending migrant labourers back, providing ration kits and meals. In July, the health department control room was merged with the disaster management one and became an integrated control room at Vikas Bhawan with eight helplines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/covid-centre-to-submit-report-on-best-practices/articleshow/79481829.cms||Aditya Dev
November 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Covid symptoms worse in third wave, say doctors||GURUGRAM: As the number of Covid-19 cases keep rising in the city, the symptoms with which patients visit hospitals are also aggravating. Doctors at many hospitals pointed out that in the city’s third Covid wave, they are witnessing worse respiratory problems, and patients are coming in with severe breathlessness and decreased oxygen saturation compared to the earlier waves. Also, there is a rise in pneumonia cases that is causing oxygen deficiency leading to breathing difficulty, chest congestion and tightness. Dr Sanjay Gupta, deputy medical superintendent (DMS) and senior consultant, internal medicine, Medeor Hospital in Manesar, said: “In this third wave, we are noticing a rise in the mortality rate amongst the patients coming in our hospital. This is primarily because of patients developing severe pneumonia (ARDS) in about 75%-80% cases, up from 50%-60% patients earlier. Also, we are noticing that patients are responding less to treatments that were used earlier.” Till November 8, the city’s hospitals saw 690 Covid patients — a number that rose by 20% in the next 19 days, as on November 27 the figure stood at 830. “In the third Covid wave, morbidity and mortality arising out of pulmonary complications like severe pneumonia and respiratory distress syndrome have been severe, requiring a larger number of ICU beds with oxygen support as well as ventilator support, typically affecting the elderly, diabetics, those with pre-existing heart disease or immune-compromised persons,” said Dr Amitabh Parti, director, Internal Medicine, Fortis Hospital. Why is the third wave critical? According to Dr Manjeeta Nath Das, a consultant (internal medicine) at Columbia Asia Hospital, “The factors that make the third wave different are the following: firstly, this wave is more widespread and intense in community spread. People have become careless and frustrated, and so, we are seeing more people getting affected than before. The falling temperature and increasing air pollution may be factors as well, but they are subject to further study. Also, this time, more patients are needing oxygen and ventilator support than the previous two waves. Thirdly, the fear of the pandemic is gone and people have started taking it as a common cold since 80% of the recoveries are happening without or minimal treatment. However, 20% of the patients get severely ill and sick, and a part of them account for the fatal cases as well.” Apart from other factors, the concerning issue is that the rate of transmission is faster at present circumstances. Dr P Venkata Krishnan, senior consultant, internal medicines, Paras Hospital, said “Third wave is significant as the transmission is faster because of the cold. The criticality has increased because of pollution.” Doctors said that patients who need rehabilitation due to post-Covid symptoms have increased. They are coming to hospitals with complaints of fatigue, mild shortness of breath, muscle pains and mild nausea persisting for as long as 6-8 weeks. “It must be emphasised that breathing exercises, steam inhalation, physical activity and good nutrition remain the mainstay of convalescence,”said Dr Parti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/covid-symptoms-worse-in-third-wave-doctors/articleshow/79482443.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Air still ‘poor’, minimum temperature to dip to 7°C in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The city’s air quality remained in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday owing to low wind speed, said an official of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). Track the pollution level in your cityAll four weather stations in Gurugram also recorded a poor air quality index (AQI) on Sunday. The overall AQI of Gurugram was recorded at 294 on Saturday, which dropped to 242 on Sunday. While the AQI of Vikas Sadan was 225 on Sunday, Sector 51, Teri Gram and Ghwalpahari recorded an AQI of 240, 281 and 223, respectively. A senior HSPCB official said, “Wind speed has been very slow over the past two days and as a result, pollutants level have increased. The pollutants are not getting dispersed under the present circumstances,” said a senior HSPCB official. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature was recorded at 7.5 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 24.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) the city’s minimum temperature is likely to dip to 7 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/air-still-poor-min-temp-to-dip-to-7c/articleshow/79482502.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: 126 found positive during focus testing||GHAZIABAD: During the focus testing drive, which started from November 19 and will go on till Monday, 126 people were found positive till Sunday from the 14,130 samples tested through antigen kits. The positivity rate currently stands at 0.89%. Results of 2,740 samples that were sent for RT-PCR tests are awaited. In mid-November, the state government directed every district to conduct targeted Covid sampling drives in slum areas, markets, schools and government institutions like jails and shelter homes, besides offices. For targeted sampling, 40 per cent of the total antigen tests (3,500) being conducted in the district daily would be allocated and 20 per cent of the total RT-PCR tests (1,100 daily) will be for these groups. Of the 4,216 people tested through antigen kits from 15 slum areas in the district, no one was found positive. None of the 321 people from government institutions tested through antigen kits were found positive. Of the 1,407 vendors tested through antigen kits, 22 were found positive. Most were from Kala Patthar. One of the 281 people at GDA office was positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/126-found-positive-during-focus-testing/articleshow/79481808.cms||Aditya Dev
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Very heavy rainfall likely from Tuesday||KOCHI: The IMD on Sunday warned of extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20cm in Idukki on December 2 and issued a red alert for the district. Very heavy rainfall is likely in southern and central districts from December 1 to 3, the IMD said. “The well-marked low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal and equatorial Indian Ocean with associated cyclonic circulation is very likely to concentrate into a depression and reach south Tamil Nadu coast around December 2. As a result, there will be very heavy rainfall in south Kerala,” said K Santhosh, director, IMD Thiruvananthapuram. “The weather will be squally and the sea will be rough with wind speeds touching 50-70km in Kerala coast, south Tamil Nadu and Kanyakumari region. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea.,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-very-heavy-rainfall-likely-from-tuesday/articleshow/79483328.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Are CM and FM working at cross purposes, asks opposition||KOCHI: Opposition parties on Sunday demanded a broader probe into Kerala State Financial Enterprises’ (KSFE) business dealings after the state government's own Vigilance department discovered widespread corruption and malpractice in the reputed institution during raids conducted on around 40 KSFE branches on Friday and Saturday. “Irregularities worth lakhs of rupees are being probed by an agency under the chief minister. It cannot be brushed aside the way Isaac is doing,” opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said in Kozhikode, referring to finance minister Thomas Isaac's open criticism of the Vigilance raids. The finance minister, who described the raids on Saturday as “whose madness is this?”, continued his criticism on Sunday. “Vigilance can suo motu conduct a probe if they find irregularities in any government institution. I don’t have any issue with that. But this is not the way to inspect. So the department concerned will investigate how such a failure happened on the part of Vigilance... The state government will inspect the report when they submit it,” he said in Alappuzha. The Vigilance department comes under the Home ministry which is handled by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself and the finance minister’s acrimonious comments on the raids raised questions on whether one arm of the government didn’t know what another arm was up to, or worse. CPM’s acting state secretary and LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan himself admitted that there was confusion in his party on the raids. Chennithala seeks clarification from chief ministerKSFE is a reputed financial institution. Finance minister Thomas Isaac has voiced some opinions about the raids in it. Some other views have also been expressed publicly. The party leaders have not been able sit together and analyse what has actually taken place. We will come out with a clear stance after we discuss among ourselves,’’ the CPM leader said in Thrissur. Chennithala also wondered aloud on why vigilance has not revealed details of the raids. “It was reported that the chief minister himself intervened to call off the proceedings. He should issue a clarification,” Chennithala said. Speaking to the press at Alappuzha, UDF convener M M Hassan said that Enforcement Directorate (ED) should probe the findings of Vigilance that KSFE was used for converting black money into white. The Congress leader said that the finance minister should reveal whose ‘madness’ was behind the Vigilance raids. “The Vigilance inspection will not be conducted without the knowledge of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The chief minister is dealing with the home department,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/are-cm-and-fm-working-at-cross-purposes-asks-oppn/articleshow/79483202.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ghaziabad||Why Ghaziabad's Kavi Nagar is new burglary hotspot||GHAZIABAD: Kavi Nagar has emerged as the new hotspot for cases of armed robbery. Between July 20 and November 20, the area witnessed two dacoities and over 50 burglaries. In one of the cases, a group of armed robbers cut through the gate and broke open the kitchen window to enter a house on July 28. They held hostage all the 11 family members, including five children, for hours while they looted their home. On August 2, the Ghaziabad police arrested seven accused, including three women, involved in the case. In another instance, a shop owner and his family members were tied up and thrashed with iron rods by four robbers who fled with cash and valuables worth Rs 9 lakh. The incident took place on the intervening night of September 22 and 23, when the shop owner, Sanjay Mittal, his wife and daughter were sleeping. In this case, police arrested two people after ten days of the incident. Yet, the masterminds of both the dacoities are still absconding. Burglaries are also a major concern for the residents and shop owners of the area. On the intervening night of July 24 and 25, armed criminals robbed around 12 shops in Shastri Nagar market, one of the busiest markets in Ghaziabad.The robbers walked away with grocery items, medicine and medical equipment, cosmetics, clothes worth several lakh rupees, and cleaned out a Patanjali store. The entire incident was captured in CCTV cameras installed in the market.Rizwaan, whose shop was burgled by the criminals, told TOI, “The accused had fled with trousers, shirts and kurtas worth Rs 5 lakh, and Rs 20,000 in cash. Two days ago, I had stocked my shop with the new collection of clothes worth Rs 2 lakh that I borrowed from my friends,” he added. During Diwali and Bhai Dooj, five houses were robbed by miscreants, when the residents had gone to celebrate the festival with their families back in their hometown. Two of the houses are located just 250m from a police post. According to the cops, cash and jewellery worth Rs 40 lakh were stolen from the homes.On August 15, a house in Kavi Nagar was burgled when the family was visiting an ailing relative in Delhi, and jewellery worth over Rs 10 lakh and Rs 2.5 lakh in cash were stolen. The owner of the house, Ashish Rana, works in a private company in Noida’s Sector 63. In the latest incident on Friday, a dentist’s house in Kavi Nagar was allegedly burgled and Rs 50,000 in cash and jewellery worth over Rs 5 lakh were stolen.Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Kavi Nagar, said that he has seen no cops deployed on the roads after 9pm. “We have also asked the SHO of the area to deploy more police officers near Avantika area as most of the burglaries took place there (more than 25 after lockdown relaxed),” he said.Sanjay Kannaujiya, another resident of the area said that several check posts were set up during the lockdown. “But after the relaxation, police have decreased the number of check posts and if travelling in the area at night, one will hardly find a check post,” he said.Abhishek Verma, SP City (1) of Ghaziabad, said that they were working on the cases and all of them will be solved soon. “To control street crimes in Kavi Nagar, police patrolling has been increased and over fifty CCTV cameras have been installed in the area to trace the culprits,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/why-kavi-nagar-is-new-burglary-hotspot/articleshow/79481328.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
November 30, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Streetcrime down by 60%? Not on streets||GHAZIABAD: Police data shows that streetcrime in the district has seen a 60% dip this year compared to last year. But on the streets, it’s a different story. Streetcrime such as burglary and theft has seen a rise since the government eased restrictions after the lockdown. In November alone, Ghaziabad reported at least one burglary every day. What’s interesting is most of these crimes occurred during the day. While most of the burglaries during this period centred around Kavi Nagar, there were instances of armed robberies in other parts of the city as well. Robberies in Vasundhara...Last week, 80-year-old Uday Bhaan was on his way home on a scooter when two men on a bike stopped him near the office of the Indirapuram circle officer. With teary eyes, they referred to him as Tau (uncle) and one of them said his father, who apparently knew Uday Bhaan, had just passed away. Uday Bhaan accompanied them to Atal Chowk in Vasundhara. As he parked his scooter outside a tea shop, one of them pushed him to the ground and snatched his diamond ring. He gave them a chase for 1km, but to no avail. The ring, he said, had been gifted to him by his wife on their 50th anniversary. In Shastri NagarAround 7am on November 16, a lawyer attached to the Delhi high court was going to a relative’s house in Shastri Nagar with his family to celebrate Bhai Dooj when a Swift overtook their Honda City and screeched to a halt in front of it. “Three men wearing masks came out and pointed pistols at us. They snatched the gold chain and other jewellery items from my wife. From me, they took my wallet and gold rings from my father,” said Nikhil Bhardwaj, the lawyer. On Hindon flyoverA group of YouTubers shooting a short film on the high-speed flyover was allegedly robbed by miscreants in the early hours of November 12. Although these robberies took place on busy stretches, police have made little headway in the investigation. ... And burglariesAt least 15 houses, whose owners were away during the festival season, were burgled in the days between Diwali and Bhai Dooj. According to police, the burglaries were worth more than Rs 1 crore in total. On November 1, burglars broke into two houses in Vasundhara and fled with valuables and cash when the families had gone to attend a wedding. The area is just 40m away from the local police chowki. In Sahibabad, too, a theft took place in the house of Nakul Sharma a few days ago when he and his family were away at a wedding in Meerut. These robberies and burglaries question the police’s claim that streetcrime has seen a 60% decline till October this year compared to 2019. During the same period, heinous crimes such as rape and murder have gone down 30%, according to the police. The crimes are despite the fact that police have deployed three officers in the rank of SP (city) to curb the crime rate. Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said that in the past 11 months, police have arrested over 21,000 criminals. “We have also made a list of 132 armed criminals and a team has been formed under every police station to take action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/streetcrime-down-by-60-not-on-streets/articleshow/79481343.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||500kg of restricted items seized at Bengaluru's Kempegowda International Airport each week||BENGALURU: Over 500kg of goods prohibited in aircraft cabins, including cigarette lighters, blades, hand tools, toy guns and spices, are being seized at Kempegowda International Airport on a weekly basis. Bangalore International Airport Limited which operates KIA said the Central Industrial Security Force team confiscates the banned articles after frisking passengers at the security screening area. Many flyers unaware of prohibited objectsMany passengers appear to be unaware of the objects prohibited in aircraft cabins. For more information on restricted items for hand baggage, visit: https://bit.ly/33ou4wW||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/500kg-of-restricted-items-seized-at-bengalurus-kempegowda-international-airport-each-week/articleshow/79483394.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Deemed ‘100% disabled,’ Usman finally on way to become doctor||Chandigarh: Last year’s ‘failure’ could not stop Mohamad Usman, 20, from finally getting admission in a medical college. Despite clearing the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for MBBS entrance last June, Usman was denied admission. During counselling, he was not found to be physically fit and declared 100% disabled. Even as he moved court to challenge the decision, he did not stop preparing for NEET and made it this time. He has got admission at government medical college, Basti, UP. Usman was the only person from his native Hussainabad village in Uttar Pradesh to have cracked the entrance last year. This time, he got the 79th state rank. “I was adamant on getting into MBBS. My father told me to try for dental and other allied paramedical services but I was determined to become a medical doctor,” he said. The pandemic and consequent lockdown was another roadblock for Usman. With the NEET examination being rescheduled twice, he often felt dejected. “I had spent another year for these exams and there was no clarity on the schedule. It was worrying me. Also, since I belong to a poor family, my father arranged for a laptop for my classes with difficulty,” said Usman. Two of Usman’s limbs have been affected by polio since birth. His father is a mason who barely earns Rs 15,000 each month and is the sole bread winner of the family of seven. “During Covid times, I could see huge respect for doctors in our village, which inspired me. I was also encouraged by Dr Satendra Singh, founder of Doctors with Disabilities: Agents of Change, a Delhi-based NGO, to not give up,” he said. Having learned from last year’s hardships, Usman values his selection into MBBS college all the more. “I had to move court to fight for my right. At this age, I have got the experience of shuttling in court and so I feel more responsible. I used to study from 6am until 12 at night. I believed in myself and never gave up,” he said. Usman wants to become a neurologist but wishes to remove people’s dependence on medicines. “It will be another challenge for me. I do not want patients to become dependent on medicines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/deemed-100-disabled-usman-finally-on-way-to-become-doctor/articleshow/79481870.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 30, 2020||Ludhiana||PPCB advises use of green crackers on Gurpurab||Patiala: The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), which has already issued guidelines for the bursting of firecrackers on Gurpurab, has also advised the masses to use only green crackers. Similar guidelines have also been issued by the state government, asking the deputy commissioners to ensure the sale and bursting of green crackers only. According to the PPCB guidelines, on the Gurpurab day, the bursting of crackers will be allowed from 4am to 5am and from 9pm to 10pm. The state department of science and technology has already issued a notification to all the district magistrates to ensure compliance of the order of use of green crackers that do not use barium salts or compounds of antimony, lithium, mercury, arsenic, lead or strontium and chromate. The sale and use of firecrackers will, however, remain prohibited in Mandi Gobindgarh of Fatehgarh Sahib, while in other parts of the state, the sale of crackers will be allowed only through licensed traders. PPCB member-secretary Karunesh Garg said, “The instructions regarding the timings for bursting the firecrackers have already been issued, and monitoring of pollution will also be done in different parts of the state. People should use only green crackers.” Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said, “We have formed teams to keep a check on the sale and use of crackers. The use and sale of green crackers will be ensured and action will be taken against the violators.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppcb-advises-use-of-green-crackers-on-gurpurab/articleshow/79481873.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||TPR climbs to 11.3% in Kerala, 27 more succumb to virus||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The test positivity rate (TPR) in the state shot to 11.3% on Sunday when 5,643 of the total 49,775 samples sent for testing turned positive for Covid-19. Of those tested positive, 5,556 are cases of local transmission while the source of infection remains unknown for 571. As many as 34 healthcare workers are also among those infected. Of those diagnosed also include 87 who have arrived from outside the state. The also recorded 5,861 recoveries. At present, there are 64,589 patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 while so far, a total of 5,32,658 people have recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, 27 deaths were confirmed as due to Covid-19, taking the related death toll in the state to 2,224. The deceased include Dr E C Babukutty, professor in orthopaedics of Ernakulam Medical College Hospital. Health minister K K Shailaja condoled the death of the doctor and said he was actively involved in the fight against the pandemic. Kozhikode reported the highest number of cases — 851 — followed by Malappuram (721), Thrissur (525), Ernakulam (512), Kollam (426), Kottayam (399), Palakkad (394), Alappuzha (381), Thiruvananthapuram (370), Kannur (277), Idukki (274), Pathanamthitta (244), Wayanad (174) and Kasaragod (122). There are 3,15,497 people under isolation across the state, of which the 2,99,601 are under home or institutional quarantine and 15,896 in hospitals. As many as 1,840 people were admitted to the hospitals on Sunday. A total of 62,27,787 samples have been sent for testing till date. One place each in Idukki and Kottayam districts were declared as new hotspots while eight areas were exempted. There are 524 hotspots in the state now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tpr-climbs-to-11-3-in-kerala-27-more-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/79483416.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||UT to celebrate Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary with Museum of Trees||Chandigarh: Punjab governor and Chandigarh administrator V P Singh Badnore will inaugurate a unique environmental landmark of Chandigarh - the Museum of Trees - on the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev on Monday. The inauguration will be done online in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Conceived and curated by ex-IAS officer and author D S Jaspal, the Museum of Trees is a sacred grove created with genetically true replicas of sacred trees of Sikhism. The naming of sacred shrines after trees is unique to the Sikh religion. Ex-member of parliament and chairman of the minorities commission, Tarlochan Singh and PHD chamber of commerce and industry president Karan Gilhotra will participate in the online inauguration. Alongside each tree are eight foot high panels that carry a picture of the tree, along with a description of its botanical features as well as the relationship between the tree and the historical and religious background of the shrine. The museum has reproduced genetically true replicas of 12 sacred trees, including Dukh Bhanjani Ber tree of Golden Temple, Ber tree of gurdwara Ber Sahib at Sultanpur Lodhi and the Ber tree of gurdwara Babe-di-Ber in Sialkot, Pakistan. The project, said to be the first of its kind in the world, has been funded by the union ministry of culture and is promoted by the Chandigarh Nature and Health Society, a registered NGO. The project is the country’s only outdoor walkthrough museum where visitors can see genetically true replicas of sacred trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-celebrate-guru-nanaks-birth-anniversary-with-museum-of-trees/articleshow/79481900.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Shimla||Manali-Atal Tunnel highway blocked after avalanche||MANALI: An avalanche on Manali-Atal tunnel highway beyond Solang valley blocked the highway for nearly one hour on Sunday evening. Border Roads Organisation (BRO) cleared the debris, after which the highway was opened. Fortunately, there was no vehicular movement when the avalanche hit the highway. Tourists are not being allowed to go towards Atal Tunnel as the area has received very heavy snow. Only local residents are being allowed to use the Tunnel. Tourist movement in Solang valley is restricted. The area between Solang and Atal Tunnel is prone to avalanches. Avalanche control structures are proposed to be built at some high-risk zones but only two such structures have been built so far. Snow and avalanche study establishment (SASE) issued avalanche warning for five districts of Himachal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/manali-atal-tunnel-highway-blocked-after-avalanche/articleshow/79481934.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Udaipur||7.6% of overall Rajasthan coronavirus deaths in the last 10 days||JAIPUR: In the past 10 days, the state has reported 7.6% of all Covid-19 deaths that have occured since the first infected person died in April . The mortality rate due to Covid has been increasing for the past four days, each day marginally. The mortality rate stood at 0.69% on Sunday. This was 0.68% on Saturday. Following the arrival of winter, the end of festive season and municipal polls, the state reported a sudden spurt in Covid cases and, along with it, the number of virus deaths too have increased in the state. In the past 10 days, 176 persons lost their battle against Covid in different parts of the state, accounting for 7.6% of overall virus deaths in the state. Besides, the state touched new high of 28,758 active cases. This has been increasing continuously for the 23rd day in a row. “The number of patients with severe symptoms increased proportionally with the increase in number of daily Covid infections. Hence, the number of deaths have also increased in the past few days. Moreover, we are facing sequelae, which often contributes to severe disease and mortality. Patients, both Covid and post-Covid, need to be monitored carefully for complications and progress,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director, Covid pulmonary rehab at a private hospital. Eighteen persons died, while 2,581others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Sunday, bringing the overall tally to 2,65,386. With 18 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,292. Three persons died in Ajmer, taking its Covid deaths to 184, while three died in Pali which took its toll to 89. Two persons died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 430, and Jodhpur reported two more deaths, taking its toll to 234. Kota saw its 135th casualty, Bharatpur 104th, Udaipur 93rd, Sikar 78th, Nagaur 75th, Rajsamand 35th, Karauli 19th and Jhalawar its 16th fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (555), Jodhpur (395), Kota (211), Ajmer (164), Alwar (126), Udaipur (101), Sriganaganagar (100), Bharatpur (99), Nagaur (98), Bhilwara (77), Jhunjhunu (62), Bikaner (61), Sikar (53), Churu (49), Tonk (43), Bundi (40), Barmer (38), Sirohi (37), Dungarpur (36), Rajsamand (33) and Pali (29).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/7-6-of-overall-rajasthan-coronavirus-deaths-in-the-last-10-days/articleshow/79484450.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Ajmer||7.6% of overall Rajasthan coronavirus deaths in the last 10 days||JAIPUR: In the past 10 days, the state has reported 7.6% of all Covid-19 deaths that have occured since the first infected person died in April . The mortality rate due to Covid has been increasing for the past four days, each day marginally. The mortality rate stood at 0.69% on Sunday. This was 0.68% on Saturday. Following the arrival of winter, the end of festive season and municipal polls, the state reported a sudden spurt in Covid cases and, along with it, the number of virus deaths too have increased in the state. In the past 10 days, 176 persons lost their battle against Covid in different parts of the state, accounting for 7.6% of overall virus deaths in the state. Besides, the state touched new high of 28,758 active cases. This has been increasing continuously for the 23rd day in a row. “The number of patients with severe symptoms increased proportionally with the increase in number of daily Covid infections. Hence, the number of deaths have also increased in the past few days. Moreover, we are facing sequelae, which often contributes to severe disease and mortality. Patients, both Covid and post-Covid, need to be monitored carefully for complications and progress,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director, Covid pulmonary rehab at a private hospital. Eighteen persons died, while 2,581others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Sunday, bringing the overall tally to 2,65,386. With 18 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,292. Three persons died in Ajmer, taking its Covid deaths to 184, while three died in Pali which took its toll to 89. Two persons died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 430, and Jodhpur reported two more deaths, taking its toll to 234. Kota saw its 135th casualty, Bharatpur 104th, Udaipur 93rd, Sikar 78th, Nagaur 75th, Rajsamand 35th, Karauli 19th and Jhalawar its 16th fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (555), Jodhpur (395), Kota (211), Ajmer (164), Alwar (126), Udaipur (101), Sriganaganagar (100), Bharatpur (99), Nagaur (98), Bhilwara (77), Jhunjhunu (62), Bikaner (61), Sikar (53), Churu (49), Tonk (43), Bundi (40), Barmer (38), Sirohi (37), Dungarpur (36), Rajsamand (33) and Pali (29).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/7-6-of-overall-rajasthan-coronavirus-deaths-in-the-last-10-days/articleshow/79484453.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jaipur||7.6% of overall Rajasthan coronavirus deaths in the last 10 days||JAIPUR: In the past 10 days, the state has reported 7.6% of all Covid-19 deaths that have occured since the first infected person died in April . The mortality rate due to Covid has been increasing for the past four days, each day marginally. The mortality rate stood at 0.69% on Sunday. This was 0.68% on Saturday. Following the arrival of winter, the end of festive season and municipal polls, the state reported a sudden spurt in Covid cases and, along with it, the number of virus deaths too have increased in the state. In the past 10 days, 176 persons lost their battle against Covid in different parts of the state, accounting for 7.6% of overall virus deaths in the state. Besides, the state touched new high of 28,758 active cases. This has been increasing continuously for the 23rd day in a row. “The number of patients with severe symptoms increased proportionally with the increase in number of daily Covid infections. Hence, the number of deaths have also increased in the past few days. Moreover, we are facing sequelae, which often contributes to severe disease and mortality. Patients, both Covid and post-Covid, need to be monitored carefully for complications and progress,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director, Covid pulmonary rehab at a private hospital. Eighteen persons died, while 2,581others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Sunday, bringing the overall tally to 2,65,386. With 18 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,292. Three persons died in Ajmer, taking its Covid deaths to 184, while three died in Pali which took its toll to 89. Two persons died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 430, and Jodhpur reported two more deaths, taking its toll to 234. Kota saw its 135th casualty, Bharatpur 104th, Udaipur 93rd, Sikar 78th, Nagaur 75th, Rajsamand 35th, Karauli 19th and Jhalawar its 16th fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (555), Jodhpur (395), Kota (211), Ajmer (164), Alwar (126), Udaipur (101), Sriganaganagar (100), Bharatpur (99), Nagaur (98), Bhilwara (77), Jhunjhunu (62), Bikaner (61), Sikar (53), Churu (49), Tonk (43), Bundi (40), Barmer (38), Sirohi (37), Dungarpur (36), Rajsamand (33) and Pali (29).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-6-of-overall-rajasthan-coronavirus-deaths-in-the-last-10-days/articleshow/79483485.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Jodhpur||7.6% of overall Rajasthan coronavirus deaths in the last 10 days||JAIPUR: In the past 10 days, the state has reported 7.6% of all Covid-19 deaths that have occured since the first infected person died in April . The mortality rate due to Covid has been increasing for the past four days, each day marginally. The mortality rate stood at 0.69% on Sunday. This was 0.68% on Saturday. Following the arrival of winter, the end of festive season and municipal polls, the state reported a sudden spurt in Covid cases and, along with it, the number of virus deaths too have increased in the state. In the past 10 days, 176 persons lost their battle against Covid in different parts of the state, accounting for 7.6% of overall virus deaths in the state. Besides, the state touched new high of 28,758 active cases. This has been increasing continuously for the 23rd day in a row. “The number of patients with severe symptoms increased proportionally with the increase in number of daily Covid infections. Hence, the number of deaths have also increased in the past few days. Moreover, we are facing sequelae, which often contributes to severe disease and mortality. Patients, both Covid and post-Covid, need to be monitored carefully for complications and progress,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director, Covid pulmonary rehab at a private hospital. Eighteen persons died, while 2,581others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Sunday, bringing the overall tally to 2,65,386. With 18 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,292. Three persons died in Ajmer, taking its Covid deaths to 184, while three died in Pali which took its toll to 89. Two persons died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 430, and Jodhpur reported two more deaths, taking its toll to 234. Kota saw its 135th casualty, Bharatpur 104th, Udaipur 93rd, Sikar 78th, Nagaur 75th, Rajsamand 35th, Karauli 19th and Jhalawar its 16th fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (555), Jodhpur (395), Kota (211), Ajmer (164), Alwar (126), Udaipur (101), Sriganaganagar (100), Bharatpur (99), Nagaur (98), Bhilwara (77), Jhunjhunu (62), Bikaner (61), Sikar (53), Churu (49), Tonk (43), Bundi (40), Barmer (38), Sirohi (37), Dungarpur (36), Rajsamand (33) and Pali (29).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/7-6-of-overall-rajasthan-coronavirus-deaths-in-the-last-10-days/articleshow/79484451.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Vadodara||Barodians are hip, hip, happy||VADODARA: Mahatma Gandhi said: ‘Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.’ Probably Barodians have achieved the Zen, as despite not any development of metropolitan cities nor does the city give them the serenity of a village, majority people in Vadodara city are happy! A study titled ‘How happy Barodians are: A happiness survey on Vadodara citizens’ conducted by statisticians of M S University has revealed that 85% Banyan City residents are a happy lot. The first-of-its-kind study to measure happiness of a city has found that 70% people are happy, 15% are extremely happy, and only 15 Barodians are unhappy. Prof Rakesh Srivastava, who guided four master of science (statistics) students - Amisha Yadav, Komal Patil, Srishti Sen and Kinjal Kanwar – in the study in which a sample of 315 people from four wards of Vadodara was taken based on proportional allocation. “In our study, we measured happiness based on seven domains – health, marriage, family, education, social relationships, occupation and general life satisfaction. We further identified 28 indicators based on these domains and asked a question regarding all of them, in which respondents were asked to answer based on a 5-point scale from highly agree to highly disagree,” said Srivastava. Based on the responses, average happiness score of everyone was calculated. By using statistical techniques, weights were given to different domains and using these weights, the team calculated the average happiness scores. It was based on these scores that people were divided into three categories - unhappy, happy and extremely happy. “If a person has average happiness score less than 7, he or she is still considered to be ‘unhappy’. If the happiness score is between 7.0 and 8.7, he or she is considered to be ‘happy’ and if the happiness score is greater than 8.7, he or she is considered to be ‘extremely happy’,” he said. The overall happiness index for Vadodara city was also calculated based on two thresholds – sufficiency threshold and happiness threshold. And Gujarat’s cultural capital has scored a healthy – 8.83/10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barodians-are-hip-hip-happy/articleshow/79479981.cms||Prashant Rupera
November 30, 2020||Mangaluru||To beat lockdown blues, these women made, sold handbags||UDUPI: When the nationwide lockdown left many women — all breadwinners — without jobs, Prasanna Bhat of Samruddhi Mahila Mandali, which works for the upliftment of women, decided to lend a helping hand. Bhat had attended a training programme under a Union government scheme on women empowerment, but the training was mostly on preparing and marketing food items like papad and sandige. However, selling food during the lockdown was a strict no-no since people were too scared to eat food from outside. So Bhat and a group of 16 women, including seven tailors and four teachers, from Cherkadi village in Udupi came together and decided to make/ design handbags. “We began groundwork for the project in April and by June we were ready to hit the market with a wide variety of cloth, jute and macrame bags,” said Bhat. “We were surprised by the demand. We sold on all possible platforms.” Bhat is also cofounder of Annapoorna Nursery and she sells bags there too. The bags are sold under the brand name Samruddhi Sanjeevini — the name of the group. Some members also experimented with homemade products such as hair oil and herbal medicines for new mothers. “The group is also helping other women market products,” said Bhat. “For instance, we help Lalitha Koravadi, a physically-challenged woman, sell handmade products such as handbags and key chains. We also depend on other platforms like Power, which works for women empowerment, to sell products.” Bhat said they have sold more than 500 bags, priced between Rs 200 and Rs 700. “The trends keep changing. Initially, the demand for jute bags was high, but now macrame bags are trending,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/to-beat-lockdown-blues-these-women-made-sold-handbags/articleshow/79483497.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 30, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi KIMS installs 20 kilo litre oxygen facility||HUBBALLI: The Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) hospital, Hubballi has installed a 20 kilo litre facility to store medical liquid oxygen on its premises, making it one of the very few government hospitals with a total 40kl storage capacity. The decision to augment oxygen storing capacity was taken following a flood of Covid-19 patients in June, July and August, who needed to be put on breathing support. The existing 20kl facility was falling woefully short of demand. When Covid cases were at a peak, many hospitals in the twin cities were unable to admit patients due to lack of oxygen, increasing pressure on KIMS. To meet demand, the state-run facility began treating patients suffering severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) in its old building to ensure oxygen supply. Dr Ramlingappa Antartani, director, KIMS said the tank was built on a war footing. He said KIMS will now have enough oxygen and is prepared for a second wave should there be one. “We have no worries about providing patients with high-flow nasal cannula (high flow oxygen),” Dr Antartani said. “We spent Rs 50 lakh installing the new unit. As far as I know, KIMS is the only government hospital in the state that has a 40kl oxygen storage facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-kims-installs-20-kilo-litre-oxygen-facility/articleshow/79483510.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Student attendance improves in colleges across three districts||MANGALURU: Attendance to regular classes in colleges in Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu and Udupi districts, which come under the department of collegiate education, rose steadily since reopening on November 17 and although nowhere close to pre-pandemic levels it stood at a decent 17% by Saturday. Officials say attendance for UG/PG final year classes is likely to improve further as many students had given samples for RT-PCR tests and are awaiting results. According to the health department, so far about 25,000 students in Dakshina Kannada alone have taken the Covid-19 test of which 45 students (including medical and engineering students) tested positive. “UGC guidelines permit only 50% of students on campus,” said SB Appaji Gowda, joint director, collegiate education, Mangaluru. “With that ceiling in mind, attendance has improved tremendously and is likely to improve further in December.” He said out of 3,531 students who registered for classes in Dakshina Kannada district, 414 attended, while the figure is 558 students out of a total 3,203 in Udupi and Kodagu districts. Data shows that 76 colleges have been conducting classes on campus. “There has also been a rise in the number of students attending contact classes (first and third semesters). So far 161 students have attended,” Gowda said, adding that more girls attend than boys. Ramachandra Bairy, district health officer, Dakshina Kannada, said pending Covid-19 test reports of thousands of students will be cleared soon. “Students who tested positive are in home isolation and recovering,” he said. Meanwhile, Mangalore University syndicate members met deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan and discussed various aspects pertaining to the varsity. Strategy to rectify previous blunders was discussed with him. Members said introduction of free examination software as a substitute to the one that was outsourced will see positive results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-student-attendance-improves-in-colleges-across-three-districts/articleshow/79483531.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 30, 2020||Bengaluru||25 in Karnataka lived through two pandemics||BENGALURU: More than a century before Covid-19 crippled the world, the Spanish Flu of 1918 was described as the “pandemic of a lifetime”. While it was precisely an experience of a lifetime for most people, some who survived that scourge have been witness to the current pandemic that is sweeping across the globe. Data accessed from the government of Karnataka shows that the state has at least 25 such patients — 12 women and 13 men — who witnessed the first pandemic and defied an infection from the second. Remarkably, on both occasions, they were in the most vulnerable age groups. Dr Anoop Amarnath, geriatrician and member of the state’s Covid-19 critical care support group which oversees treatment for such patients, said: “We treated one woman from Chitradurga, who was more than 110-years-old. I think one factor that has worked with people in this group is the absence of comorbidities. This indicates that they are better at recovering from both communicable and non-communicable infections.” Of the 60 centenarians infected by Covid-19 in Karnataka, 22 are aged exactly 100 years, while 13 are aged between 101 and 102. The remaining 25, including some as old as 116 and 119, have witnessed both the pandemics. Of this latter group, 24 have already been discharged, and a 105-year-old patient, who tested positive on November 5, is still recovering from the disease. While it could not be immediately ascertained if any of these patients had also contracted the Spanish Flu, the fact that most of them were under 10 years means they were vulnerable to infection. Amarnath added: “We also noticed that the infection in almost all of these people was mild. Another thing that could have helped them is what we call immunosenescence [gradual deterioration of immune system] which prevents excess response from the body’s immune system that could trigger other complications.” Bengaluru, with 11 such patients, has the highest share followed by Tumakuru (3), while Belagavi and Koppal have two each. The others are spread across Hassan, Uttara Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Chitradurga, Chikkaballapura, Koppal, Davanagere and Kodagu. Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson, Covid expert committee, said: “I think just like we have the obesity paradox [people are obese but without any other ailment that obesity usually causes], we can call this the 100-year paradox: There have been many cases where centenarians do not have any ailment associated with age. Even among Covid patients, you can see that most of them did not have comorbidities which helped their cause tremendously.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/25-in-karnataka-lived-through-two-pandemics/articleshow/79483546.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Poll officials to undergo daily screening||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The health department has released the advisory on Covid-19 screening and testing of officers, staff and security personnel involved in the local body election duties. All personnel involved in the conduct of the election process should undergo daily screening at the offices for symptoms of Covid-19 like fever, cough, shortness of breath, etc. Daily temperature screening and recording of it should be made at the offices. The sufficient symptom screening points will be arranged at the collectorates and district offices and on the day of the distribution of election materials for screening the polling personnel and election duty staff. Any symptomatic officer identified on screening should undergo rapid antigen testing at the nearest testing facility and seek health care, says the advisory. On the distribution day, separate arrangements for antigen testing will be done for testing of symptomatic personnel. Covid-19 positive personnel or officers will not be allowed to participate in the conduct of the election and the treatment management will be done as per the assessment of the patient. “If the symptomatic personnel are tested negative in the antigen testing, then they will have to be subjected to the RT-PCR test or ExpressNAt test. As per the test results, further action will be taken,” said the advisory issued by Rajan N Khobragade, principal secretary (health). It further says that if the officers drafted for the election duty are advised to be in quarantine because they are the contact of the known Covid-positive patient, they should undergo antigen test on the appropriate day as per the suggestion from the health officer. As per the test results, if they are tested positive then they should not be allowed to be part of the election process and the treatment procedures should be started. If they are tested negative, then they shall perform respective allocated election duty. Physical distancing, wearing of masks and hand hygiene should be ensured everywhere during the election process. Hand hygiene should be performed before and after the distribution or sharing of any articles or equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/poll-officials-to-undergo-daily-screening/articleshow/79483471.cms||---
November 30, 2020||Chandigarh||HC pulls up Rewari Sainik School over admission of boy||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered the Sainik School, Rewari, to admit a student who erroneously mentioned his category as ‘defence’ in the Class VI admission form under general category. It has directed the school to create a supplementary seat in the current academic session, as the boy was meritorious and had secured significantly high marks to be eligible for admission in general category. The HC has also reprimanded the school authorities for filing a vague reply on the issue despite several directions and queries from the court for specific response. “It would not be out of place to deprecate the highly condemnable conduct of the respondents (school authorities) in deliberately filing such an elusive reply to the queries of this court, notwithstanding, that ample opportunities were granted... Such a conduct of litigants makes the onerous duty and position of the learned counsels, representing them, very vulnerable, for no fault of theirs,” the HC has observed. CLASS VI STUDENT MOVES COURT‘Give petitioner admission this academic session’Justice Arun Monga passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Harsh Yadav, a resident of Mahendragarh district of Haryana. He had applied for admission in Class VI in Sainik School, Rewari, and successfully cleared the entrance test and secured 252 marks. The cut off marks in general category as per last admitted student were/are 244. The petitioner was also accordingly called for scrutiny of documents on February 28, 2020, followed by his medical in March. During the admission process, it came to light that though the petitioner belongs to “general category”, his category in the admission form was mentioned as “defence”. However, the petitioner’s father, well before the culmination of the admission process, applied for correction of this bona fide error in the online application. An affidavit dated December 11, 2019 was also sent through an email to the school authorities. But the category of the petitioner was not changed and he was not considered for admission. Aggrieved from denial of admission despite being on merit, he had approached the HC. In its initial reply, the school authorities did not deny that petitioner was meritorious enough to be admitted in the school and he qualified in the written examination. The rigid stand of the authorities, in nutshell, was that in the online application form “defence category” was opted and as such, he was and can only be considered under the same category. On this, the HC on October 12 and subsequent occasions, asked the details if there is any vacant seat currently available to adjust the petitioner as he is more meritorious than the last candidate selected in his category. The HC asked the school to take a lenient view and not adopt a rigid and pedantic approach, keeping in view the overall interest of the child. However, no appropriate response regarding HC’s queries was given by the school authorities and finally on November 10, an affidavit was filed by Colonel Soumyabrata Dhar, principal, Sainik School, Rewari. It was submitted that the admission process for the academic session 2020-21 was closed on October 31, 2020, hence no candidate can be admitted at this stage. “A perusal of the aforesaid stand taken by the respondents would reveal that qua the specific queries posed by this court, response thereof in the affidavit is as vague, evasive and ambiguous as it can be. Resultantly, this court has no choice but to draw adverse inference. In the premise, writ petition is allowed. Respondents are directed to accommodate the petitioner in the current academic session by giving him admission in Class VI and permit him to attend the online classes,” ordered the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-pulls-up-rewari-sainik-school-over-admission-of-boy/articleshow/79483594.cms||Ajay Sura
