01-06-2020||---||Token system to disposable towels: Chandigarh admn issues SOP for barber shops||Chandigarh June 1​To avoid and pre-empt the spread of the COVID-19 Pandemic, the Chandigarh administration has issued guidelines to be followed by all hair salons and barber-shops.All hair salons and barber shops can be opened and these will be covered under “non-essential” category of services.Also Read:Shops to remain open from 10 am to 8 pm in ChandigarhNo Hair Salon / Barber-shop inside Notified Containment Zone/Buffer Zone for COVID-19 shall be allowed to operate.On first day of opening no customer will be allowed, first day it will be cleaned thoroughly, preferably washed with soapy water or disinfectant.First day will be used to give basic training to all staff members.On-call prior appointment or token system to be adopted to reduce overcrowding and staggering of clients. The timing should be given in such way that enough time is available for sanitisation of chair.The seating of service area and waiting space shall be arranged in such way that minimum space of at least 1 metre remains between two seats. In small booth type of setting this can be ensured by allowing 1-2 clients only at a time.Thermal temperature measuring equipment will be compulsory at entry. Temperature will be measured of all visitors /workers.Hand sanitisers will be available at entry for clients and staff.Separate disposable towel or paper sheet shall be used for each client without any fail. In case towels are to be reused separate towel to be used for each customer and used towel shall be disinfected by 0.1% sodium hypochlorite solution.All equipment shall be sanitised after each use on client using 0.5% solutions of Sodium Hypochlorite. It is better to keep multiple sets so as to use other while one set is getting disinfected.Floor, common areas and frequently touching surfaces and objects must be disinfected with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution at least 3-4 time a day.Carpets and rugs are not allowed. Floor must be cleaned regularly and frequently throughout the Service delivery timings.Remotes of TV etc shall also be handled by only assigned person and should be disinfected regularly.The waste generated in these premises will be kept in three separate bins or bags: green-- all bio-degradable like cut hairs/cotton/used paper sheet / paper-cups etc; blue-all non bio-degradable (except metal) like plastic sheets /polythene etc and yellow -- all sharp and hazardous waste like blades/disposable razors etc.This segregated waste shall be handed over to the team deployed by Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh. This waste will be disposed-of/processed as per guidelines by MC, Chandigarh.Arogaya Setu application will be downloaded by all workers and clients.No member of management, staff or client shall be allowed if he /she is having any symptom of COVID-19 like high temperature, fever, cough, cold, throat pain, difficulty in breathing etc.No member of management /staff/client shall be allowed to remain without mask/face cover in side premises.All staff members to wear head cover, face mask, gloves and apron at all time compulsorily.Guidelines for customers:No person having any symptom of COVID 19 like high temperature, fever, cough, cold, throat pain, difficulty in breathing shall visit these facilities. No person who is COVID-19 positive or under Home Quarantine /Institutional Quarantine/ Isolation shall use these facilities.Prefer digital mode (internet banking /BHIM/Paytm etc.) of payment for paying bills.Use Face Mask while using services.Wash your hands, cloths and take a bath after availing service to avoid further spread of infection.Don’t keep your wallet /mobile phone etc. on any surface /slab in shop.Prefer minimum visit only when it is utmost necessary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/token-system-to-disposable-towels-chandigarh-admn-issues-sop-for-barber-shops-92947
01-06-2020||---||Two more COVID-19 cases in Mohali takes the total count to 116||Mohali, June 1With the surfacing of two more positive COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the total count in the district has gone up to 116.The persons infected with the virus include the parents of a 21-year-old student and resident of Sector 77 Mohali. The 21-year-old student was tested positive on Saturday.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the reports of the samples of the family members of the 21-year-old student came positive on Monday. The members, whose samples were taken, were asymptomatic.He said the student had reported at a flu clinic on May 28, after which his samples were taken, and he was confirmed positive on May 30. All contacts have been isolated at COVID Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, he added.Dr Singh said they were trying to ascertain their other contacts so that early detection could lead us to quarantine all such contacts before it spreads. The source of infection to the student was also being traced, he added.With this, the total toll reached to 116 cases with 11 active cases in the district.Civil Surgeon said they had already issued a note of caution when the district became COVID-19 free on May 21 that the threat of COVID-19 was still there. He said the same came true as, after five days of being declared COVID-free district, a positive patient re-appeared in Mohali on May 26.He said to date, a total of 116 COVID-19 patients had been reported in the district, of which 102 had been cured and discharged with three deaths reported.Mohali has 11 active cases now.With 102 people recovering so far, Mohali has a recovery rate and fatality rate of 87.9 per cent and 2.5 per cent, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-covid-19-cases-in-mohali-takes-the-total-count-to-116-92924
01-06-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Shops to remain open from 10 am to 8 pm in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 1Shops will remain open from 10 am to 8 pm in Chandigarh, as per the latest guidelines issued by the UT administration on Monday.As per an order by the UT Administration, the odd-even stipulations announced in previous order on May 18 will continue in respect of all markets specified therein. The same will apply to the street vendors too.Also ReadToken system to disposable towels: Chandigarh admn issues SOP for barber shopsThe use of selected Community Centres will be permitted for holding marriage functions (50 persons) and last rites ceremony (20 persons) from June 8.No mandatory pass will be required to enter Union Territory of Chandigarh from other states. However, random screening will be done on border and visitors will be advised self-monitoring for 14 days.Chandigarh's residents, desirous of taking "travel pass" for visiting other states can apply online to the District Magistrate. Only persons outside Containment Zone will be issued such passes. The DM will take a final decision as regards eligibility for such passes.The government offices will function from 10 am to 5.30 pm with 75% of staff. However, from June 8, the Head of Department can call 100% staff, if required. Defence and Security Services, Health and Family Welfare, Police, Prisons, Home Guards, Civil Defence, Fire and Emergency Services, Disaster Management and related services, Customs and municipal services shall function without any such restrictionsCentral Government offices, offices of neighbouring states, banks, etc., will have different office timings to avoid simultaneous travel by office-goers and congestion on roads.The general public can meet the officers for their personal grievance redressal, etc., strictly between 11 am to 12 noon preferably with prior appointments.The private offices will be allowed to call 75% of their staff. However, from June 8 they will be free to call 100% of their staff to the office, if needed. Both government and private offices and other enterprises will encourage employees to work from home and to avoid travel. The workplaces will be regularly sanitised and physical distance maintained.Barber shops and salons will open from Tuesday. However, they have to strictly follow guidelines on social distancing and hygiene issued by health department.Spas, massage centres, swimming pools will remain closed till further orders.The customers will be allowed to have takeaway food from restaurant from June 8.Apni Mandis in the city will remain closed till further orders.The Wholesale Market in Sector 26 will continue to be open. The temporary functioning of vegetables and fruits traders at ISBT, Sector 17, will continue till further orders.Any person violating these measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC, and other legal provisions as applicable, the UT order said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shops-to-remain-open-from-10-am-to-8-pm-in-chandigarh-92922
01-06-2020||---||Encroachments in front of houses rile Phase 11 residents in Mohali||Mohali, May 31Irked over encroachment by fruit and vegetable vendors in front of their houses residents of Phase 11, Mohali, have urged the district administration to remove them as these are disturbing peace in the area.In a letter to the Mohali Deputy Commissioner residents of the HIG flats, Phase 11, stated, “A large number of fruit, vegetable and fast food vendors have encroached upon land in the open ground in front of their houses causing inconvenience to residents.”They alleged that these vendors could be seen fighting with each other almost every day disturbing peace in the area, besides leaving bad impression on their children as they used foul language.Rakesh Kumar, member of the Residents Welfare Association, said, “Every evening when these vendors leave there is a huge pile of vegetable and fruit waste left behind, which attracts stray animals such as dogs and cows.”He further alleged that some vendors, who stayed on the site, could be seen drinking liquor and urinating, which created sanitation and health-related issues for residents.Senior citizens suffering from chronic diseases were also residing in the locality, he added. One of them had a liver transplant recently, he said. Such persons could easily contract infection because of unhygienic conditions created by vendors, he added.“Apart from this, the area is adjacent to the main road. Many people park their vehicles haphazardly leading to traffic chaos and rise in number of accidents and the pollution level in the locality,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/encroachments-in-front-of-houses-rile-phase-11-residents-in-mohali-92689
01-06-2020||---||Garbage stink at Zirakpur colony||Zirakpur, May 31Residents of Dashmesh Colony on the Zirakpur-Patiala road are a harried lot as piles of garbage are rotting in their colony. There is no one to remove garbage dumped everyday as the Zirakpur Muncipal Council (MC) is paying no heed to their problem.BB Gupta, Joga Singh and other colony residents have demanded that the MC should clear the garbage dump before the onset of rainy season.BK Sharma, another colony resident, said “It is almost impossible to bear the stench in colony. There is a serious risk of spreading of disease. We want to see this residential area clean as soon as possible.’’ Intermittent showers have compounded problems of colony residents as foul smell emanates from the garbage dump. People are facing problems as it has become difficult to pass through the road due to unbearable stench emanting from dump.Zirakpur MC sanitary inspector said, “‘The matter is not in my knowldege, but I will try to get the garbage cleared as soon as possible.’’Activist performs last rites of fiveZirakpur: A social worker, Sonu Sethi, performed the last rites of five unclaimed bodies of people, who died during the lockdown in different incidents. Sethi, with the permission of Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa, performed the last rites of these people and then immersed their ashes at Har ki Paudi in Haridwar recently. Sethi performed the noble act in the police presence. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-stink-at-zirakpur-colony-92691
01-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University to open for teaching staff on June15||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31Panjab University (PU) is opening for the teaching staff on June 15. After the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued fresh lockdown guidelines on Saturday, the PU authorities started planning on various aspects. This includes giving three weeks prior notice to students before conducting exams and feedback from all departments to start classes, if allowed, in July, said sources.As per the MHA guidelines, a decision to open teaching institutions is likely to be taken in July after taking feedback from respective states and officials.Following the countrywide lockdown in March, the PU extended its summer vacations till June 15. The authorities are now preparing for conducting examinations, framing SOPs for starting classes and working on pattern of syllabus.“The university is likely to open for the teaching staff from June 15 as our summer vacations are getting over. We will announce starting classes or conducting examinations as per the MHA guidelines. We are working on certain things. Once finalised, these will be notified to the public. We need to take a call according to the prevailing situation,” said PU Registrar, Prof Karamjeet Singh.Earlier, this week, the PU finalised the SOPs for conducting exams in July. Working on pattern of syllabus, issues raised by students on minimising it will be also considered. All these will be brought to prior notice of students.“The session usually gets over on March 31. However, this year it was affected due to the lockdown. If one goes by this duration, 90 per cent of the syllabus has already been covered. However, still, we will inform students prior about syllabus, pattern, duration or about any available samples. Things are still under process,” the Registrar added.Meanwhile, the sources claimed, “Students will be given a three-week prior notice before exams. The decision on starting classes is also likely to be taken before June 25. We just cannot start exams from July 1. Restrictions have been extended till June 30.”“If students are to be called afterwards, they need some time to settle. Taking any decision depends upon the number of cases in the region. We have to consider inputs from the government, our staff and others. I think by June 20, things will be clear and the PU will be able to finalise all procedure,” said a source privy to the matter.Discussion on starting classesThree-week prior notice to students before exams. Syllabus pattern and starting of classes in July to be discussed as per the MHA guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-open-for-teaching-staff-on-june15-92693
01-06-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Illegal miners back in Dera Bassi village||Dera Bassi, May 31Illegal mining in Dera Bassi, which was under control following police crackdown for the past several months, has apparently returned to the region.Though several residents of Kakrali village and the nearby areas have lodged complaints with the administration in the past demanding a ban on illegal mining near their agricultural fields in the village, former Air Force officer Squadron Leader Gulzar Mathauda is still running from pillar to post against the menace. He has written to almost every official, including the District Mining Officer, against the alleged illegal mining near the boundary wall of his piece of land at the village.Gulzar, in his complaint submitted to the Deputy Commissioner of Mohali and the Senior Superintendent of Police, alleged that an FIR, which was lodged by the Mining Department at the Dera Bassi police station on January 8, 2019, was still pending and no action had been taken by the police.He alleged in his complaint that the Mubarikpur police, along with the SDO, Mining, had visited the said illegal mining site, but to no avail. He alleged that illegal mining would cause damage to his agricultural land.Residents have alleged that truckloads of sand were still being excavated and transported, thus, questioning the role of the police and other departments concerned.The villagers say every time a report appears in the media, the authorities take a round of the area and the mining stops for a day or two. However, miners return and start digging again. The illegal mining takes place generally at night.The District Mining Officer, Mohali, said the Mining Department received a complaint a couple of days ago, following which an official was asked to visit the site. He stated that he was yet to check the present status with the officials, based on which necessary action would be initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-miners-back-in-dera-bassi-village-92695
01-06-2020||---||Fake e-challan messages for duping people||Chandigarh, May 31 Fraudsters have started using fake messages of e-challans as bait to dupe city residents. According to the sources, several residents have received such dubious messages on their mobile phones with a link of e-challans. A city resident complained that he received a similar message and discovered that the link in the message led to a fake website. He reported the same to the UT traffic police. As per the sources, the website looks similar to the original site named echallan.parivahan.gov.in. A police official said fraudsters are targeting people mostly in Punjab, following which an advisory has been issued to keep residents safe from scammers. An e-challan notice is sent to a person through an SMS on the mobile phone for the violations made by them caught on camera. The violator can pay the same online, the official added. The Chandigarh traffic police have also posted an alert on Twitter in this regard. The alert reads, “Be vigilant to differentiate between original and fake e-challans, Don’t let yourself fall into the pit of false e-challan platforms dug by fraudsters.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-e-challan-messages-for-duping-people-92697
01-06-2020||---||Air Commodore Ghuratia is city aeronautical society head||Chandigarh, May 31 Air Commodore Sanjiv Ghuratia, Air Officer Commanding, No.3 Base Repair Depot, has been elected as the new Chairman of the Aeronautical Society of India (AeSI), Chandigarh chapter.  He took over the post during an online ceremony from Dr Pravendra Kumar, Director, SPIC, DRDO, New Delhi, today. A life member and fellow of the IETE, Ghuratia is a Flight Test Engineer who has served in the IAF for more than 32 years in various capacities, including United Nations Mission abroad. He is an alumni of Air Force Test Pilots School, Bangalore, BITS Pilani and the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. AeSI Chandigarh Chapter is actively involved in promoting aeronautical science in the tricity region.         After taking over, the new Chairman shared the roadmap of various activities planned by the AeSI for 2020-21. He said the AeSI would provide a strong platform to the aerospace industry and academia towards making the country self-reliant in the growing field of aerospace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/air-commodore-ghuratia-is-city-aeronautical-society-head-92701
01-06-2020||---||87K get ration in Mohali||Mohali, May 31  A total of 87,000 persons have been provided with ration, including 15-kg wheat per family member for three months and 3-kg pulses per family for three months, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana’ (PMGKY). Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the distribution of ration under the National Food Security Act, 2013, is going on at a rapid pace in the district. He said today, 7,000 persons received ration.  He said the distribution work was likely to result in 100 per cent coverage of beneficiaries in a few days.  The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) has two parts — Antyodya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Households (PHH).  The beneficiaries under the Antyodya Anna Yojana are 2,032 and those under Priority Households  are 1,05,564.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/87k-get-ration-in-mohali-92703
01-06-2020||Naina Mishra||School seeks 70 per cent fee||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31A private school in Sector 32 has reportedly misinterpreted the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and solicited 70 per cent of the total fee.A circular sent to parents read: “As per the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, parents are advised to deposit 70 per cent of the total school fee for the lockdown period. Therefore, parents are requested to deposit a part of the fee to meet the salary requirements of the teaching and non-teaching staff and other expenses. The decision regarding the balance fee is reserved with the court. Those who have already paid the fee, the amount will be adjusted.”The Punjab and Haryana High Court recently ordered that the schools in Punjab can charge 70 per cent of the total school fee from parents and also allowed the schools to seek admission fee in two installments.The Independent Schools Association, Chandigarh, and managements of various schools situated in Mohali had challenged the Punjab School Education Board order asking the schools, which are holding online classes, to only charge the tuition fee and not building charges, transportation charges, charges for meals, etc.Director, School Education, Chandigarh, Rubinderjit Brar, said: “We will seek clarification from the school and take an action based on the response. In the UT, schools can only charge tuition fee till further orders.”June onwards, the last date for deposit tuition fee will be 15th of every month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-seeks-70-per-cent-fee-92707
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||SOPs for city rail passengers||As the Railways is all set to start passenger trains from tomorrow, the chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority has ordered standard operating procedures (SOPs) for interstate travellers or passengers reaching the UT by train. The passengers will have to sign an undertaking stating that they will self-monitor their health for 14 days. The copies of the undertaking will be provided by the nodal officer. The Railway authorities will be requested to facilitate distribution of this undertaking to all passengers/travellers after they board the train. Those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility by the team of the Director, Health Services (DHS), UT, stationed at the Chandigarh Railway Station for this purpose. Further action will be taken as per the protocol of the UT Health Department. During boarding and travel, all passengers will use face covers or mask. The detailed list of the passengers with their names, arrival date and time should be shared by the nodal officer appointed by the Railways at least one day in advance so that necessary arrangements for the medical screening can be made. All persons boarding the train will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic persons will be allowed to board the train. The Railways should set up a separate screening area, ensure social distancing while de-boarding the train, create a waiting area for passengers/patients waiting for the screening with adequate seating arrangements. The DHS, UT, should ensure that the medical teams should have PPE kits, thermal scanning guns and other equipment to scan the passengers reaching the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sops-for-city-rail-passengers-92709
01-06-2020||---||17 bullets fired at hotelier’s house in Sector 33||Chandigarh, May 31Unidentified miscreants opened indiscriminate fire on a hotelier’s house in Sector 33. The hotelier is the brother of a liquor contractor. At least 17 bullets were fired on the house of Rakesh Singla, who owns a hotel in Sector 43. However, nobody was injured in the incident.Investigations revealed that the miscreants had come looking for Rakesh's brother Arvind, a liquor contractor in Punjab.The police said four miscreants, who had their faces covered, first arrived outside Rakesh’s house in Sector 33 and enquired from someone about Arvind’s house. Then they went to Arvind’s house, which is situated close by. Since Arvind has been provided with security by the Punjab Police, a cop was deputed outside his house.The miscreants saw the cop and then drove back to Rakesh’s house. The suspects, who were riding a sedan, then opened indiscriminate fire at the house.The bullets hit the gate, a Land Rover Discovery, a wall and a window of a room on the first floor.Rakesh and his mother were present at the house when the miscreants opened fire.A private security guard was present at the gate. However, the suspects didn’t fire at him. They then escaped from the spot.The Police Control Room was informed around 6.15 pm, following which police teams rushed to the spot. A forensic team also reached the spot and initiated an investigation.A total of 17 empty cartridges of 9 mm and 32 bore were recovered from the spot.SSP Nilambari Jagdale also visited the spot.Police officials said though Arvind denied having any personal enmity with anyone, they were probing various angles, including business rivalry. The police have also not ruled out an extortion angle.Arvind, however, said he had not received any extortion call.The police videographed the crime scene. The footage of CCTV cameras installed outside the house is being scrutinised.Police officials said it seemed the miscreants wanted to intimidate the victims.A case of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act has been registered against unknown persons at the Sector 34 police station.Extortion angle not ruled out: PolicePolice officials said though Arvind, a liquor contractor and brother of Rakesh on whose house the bullets were fired, denied having any personal enmity with anyone, they were probing various angles, including business rivalry. The police have also not ruled out an extortion angle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-bullets-fired-at-hoteliers-house-in-sector-33-92711
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||5 new Covid cases in Chandigarh||Five more Covid cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 294. Three cases have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony and a case each from Khuda Ali Sher and Sector 9.A 27-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 9, to test positive for Covid had returned from Toronto in Canada on the intervening night of May 26 and May 27. She is presently under institutional quarantine at Hotel Mountview. She is the first one to test positive among 116 persons, who reached Chandigarh from abroad recently. The woman is studying in Canada while her three family members reside in the city. Of those who have returned from abroad, 29 have been sent home after necessary testing.A 40-year-old man from Khuda Ali Sher too tested positive for Covid, according to a report received from the PGI. The man had travelled to Delhi along with his wife and stayed there for about two days before returning to the city. His wife is an employee of the UT Health Department and has tested negative for Covid.His mother had expired at New Delhi on May 26, but she was not tested for Covid. Her neighbour was Covid positive and had died on May 28.Besides, three women, aged 42, 28 and 20, all from Bapu Dham Colony, have been found infected too. They are contacts of previously diagnosed positive cases reported from the colony.. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-92730
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, lockdown relaxation in Chandigarh from 5 am to 9 pm||The UT Administration today issued revised lockdown guidelines, allowing free movement of individuals outside the containment zones from 5 am to 9 pm from tomorrow. However, the lockdown has been extended in the containment zones till June 30. The announcement made today is in line with the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).The UT Administration is expected to announce its decision on reopening of malls, hotels, restaurants and salons in the city tomorrow. The Administration is likely to follow the Central Government’s guidelines in this connection in toto.Allow shops to open till 8 pm: TradersThe Chandigarh Beopar Mandal on Sunday wrote to the UT Administration, demanding that shops should be allowed to open in the city from 10 am to 8 pm.Due to hot weather, customers can’t visit markets as the closing time was 6 pm, which should be extended till 8 pm in view of the revised lockdown relaxation timings, said Charanjiv Singh, chairman, CBM. “We have also requested (the UT Administration) to make it optional for traders to open their shops on Sunday too and a formal order should be issued in this regard,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-lockdown-relaxation-in-chandigarh-from-5-am-to-9-pm-92732
01-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Flight from Ukraine lands at Chandigarh airport||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 31The second evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 144 passengers from Kiev (Ukraine) via New Delhi, landed at the Chandigarh international airport in the wee hours of today.Of the 144 passengers on board, 34 belonged to Punjab, two to Chandigarh, 54 to Himachal Pradesh, 53 to Haryana and one to Rajasthan.Of the 34 passengers from Punjab, five were from Mohali, two each from Amritsar, Fazilka, Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur, one each from Bathinda, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Moga, Patiala, Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib, four from Pathankot and 10 from Ludhiana.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said as per the Health Department protocol, all passengers underwent medical screening with strict compliance and nobody was found symptomatic.He said the passengers hailing from the district would not be sent home as of now. They would be quarantined at various government facilities and hotels for 14 days as a precautionary measure.Dayalan said the district administration sent passengers from other districts and states to their respective places where they would undergo quarantine.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, who led the health team, said during the screening, health officials took utmost precaution and the passengers also maintained social distancing. No passenger was found suffering from fever, cough and cold. All of them were asymptomatic for coronavirus.Health Department teams deployed at the airport took all precautions while dealing with the passengers. They covered their faces with masks, used hand sanitisers and observed social distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flight-from-ukraine-lands-at-chandigarh-airport-92735
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||MCM DAV College||Punjab Engineering CollegeChandigarh: The Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12, chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers is one of the most active technical societies on the campus. It shows in the number of awards have been receiving since its inception. ASCE Headquarters (USA) selected Dr Har Amrit Singh Sandhu (Asst Professor) for the Outstanding Faculty Advisor Award and Nancy Loat (fourth year BE student) for the Student Leadership Award respectively for the year 2020. These awards were announced, after scrutiny of technical reports of almost 450 international student chapters across the globe. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mcm-dav-college-92739
01-06-2020||---||9-year-old girl electrocuted in Ambala Cantt, JE suspended||Ambala, May 31A junior engineer (JE) of the Electricity Department posted in the Kardhan area of Ambala Cantonment has been suspended for alleged negligence after a nine-year-old girl died due to electrocution.The girl has been identified as Saloni of Kardhan village. She was playing with an iron rod, which came into contact with a low-lying high tension wires in the village last Friday. She was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, from where she was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. She died while undergoing treatment at the PGI.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s father, Ram Avtar, stated, “We had written to the Electricity Department to shift the wires to a safer distance but to no avail.”A senior power official confirmed that the JE, Ishwar, who was the incharge of the area, had been suspended for negligence. Meanwhile, a case has been registered against officials of the Electricity Department under Section 304-A of the IPC at the Mahesh Nagar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-year-old-girl-electrocuted-in-ambala-cantt-je-suspended-92745
01-06-2020||---||Thieves break into PNB branch||Chandigarh, May 31Two unidentified miscreants broke into Punjab National Bank (PNB) branch at Kishangarh and made an unsuccessful attempt to break a deposit machine on the intervening night of May 30 and 31. The thieves returned empty-handed after searching the bank premises.The theft came to light in the morning after which the police were informed, who visited the spot.The police said two persons, who had their faces covered, entered the bank after breaking the front shutter.The duo then made an attempt to break open the deposit machine. They made several failed attempts, said a cop.The thieves then searched for cash in the drawers at employees' desks. However, they could not find anything there."They stayed inside the bank for around 10 minutes and left without stealing anything," said a police official.The incident took place around 3 am.The police have collected the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the bank and nearby areas.A forensic team of the UT police also visited the spot and lifted fingerprints.A case in this regard has been registered at the IT Park police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-break-into-pnb-branch-92751
01-06-2020||Should we join fight against pandemic & return to normalcy ?||Get economy back on its feet, but with caution||Continuous lockdown is no solutionCovid-19 pandemic has to become a way of life. We have to learn to live with it. The continued lockdown is taking a toll on the economic health of the country. We need to educate citizens on the behavioral changes they need to adopt in their lifestyles to reduce the risks at home, outdoors or at workplaces. Coronavirus should not blind us to the long-term consequences of the shutdown, especially on the economic front.Rajiv Boolchand JainBe aware of gravity of situationToday, we are sandwiched between fighting coronavirus and reviving the economy. It is extremely important to be aware of the gravity of the situation keeping in view own responsibility to safeguard ourselves. We also cannot ignore reviving work and industry. Otherwise, this may turn out to be more dangerous to us than fighting virus. Therefore, a sensible balance is required between fight against Covid-19 and opening businesses.Anil Nanda, PatialaAny negligence can be disastrousThere is no doubt that economic activities are necessary to sustain society, but not at the cost of lives of the public. Opening up businesses has to be carefully executed exercise keeping in view the inter-state movement of migrants and other persons. Any negligence may lead to disastrous circumstances and washout all the hard work done by various agencies to contain the spread of pandemic. Although Administrations in the tricity are putting in their best efforts to contain the pandemic, the number of corona positive patients is increasing in UT. It's duty of all to take ample precautions to keep ourselves and others safe from this deadly disease and break its chain when the lockdown is lifted.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliLockdown should become habitThe lockdown is appropriate as it helped in production of precautionary devices to contain the pandemic. Treat Covid-19 on par with other diseases and take precautions to avoid infection. The immunity of humans has reduced due to excessive industrialisation, use of electronic technology and bad eating habits. Present mode of economy is not sustainable as one virus can bring it down. Hence, economy should be given a new direction. The lockdown should become a habit to boost immunity and revitalise environment.Dr Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhTake U-turn to save economyKeeping in view the present lockdown, which is in name only, presumably we are advancing towards normalcy. It is but natural that we have to take a U-turn to save our economy. Yet, we should not remain in a state of perplexity that the virus has lost its potential. Rather, we have to be more countable towards our basic responsibilities until the effective invention to eliminate the virus is forseen. Therefore, for the time being, each section of our society has to play their respective role towards humanity. One of our primary duties is to sincerely obey and follow the safety advisories and guidelines. Fighting pandemic is indeed a joint venture.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliJoint efforts needed to revive economyThe public has to put in joint efforts to revive the economy by following proper social distancing and taking precautions. The government has already doing its best to contain coronavirus. It should also increase the confidence level of people so that they follow all guidelines.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhIs this a myth or reality?One really wonders whether the Centre mandated countrywide lockdown post-Covid-19 invasion is a reality or a myth? What else could explain the lackadaisical manner in which people at large are responding to governments repeated appeal to follow guidelines to prevent its further spread? Sadly yet strangely, most of them erroneously presume that the coronavirus will do no harm and are showing scant regard to personal distancing at public places and bypassing other medical advisories too. Who knows, the entire nation may pay a huge price for such negligent attitude? Why crave for some short-term gains at the expanse of inviting health-related troubles? Truly speaking, the recent competitive relaxations by state governments may also prove counter-productive.SK Gupta, PanchkulaRelaxations can wait a little longerNow, that everyone has got used to staying indoors, it is safer to remain self-disciplined for a month or so. As the peak summer does not let us roam around, it will be in every one's self interest to play safe. Luxury to enjoy the city life in the evenings will have to wait till Covid cases in the country start receding and recovered cases exceed new cases. Experts have predicted Covid-19 peaking out in June/July in the country. Wisdom therefore lies in taking the life as it comes. Relaxations in the extended lockdown period may, however, be increased to 9 pm with all the existing restrictions intact.SC Luthra, ChandigarhShun selfishness to work selflesslyWe may be getting out of the lockdown soon, but not truly as its effects will haunt almost all of us for long. So, it is the time for testing our patience. During pandemic, it was loss of life, but in its aftermath, it will be monetary loss. Besides personal precautions we must return to normalcy with social precautions in order to contribute, may be a little, for the revival of the economy. It is duty of every responsible citizen to join the collective fight against the pandemic. Let us all shun selfishness and work selflessly so that we can make this world the best place to live in.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhStrategise for ‘jaan bhi, jahaan bhi’Like it or not, we are not getting out of the lockdown too soon. Volte-face to pre-Covid hustle and bustle is a distant dream. Though any slowdown in GDP growth adversely impacts economy and people, complacency must not fritter away gains of 70-day sacrifices. Let face mask et cetera be a part of our clothing. With pre-screening, optimal safeguards and precautions and allowing only asymptomatic individuals, leaving middle seats vacant in buses, trains and aeroplanes, would be shear wastage of resources making travel costlier. With full safeguards, the show must go on unabated. All our strategy has to aim at 'jaan bhi, jahaan bhi'.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaSuch situation cannot go on foreverIt is not that the government is lifting the lockdown early. It has already done what it could do for its people. Now, it's time for people to cooperate with the authorities and practice social distancing. One or the other day lockdown has to be lifted. If it is not lifted, many people will die due to unemployment and hunger.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhDetermination and resolve is requiredGetting out of the lockdown is not only too soon, but it has come at a time when the pandemic is yet to see its peak. However, in the present circumstances, the sensible thing to do is to join the collective fight against the pandemic and return to normalcy with all personal/social precautions for reviving the economy. Such an initiative would require dogged determination and unswerving resolve, which is far from easy to expect from people born in and brought up on laissez-faire.Dr SS Bhatti, ChandigarhProtect people and economyThe lockdown is hurting economy. Experts say timing is the key to reopening. Open too soon, thousands could die. Wait for too long, the economy could go downhill. A huge wave of coronavirus will come if lockdown measures are eased quickly. Careful and cautious approach is required. Doctors are warning against a significant easing of the lockdown. People say a second peak is inevitable, but let's make it as small as possible. Start with those sectors that had biggest economic impact while keeping in mind that safety of people comes first.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhKeep money cycle goingThe lockdown has been in force for more than 50 days. We have realised that it is not possible for us to sit back home and bear all our expenses. For a middle-class family, it’s extremely important to keep the money cycle going. A middle-class man cannot pay for his child's school/tuition fees, domestic help, and other such things when there is no inflow of money. We have to fight the pandemic collectively and return to normal life while taking all precautions.Tanishka Pawar, ZirakpurContinue lockdown with relaxationI am of the view that the lockdown should continue during from 7 pm to 7 am with shops and markets opening from 9.30 am to 6.30 pm while allowing customers wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Even schools from Class I to V should open from 10 am to 1 pm with all norms. Parents feel that online teaching is a burden forced upon them. This way we all will stay fit and put the economy back on track.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhCome out in stagesCovid is highly infectious disease with no cure in sight in the near future. Human life is precious. We should come out of the lockdown in stages with all necessary precautions. Private doctors and hospitals should be allowed to work. Social distancing should be maintained strictly. Don't permit morning and evening walks.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhSelf-discipline, hygiene neededMost people support stringent lockdown at hotspots, but want relaxations in other areas. The lockdown has its impacts, which include psychological stress, financial hardships and disruption in education of children. As virus is going to stay longer, a compromise is required to live with it with self-discipline and personal hygiene. Priority should be given to revive the economy.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (Retd), ChandigarhImposed without any warningWe went for the lockdown too soon. The government should have given notice to the people with warning of likely loss of jobs. The poor could have reached their homes peacefully. Later, food and monetary support could have been provided to them at their respective places. By keeping their dignity intact, we could have extended the lockdown as long as needed. As we have identified seriously infected areas, we should try to revive the economy while taking precautions.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliCredit facilities will boost economyIn the present scenario, the issue should not be whether the lockdown was imposed early or late. Instead, all efforts should be made to fight the pandemic and revive the economy. Migrants, who stayed back and joined industry or agriculture, should be paid better wages. Cheap credit facilities by banks will certainly boost the economy.Harish Kapur, ChandigarhPublic has to play a responsible roleLife certainly takes precedence over livelihood, but both are inseparable. The lockdown has completely paralysed life and shattered country's economy. In the present scenario, the public has to play a responsible role by strictly adhering to personal and collective lockdown protocols to combat the spread of deadly virus, besides ensuring the revival of economy.SS Arora, MohaliWe cannot go into hidingBy now we all know that Covid-19 is here to stay. The lockdown was the need of the hour. At the same time, we cannot go into hiding. Let's not get complacent, but follow social distancing and sanitation norms and carry on with our lives. We need a total change in lifestyle. As long as the lockdown is opening in phases, it's absolutely alright. Life has to go on.Samita Kaur, ChandigarhMany facing worst financial hardshipsThe lockdown and social distancing have ensured good recovery rate of Covid patients. It also led to economic slowdown. Many are facing the worst financial hardships and struggling to make both ends meet. More curbs with more relaxation are needed to revive the economy so that no one sleeps without food or job security. A collective effort will help. Together we will win the war against pandemic.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaGive financial aid to start tradeLike the rest of the world, India too, is on the horns of a dilemma when it comes to opening up the economy for our livelihood and extending the lockdown to save lives. Trade and manufacturing must not only restart, but also need a financial stimulus. This involves gradual opening up of successive lockdown areas notwithstanding the concomitant risk of the spread of infection. While the Centre can issue a broad roadmap, it would be best to leave to states to evolve a suitable strategy for managing the tightrope walk of balancing the life versus livelihood. The states and the Centre must work in tandem.Jai Singh, ChandigarhDon’t ignore economic aspectWith all precations we must return to the normalcy. If precautions are taken strictly ignoring the economic aspect then there will be unemployment, labour problem and unrest, which may lead to violence in the country. So, reviving economy is most important. Only areas where more Covid cases are reported should be sealed. Rest of the city should be opened for all activities with necessary safeguards.Tarlok Singh, ChandigarhQUESTIONMany people/RWAs are still sceptical about allowing domestic helps to come back to work. Being in unorganised sector, maids are finding it difficult to survive. With many offices resuming work with 100% staff, working couples are also finding it difficult to manage in the absence of domestic workers. Do you think domestic workers/maids should be allowed to work with precautions in this Covid-19 new-normal?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-economy-back-on-its-feet-but-with-caution-92753
01-06-2020||Panchkula||One held for opening fire||One Om Prakash from Bhoj Kudana village in Morni block has been arrested on the charge of attempt to murder as he allegedly opened a fire on a resident of the village yesterday. Complainant Madan Pal told the police that he saw the accused roaming around without clothes. After he objected to it, the accused started hurling abuses at him and opened a fire. He was not hurt and the accused fled the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-held-for-opening-fire-92755
01-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Police quarters to make way for command centre in Sector 17||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31All 38 police quarters in Sector 17 here are set to be razed in a fortnight to pave the way for setting up an Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC). All residents have already vacated these houses. Now, decks have been cleared for Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), which has been given the contract of carrying out the job.“The demolition work of the police quarters will start in 10-15 days. All houses have been vacated. BEL has already started the work at the backend to construct the centre,” said NP Sharma, General Manager, Chandigarh Smart City Limited.He said the final agreement and the terms and conditions would be decided with BEL at a meeting of the Board of Directors of Smart City next month. However, the approval for the work had already been given to it.There will be a two-year deadline to set up the centre. Once the centre is ready, BEL will also be responsible for its maintenance for five years.BEL will implement the project at a cost of Rs 295 crore. It will be implemented as a central monitoring system, which will help city administrators in data analysis, decision-making and effective monitoring of services.What all it will doThe Integrated Command and Control Centre will control and monitor CCTV cameras, automatic number plate recognition system, red light violation detection system, e-challan system and adaptive traffic control system. Other smart solutions such as dynamic message boards and public address system will also be set up. All fire, police, disaster-related and other services will be under the one roof.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-quarters-to-make-way-for-command-centre-in-sector-17-92757
01-06-2020||Panchkula||Cousin held for minor’s rape||Purse snatched from manChandigarh: Unknown persons snatched a purse from a man after threatening him near Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran. According to the police, the victim, Santosh Sharma, a resident of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, reported that four unknown persons stopped him near the Vikas Nagar light point on May 29 and threatened him. The miscreants then snatched his purse, containing Rs100, an ATM card, Aadhaar card and other documents. The police were informed, who registered a case at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSConsumer forum to resume operationsPanchkula: The District Consumer Forum, Panchkula, will start regular its regular functioning from Monday. “However, the president of each consumer forum should make sure that there are no mass gatherings. Further, all guidelines issued by the government and the district administration will be followed,” said an order signed by the president, State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commissioner, Haryana. TNSResidents against incineration plantChandigarh: Residents of Dadu Majra, Sector 25, and Sector 38 (West) protested the Municipal Corporation’s decision to set up the first animal carcass incineration plant in Sector 25. Residents said they were already troubled due to the waste processing plant and the garbage dumping ground in the area. On Friday, the MC House approved the plant to be set up in Sector 25 instead of Industrial Area. Congress councillor Sheela Devi said: “I have received a number of complaints against it. Residents of the area are already living in very dirty and polluted atmosphere.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cousin-held-for-minors-rape-92759
