02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Shoot-out in Chandigarh's Sector 9, two hurt||Two people were wounded in a shooting at a liquor store in Sector 9, police sources said.Police sources said two armed assailants walked into a liquor store in the inner marker of Sector 9 and began firing at those working at the shop as bystanders ran for cover, some running into nearby shops for protection.The attackers then drove away in a car parked a few metres away, police sources said.A policeman with Chandigarh’s traffic police wing was at the market when the incident occurred and made a call to the police control room.Two people wounded in the incident have been taken to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.Police are now going through footage from security cameras at the market to identify the attackers, sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shoot-out-in-chandigarhs-sector-9-two-hurt-93480
02-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Six pockets of Bapu Dham Colony will no longer be called ‘Buffer Zones’||The Chandigarh Administration has said it was removing six pockets of Bapu Dham Colony from under the "Buffer Zone” category and was lifting strict perimeter controls imposed around those areas last month.In its most recent order signed by UT Adviser Manoj Parida, the administration has said six areas in the colony that were declared buffer zone in an order dated May 4, 2020, will no longer have the strict perimeter controls that the previously order had mandated. However, the order says regular screening and monitoring of these areas by medical teams will continue.“The undersigned, in his capacity as Chairperson of State Executive Committee of State Disaster Management Authority hereby declares removal of perimeter control of above areas falling in BUFFER ZONE with the stipulation that regular screening and monitoring of the area by medical teams will continue,” the order said on Tuesday. Six pockets that will no longer be called buffer zones are pockets 2, 3,9, 17, 18 and 19.The order comes into immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-pockets-of-bapu-dham-colony-will-no-longer-be-called-buffer-zones-93441
02-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Chandigarh schools can't deny education over non-payment of fee: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2Disposing of a PIL against the UT order for payment of school fee, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday observed that non-payment of school fee by any parent would not result in denial of education or any other adverse consequence to the student.The Bench also laid emphasis on Clause 4 of the order dated May 18 saying that “neither any name of any student is to be struck off nor he/she is to be deprived of teaching on account of non-payment of fee”.The order issued by the UT Education Secretary calling for payment of tuition fee by specified dates was questioned in a public interest litigation filed by Advocate Pankaj Chandgothia. Appearing before the Bench  headed by  Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, Chandgothia contended that the order on payment of school fee would result in depriving the city school students of their Right to Education on unjust terms. The Chief Justice rued the fact that no parent or child was coming specifically with any plea against school fee and only PILs were being filed in this regard.The Bench also referred to the existence of a grievance authority by the name of Fee Regulatory Authority constituted by the UT Administration and headed by the UT Education Secretary where the parents could file complaints against the private schools in matters relating to fee. Such complaints are statutorily required to be scrutinised within 15 days of  receipt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-cant-deny-education-over-non-payment-of-fee-hc-93438
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh reports death, 3 new cases; UT tally rises to 301||An 80-year-old woman from Sector 30-B here tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, a day after she was brought dead to GMSH-16, taking the union territory’s COVID toll to five.Chandigarh also reported three new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the city’s case tally to 301.The deceased woman had a history of giddiness and had fallen on Monday. This was followed by a bout of vomiting. Subsequently, she was taken by ambulance to GMSH-16. The deceased had co-morbid conditions—a renal and liver disease—for which she took treatment at GMSH-16 and Civil Hospital, Kharar in January 2020. She has two family contacts, a daughter-in-law and grandson, both of whom are asymptomatic and will be sampled on Tuesday.The family's house had been surveyed by a team of health workers on May 31 May during a special drive in the area. At the time, the deceased and her two family members were asymptomatic and had no ILI/SARI symptoms.MC Councilor Devinder Babla on Monday wrote to the UT Administration highlighting its failure in connection with the death of the woman.The UT Administration has conducted only 125 tests in sector 30-B, which is a containment zone. A cluster of nearly 590 households was identified as part of the affected pocket in Sector 30-B on April 22.Bapu Dham Colony reported the three new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday. It included a 35-year old man, the husband of a woman who tested positive on Monday. With the latest case, the active cases in the city have risen to 83.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-reports-death-3-new-cases-ut-tally-rises-to-301-93387
02-06-2020||Our Correspondent||SUV catches fire at Sunny Enclave||Kharar, June 1A Mahindra Scorpio, an SUV, suddenly caught fire behind the KFC at Sunny Enclave on Monday evening. The SUV was gutted in the incident.The vehicle owner, HS Jolly, former member of the Kharar Municipal Council, said after getting the SUV repaired, he parked it at his residence and went to an ATM to withdraw cash today.When Jolly came back he noticed smoke coming out of the SUV. When Jolly opened bonnet of the SUV it caught fire within seconds and was reduced to ashes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suv-catches-fire-at-sunny-enclave-93060
02-06-2020||---||Jan Shatabdi brings 443 to Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 1After a two-month lockdown, the arrival of Jan Shatabdi at the Chandigarh railway station this evening announced the renewal of passenger services.Among 443 people who got off the train they had boarded from Delhi, one was diagnosed with high temperature. “I have come from Patna to Delhi and now Chandigarh,” he said. He was sent to the GMSH-16 for a detailed health examination in accordance with the standard operating procedures listed by the government.The doctor on duty said: “Relevant tests will be done at the hospital to assess his medical condition.”The railway station was unusually quiet with no coolies and not a single stall open for business and a battery of RPF and local police ensuring social distancing among passengers.The train had stopover of eight minutes. A team of doctors and security guards at two ends of the platform screened the passengers.UT Administration officials ensured that every traveller signed an undertaking of self-monitoring their health for 14 days. IFS Abdul Qayuam, nodal officer of passenger train operations, said officials completed the forms of passengers who could not read or write.Savitri, a passenger who came from Dhanbad, said: “I had gone to visit my relatives in Dhanbad on Holi. As the lockdown was announced, I got stuck there.” She was travelling with her two children, youngest of them is two-year-old.Megha, who visited her parents in Sector 41, here, said: “We reached the station in Delhi at 1 pm and the train left at 2:35 pm. While booking the ticket, we were asked for our Aadhaar card and travel details such as where we are going, our purpose of visit and the number of days we will be staying at the destination.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jan-shatabdi-brings-443-to-chandigarh-93035
02-06-2020||---||Nigerian among six drug peddlers land in police net||Mohali, June 1The Mohali police, along with the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) staff, arrested six persons, including a Nigerian, and recovered 3.5 kg of heroin worth Rs 18 crore, Rs 1 lakh in cash and two cars from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Anjul Sodhi, a resident of Sirsa in Haryana, Parivar Singh, a resident of Ballo Majra village in Mohali, Ravi Verma, a resident of Sunny Enclave in Kharar, Dalvinder Singh, a resident of Khehra Kalan village in Mohali, Neelu, a resident of Sirsa, and David, a Delhi-based Nigerian.Superintendent of Police (Investigation) Harmandeep Singh Hans said following a tip-off, a team of the CIA staff was checking vehicles on the Chhajjumajra village road on May 28. Meanwhile, five suspects travelling in Swift and Chevrolet cars tried to escape on seeing the cops. However, the police managed to nab them on the spot. On checking of the vehicles, 1.3 kg of heroin and Rs 1 lakh drug money were recovered from them.Haans said the interrogation of the suspects resulted in the arrest of the Nigerian national, David, on Sunday from Delhi and 2.2 kg of heroin was recovered from him.“The police had to put a lot of efforts to nab David as he started pelting stones at cops,” said Harmandeep.The SP said the suspects were active in drug peddling for the past couple of years in Punjab, Chandigarh and Haryana. He said the suspects used to purchase the drug from Delhi and sell it in these states at higher prices. Some of the suspects have a criminal background.The five suspects, who were arrested earlier, are already on six-day police remand, while the local court sent David to three-day remand today. Further investigations are on this case.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 21-61-85 of the NDPS Act at the Kharar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nigerian-among-six-drug-peddlers-land-in-police-net-93036
02-06-2020||---||Babla highlights Chandigarh Administration’s ‘failure’||Chandigarh, June 1 Local councillor Devinder Singh Babla today wrote to the UT Administrator alleging that the Administration had ‘failed’ in taking care of those suffering from serious ailments at the Sector 30 containment zone. “This is the second case in Sector 30 today in which Kamal Kaur (80) died due to the Administration’s failure. Earlier, Jarnail Singh, an elderly, also died because of the Administration’s failure,” said Babla. “This morning, Kamal fell from her bed. Her children alerted officials standing outside the sealed area to save their mother. After an hour, an ambulance arrived in which there were neither oxygen cylinders nor any other facilities. Health workers took old woman with difficulty, who died on her way to the hospital,” shared Babla. “Similarly, in Jarnail’s case, the ambulance came late by almost two hours and he died the same way. Who is responsible for these two deaths? Who will compensate their families? The Health Department is taking everything lightly. Had the ambulance reached here with all emergency services on time, both elders of our sector could have survived,” Babla added. “Ambulance should be available round the clock at the containment zone,” Babla said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/babla-highlights-chandigarh-administrations-failure-93037
02-06-2020||---||Man booked for tearing cop’s PPE kit in Sector 30||Chandigarh, June 1The UT police have booked a 30-year-old resident of Sector 30-B, which is a containment zone, for tearing the PPE kit of a constable on duty in the containment zone here today.According to the police, an 80-year-old woman, identified as Kamal Kaur, a resident of Sector 30-B, fell unconscious this morning following which she was shifted to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, in an ambulance, which, the police claimed, was parked outside the containment zone.Sources said residents gathered at the spot following which a police personnel deployed inside the containment zone wearing the PPE kit asked them to go inside their houses.The police said an announcement was also made by the duty officer through the public address system, following which people present there went to their houses, but one Abhilash caught hold of constable Sachin and tore his PPE kit. Abhilash also allegedly provoked other residents to come out of their houses.The police said he also violated the administration guidelines by gathering people in the containment zone.He has been booked under Sections 188, 269 and 353 of the IPC. Since the suspect resides in the containment zone, his arrest has been deferred for the time being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-tearing-cops-ppe-kit-in-sector-30-93038
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘Open markets on daily basis’||The Chandigarh Market Welfare Association has urged the UT Administration to open main markets daily instead of odd-even basis. In a letter to the UT Adviser Manoj Parida, Narender Singh, president, Sadar Bazaar, Sector 19-C; and convener, Chandigarh Markets Welfare Association; Jaswinder Singh, chief, Shastri Market, Sector 22; Sanjeev, president, Patel Market, Sector 15; Sunil Jain, president, Krishna Market, Sector 41; and Naresh Jain, president, Palika Bazaar, Sector 19; said they were following all the guidelines to combat Covid-19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-markets-on-daily-basis-93039
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||LPG cylinder explodes in Sector 37 house, 1 hurt||An elderly man suffered injuries in a fire that broke out after an LPG cylinder exploded at a house in Sector 37 here this afternoon. The victim, Ishwant Singh, was rushed to the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, for treatment. According to the Fire Department, they received a call regarding the incident at 12.35 pm. Soon, three fire tenders were pressed into service. Two fire tenders from the Sector 38 fire station and one from Sector 17 were rushed to the spot. The firemen controlled the blaze within half an hour. As per information, the LPG cylinder was kept in the store room in the rear verandah. It exploded and all of a sudden. The exact reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained. Furniture, some household items and documents were destroyed in the fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lpg-cylinder-explodes-in-sector-37-house-1-hurt-93040
02-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||No more odd-even for shops in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 1Following the Central Government guidelines for Unlock 1.0, the administration here today decided to do away with the odd-even concept of opening shops in the district.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan, while giving relief to shopkeepers, said as per the directives of the Punjab Chief Minister, effective from today, shops in main bazars would open between 7 am and 7 pm and liquor vends could remain open from 8 am to 8 pm. Barbershops and salons were already open in Mohali.Dayalan said they had extended the curfew relaxation timings by four hours daily - two hours in the morning and two in the evening. Now people were free to move between 5 am and 9 pm, which was earlier between 7 am and 7 pm. All employees, be it government offices, private and other work places, would be allowed to move without any pass during the permitted hours i.e. from 5 am to 9 pm. However, for inter-district and inter-state travellers, self-generated e-pass was mandatory.Dayalan said the Punjab Chief Minister, however, made it clear that strict compliance would have to be ensured to all SOPs, as well as health and safety protocols, including wearing of masks and social distancing. He urged the people to avoid non-essential travel despite the fact that there were no restrictions in place on movement within the city or districts. The State Health Department would issue a separate SOP in this regard.The Deputy Commissioner said for inter-state travel, buses would commute with the consent of other states as per the SOPs to be issued by the Transport Department. The Transport Department would also issue SOPs for intra-state movement of buses. Inter-state movement of essential goods would not be restricted.He made it clear that there are no restrictions on either inter-state or intra-state movement of passenger vehicles such as taxis, cabs, stage carriers, tempo travellers and cars, but self-generated e-pass needs to be downloaded from the COVA app. Bicycles, rickshaws and auto-rickshaws will be allowed subject to compliance of the SOPs as issued by the Transport Department, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-more-odd-even-for-shops-in-mohali-93041
02-06-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula yet to receive orders on de-sealing of borders||After the Ministry of Home Affairs in its fresh guidelines stated that there should be no restrictions on inter-state movement of persons and goods, Panchkula (City) Sub-Divisional Magistrate Dheeraj Chahal said they were yet to receive orders from the state government for de-sealing of district borders with Chandigarh. At present, there is no restriction on entry into Panchkula from some areas, including the Housing Board. “We just inquire those who try to enter into Panchkula during curfew hours. During the day, there is free movement of people,” said a Head Constable who has been deployed at one of the district borders. “There is no official order and no restriction on movement of people. Nakas will remain in place for surveillance,” said another senior official. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja prohibited movement of individuals between 9 pm and 5 am in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-yet-to-receive-orders-on-de-sealing-of-borders-93042
02-06-2020||---||Pay traffic challans till June 30||Chandigarh, June 1The UT traffic police have extended last date for paying fine for traffic violations till June 30.The payment of routine traffic challans at the Traffic Line, Sector 29, was withheld from March 19 in the wake of the Covid-19.The violators were given an extended period of three months from the date of challan. However, the date has been extended till June 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-traffic-challans-till-june-30-93045
02-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||Two more held for Ferozepur youth’s murder||Kharar, June 1 The Kharar city police have arrested two more suspects in the murder case of a Ferozepur youth, Inderjit Singh, who was allegedly shot dead on November 7 last year in broad day light when he was riding his motorcycle with two friends. Inderjit Singh died on the spot near Darpan City, Kharar. However, his friends were not hurt. Later, the two friends were arrested by the police over their alleged involvement in the murder Kharar city police SHO Bhagwant Singh said victim’s friends Gagandeep Singh and Harpreet Singh were arrested in the murder case on a production warrant. They were produced before a local court on Saturday and remanded in police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-held-for-ferozepur-youths-murder-93030
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rajinder Kaur is UILS Director||Prof Rajinder Kaur joined as the Director at the University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS), Panjab University, for a term of three years. Rajinder did her PhD on “A socio-legal study of the problem of violation of rights of the child in India” from the PU and Post Graduate Diploma in Media Laws from the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR), Hyderabad. She has seven books and fifty-five research articles to her credit.DSWs take chargeProf Sukhbir Kaur, Department of Zoology, took the charge of the DSW (Women) at the PU today. Dr Rupinder Kaur joined as the Chief Medical Officer, Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Institute of Health. The Vice-Chancellor, gave the charge of the DSW (Men) to Prof SK Tomar, Department of Mathematics, till June 27. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rajinder-kaur-is-uils-director-93032
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 37 resident duped of Rs 72K||Powermen wear black badgesChandigarh: On a call given by the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCDEEE), electricity employees under the banner of the UT Power Union, Chandigarh, observed a protest by wearing black badges here on Monday. The protest was lodged against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 and privatisation move of Union Territories. The protest was observed by maintaining distance and other norms adopted by the government. Union general secretary Gopal Datt Joshi and acting president Dhian Singh termed the Bill as anti-farmer and anti-domestic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-37-resident-duped-of-rs-72k-93067
02-06-2020||Panchkula||Non-surgical heart procedure||Region’s first non-surgical valve-in-valve procedure was recently performed on a 70-year-old woman heart patient.Using the latest technique, interventional cardiologist Dr HK Bali and his team successfully operated upon the patient at Paras Multi speciality Hospital, Panchkula. The non-surgical procedure can be performed even on high-risk elderly patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-surgical-heart-procedure-93072
02-06-2020||---||Punjab Police launch separate investigation||Chandigarh, June 1The Punjab Police have launched an investigation into the firing incident at the house of a hotelier, brother of a liquor baron, which is primarily being investigated by the Chandigarh Police.DGP Dinkar Gupta said as the target of the attack -- Arvind Singla -- had large liquor business in Punjab, an investigation to ascertain the motive behind the crime and gather intelligence inputs on threats, business rivalry, role of gangsters or any other angle was being probed.ADGP RN Dhoke, Head, Internal Security, was supervising the probe.Arvind Singla is already under the Punjab Police security cover. He was given four gunmen. “He was given security on general threat perception. There was no specific threat. More may be known during the probe,” said DGP Gupta.Four or five unidentified men fired 17 gunshots at the Sector 33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla last evening. The Chandigarh Police claimed the attackers were looking for his brother and liquor baron Arvind Singla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-launch-separate-investigation-93073
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Leave before you get killed, attackers told guard, cook||“I, along with cook Roop Singh, was standing at the gate when the assailants arrived and asked us to leave before we get killed. We ran inside and locked the main door to restrict them from entering the house,” said Ikhlam, a security guard and eyewitness who was at the gate when the assailants arrived.Ikhlam, while running for his life, got injured after he sprained his feet and fell.“We were at the gate when the assailants, who had their faces covered, arrived at the gate with guns in their hands. Within seconds, they opened fire and escaped from the spot,” he said.They fired at least 17 bullets on the house of Rakesh Singla, who owns Hotel Amara in Sector 43. Three bullets pierced through a window and went into the bedroom on the first floor.Sources said the assailants had parked their car on the adjacent lane of the corner house. One of them walked to the house and at that time Rakesh was standing in the balcony. “The suspect, who had his face fully covered, asked for Arvind’s address from Rakesh, who gave him the address after which the suspect walked away calmly,” the sources said.Around 10 minutes later, all assailants came to Rakesh’s house and opened fire.They fired at least 17 bullets on the house of Rakesh Singla, who owns Hotel Amara in Sector 43. Three bullets pierced through a window and went into the bedroom on the first floor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leave-before-you-get-killed-attackers-told-guard-cook-93074
02-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Max surge in cases in fourth lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1As the city is all set to enter the fifth phase of the lockdown with more relaxations, the trend has shown that the fourth phase witnessed the highest number of cases — 103.The first lockdown of 21 days had witnessed only 21 cases in the city as the initial outbreak was only restricted to foreign travellers and their contacts. Subsequent surge during the second and the third lockdown phase was witnessed due to Bapu Dham Colony, which has now become a Covid epicentre in Chandigarh. The cases in the colony alone account for 74 per cent of the total cases.A senior epidemiologist from the PGIMER said: “The surge in cases is because of Bapu Dham Colony. We couldn’t restrict mingling of people there. Neither we were able to test and isolate effectively in the early phase of outbreak. It has no relationship with the lockdown. Bapu Dham was the same in all phases rendering lockdown and containment ineffective.”Unlocking vital for economy: AdviserManoj Parida, UT Adviser, said: “Even after 60 days, only three deaths were reported and mostly due to co-morbidities. So, the decision of coming out of the lockdown to revive the economy is timely and appropriate. Centre’s best doctors and public health experts have advised the policy for the entire country. The infection cannot be prevented, it can only be contained. No one knows for sure how it transmits.”Cases will spike sans lockdown, says expertDr Sonu Goel, School of Public Health, said: “The impact of one lockdown is visible on the next lockdown. If we contain the number of cases in one lockdown due to social distancing, then the spread will be limited in the next.”Dr Goel added: “We need to imagine what would have happened in absence of the lockdown. The rate at which the disease spreads or the number of persons an infected person is likely to infect would have risen exponentially if there was no lockdown. Brazil has not resorted to a lockdown and has witnessed upward movement in the number of cases, whereas there has been a dip in the number of cases in Italy and France after the imposition of the lockdown.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/max-surge-in-cases-in-fourth-lockdown-93033
02-06-2020||---||IIT-Ropar converts household trunk into sanitisation unit||Chandigarh, June 1 The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, has developed a ultraviolet (UV-C) light-based sanitisation unit using a household luggage trunk. The unit is based on UV-C germicidal irradiation technology for disinfecting packages and personal accessories as well as food items, including raw vegetables and fruits. It is suitable for offices as well as homes. A low-wattage UV light tube has been retrofitted in the trunk, which has been lined from the inside by a metallic sheet of particular specifications. The item to be disinfected is placed inside and exposed to the UV-C light for about 10 minutes on each side. It can be used for letters, files, wallets, keys, handkerchiefs, stationery, grocery packets, bottles and eatables. The unit has been conceptualised and designed by Prof Naresh Rakha, Senior Scientific Officer at the IIT, along with Dr Khushboo Rakha, Assistant Professor, and TS Anand, an executive engineer at the institute. “At IIT-Ropar, we believe that staying healthy is a way of life and in today’s scenario, when the world is battling with Covid-19, innovative affordable products should help us in our fight against the virus. Every individual should take all possible measures to avoid exposure to the new deadly pathogens,” Prof Naresh Rakha said. The technology for manufacturing the unit has been transferred to a Chandigarh-based firm for commercial production. Pritpal Singh Matharu of Esspee Industries said initially, they would make 20 units per day and increase output as availability of raw material improves. “UV-C light is known to destroy all kinds of viruses that get exposed to it, but it needs to be used carefully and in a calibrated manner,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iit-ropar-converts-household-trunk-into-sanitisation-unit-93031
02-06-2020||---||Three more from Bapu Dham test positive||Chandigarh, June 1Three more cases of Covid have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony taking the city tally to 297.Those tested positive today are two girls, aged 18 and 19, and a 42-year-old man, all family contacts of a previously diagnosed Covid patient in the colony.Meanwhile, 15 residents of Bapu Dham have been discharged and sent to Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22, a post-discharge quarantine facility.A total of 214 cases have been cured and discharged from an ayurvedic hospital in Sector 46.At present, there are 79 active Covid cases in the city.Delhi man found infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: A 63-year-old man from Delhi, who came to see his relatives in Sector 20 on May 26, has tested positive for Covid. He is admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh. The case will be counted in Delhi’s tally. Dr Rajiv Narwal, Covid nodal officer for the district, said, “We have collected samples of the infected person’s wife, son, daughter-in-law and granddaughter.” Screening in their group housing society was being conducted, he added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-from-bapu-dham-test-positive-93053
02-06-2020||---||No pass needed to enter city||Chandigarh, June 1No mandatory home quarantineNow, no mandatory 14-day home quarantine is required for people visiting the city. They have been advised self-monitoring.On inter-state travel, the UT Administration has lifted all restrictions imposed at the entry and exit points in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said no mandatory pass was required to enter the city from other states. However, random screening would be done on the border and visitors would be advised self-monitoring for 14 days, he said, adding that all restrictions at the entry or exit points in the city and police nakas on the UT side had been removed. “Now, all connecting roads can be used like pre-Covid days,” he said.Apply online to visit other states, if requiredResidents of the city, desirous of taking a travel pass for visiting other states, wherever such a pass is needed, can apply online to the District Magistrate. Only persons outside the containment zone will be issued such passes. The District Magistrate will take the final decision with regard to the eligibility for such passes.He said residents of the city, desirous of taking a travel pass for visiting other states, wherever such a pass was needed, could apply online to the District Magistrate. Only persons outside the containment zone would be issued such passes, he said, adding that the District Magistrate would take the final decision with regard to the eligibility for such passes.On increasing the number of passengers in a car or an auto-rickshaw, he said the Central Government had not relaxed the conditions imposed earlier on the number of persons allowed in a car, taxi or auto-rickshaw. He said the earlier order wherein only three persons were allowed in a car or taxi, only one passenger in an auto-rickshaw and no pillion rider on two-wheelers would continue to remain in force in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-pass-needed-to-enter-city-93055
02-06-2020||---||Now, shop from 10 am to 8 pm||Chandigarh, June 1Timing restrictions not for essential shopsThe restriction of timings not to apply to shops selling essential items such as bread, milk, medicines, vegetable and fruitsMarriage functions will be allowed at selected community centres from June 8The temporary functioning of the vegetable and fruit market at the ISBT, Sector 17, to continueNow, city residents will not have to bear the scorching heat while shopping. As per the new guidelines issued by the UT Administration, shops will remain open from 10 am to 8 pm outside the containment zones in the city. However, the restrictions on the timings will not apply to shops selling essential items, such as bread, milk, medicines, vegetables and fruits.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, said these measures would benefit both traders and consumers. Shopkeepers of Sector 30 have requested the Administration to keep the new timings even after the lockdown ends.UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that the odd-even stipulations would continue in respect of ‘congested’ markets and the same would apply to the street vendors too.Barbershops open from todaySpa and massage centres, and swimming pools will, however, remain closed till further orders.To prevent the spread of Covid-19, the Health Department has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed at salons and barbershops.From June 8, the use of selected community centres would be permitted for holding marriage functions with a gathering of 50 persons, he said, adding that not more than 20 persons would be allowed at the last rites ceremonies. As per the new guidelines, the government offices will function from 10 am to 5.30 pm with 75 per cent staff. From June 8, the department heads may call 100 per cent staff, if required.However, defence and security services, health and family welfare, police, prisons, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services, disaster management and related services, customs and municipal services will function without any such restrictions.General public can meet officers for their personal grievance redressal, etc, between 11 am and noon.The private offices will be allowed to call 75 per cent of their staff till June 7 and 100 per cent thereafter. Both government and private offices and other enterprises will encourage employees to work from home and to avoid travel.The wholesale market in Sector 26 will continue to open and the temporary functioning of the vegetable and fruit market to the ISBT, Sector 17, will continue till further orders. Apni mandis or day markets will not be held till further orders.Any person violating the measures issued by the UT Administration will be liable to be proceeded against under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides facing legal action under Section 188 of the IPC and other legal provisions.SOPs for salons, barbershops in UT(i) Green: All bio-degradable like cut hairs/cotton/used paper sheet/paper cups, etc(ii) Blue: All non bio-degradable (except metal) like plastic sheets/polythene, etc(iii) Yellow: All sharp and hazardous waste like blades/disposable razors, etcGuidelines for management & workersGuidelines for clients/customers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-shop-from-10-am-to-8-pm-93056
02-06-2020||---||Car identified, hunt on for assailants||Chandigarh, June 1The UT police have identified the Ford Ikon car that was used by the assailants, who opened indiscriminate fire at hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla's house in Sector 33 yesterday. Rakesh's brother Arvind Singla, a liquor contractor, has disclosed the names of some disgruntled associates, who could be behind the attack.These associates are being contacted and questioned by the police. Sources said the call records of the suspects would also be scrutinised.The police said they had got the registration number of the car and police teams had been sent to three different cities of Punjab, where the suspects were believed to be hiding. The mobile tower dump data of the crime scene is also being obtained to establish the mobile numbers that were active in the area at the time of the incident.The police are assuming that it is the handiwork of some professionals, who executed the plan fearlessly.Sources said the police were also gathering information about gangsters who were active in neighbouring states.The Singla brothers have denied having received any extortion calls, but the police are not ruling out the extortion theory.A police official said the motive behind the attack was still unclear. While CCTV cameras installed at Rakesh’s house were not working for almost a year, the police have collected the footage of cameras installed outside Arvind’s house.In a CCTV grab, one of the assailants is seen talking to a cop, who was on duty outside Arvind's house.Sources said the assailants were speaking in Haryanavi dialect.Meanwhile, armed cops of the Chandigarh Police have been stationed outside hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house. The cops on duty are keeping an eye on the visitors to the house.Was at centre of political slugfestArvind Singla was recently at the centre of a political slugfest between Congress politicians and a top Punjab bureaucrat, with the former accusing him of being a partner of the latter’s son in a bottling plant in the Doaba region of Punjab. Later, the bureaucrat had denied that his son was a partner of any liquor contractor.After father's death, brothers had parted waysSources said after the death of their father, Rakesh and Arvind had parted ways and segregated their business. Arvind got the liquor business, while Rakesh got hospitality and other businesses.Arvind among top liquor baronsArvind Singla is among the major liquor contractors of the region with around 500 vends in Punjab and at least 12 in UT. Arvind has bottling plants in the UT and Dera Bassi, besides a brewery.Took paid securitySources in the UT police said Arvind took security from the Punjab Police five years ago on a payment basis as huge cash transfers were involved in his business. A year later, he stopped paying for it. However, the police still continued to provide security to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-identified-hunt-on-for-assailants-93059
02-06-2020||---||Now, MC water supply from 3.15 am to 9 am||Chandigarh, June 1Challans to be issuedTo ease out the low water supply, a team of officers and committee members will continue to visit various areas and challans will be issued to the those who had attached booster (tullu) pumps with the direct water supply lines.The Water Supply and Sewerage Disposal Committee of the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, has decided to increase the water supply hours in the morning — from 3.15 am to 9 am — during the summer season.This was decided during a meeting held here today under the chairmanship of Anil Kumar Dubey and attended by other members of the committee, including Chief Engineer Shailender Singh.During the meeting, it was decided that road gullies will be checked throughout the city by the SDEs concerned and they would send a report daily to the higher authorities.The committee members were of a view that the remaining works related to public health, which were started before the lockdown, would be taken up on a priority basis and completed well before monsoon to avoid any untoward incidents. The committee also instructed the engineers concerned to keep a fleet of water supply tankers ready so that they could be made available as per the demand of residents.The members also decided to visit Hallo Majra and Ramdarbar area for checking the low water supply pressure and other water supply-related problems in the area in the evening.54 get notice for wasting waterThe MC today issued notices to 54 households for wasting water. If violation is repeated, they will be issued a challan.One of the households was issued a challan of Rs 5,000 for using a water motor attached with the main supply line.To ease out the low water supply, a team of officers and committee members will continue to visit various areas and challans will be issued to the those who had attached booster (tullu) pumps with the direct water supply lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-mc-water-supply-from-3-15-am-to-9-am-93028
02-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||How three-day-old girl caught infection remains a mystery||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1How did the three-day-old city patient — probably the youngest to die of Covid-19 in the country — caught infection has remained a mystery so far.Neither her mother nor father was tested positive. The staff members of the Sector 22 Civil Hospital, where the baby was born, and her other contacts also tested negative. While health experts are finding it an unusual case, possibilties behind this are numerous.“It is an unusual case. If not parents and other contacts, how did the baby got infected? There has to be a reason,” said a senior PGI doctor on the condition of anonymity.Dr Alka Sehgal, head, Department Of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said: “There could be many possibilities. Test reports of her mother and other contacts could be incorrect. Her Mother should be tested again. Infection can be contacted from clothes also.”Dr Ravinder Pal Kaur, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Sector 22, said: “Besides her parents, we tested all mothers and their babies present in the hospital when she was born. We also tested our staff members. But none was found positive. Still, there could be other possibilities.”Arun Gupta, UT Health Secretary, added: “No, we could not trace the source of infection. We tried to, but could not.” After her demise at the Sector 22 hospital, the baby was tested last Sunday at the PGI. Her family lives in Dadu Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/how-three-day-old-girl-caught-infection-remains-a-mystery-93029
02-06-2020||---||Sector 77 youth’s parents +ve too||Mohali, June 1The parents of a 21-year-old youth from Sector 77, who had tested positive for Covid two days ago, have been found infected with the virus too. The two fresh cases have raised the district tally to 116 with 11 of these active.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the test reports of the samples of the student’s family members were received today, which confirmed that they were Covid positive though they were asymptomatic. He said the student had reported at the flu clinic on May 28, after which his samples were taken and on May 30, he was confirmed positive for the virus.Three of them had been isolated at the Covid care centre in Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, the Civil Surgeon added.Manjit Singh said the source of infection in the 21-year-old was being traced.Of the 116 Covid patients in the district, 102 have recovered and three have died. Mohali has a recovery rate of 87.9 per cent and a fatality rate of 2.5 per cent.Meanwhile, a 29-year-old woman, a resident of Adarsh Nagar of Nayagaon, was discharged from the PGI, Chandigarh, today. She had tested positive for the virus after giving birth to a child at the GMSH in Sector 16, Chandigarh, on May 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-77-youths-parents-ve-too-93062
