05-06-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports another COVID-19 case; son of diagnosed patient tests positive||A 19-yearold man tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, taking the district tally to 28.District officials said the 19-year-old’s swab samples were taken for testing after his father was diagnosed with COVID-19. They both live in Panchkula’s Sector 12-A."The report of son (19) and wife (48) of the infected person from Sector 12A has been received. While the son is positive, wife's negative," Dr Rajiv Narwal, covid nodal officer for the district, said.The patient has now been moved to an isolation ward in the civil hospital in Sector 6.Panchkula has only two active cases now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-another-covid-19-case-son-of-diagnosed-patient-tests-positive-95022
05-06-2020||---||Coronavirus: Four more test positive in Mohali||Mohali, June 5Mohali reported four new coronavirus cases---a development that took the district tally to 127.Three of the four were contacts of already diagnosed cases and one was classified as a new case, district authorities said.A 61-year-old tested positive in Sector 70. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that three patients from Sector 78 were the wife, mother and father of an already diagnosed patient from Sector 78 with a travel history of Delhi. All four new cases have been admitted to the Covid Care Centre in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.  Also on Friday, a 33-year-old Non-Resident Indian from Dera Bassi was released from Gian Sagar Hospital.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the district now has only 20 active cases. Mohali has reported three deaths from COVID-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-four-more-test-positive-in-mohali-94999
05-06-2020||---||UT Admn extends holidays in govt, aided schools in view of lockdown||Chandigarh, June 5The Chandigarh Administration has extended holidays in government and aided schools in view of corona lockdown.Also read:Coronavirus: Four more test positive cases in MohaliSector 30-B taken off Containment Zone listDirector (School Education) Rubinderjit Brar confirmed the development. Earlier, the schools were to remain closed till June 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-admn-extends-holidays-in-govt-aided-schools-in-view-of-lockdown-94993
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 7 new COVID-19 cases||Chandigarh reported seven COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the union territory’s infection tally to 309.Also read:UT Admn extends holidays in govt, aided schools in view of lockdownSector 30-B taken off Containment Zone listDon't bring kids to Chandigarh's Sukhna Lake for excursion, says UT adviser Manoj ParidaSix of Friday’s seven cases came from Bapu Dham Colony---a coronavirus hotspot and containment area in the city.  Two adults---a 35year-old woman and a 40-year-old man---and four children ages 3, 10, 10 and 14 tested positive for COVID-19All six were contacts of already diagnosed cases.The last case was a 57-year-old woman from Chandigarh’s Sector 21. The city now has 31 active cases and has reported five deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-7-new-covid-19-cases-94987
05-06-2020||---||Sector 30-B taken off Containment Zone list||Chandigarh, June 5The Union Territory on Friday took Sector 30-B off the Containment Zone list with the stipulation that regular screening and monitoring of the area by medical teams will continue.Also readChandigarh reports 7 new COVID-19 casesUT Admn extends holidays in govt, aided schools in view of lockdownDon't bring kids to Chandigarh's Sukhna Lake for excursion, says UT adviser Manoj ParidaThe Chairperson of the State Executive Committee of State Disaster Management Authority declared removal of Sector 30-B from the Containment Zone.However, families from the close proximity of House No 1650, ie, Houses No 1649 and 1651 (around 30 people in these three houses) will be shifted to the institutional quarantine centres at the earliest and their vacant houses will be sanitised and kept out of human contact till the time the shifted families are allowed to come back.These orders will come into force with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-30-b-taken-off-containment-zone-list-94934
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Don't bring kids to Chandigarh's Sukhna Lake for excursion, says UT adviser Manoj Parida||Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida has expressed concern over people bringing their minor children for an excursion to the famed Sukhna Lake here.He has hinted at the use of police force to educate them. Take precautions as the fight against the coronavirus is far from over, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has already cautioned earlier."It was sad to see educated people bringing small kids to the Sukhna Lake," Parida tweeted."I really don't mind these stupid adults' 'early departure' with smiling eyes through the corona, but risking young innocent lives of future generations is criminal," he said."Plan to use police to drill sense in their head. What say?" Parida added.At this, someone responded: "You can't call a parent of a stupid or criminal mind. Every parent knows very well about the safety and well-being of their kids while going outside and in-home as well. They are not stupid. Sorry, but your statement is not appreciated."Parida retorted: "Strong sarcastic words are meant to provoke. Due to immunity issues, kids and old men must stay indoors. We all must be strict on this."Two more residents of Chandigarh were tested positive on Friday. Both belonged to the Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, the epicentre of the virus.They were family contacts of the previous positive cases, an official told IANS.Of the 304 cases, 77 are active, while 222 patients have recovered. The city has recorded five COVID-19 deaths. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-bring-kids-to-chandigarhs-sukhna-lake-for-excursion-says-ut-adviser-manoj-parida-94907
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh reports 2 new cases, UT tally rises to 304||Chandigarh on Friday reported two new cases of coronavirus, taking the union territory's case tally to 304. Bapu Dham Colony reported the new cases in two children—aged 10 and three—who were admitted to GMSH-16. They are family contacts of another coronavirus case.With the latest cases, the active cases in UT have risen to 77.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-reports-2-new-cases-ut-tally-rises-to-304-94887
05-06-2020||---||Immunity booster medicine donated||Immunity booster medicine donated Chandigarh: Sanjay Tandon, BJP leader, today gave away immunity booster homeopathic medicine to the local Municipal Corporation. He donated the medicine at Municipal Corporation office in Sector 17. The medicines have been made by doctor Sunil Sood. A total of 1,100 such bottles were handed over to Mayor Raj Bala Malik and Commissioner KK Yadav.  Senior Deputy Mayor Ravikant Sharma and councillor Heera Negi were also present on the occassion.  Before this, 2,000 such bottles were donated to the UT Director General of Police for the police personnel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immunity-booster-medicine-donated-94602
05-06-2020||---||Preferential plot at no extra cost for farmers||Mohali, June 4Farmers who had opted for the land pooling facility in Aerocity, Eco City-2, IT City and Sector 88 and 89 (under GMADA) have a reason to cheer as they won’t have to pay additional charges anymore for preferential locations.A notification to this effect has been issued by Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). Those who have already deposited money for preferential location of plots will get their refund in three months from GMADA.Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the decision would benefit a large number of farmers who had opted for the land pooling facility. He also disclosed that earlier, additional charges of 10 per cent for the corner plots and park-facing plots and 15 per cent in case of both facilities were being levied.He said the allottee farmers have long been demanding the rollback of the additional surcharges and Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has bestowed a gift on the farming community. The decision would also benefit the farmers who opt for land pooling during the acquisition of new lands, he added.Thanking the CM, the Housing and Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sukh Sarkaria and GMADA Secretary Sarbjit Singh, Balbir Singh Sidhu said the decision had sparked a wave of elation among farmers of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/preferential-plot-at-no-extra-cost-for-farmers-94603
05-06-2020||---||Mohali Health Department asks people to remain vigilant, pay bills online||Mohali, June 4  Concerned over seven Covid-19 positive cases that surfaced on Wednesday, the Health Department today warned people that they need to be more vigilant.  Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said it was evident that a large number of people were not taking necessary precautions. In several places such as markets, people are walking around without covering their faces and aimlessly, which is detrimental to their health and safety. He appealed to people to maintain necessary distance from each other.  Dr Manjit Singh asked people to do online transactions for paying water, electricity, mobile, cylinder refill and other bills. He said shops should not be crowded with customers and social distance should be maintained.  “The lifting of the curfew or relaxations in the lockdown does not mean that the disease has been eradicated. If we adopt a careless attitude and do not take precautions, the disease can strike us again,” warned the Civil Surgeon. He said people should cover their faces while travelling on scooters, motorcycles, cars or buses. He asked people to visit hospitals only in case of any serious problem and they should contact the Health Department helpline (104) for expert advice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-health-department-asks-people-to-remain-vigilant-pay-bills-online-94604
05-06-2020||---||Road repair work at MDC||Panchkula, June 4 Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today inaugurated the repair work of external roads between Sector 3 and 4, 1 and 4, 4 and 5, 3 and 6 and 4 and 6, Mansa Devi Complex. The repair work includes three years’ defect liability period with maintenance for free.  The roads will be re-carpeted at a cost of Rs 2.66 crore. The re-carpeting of 20 km of roads is likely to be completed in 8 months.  Gupta said: “Roads in every sector will be repaired and for this, officials have been issued necessary instructions. The Haryana Government has allowed economic activities in ‘Unlock 1’ as delays hamper the pace of development.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-repair-work-at-mdc-94606
05-06-2020||---||Regulate patient inflow via token system, Dayalan tells hospital||Mohali, June 4Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan today conducted a surprise check at Fortis Hospital here.After seeing a large number of patients waiting in the OPD, the Deputy Commissioner directed the hospital authorities to regulate inflow of patients through a token system. “Barring emergency, the entire inflow of patients must be controlled via token system,” he said.He suggested to propagate appointment system so that patients visit the hospital only during the given time slot. “The message should be conveyed that only one attendant should accompany a patient,” he said.The Deputy Commissioners said as patients with comorbid conditions visit the hospitals, any lapse in adhering to protocols advised in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, especially not wearing mask or not maintaining social distancing can wreak havoc.Dayalan said overall hygiene and sanitation was found satisfactory with due thermal screening at the hospital. However, some people were seen without mask and challaned on the spot.The parking was found haphazard and the Superintendent of Police asked the parking contractor to regulate pick-up and drop-off zone.Five teams under senior officers, including Additional Deputy Commissioner, Aashika Jain, under training IAS Officer Manisha Rana, Assistant Commissioner (General) Yashpal Sharma, SDM Jagdeep Sehgal, Tehsildar and Naib Tehsiladar, conducted surprise checks at Max Hospital, Phase 4 market and Sewa Kendras. Those found without mask were challaned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/regulate-patient-inflow-via-token-system-dayalan-tells-hospital-94607
05-06-2020||---||Patiala murder accused apprehended in city||Chandigarh, June 4A murder accused, Parmod Kumar, wanted by the Patiala police was apprehended by the Chandigarh police during an investigation into a firing incident at a liquor vend in Sector 9.Sources said Parmod’s role in Sector 9 firing incident could not be established.The police said Parmod, along with his associates, had shot Shamsher Singh (35) dead following an old rivalry at Patiala on May 21.Parmod was questioned for his role in liquor store firing.The police said during questioning, Parmod revealed information about other criminals active in the region, including Kanwar Randeep Singh Kahrod, alias SK, who operates liquor vends in Patiala, Jatinder Shergill, Sajjan, Abu and a few others.The police said SK had been involved in several criminal cases and recently, he entered into liquor business.The Patiala police later took him into their custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-murder-accused-apprehended-in-city-94608
05-06-2020||Panchkula||New timings for Panchkula shops||district will remain open from 6 am to 8 pm daily,” another order said. TNSGirl ‘molested’ by doctorZirakpur: A girl was allegedly molested by a doctor in the guise of physical examination at his private clinic at Baltana. The victim, a resident of Zirakpur, alleged that the doctor molested her when she had gone to his clinic for getting a medicine for fever. The matter came to light on Wednesday when the police received a complaint from the victim and initiated an investigation. OCTandon interacts with studentsChandigarh: Sanjay Tandon, National Council member of the BJP, held an online meeting during a “Netritva Sadhana” programme. He was a resource person from the Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini, a non-profit organisation. He talked about his journey starting from the RSS and then joining the BJP. He talked about his college days, attaining Chartered Accountant and Cost Accountant degrees. He discussed how PM Narendra Modi inspired him to join the Chandigarh BJP. He remained the Chandigarh BJP president for 10 years. The meeting was attended by students from 11 states, who were mostly graduates from diverse backgrounds. tnsBJP to distribute PM’s letterChandigarh: Chandigarh chapter of the BJP will distribute a letter that talks about “Atmanirbhar Bharat” written by Prime Minister Narendra Modi among residents. Revealing its plans for ‘Unlock 1.0’, local party chief Arun Sood told the media that a maximum of two people will undertake the activity of letter distribution and will avoid containment zones, quarantine centres and public places. Large scale distribution of face covers and sanitisers will contiune. All the party workers resolved to prefer Indian products. “About 1,000 virtual conferences will be addressed by the state leadership. Every leader of the party will conduct at least 500 such video conferences,” he added. TNSTwo held with 10-gm smackKharar: The police arrested Gurdip Singh from Nandpur and Parvinder Singh from Gapalon and recovered 10 gm of smack from their possession on Wednesday. Bhagwant Singh, Station House Officer at the Kharar City police station, said a case under the NDPS Act was registered. The suspects were remanded in one-day police remand by a local court. OCPoster on Covid awarenessChandigarh: DC Mandip Singh Brar on Thursday released an awareness poster on safety measures against Covid-19 for traders and public. Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, Chandigarh, said they had requested the members of the association to display posters in their shops to create awareness among the customers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-timings-for-panchkula-shops-94618
05-06-2020||Kharar||149 samples collected||As many as 149 samples were collected by teams of the Kharar Civil Hospital from Nayagaon on Thursday. Dr Kuljit Kaur, SMO Gharuan, said 61 samples were randomly collected from Nayagaon. Kharar SMO Dr Tarsem Singh said 42 samples were taken at the hospital. He said a team of doctors from Kharar took 46 samples at the airport. He said all these samples were sent to the PGI for testing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/149-samples-collected-94625
05-06-2020||---||2 kidney recipients discharged from PGI||Chandigarh, June 4Two recipients, who underwent kidney transplant during the lockdown, were discharged from the PGI today.“This gift is something we can’t buy. It’s a gift of life. There are no words to convey our thanks to the donor family,” said the recipients.The transplant was conducted on May 16 following the consent of the benevolent donor family of the deceased, Naresh Kumar (50), a resident of Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. Post transplant, both recipients were kept under observation.Prof Ashish Sharma, Head, Department of Renal Transplant Surgery, who spearheaded the procedure, said, “There were challenges involved as the entire country was under lockdown and all elective transplant surgeries had been put on hold. The donor and both recipients were tested for Covid-19.”Prof Sharma said, “The staff were rostered in such a way that only a limited healthcare workers came in contact with the recipients and no visitors were allowed. Both recipients recovered after three weeks. The duo was on dialysis for the past three years and there was a risk of contracting Covid-19 as they had to visit dialysis centres at least twice a week.”On May 6, Naresh was heading for work when he suffered serious head injury after falling from the height.He was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital from where he was referred to the PGI on May 7.As Naresh had received fatal head injury, it became evident that his chances of survival were extremely bleak. Naresh’s 10-day struggle between life and death came to an end on May 15 and he was declared brain dead.After his family’s consent, the doctors harvested kidneys for transplantation at the PGI, which enabled two terminally ill renal failure patients to have a second lease of life.“It was very painful to let him go, but someone got a chance to live. Naresh cared for everybody and this is an everlasting testament of his character,” said Puneet, a family member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-kidney-recipients-discharged-from-pgi-94610
05-06-2020||Mohali||‘Will rope in youth to make Mission Fateh a success’||In order to contain the spread of Covid-19 and make Mission Fateh a success, the Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) will rope in youth to spread awareness in every nook and corner of the state. Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, chairman of the board, said the board aimed to make Mission Fateh a success with the support of 13,900 youth clubs, 600 red ribbon clubs and two lakh NSS volunteers. He said that during the month-long campaign, the board members would create awareness about wearing masks, washing hands, maintaining social distance and taking care of the elderly. Bindra said they would ask people to remain vigilant about the entry of outsiders in their locality, to use COVA app to track Covid-19 patients and maintain a safe distance from them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-rope-in-youth-to-make-mission-fateh-a-success-94613
05-06-2020||---||Residents want strict vigil at Sector 9 market||Chandigarh, June 4Two days after firing took place in Sector 9 market, residents living nearby demanded round-the-clock security.“Cops should keep a strict vigil as brawls often take place in this area. People consume liquor in their vehicles and create trouble,” said Ashutosh, a resident of Sector 9.Consuming alcohol in a public place is a bailable offence under Sections 61/1/14 and 68/1/14 of the Excise Act and attracts either a fine or imprisonment of up to three months.On Thursday, some people could be seen consuming beer in cars at a parking lot of the market.“The market association should discourage this practice and deploy private security at parking lots. The police beat box is not enough to handle the situation. Residents living nearby should come forward and meet shopkeepers,” said Kiran Kathuria, a local resident.A police official on condition of anonymity said, “This market is one of the soft zones in the city as it has shops of all trades. From leading grocery stores to cafes, ice-cream parlours, eateries and chemist shops, among others, everything is here. This market caters to every section of society. At times we take strict action against offenders and sometimes a mere warning is enough. People should act responsibly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-want-strict-vigil-at-sector-9-market-94614
05-06-2020||---||Consider builder’s reply thoroughly, HC asks Chandigarh Municipal Corporation||Chandigarh, June 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that a builder’s reply to a showcause notice issued by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation would be considered thoroughly in accordance with law by the competent authority. The case pertains to the first multi-level parking in Sector 17.The direction by Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu came on a petition filed by M/s Gautam Builders against the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, and other respondents. The petitioner through senior advocate Vikas Bahl and Priyanka Kansal had moved the High Court seeking direction that the matter regarding the construction work of the multi-level parking near Gurdev Studio be inquired into by an independent agency, not involving UT officials. Directions were also sought for restraining the respondents from taking any coercive action against the petitioners till the report was submitted.After arguing for some time, the counsel for the petitioners expressed wish to withdraw the present petition with liberty to file detailed response to the showcause notice dated May 22. The counsel also prayed that the reply be considered by the respondents properly after taking into consideration the averments, which may be made therein.“The prayer seems to be justified. In view of the above, without going into the merits of the case, the present petition is dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to the petitioners to file their reply to the showcause notice dated May 22 within a week from today. In case the reply is filed, the same shall be considered thoroughly in accordance with law by the competent authority. Needless to say that in case any adverse decision is taken against the petitioner(s), they would be at liberty to take recourse to the remedy available under law,” Justice Sindhu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consider-builders-reply-thoroughly-hc-asks-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-94615
05-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Increase in excise duty sounds death knell for Mohali liquor vends||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 4Liquor vend owners in Mohali are worried over sales and their return on investments.Covid cessGaurav Jain, a vend owner, said the state government had imposed a Covid cess of Rs5 on PML, Rs10 on country-made liquor and Rs20 on foreign-made liquor.Reason: Rise in the excise duty and imposition of Covid cess on sale of liquor has impacted sales in the city.Liquor vends in the district had opened on May 8 after lying closed for 45 days during the lockdown, imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Gaurav Jain, a vend owner, said the state government has imposed a Covid cess of Rs5 on PML, Rs10 on country-made liquor and Rs20 on foreign-made liquor. He said Rs5 to Rs10 Covid cess has been imposed on beer.Jain said they are expecting about 20 per cent to 30 per cent hike on liquor, which would further affect their sales. Another liquor vend owner on condition of anonymity said only 30 per cent sale was witnessed at his vends. He said though Chandigarh had raised the excise duty by 30 per cent, still liquor is less expensive than Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/increase-in-excise-duty-sounds-death-knell-for-mohali-liquor-vends-94617
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||ITBP rushes to operationalise new Commands||Amid the continuing standoff with China, the ITBP has rushed to operationalise the newly sanctioned Commands at Chandigarh and Guwahati that will control all ITBP formations in the western and eastern theatres, respectively.An officer of the rank of IG from the headquarters in New Delhi has been transferred to Chandigarh with immediate effect “in public interest” to head the force’s Western Command. He will officiate as ADG till the posting of a regular officer here, as per the orders issued by ITBP Director General SS Deswal.This would be in addition to his present duties at New Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/itbp-rushes-to-operationalise-new-commands-94648
05-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Chandigarh airport sees rise in passenger traffic||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 4The Chandigarh international airport has witnessed more than 50 per cent increase in passenger traffic as around 1,300 persons are arriving and departing from here daily. On May 25, the first day of the opening of the airport after the Covid-induced lockdown, 765 persons had arrived.On June 3, a total of 1,284 passengers had landed at the airport. Of them, 721 had arrived from various destinations, including Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Srinagar and Dharamsala while 563 persons had boarded the return flights to five destinations from here. While on May 25, a total of 505 passengers had arrived on seven flights and 279 passengers boarded the return flights.A total of nine flights landed at the airport in the past two days, which included three IndiGo flights from Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, three Air India flights from Delhi and one from Dharamsala, two Go Air flights to Ahmedabad and Srinagar and one Vistara flight from Delhi. The IndiGo flight from Mumbai was cancelled due to operational reasons as per the information provided by the airlines.A majority of 125 passengers had arrived from Bengaluru, whereas from Mumbai 172, Ahmedabad 82, Srinagar 121 and five passengers had arrived from Dharamsala. A total of 92 passengers had boarded the return flight to Bengaluru, 188 to Delhi, 110 to Srinagar, 63 to Ahmedabad and 10 passengers had boarded the Air India flight to Dharamsala.On June 2, 1,401 had arrived and departed from the Chandigarh international airport on 18 flights while on June 1, a footfall of 1,142 passengers on 16 flights was witnessed at the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-airport-sees-rise-in-passenger-traffic-94688
05-06-2020||---||Chandigarh industrialists receive inflated property tax bills||Chandigarh, June 4Asked to deposit amount by July 31An industrialist at Industrial Area, Phase I, has received a whopping property tax bill for Rs11.99 lakh through an SMS. He has been asked to deposit the amount before July 31.Facing losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, industrialists allege that they have now been badly affected by inflated property tax bills.The industrialists stated that the Municipal Corporation (MC) had been issuing exaggerated property tax bills. They said an industrialist at Industrial Area, Phase I, had received a whopping property tax bill for Rs11.99 lakh through an SMS and he had been asked to deposit the amount before July 31.The industrialists stated that they had been receiving bills via SMS.Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said a majority of industrial units were getting 4-5 times inflated property tax bills, which included non-existing arrears and interests.“If a person gets a bill in lakhs, it will surely give a shock to the receiver during these trying times. It’s a sheer harassment of the industrialists. For the past two years, the MC had been sending us bills with errors and we have been making rounds of their office to get them rectified,” he said.He said there was a 20 per cent increase in property tax this year, which was like rubbing salt into wounds. The Administration had assured to waive property tax bills for at least the lockdown period, but it never happened.“E-sampark centres are charging collection fee, which is totally unjustified. No such charges are levied on payment of water and electricity bills,” he said.“It seems the MC just wants to multiply its revenue by hook or by crook, whereas we were expecting some relief from the government to tide over the crisis,” he added.An MC official said they had received complaints regarding inflated property tax bills and were trying to rectify the same.Meanwhile, RK Garg, convener, Second Innings Association, said the property tax rates had been revised upward in March this year. “There is a revision of 25 per cent or more in residential properties. Over and above, the MC records are not updated even after two years. Still many people are receiving demand notices for arrears even though they have paid the tax regularly without fail and they also possess valid receipts,” he said.“The entire public is facing acute financial crunch. The association requests the UT Administration that the property tax rates applicable in 2019-20 be restored,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-industrialists-receive-inflated-property-tax-bills-94687
05-06-2020||---||60-yr-old man bludgeoned to death, 1 held||Panchkula, June 4The police have arrested a suspect for allegedly killing a 60-year-old man in the Chandimandir area. The suspect has been identified as Pravesh Chaurasia.The body of the victim, Vishwanath, who used to live in a tin shack for the past 15 years, was found in the bushes on the Panchkula-Pinjore highway near a petrol pump in Chandimandir this morning.According to the police, the victim’s body bore fatal injuries on the head. It appears that he was bludgeoned to death with a heavy stone. The victim hailed from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.According to an FIR, Umakant, who claimed himself to be known to the victim, alleged that he saw Chaurasia with the victim last night. “On Thursday morning, Umakant found blood stains near the tin shack of Vishwanath. He subsequently found his bludgeoned body some distance away. The victim’s face was not able to be recognised properly. The complainant suspected that Chaurasia could have murdered the victim under the influence of alcohol. Empty liquor bottles were also found near the victim’s one-room unit,” the FIR read.The body was shifted to the mortuary at the Civil Hospital for post-mortem. A case was registered under Sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 302 (punishment for murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-yr-old-man-bludgeoned-to-death-1-held-94686
05-06-2020||---||Thieves make off with Rs1L jewellery from Sector 8 temple||Chandigarh, June 4Two thieves broke into a temple in Sector 8 and stole silver jewellery worth around Rs1 lakh and cash from a donation box on the intervening night of June 3 and 4. The thieves entered the temple from the rear side after breaking grills.Ayodhya Shastri, head priest of the temple, said several cameras were installed in the temple. “The thieves covered one camera with a cloth, broke two cameras, removed the wire of another one and turned four cameras towards the roof,” he said.Shastri said the thieves failed to notice a camera near the stairs in which their images were captured.The footage shows them coming down from the first floor around 2.15 am. Both had their faces covered and one of them was carrying a bag on his back. Shastri said silver jewellery, including three “mukuts”, a plate, an idol, four singhasans (throne) and other articles worth around Rs1 lakh were stolen.The thieves also broke the donation box and stole cash. “Since the temple was closed due to the lockdown, there wasn’t much cash in the box,” Shastri said.The police were informed, who have initiated an investigation into the matter at the Sector 3 police station.Intensified patrolling?The theft that took place a few hours after the UT Administrator directed the police to intensify patrolling, increase the number of nakas and enhance police visibility on streets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-make-off-with-rs1l-jewellery-from-sector-8-temple-94685
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hoteliers seek relief package from Chandigarh Administration||As the authorities have decided to open the hospitality industry from June 8, members of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Chandigarh, have sought a relief package from the UT. Members of the association today met UT Adviser Manoj Parida and discussed various problems and hardships being faced by the industry.Arvinder Pal Singh, president of the association, said their demands include waiver of fixed electricity charges for the lockdown period, relief on deposing old dues of electricity bills up to October 31, 2020, waiver of property tax for the lockdown period and relief on deposing property tax till December 31.He said they also discussed opening of hotel accommodations, dining in and banquets. The Adviser assured to allow the opening of hotels on June 8 as per the guidelines of the MHA.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare today issued standard operating procedures for opening of hotels and restaurants.As per the SOPs, adequate crowd and queue management is to be ensured in hotels and restaurants. Not more than 50 per cent of seating capacity should be permitted. Staff or waiters should wear mask and hand gloves. Seating arrangement should ensure adequate social distancing between patrons as far as feasible. Contactless mode of ordering and digital mode of payment should be encouraged. Tables should be sanitised each time a customer leaves. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hoteliers-seek-relief-package-from-chandigarh-administration-94684
05-06-2020||Amit Bathla||Waste collector loses son, hope||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 4Ajay (25), who ended his life after reportedly losing work due to the lockdown, was an epitome of hope for his father Nawab (50), who had fractured his leg three years ago while working as a door-to-door waste collector. The injury never healed and Nawab was unable to work again.As a result, the entire responsibility fell on the shoulders of Nawab’s two sons — Ajay and Vijay — who worked hard to meet their father’s expectations.The duo used to collect garbage from around 180 houses in Sector 12 and earn Rs100 per house, but the lockdown brought their family income down significantly. The family survived on dry ration and food packets provided by the authorities and NGOs. However, things turned from bad to worse when some “influential persons” allegedly tricked the duo out of the job.“A day before Ajay committed suicide, I urged those persons to call my sons back to work. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appealed to employers not to sack their workers, but the opposite happened. I dedicated my entire life working for them and it has lost meaning now,” said Nawab. “We had no money to perform his last rites. My brother and neighbours came forward to help us arrange his funeral,” he said.This is the second suicide reported from Rajiv Colony near Sector 17, Panchkula, apparently due to job loss during the lockdown.On May 25, a 22-year-old youth had committed suicide after he ran out of money and had no food.The Covid-19 outbreak has hit people living in slums hard. Two friends from the adjoining Buddanpur — Bablu Kumar (22) and Raju (20) — who were engaged in glass fitting works, are a testament to large-scale job loss during the lockdown.“We are not being called back to work. People who live in kothis fear contracting Covid-19 from the ones who live in slums,” said the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-collector-loses-son-hope-94683
05-06-2020||---||80-yr-old woman tests positive, Chandigarh tally 302||Chandigarh, June 4With a fresh Covid-19 case being reported from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, the city tally has reached 302. The UT has not added the Sector 21 positive case, reported yesterday, to its count since the person was from Delhi.Of the 302 cases, 75 are active, while 222 patients have recovered. The city has recorded five Covid deaths.The latest positive case is of an 80-year-old woman, a community contact of a previous positive case. Six of her family contacts were sampled today. While one of them has tested negative, the reports of others are awaited.8 more recover, dischargedEight more patients, all residents of Bapu Dham Colony, have recovered and have been discharged. They were shifted to a post-discharge quarantine centre at Sood Dharamshala on Thursday.3 patients cured in Mohali districtMohali: Three Covid-19 positive patients were discharged from the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur here on Thursday. Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the persons who defeated the virus include two men and a woman. Of these, 2 belonged to Mohali, while one hailed from Zirakpur, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-yr-old-woman-tests-positive-chandigarh-tally-302-94682
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hearing on ISA plea adjourned||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today fixed June 8 for hearing a petition filed by the Independent Schools’ Association (ISA) challenging directions to unaided private schools to upload balance sheets on their websites and the constitution of the Fee Regulatory Authority.The petition filed against the Union of India and four other respondents was today placed before the Bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma, but the hearing was adjourned. Comprising 78 unaided privately managed schools, the association and two other schools were seeking directions to the respondents for quashing orders, memos and correspondence whereby the respondents directed the private unaided schools to upload the income and expenditure account and balance sheets on the websites.Counsel Aashish Chopra submitted the direction was issued even though the account statements were available with the authorities concerned.Going into the background of the matter, Chopra submitted the UT District Education Officer recently started issuing memos and reminders to the private unaided schools and that in quick succession, asking the schools to upload income and expenditure account and balance sheet on their respective websites.Chopra asserted the direction was in blatant disregard to their inherent autonomy. He said the schools had been threatened with action in case they failed to comply with the directions. Chopra submitted they were also challenging the composition of the regulatory body and the penalties imposed.“The petitioners are now under legitimate apprehension that the respondents may adopt coercive measures against them, which would prove to be particularly harsh in the current milieu, where the schools are already reeling under the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic that too with limited manpower and resources. The petitioners are, thus, left with no other option but to seek redressal, through the present petition, from the High Court,” he said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hearing-on-isa-plea-adjourned-94681
05-06-2020||---||Sector 30 may shed containment tag||Chandigarh, June 4The UT Administration may take a decision on the removal of the containment zone tag from a part of Sector 30-B tomorrow.A day after residents of the area staged a protest against the containment zone, a meeting of the affected area committee was held here today. An official said the containment zone from Sector 30-B was likely to be removed tomorrow. The Administrator would take a final decision in this regard, said the official.Residents of the area said the Administration should immediately take them out of the containment zone.Fed up of staying at home for the past more than two months, residents of the area held a protest yesterday. On getting information, senior officials reached the spot to pacify the protesters. They assured the protesters that the Administration would soon hold a meeting in this regard.Earlier, the Administration had decided to remove the containment zone tag from the area on June 4, but after the death of an elderly woman on Monday, the Administration decided to defer the decision. However, after the protest, a meeting of the committee was called today. At present, there are three containment zones in Chandigarh - pockets of Bapu Dham Colony, a part of Sector 30-B and Kacchi Colony in Dhanas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-30-may-shed-containment-tag-94680
05-06-2020||Amit Sharma||Gangster Bishnoi has kept cops on toes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4It is not for the first time that gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s name has cropped up in a crime in the city. The gangster and his accomplices have been keeping the UT police on their toes for the past few years.From “ordering” killing from jail to making extortion calls to businessmen, Bishnoi has always been in the limelight. Now, Bishnoi’s link to the firing incident at a hotelier’s house in Sector 33 is being investigated by the police.The UT police had recently brought Bishnoi on production warrant for his role in the killing of Sonu Shah at Burail. Bishnoi had confessed to hatching a murder conspiracy from the jail. Shah, a property dealer who had a criminal past and was a rival of the Bishnoi gang, was shot dead at his office in Burail, Sector 45, in broad daylight on September 28 last year. Ten bullets were pumped into Shah’s body.Around two weeks before the murder, the owner of Boulevard, a club in Sector 26, had received a WhatsApp call from a person who introduced himself as Lawrence Bishnoi and demanded protection money. The club owner was told that the money could be paid either monthly or annually.In April 2018, the owner of a leading chemist shop in Sector 11 had received an extortion call. The caller introduced himself as Sampat Nehra, a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, and demanded a ransom of Rs3 crore.Nehra, who has several cases registered against him, was later arrested by the Haryana Police from Hyderabad in June 2018.Bishnoi former student of DAV College, Sector 10Bishnoi, who hails from Abohar in Punjab, is a former student of DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh. Once a SOPU leader, Bishnoi entered the world of crime a decade ago. It all started with college brawls. Bishnoi became a notorious criminal. He is at present facing several cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and robbery in several states, including Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.Access to mobile phone in jailBishnoi’s interrogation by the Chandigarh Police in the Sonu Shah murder case had revealed that a jail staff member at Bharatpur Central Jail, Rajasthan, was instrumental in providing him a mobile phone that was used to communicate with his gang members. Several Facebook pages linked to Bishnoi also have his pictures and selfies taken inside the jail, which establishes the fact that he always had access to a mobile phone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-bishnoi-has-kept-cops-on-toes-94656
05-06-2020||---||1 more held in Sector 33 firing case||Chandigarh, June 4A Sarangpur resident, who provided arms and shelter to the assailants who opened fire at a hotelier’s house in Sector 33, has been arrested by the UT police. As many as 80 cartridges have been recovered from his possession.The suspect had been identified as Kulwinder Singh, alias Kala (40), a resident of Sarangpur.The police said they received a tip-off on Wednesday night that Kala, an accomplice of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi who is suspected to be involved in the firing at the hotelier’s house in Sector 33, was present near an institute in Sector 34 in a black Ciaz car.Acting on the information, the police nabbed Kala and recovered 80 cartridges of 7.62 bore from him. During the investigation, it was found that Kala provided weapons to the assailants.Sources said Kala provided shelter to the assailants before and after the firing. “They were provided shelter at a house in Bhago Majra, Mohali,” the sources said.He also assisted the assailants in conducting a recce of Arvind Singla and his brother Rakesh Singla’s house. Kala was produced before a court today, which remanded him in five-day police custody.Meanwhile, Zirakpur resident Sewak, alias Guru, who was held for arranging a vehicle for the assailants to carry out the shootout, was also produced before a court, which remanded him to five-day police custody.Though Sewak claimed that he didn’t know about the plans of the assailants, a police official said anything on the involvement of Sewak could be confirmed only after the arrest and interrogation of other suspects. Around four to five assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at businessman and hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33 on May 31. At least 17 bullets were fired at his house. The assailants had come looking for Singla’s brother Arvind Singla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-more-held-in-sector-33-firing-case-94655
