15-06-2020||Mohali||Over 160 retrenched workers among 177 to land in Chandigarh||Gaganjit Singh is relieved to be back in India. It’s been more than two months since his company in Dubai, where he was employed as a mechanic, let him go and he has since been stranded there because of lockdowns enforced to stop the spread of coronavirus.Gaganjit, a resident of Moga, is one 161 workers of the same company to have landed at the Chandigarh International Airport---part of a group of 177 evacuees who were brought back to India on Monday.Driven almost  to a point of closing down because of the global economic crisis, the company laid off 350 people, he claimed---a number he says includes carpenters and mechanics. The 161 people who came back were only one batch of the company’s former workers, he says---200 more are waiting to fly home from Dubai.Gananjit’s co-passenger and colleague at the company, Lakhbir Singh was also one of them many returning after having lost their jobs. The company had been providing for their lodgings and food, and even paid for the flight home, but the loss of an income has brought them under severe stress, he says.  Of the 177 passengers who landed in Chandigarh, 168 were from Punjab, two each from Chandigarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir and one from Uttarakhand.Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) spokesman said Punjab’s health team screened the passengers, before their own state governments received them. They will be quarantined according to government protocols, officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-160-retrenched-workers-among-177-to-land-in-chandigarh-99575
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh reports death, 2 new cases; residents of worst-hit Bapu Dham Colony protest against restrictions||Restive residents of Bapu Dham colony in Sector 26 came out onto the streets protesting their continued containment even as Chandigarh reported its sixth COVID death on Monday.The Union territory also reported two new coronavirus case, pushing the total number of cases to 355.Bapu Dham Colony reported a new case of the contagion, taking the total of active cases in the UT to 54.A 30-year-woman from Sector 52 was also diagnosed with COVID-19 at a Kharar hospital. The woman has a complicated pregnancy with an expected delivery date of next week. She has seven family contacts.Residents of the Bapu Dham colony, which is a containment zone and has reported the majority of the cases in Chandigarh, thronged the roads to protest the restrictions on Monday and urged to the administration to lift them. They broke social-distancing norms and threw garbage on the roads. They removed barricades and raised slogans against the UT Administration.Also read: UT not shedding red zone tag soon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-reports-death-2-new-cases-residents-of-worst-hit-bapu-dham-colony-protest-against-restrictions-99440
15-06-2020||---||Tricity sees virus surge, 27 +ve||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 14Sixteen new Covid cases were reported from Mohali today, taking the district tally to 176. The patients include a 23-year-old youth and a 27-year-old man, residents of Janata Colony in Nayagaon. Three patients from Dera Bassi, aged 21, 57 and 30, also tested positive for the virus.The other patients are five Lalru residents, aged 32, 28, 48, 52 and 22, a 19-year-old youth from Kharar, four persons, aged 40, 38, 11 and 16, from Kurali and a 49-year-old man from Dhakoli.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the 23-year-old and 57-year-old were contacts of positive patients, whereas some of the patients had a travel history to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Mumbai. He said health teams visited the area to collect samples of family members and possible contacts of the patients. The affected areas had been completely cordoned off and people living in the vicinity had been directed to stay indoors, he said.Dr Manjit Singh said the number of active cases had increased to 56 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-sees-virus-surge-27-ve-99189
15-06-2020||Panchkula||9 from Panchkula contract virus||Ten cases of Covid were reported from Panchkula district. One of these hailed from Dhakoli and will be counted in the Punjab tally.Among those tested positive for the virus are six members of a Raipur Rani family. The head of the family, an ex-serviceman, had visited Gurugram sometime ago. The man, aged 55, his wife (45), two sons, aged 30 and 32, a daughter-in-law (26) and a year-old granddaughter have been found infected.The area around their house near SD School in Raipur Rani has been sealed. All family members have been shifted to the isolation ward at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6. Meanwhile, two women from Kalka, who had returned from Delhi recently, and a man from Sector 10 have also tested positive for Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-from-panchkula-contract-virus-99190
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 UP returnees found infected||Two Covid-19 cases were reported from Khuda Ali Sher today, taking the city tally to 352 with 52 active cases.A 27-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man, both from Khuda Ali Sher, were found infected. They had returned from Uttar Pradesh on June 9 after staying there for four days. Both developed symptoms on June 11.Meanwhile, eight contacts of a positive case from Wazirpur in Delhi, who had visited Colony No. 4, Industrial Area, Phase I, recently, have tested negative for the virus.All six family contacts of a positive case from Khuda Lahora have also tested negative for the virus. The 28-year-old youth from Khuda Lahora had transported a worker of a medical shop in Sector 16 in his auto to the GMSH, Sector 16. He has 23 community contacts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-up-returnees-found-infected-99191
15-06-2020||Mohali||Two ASIs suspended for ‘high-handedness’||The police today suspended two policemen for allegedly damaging goods of shopkeepers in Phase 3B1 and forcing them to close their shops by misusing the orders of the district administration.The video of the alleged police brutality went viral following which strict action was taken against ASI Jasbir Singh and his namesake ASI, both deployed with PCR vans here.Mohali SP (City) HS Virk said, “We have suspended the cops and an inquiry has been initiated against them. We have also given instructions to all police officials about their duties. Such incidents will not be tolerated at any cost.”Ratan Singh, working president, Phase 3B1 Market Association, said two cops came on a PCR vehicle around 5.30 pm and started throwing and damaging goods placed outside a shop. He said the cops then forcibly asked the shopkeepers to close their shops. “They showed us the copy of the Administration order and said we can't open shops beyond 5 pm.”“Though it was clearly mentioned in the order that only shops dealing in non-essential items had to be closed after 5 pm and not confectionery and chemist shops. When we objected, they threatened us,” Ratan said.He alleged that the cops also took away a milk crate in their car. Similar incidents of forcibly asking shopkeepers to close shops were reported from other markets of the district yesterday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-asis-suspended-for-high-handedness-99192
15-06-2020||---||Two suspects in Sector 9 firing history-sheeters, say Chandigarh police||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14Two shooters, who had allegedly opened indiscriminate fire at a liquor store in Sector 9 leaving four of its employees injured, have been reportedly found to be involved in over 20 cases, including murder and firing. Both of them are at large.Recently, Deepak, alias Deepu Banur, was brought on a production warrant from a jail in Ambala. He had allegedly orchestrated the firing at a city hotelier’s house in Sector 33 and a liquor store in Sector 9.Deepu had identified the two shooters as Amarpreet, alias Rinku, alias Topi, and Devender Chawla. Deepu had also revealed the name of a gang member, Vainkat Garg of Ambala, who had allegedly provided shelter, weapons and a car to the assailants after which Vainkat was arrested. The police said investigations revealed that Amarpreet, a resident of Pehowa in Kurukshetra, was involved in around 10 cases registered in Punjab and Haryana. “Amarpreet was involved in similar firing incidents to intimidate liquor contractors in Haryana,” said a police official.The police said Devender, a resident of Hansi, Hisar, was involved in at least 13 cases in both Punjab and Haryana. He is also accused of a jail official's murder at Hisar.The police have recovered the Honda Amaze car used by the shooters in the Sector 9 firing incident. Meanwhile, an Alto car used by them has also been recovered.The recent incidents of firing in the city were allegedly carried out on the directions of Lawrence Bishnoi, a gangster lodged at a jail in Rajasthan. The police claimed that Bishnoi had directed Deepu Banur, Kala Rana, Vainkat and others to get these firings executed to threaten liquor contractors.The police claimed that extensive searches were being carried out in the neighbouring states to nab these criminals. The two assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at employees of a liquor store in Sector 9 on May 2. They had arrived in a white Honda Amaze, which was parked on the main road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-suspects-in-sector-9-firing-history-sheeters-say-chandigarh-police-99193
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula AAP leader held for cheating former IAS officer||The UT police have arrested an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader for allegedly duping a retired IAS officer of Rs2.05 crore. Yogeshwar Sharma had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Assembly elections from Panchkula on the AAP ticket.According to the police, the complainant, Harjeet Singh, a former IAS officer who retired from the Punjab Government and resident of Sector 40, alleged that Yogeshwar Sharma of Sector 16, Panchkula, cheated him of Rs2.05 crore on the pretext of selling 50 per cent share (basement and ground floor) in an SCO in Sector 46.The money was paid to the AAP leader in instalments in 2016. The property could not be transferred into the complainant’s name. The police said the complaint was investigated by the Economic Offences Wing following which a case of cheating was registered against Yogeshwar Sharma at the Sector 11 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-aap-leader-held-for-cheating-former-ias-officer-99195
15-06-2020||---||Chandigarh resident duped of Rs 2.37L on pretext of loan||Chandigarh, June 14A city resident was allegedly duped of Rs2.37 lakh on the pretext of a loan.According to the police, Sunny Kumar (30), a resident of Daria village, reported that last December, he had received a call from a person who introduced himself as Kamil Khan from Yes Bazar Finance Ltd, Mumbai. The complainant stated that the caller offered him a loan of Rs30 lakh, following which he sent the required documents. The complainant alleged the suspect made him deposit Rs2.37 lakh on various occasions in different accounts for getting the loan.However, the loan was not given to the complainant and the suspect stopped taking his calls. Later, his mobile phone was switched off.The victim approached the police and submitted a complaint that was investigated by the cyber crime investigation cell. Meanwhile, a case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against the suspect at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-resident-duped-of-rs-2-37l-on-pretext-of-loan-99196
15-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Slip in Panjab University rankings — What really went wrong||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14The latest National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in which Panjab University (PU) slipped to the 44th spot has brought in many worries along with it.Though the number of universities in the country has increased significantly, an era-old institution like the PU has to look for stringent ways to keep pace with its competitors.‘Together we will do it’I congratulate the PU fraternity for their sincere efforts, especially in the pharmacy, management, law and dental fields. The rising number of varsities has made competition tough. We all will work together to improve our rank. — Prof Raj Kumar, VCThis year, the PU has secured 50.08 points in teaching, learning and resources (TLR), 42.83 in research and professional practices (RPC), 71.27 in graduation outcomes (GO), 54.90 in outreach and inclusivity (OI) and 26.27 in perception. Last year, it bagged 51.02 points in TLR, 44.82 in RPC, 72.50 in GO, 52.89 in OI and 27.09 in perception.Non-maintenance of placement dataPerhaps the non-maintenance of placement data is one of the major reasons for the PU scoring low in various categories. Though the PU has a significant placement percentage, experts say underreporting by departments made the university submit this data. “We are looking at the placement data and the number of students progressing to higher education. It seems the data is underreported by various departments. So, we are trying to create a robust system wherein the data is accurately captured and reported,” said Ashish Jain, Director, International Quality Assurance Cell, PU.Student-faculty ratioAnother reason for the poor show may be the student-faculty ratio. Reports suggested that there are approximately 800 teachers against the sanctioned strength of 1,500 for around 15,000 students. Contractual staff are hired as per requirement. The facilities for the physically challenged also remain the same as compared to last year. The PU claims to have ramps/lifts in more than 80 per cent of its buildings, whereas less than 40 per cent buildings are said to have specially designed toilets.Depts that did wellThe University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) bagged the second spot among 334 pharmacy institutions in the country. The department was declared the second best with 79.80 points and perception of 95.05. The Department of Laws has been placed at the 15th spot with 51.11 points. The engineering department fell to the 72nd spot with 40.44 points, whereas the management department has secured the 42nd rank with 47.22 points, up from the 48th spot last year. The dental department remained at the 28th spot with 53.09 points.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/slip-in-panjab-university-rankings-%E2%80%94-what-really-went-wrong-99197
15-06-2020||How to keep kids below 10 & elderly above 65 physically & mentally fit?||Eat healthy, exercise regularly & remain occupied||They need companionThere is no doubt that protecting elderly people from coronavirus is important, but at the same time, they need some sort of companionship, as loneliness is the biggest disease. They must be taken out to a safe place if not markets for some time for a change. Some close relatives like daughters and sons can visit elders and socialise, but with necessary precautions of distancing and other safety norms.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliPrecaution is the only solutionNobody can dare to take Covid head on. The wisdom lies in using good quality masks, maintaining social distance, and restricting the movement of elderly and children. All educational institutions should open in shifts. Morning prayers should be dispensed with. The show must go on with all possible precautions till the time coronavirus disappears. The UT Administration should ensure implementation of all guidelines. Wrong doers should be penalised.KC Rana, ChandigarhStart project for senior citizensIt’s duty of family members to keep children engaged in their studies or other recreational activities. It is time to inculcate good values among children by understanding their psychology and individual needs. Grandparents can talk to kids and teach them moral values through stories and their experiences. Neighbours can take care of senior citizens, who live alone. The government should start a project to take care of senior citizens by communicating with them online or by sending volunteers to their homes to take care of their personal needs.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliHome is safe for elders, kidsThere has not been any breakthrough in vaccine for coronavirus. So, it is advised to continue following the guidelines issued time to time by the WHO. Nothing will happen if for few more weeks high-risk individuals stay at home. There is a need to counsel individuals for mental health and advise yoga at home for physical fitness. Preventive steps are the only way to avoid contracting virus. The situation is worsening since the implementation of Unlock 1.0. Senior citizens and children are advised to enjoy hospitality at home.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliStaying indoors will harm themLower age groups have been found to be more prone to infection than health conscious and law-abiding senior citizens. Asking them to stay indoors even in the Unlock 1.0 will harm them mentally. All senior citizens, who want to add zest to their lives deserve interaction with their buddies in parks, community centres and library rooms. They should wear mask and maintain social distance.SC Luthra, ChandigarhCan go out with family membersAs all activities are starting gradually, keeping children and elderly indoors for a long period will adversely affect them physically and mentally. Such individuals might face physiological issues. They should be encouraged to go out with their family members so that they do not venture into crowded place. There should be no problem in RWA societies with proper gates.BS Dhillon, MohaliIt’s a life-saving test, be in your nestEast or West, home is the best. Take some rest. Don't call any guest. Enjoy at home fest. Don't have an outgoing zest. This is our life saving test. So, be in our nest. This is the entire world's request. Every student cannot concentrate his/her mind on studies or indoor games. Online studies are out of bounds for many students due to non-availability of broadband. Parents cannot teach every subject. Such students should be allowed tuitions. Elders should be allowed to go for morning walk.JP Goel, ChandigarhDo 30-minute yoga at homeTill now, the situation is not under control. Covid-19 cases are increasing day by day. Sending children (below 10 years) and adults (above 65 years) out to refresh and relax their minds can be harmful to a family and society. Rather doing yoga for 30 minutes daily is the best option. It is a crucial time. Until the government and the medical fraternity find a solution to this pandemic, each one of us has to cooperate with the authorities concerned.Ankita Sharma, ChandigarhOccasional outings will benefit bothIt is difficult to keep children and senior citizens indoor for a long period. Occasionally, they should be allowed to venture out under the supervision of a young member of the family. He/she should take care of their hygiene, that they wear mask and keep social distance. This step would ensure that kids and elders don't feel depressed and experience mental agony.MR Bhateja, NayagaonExercise under regulated conditionsIt is utmost important that children and elders are aware of the situation arisen due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They need to go out for refreshing their mind and develop body and personality by outdoor physical exercises under regulated conditions while adhering to all prescribed guidelines. Children need to be under watchful supervision of their guardians and caretakers.Anil Nanda, PatialaPlay indoor gamesAs technologies keep people virtually connected, home quarantine is no longer dreary confinement as it historically used to be. To ensure its success, we have to be honestly home quarantined under the lockdown. The only way to ease the situation in high-risk groups below 10 and above 65 years is engaging in indoor games like carrom, ludo, backgammon and cards and create a bonhomie in the family.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurSafety begins with selfAs the Covid-19 monster is not leaving us too soon it is better to be safe than sorry. The new normal of precautions and personal protection bequeathed during past days of stringent regulations have made us shift to alternative ways and means to work and recoup for our mental and physical well-being. Answer to the question whether new normal makes life difficult for the high-risk group is that it depends on person. Safety begins with self and sustains with scruples for thy neighbour as thyself.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaKeep them busy in fruitful activitiesIt is difficult and depressing for children below 10 and elders above 65 years to stay indoors for such a long time. In this type of situation, they need the company of family members. We must spend time with kids/elders so that they may not feel depressed and keep them engaged in activities they like. An empty mind is a devil's workshop. Children can be made to do fruitful activities like craft, painting, and clay modelling whereas grownups can be kept busy by listening to 'bhajans', 'shabads', 'gurbani', watching mythological movies and serials. It will keep them mentally as well as physically healthy. Moreover, encourage them so that they may not lose hope.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhMost vulnerable are the youthWhat if youth, normally prone to immaturity, bring home coronavirus and infect children and senior citizens? Senior citizens are often matured, careful and precaution-oriented while small children are most obedient. May open malls, cinema halls, hotels, or clubs, only senior citizens would be self-restrainers and children can be easily restricted. Most vulnerable are the youth, who with their immaturity and false-ego often commit innumerable mistakes. Hence, elders and chidren should stay indoors.MPS Chadha, MohaliCare of mental faculties importantChildren, who are full of energy, and the old, who have nothing to do, are feeling the pinch of the isolation. Many senior citizens have started developing mental problems. Care of mental faculties is also attaining more importance. Permit elderly to go for morning and evening walks and visit shrines. Allow children to play outside parks and playgrounds. Due precautions like wearing masks, changing shoes and clothes immediately on entering the house and preferably taking bath afterwards must be observed.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhProvide conducive atmosphere to bothChildren below 10 and senior citizens above 65 need a little extra care so that their mental and physical health does not weigh heavy on their minds. Households having elderly and children need not go an extra mile. Provide them a conducive atmosphere to fight the growing feeling of being home quarantined. While elderly may pass time with their grandchildren by narrating bedtime stories, the younger lot may be insisted to play indoor games and watch children soap operas on the TV. The elderly can watch mythological serials, do physical activity and seek solace in household chores. Small family gossip sessions may prove beneficial for both.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhAllow outdoor activities under watchChildren and elderly need full care and attention. No doubt, elderly should spend maximum time in the company of small kids at home. Allow small children to indulge in outdoor activities. Parents should be cautious to check such activities. Only healthy elderly people should devote their free time in social service with full precautions. They can make illiterate people aware of the coronavirus disease, how to maintain hygiene and give solace to depressed and deprived.Anita Tandon, KhararInnocent natural theatrics the answerChildren below 10 and senior citizens above 65 have by nature and nurture a strong psycho-emotional bond, which both respect unconditionally. Both may belong to a high-risk group, but they also are high-potential species for using imagination to great pragmatic advantage. Apart from telling and sharing stories children and family elders can indulge in fine arts. The subtle trick could be that seniors feign ignorance to let juniors teach them art skills. Reciting poetry and then explaining its meaning via appropriate tales could be great fun.DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhKeep busy to stay aliveBlessed are the families, which have kids and elderly in their houses. This is a divine gift. Grandparents can take care of the kids. When youngsters are there elderly need not go out. The real problem is with senior citizens living alone. Despite restrictions, they have no option but to go out for drawing pension, bank work, medical checkup and buying medicines, ration and other necessities. "The way to stay alive is to keep busy. Learned can be kept busy in writing their autobiography or other topics of interest.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliMany are worried about their livelihoodElderly are worst hit due to compulsive stay within four walls during the lockdown. Dark thoughts hover on their minds as many are worried about the effect on their source of livelihood. They do not have any source of income and want to work. The focus should be on health and not age. Children too are longing to go back to their classes and meet their friends. A mechanism has to be evolved to ease this situation without compromising on health of vulnerable sections.Vidya Sagar Garg, ChandigarhBoth are hungry for love and affectionWith their experience, our elders have learnt to deal with different types of circumstances and problems. By now, they must have realised how to counter the prevailing situation. Children are unaware of the danger from the pandemic. In both cases immunity and stress is a major challenge. Elderly and kids need extra care, love, and affection. Create positive atmosphere in the family. Increase use of immunity booster food and supplements. Avoid watching discouraging news. Tune into spiritual or entertainment channels.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliStaying home is not confinementThe lockdown has been eased to revive economy. So, members of a family, who don't contribute financially, remain at home irrespective of their age. Staying at home is not confinement in any way. Rather it improves mental as well as physical health of all. Families having elderly should feel blessed by serving them with much care. Utilise this time to know about their life experiences and struggle. If humans can't stay at their homes then there is no such other place to reside in the universe.Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhFrequent interaction need of the hourElders need more attention and care. Their family members must interact with them frequently. They must encourage elders to do simple yogic exercises, watch TV programmes as per their taste and play indoor games. If possible, elders can be taken out for a drive with all precautions, including wearing masks and preventive gear, in vehicles with rolled-up windowpanes. It will boost their morale and help them shed gloomy feelings of house confinement.SS Arora, MohaliOpportunity to understand valuesYes, it is tough for children and senior citizens to be in the lockdown. But, it is for their safety and health. Aim is to keep them physically moving and mentally active rather than getting bored, eating and sleeping. They should be taken out for a walk with all precautions in open fields and on deserted roads. Children and elders can be involved in gardening. Apart from attending online classes, children can be taught life skills and hobbies. Elders can read, write and share their experience with children. It’s good opportunity for the family to understand human values and bond.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttQUESTIONWith returnees from other states adding to the Covid case load of the tricity, should the authorities allow them back with precautions and regulations or seal the borders for some time again?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eat-healthy-exercise-regularly-remain-occupied-99199
15-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Two IMA passouts make their parents, Chandigarh proud||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14Two city-based youths — Animesh Agnihotri and Shivam Sharma — passed out as cadets from the Spring Term-2020, Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, on Saturday.The two cadets will join on the ranks of lieutenant in the Indian Army. Belonging to a humble background, both cadets will proceed directly to join at their respective place of first posting in the Army. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the leave period, two to three weeks generally, was called off.Animesh Agnihotri (23) did his schooling from Chandigarh and graduation from Mumbai before clearing the Combined Defence Services (CDS) exam and Services Selection Board (SSB) in the first attempt. “He is a brilliant student. He scored 10 CGPA in Class X from Manav Mangal Smart School (Mohali) and 93 per cent in Class XII (GMSSS-16). We are happy and wish he could visit us. We missed going to the passing out parade. Nevertheless, he made us all proud,” said Maj ML Sharma (retd), his father.Shivam Sharma (23) also cleared the CDS-SSB exam in the first attempt. His father Santosh Kumar Sharma, who owns a cycle store in Sector 20, is a happy man. Shivam Sharma, a graduate of GGDSD College, Sector 32, had an aim to become an Army officer since 2011. “After his graduation, I gave him an option to look after our business. But he refused. Instead, he remained at home for an entire year. He studied and cleared the exam in his first attempt. He fulfilled his grandfather’s last wish. As a parent, there’s nothing more we could want. I am just waiting for him to come home and see his smiling face,” said Santosh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-ima-passouts-make-their-parents-chandigarh-proud-99200
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Reconsider opening varsity,  PUTA asks VC||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) submitted a memorandum to the Vice-Chancellor.“The MHA and the UT Administration have issued special directions for all educational institutions to ensure safety of students, teachers, staff, general public and parents, who are likely to visit university offices and departments in view of the ambiguous situation regarding admissions and examinations. In light of these guidelines, the decision to reopen the university on June 16 needs to be reconsidered, especially when there are serious apprehensions about the community spread of Covid-19,” PUTA stated in the memorandum.PUSA president writes to VCPanjab University (Non-Teaching) Staff Association president Deepak Kaushik wrote to the VC raising concern over working with 100 per cent staff. “The university should think over its decision to operate with 100 per cent staff because several employees live in areas other than Chandigarh where Covid cases are rising,” said Kaushik. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reconsider-opening-varsity-puta-asks-vc-99201
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGI doctor: NASH patients should be cautious||To mark International NASH Day, Dr Ajay Duseja, Professor in the Department of Hepatology, PGIMER, talked about the precautions that nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) patients must take during the Covid-19 pandemic.Recent data has suggested the presence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/NASH can also increase the severity of Covid-19 with higher hospitalisation rate. He said: “Hence, patients with these co-morbidities and NAFLD/NASH should take extra precautions to protect themselves from the disease,” explained Dr Duseja.“The higher prevalence of fatty liver in urban India, including Chandigarh, is related to the higher prevalence of metabolic risk factors such as obesity, diabetes mellitus, hypertension and dyslipidemia in the population,” said Dr Duseja. “Before the world was hit by the pandemic, we used to see 100 -125 new patients with NAFLD every month in the liver clinic run by the department,” informed Dr Virendra Singh, Prof and Head of the Department of Hepatology, PGIMER, Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-doctor-nash-patients-should-be-cautious-99202
15-06-2020||---||Surgery Department of Rajindra Hospital alleges discrimination||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 14Alleging discrimination, the Surgery Department of Government Rajindra Hospital said the authorities had been putting excessive burden of Covid duty on its staff.Doctors of the department have already written to the Chief Minister in this regard.Senior doctor, Surgery Department , Government Rajindra HospitalDoctors of the Surgery Department are performing duties at flu corners, emergency and isolation wards. We are mentally and physically exhausted.In a letter to the Chief Minster, they alleged that the hospital administration — led by the Head of the Department (HoD) of Medicine and Chest and TB — had been discriminating against them while preparing the duty roster. Questioning the Medicine Department, they (surgery doctors) asked why all Covid patients were referred to their department and not to the Medicine and Chest Department.A senior doctor of the Surgery Department said: “Doctors of the Surgery Department are performing duties at flu corners, emergency and isolation wards, while doctors of the Medicine and Chest Department are being spared. We are mentally and physically exhausted.”A second-year junior resident of the Surgery Department said: “We have contacted the authorities regarding our grievances. However, they threatened us of an action under the Epidemic Act. We want the head of the Surgery Department to be in the core committee, which prepares the duty rooster.”Meanwhile, the hospital authorities claimed that a majority of the patients were asymptomatic, therefore, they were assigned to the Surgery Department. The Medical Superintendent, Dr Paras Pandove, said the Surgery Department was creating unnecessary ruckus. “I will talk to doctors of the Surgery Department. If need be, we will take action against them because everyone has to perform Covid duties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surgery-department-of-rajindra-hospital-alleges-discrimination-99203
15-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh vendors want fee exemption, not loan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14Vendors in the city have demanded the Municipal Corporation to exempt them from paying vending fee for six months. The Centre had recently announced the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANIDHI) Scheme that enables vendors to avail of a working capital loan of Rs10,000, which is repayable in monthly installments in the tenure of one year.On timely and early repayment of the loan, an interest subsidy at the rate of 7 per cent per annum will be credited to the bank accounts of beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer on six monthly basis.Vendors said there was no or minimal sale due to the Covid-19 crisis. Not even a single vendor was operating from some of the vending sites such as Sector 15. They said they needed fee exemption instead of loan. The MC in its last House meeting had exempted them from paying fee for April and May, but they wanted more, they said.“Only a few vegetable and fruit vendors will be able to avail of the benefit of the scheme. Since most of the vendors are operating on an odd-even basis, why is the MC charging us for the entire month. The licence fee must not be charged,” said Santosh, a street vendor registered in Sector 15.Ram Milan Gaud, president of the Chandigarh Vendors’ Association, said, “Vendors need economic relief. It’s just a loan, which we’ll have to pay ultimately. How will we pay when there are no customers? They should give us six-month fee exemption.”Councillor Anil Dubey had also raised the demand in the MC House meeting.An MC official said, “We have already exempted vendors from paying fee for April and May. Future decisions will be taken after assessing the ground situation. As far as the scheme is concerned, it is to ensure that the vendors don’t get exploited in the need of the hour.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-vendors-want-fee-exemption-not-loan-99204
15-06-2020||---||Publicity vehicles to spread Covid awareness in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 14In order to create awareness about the lurking danger of the Covid-19 spread, the district administration will undertake an array of activities to encourage people to be more careful in the coming days.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan, along with MC Commissioner Kamal Garg and Sub-Divisional Magistrate Jagdeep Saigal, flagged off 25 public address system equipped publicity vehicles to rural and urban areas of the district.Kickstarting the Mission Fateh campaign in the district, Dayalan said publicity vehicles would traverse through maximum pockets of the district and covey the message of observing all precautions to curb the spread of the virus.Dayalan said this would be a weekly activity and would continue for three weeks.The Deputy Commissioner said door-to-door awareness should be created through Covid warriors such as ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers and Guardians of Governance in rural areas. “These workers are being presented Mission Fateh badges to recognise their contribution during the past three months and to encourage them to continue playing a crucial role in fighting the pandemic. The Education Department is also being roped in to apprise the students of the motive of Mission Fateh through online classes,” he said.He said a committee had been constituted under the chairmanship of the Additional Deputy Commissioner. He added, “The idea is to build a force of 1,000 Mission Fateh warriors at the state-level and reward them with gold, silver and bronze medals on the basis of the points earned.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/publicity-vehicles-to-spread-covid-awareness-in-mohali-99205
15-06-2020||---||Chandigarh housing board draw to decide online payment winners||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will hold a computerised draw to decide 10 winners each for the month of March, April and May tomorrow.The CHB had recently introduced the facility of online payment for all kind of dues and to further encourage digital payment, it had decided to hold a computerised draw every month to give a reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions irrespective of the amount paid.The draw was to be held in April for winners of the online payments made during March and so on up to December 2020. The draws of 10 winners for March, April and May could not be held due to the lockdown. Now, a computerised draw to decide 10 winners for each of these three months will be held on June 15 and total 30 winners will be given a reward of Rs1,000 each.With the introduction of the facility of online payment, the allottees are not required to visit the CHB office and they can pay dues online on chbonline.in. An auto-generated SMS will be sent on every successful payment and receipt of the payment can be downloaded instantly. The online payments can be made through net banking, debit cards and credit cards without any extra charge.The CHB stated that a considerable number of allottees are still making offline payments by filing physical challans in various branches of HDFC. It has been observed that common mistakes are being made by allottees during offline payments such as using different challan than the prescribed one for a particular payment, not mentioning some of the vital information and mentioning wrong information about the dwelling unit number, name of the scheme and allottee name, etc.The board stated that such mistakes were delaying account settlements and in some cases difficulties were being faced to credit payment against the correct dwelling unit. “Such mistakes are leading to further complications and delaying issuance of no-dues certificate and transfer letters. However, these issues can be avoided by making online payments,” the board stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-draw-to-decide-online-payment-winners-99206
15-06-2020||---||No headway in Lalru ATM robbery||Our CorrespondentLalru, June 14Even after four days, the police are still groping in the dark about the gang of thieves who targeted an ATM of the PNB branch at Dappar near here and decamped with the cash dispenser containing Rs16 lakh.The robbers were captured in a CCTV camera installed inside the ATM. But the police are facing difficulty in identifying the suspects as they had covered their faces.Gurcharan Singh, SHO, Lalru, said: “The number plate of the Mahindra pickup van used in the crime was not visible in the CCTV footage. We are yet to get any clue in this regard, but investigations are on”.In the CCTV footage, the thieves could be seen conducting a reconnaissance of the area and entering the booth. The suspects broke open the metal door with an iron rod. They tied one end of the rope with the ATM and the other with the pickup van parked outside. They succeeded in uprooting the machine within minutes. After committing the crime, they fled from the spot. An iron rod was recovered from the booth.The incident came to light when Ashish Adhikari, Branch Manager, PNB, received a call from the headquarters in Mumbai about the incident. After getting information, he reached the spot.The police said there was no security guard at the booth. The thieves, who appeared to be members of a professional gang, didn’t leave any ‘major’ forensic proof behind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-headway-in-lalru-atm-robbery-99207
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||CRAWFED talks road, water supply with city BJP chief||Several issues, including reduction in collector rate and leasehold to freehold conversion charges, were taken up by the Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) with city BJP president Arun Sood in a meeting at Kamlam, Sector 33, today.Representatives of more than 50 RWAs attended the meeting while maintaining social distance. Hitesh Puri, CRAWFED chairman, said the ratio of 60:40 while deputing officials from other states should only be exercised if UT Cadre officers were unavailable — as was being done in other UTs. Puri also demanded that no election should be conducted till March 31.“The condition of roads is deplorable. The situation gets worse during the rainy season. Re-carpeting work should start on a war footing,” said the members. They also raised the issue of low pressure of drinking water supply and muddy water in the past few weeks, especially in the southern sectors. Sood reassured CRAWFED that appropriate action would be initiated at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crawfed-talks-road-water-supply-with-city-bjp-chief-99208
15-06-2020||Mohali||Financial package for MSMEs sought||The industry and beopar wing of the SAD here today demanded that the Congress government should come out with a financial package for small and medium-scale industries by paying their salary bills and allowing the industrial and trade sectors to retain the state share of GST for a six-month period.The wing also urged the government to honour its promise to waive fixed power charges for the industrial sector, power and property tax for shopkeepers and bring down state share in GST on petrol.The wing, while congratulating its newly elected president NK Sharma, pledged to work for the welfare of the industry and traders of the state.Senior party leader Sarup Chand Singla said MSMEs were in a poor condition and the Punjab Government should give salaries to workers in order to get them back on their feet. A financial package should be announced for the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/financial-package-for-msmes-sought-99209
15-06-2020||Zirakpur||Mystery shrouds 70-yr-old’s death||An elderly person, who was found unconscious near the Kalka chowk late on Saturday night, died at the GMCH-32, Chandigarh.The body has been shifted to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, for identification. The police said the victim aged around 70 years. A bicycle was found from near the spot. The police are suspecting it to be a case of a hit-and-run. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mystery-shrouds-70-yr-olds-death-99210
