16-06-2020||---||Seven new COVID-19 cases take Chandigarh tally to 364||Chandigarh, June 16The Union Territory of Chandigarh reported seven cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally in the city to 364.Among the fresh cases include a 35-year-old man, a resident of Sector 25. Two cases from Sector-41 — a 22-year-old and 54-year-old women, who are family contacts of an already positive case of Delhi.Three cases are from Khuda Alisher — a 74-year-old man, 55-year-old woman and two-year-old boy, all are family contacts of the already positive case who had returned from Uttar Pradesh.One case is from Bapu Dham Colony — 12 -year-old boy, who is a family contact of an already positive case of the same house.With the seven new cases, the total active cases in the UT have climbed to 56.On Monday, the city saw its sixth death linked to COVID-19. A 60-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, who was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, posthumously tested positive for the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-new-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarh-tally-to-364-100061
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Perimeter control removed from Chandigarh's Bapu Dham Colony; regular screening to continue||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare included U.T., Chandigarh in the official list of Red Zone in the country. In Chandigarh, six areas were declared as containment zones. Now, further orders state that "removal of perimeter control" on all containment zones will be issued.  However, on June 6, Sector 30-B was removed from the containment zone, and on June 8, the remaining six pockets of Bapu Dham Colony and Kachi Colony, Dhanas were removed from the restrictions of perimeter control of Containment Zone/Buffer Zone.The committee comprising Commissioner Municipal Corporation, District Magistrate, Senior Superintendent of Police, Director Health Services, WHO representative and a considered view emerged that there is no need to further continue perimeter control in following areas of Bapu Dham Colony as per table given below:             The removal of perimeter control from the above areas with the stipulation that regular screening and monitoring of the areas with by medical teams will continue. Regular sanitization of the areas by Municipal Authorities will be conducted and the residents will be advised to maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.These orders will come into force with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/perimeter-control-removed-from-chandigarhs-bapu-dham-colony-regular-screening-to-continue-100036
16-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports three more coronavirus cases||Three more people tested positive for coronavirus in Mohali on Tuesday, district officials said.  A 22-year-old youth from Sector 70 has been admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, officials said.Mohali Deputy Commissioner said later in the day that two more men, ages 22 and 44,o tested positive.The 22-year-old man, a resident of Sector 127 in Kharar, had recently returned from Ahmedabad. The second patient has renal transplant complications and had recently returned from Delhi.  He is now at Ivy Hospital, Mohali.Two people---a 31-year-old-man and a 57-year-old woman---who had previously tested positive were released from Gian Sagar Hospital on Tuesday.  District officials say that Mohali how has 182, 52 of them still active.Three people have died of COVID-19 in Mohali since the infection first broke out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-three-more-coronavirus-cases-100007
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Border can’t be sealed, precaution needed: Chandigarh Advisor||Border cannot be sealed but precaution against coronavirus can be taken by avoiding visiting risky areas, Chandigarh Advisor Manoj Parida said on Tuesday.Quoting an example of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Parida informed in a tweet that its Director General of Police, the Inspector General of Police and the Senior Superintendent of Police have become corona positive after official tour to Delhi.“So friends please avoid travelling to risky areas and discourage visitors from there. Border cannot be sealed but precaution can be taken. Spread the word,” Parida added.In Andamans DGP,IGP,SSP, all three have become corona positive after official tour to https://t.co/tGkz3W7FnH friends please avoid travelling to risky areas and discourage visitors from there.Border can not be sealed but precaution can be taken.Spread the word.  Reacting to Pardia’s tweet, Anirban Roy Choudhury replied, “I think admin should be bit more strict and may restrict movement in the borders, if not sealing it. I think people are traveling randomly to and fro Chandigarh. Precaution is needed. Chandigarh is a small place and spread here may be devastating.”Parrampreet Siingh Khuranna advised the authorities in Chandigarh to shut the city’s famed Sukhna Lake for the general public “before it’s too late”.“You know what’s happening out there every day,” he said in a reply to Parida’s tweet.Chandigarh on Tuesday saw one new case of coronavirus, taking the tally to 358.A 35-year-old man belonging to Sector 25 tested positive for COVID-19. With this, the total number of active cases in the city rose to 51.A day earlier, the city saw its sixth COVID death.—IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/border-cant-be-sealed-precaution-needed-chandigarh-advisor-99983
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||60-yr-old Bapu Dham man Chandigarh’s 6th fatality||The city today saw its sixth death linked to Covid. A 60-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, who was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, posthumously tested positive for the disease. His four family contacts have been sampled.This is the second Covid fatality in Bapu Dham, a hotbed of the virus in the city. The containment zone has reported over 245 cases so far.Second from colonyThe man is the second person from Bapu Dham, a hotbed of Covid in the city, to die of the virus. Samples of his four family members have been taken for the Covid test. The containment zone has reported over 245 cases of infection so far.The patient, who had a history of hypertension, was admitted to the hospital with interstitial lung disease and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) on June 12. He died on June 14.Of the six Covid deaths reported from the city, five were found infected after their demise. Meanwhile, five fresh cases of Covid were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 357. As many as 50 cases are now active.Two cases each have been reported from Khuda Jassu and Bapu Dham and one from Sector 52.A man and a woman, both aged 32, who are family members of an already positive case from Khuda Jassu, have contracted the virus. The previous case is that of a worker at the Sector 16 medical shop whose owner had tested positive for Covid. Four family members of the Khuda Jassu man have already tested positive for the disease.A 65-year-old woman from Bapu Dham has also been found infected. She has six family members and their samples have been taken for the Covid test. A 30-year-old woman from Sector 52, who is in the family way with the expected date of delivery falling in the next week, has also tested positive. She is admitted to a hospital in Kharar. Her seven family contacts have been placed under quarantine.Meanwhile, six patients were discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital today after they defeated the virus. They have been shifted to Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, a post-discharge quarantine facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-yr-old-bapu-dham-man-chandigarhs-6th-fatality-99652
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Colony residents’ frustration spills on to streets||Restive residents of pocket number 15 in Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 today came out on streets to protest against the sealing of their area.Residents of the colony, a containment zone that has reported a majority of the cases in the city, thronged the streets to protest against the restrictions and urged the UT Administration to lift these.They stated that their pocket was sealed nearly 54 days ago and no new Covid case was reported from their area for the past over 20 days. However, they were still confined to their houses.“We have been inside our houses for nearly two months. There is frustration and anger among the people here. We have no earning and thus, no money to run our households. How long will we have to suffer?” lamented Rocky, a youth. “The UT should take a sympathetic view and seal only the houses from where the cases were reported. They cannot keep us jailed like this for long. Our patience is running out,” added another resident.Restrictions in some of the affected pockets in the colony were lifted earlier.The residents also raised slogans against the Administration. They flouted the social distancing norm. Some of them were not wearing a mask. The protesters, including kids, threw garbage on the road. They also crossed the barricades at some places.On getting information, senior police officials reached the spot and tried to pacify the protesters. The officials told them that the UT decision was for their own benefit and they should rather feel relieved that no new Covid case had been reported from their area for the past several days. It was only a matter of a few days and the area would be opened soon, said the officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/colony-residents-frustration-spills-on-to-streets-99653
16-06-2020||Mohali||Four new cases take Mohali count to 180||With the surfacing of four more Covid-19 cases, the district count has risen to 180.The fresh cases are those of a 65-year-old woman from Gillco Valley in Kharar, a 14-year-old boy from Nayagaon, a 48-year-old woman from Mubarakpur and a 35-year-old man from Peer Muchalla in Zirakpur. All patients have been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Meanwhile, eight more patients admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital have been discharged after recovery, bringing down the count of active cases in the district to 52.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said those discharged were a 28-year-old woman from Salempur, a 36-year-old man, a 34-year-old woman, a 61-year-old woman and a 66-year-old man, all residents of Sector 78 in Mohali, a 61-year-old man from Sector 70, a 20-year-old youth from Kurali and a 32-year-old man from Dhakoli.Of the 180 patients in the district, 125 have recovered, while there are 52 active cases. Three persons have died due to the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-new-cases-take-mohali-count-to-180-99654
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||At 85.51%, recovery rate  in Chandigarh the best in country||Amid a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, there is good news for city residents. With 85.51 per cent of the patients winning their battle against the virus till date, the UT’s recovery rate is the best in the country.The national recovery rate is 51.7 per cent. The neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana have registered 77 per cent and 42 per cent recoveries, respectively.The city has so far reported six Covid deaths and 357 cases, with 50 of these currently active. During the daily war room meeting, doctors informed UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore that in the past few days, of the 530 samples tested at the PGI, only 11 were found positive for the virus. Of the 149 samples tested at the GMCH, Sector 32, only one was positive.Expressing concern over the rising number of Covid cases, the Administrator directed health officials to focus on people coming from outside the city and also to take special care of persons with comorbidities.PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram informed that the trial and treatment of Covid cases with plasma therapy was yielding good results. The first patient, a 60-year-old man from Kurukshetra, who was administered convalescent plasma therapy, had been discharged after his successful recovery from Covid-19 at the PGI on Friday. The Administrator encouraged the hospital authorities to continue with the research and bring out a definite mode of treatment, which could be beneficial for the country.Badnore expressed satisfaction that Chandigarh residents were switching to cycling in a big way. He directed the Engineering Department to repair the cycle tracks on priority and provide safe cycle stands at different places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-85-51-recovery-rate-in-chandigarh-the-best-in-country-99690
16-06-2020||Panchkula||3 outsiders test positive in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-outsiders-test-positive-in-panchkula-99692
16-06-2020||Mohali||161 laid-off workers of firm among 177 back from Dubai in Chandigarh||As many as 161 workers laid off by a company were among 177 evacuee passengers from Dubai who arrived at the Chandigarh international airport here today.Gaganjit Singh, a resident of Moga, said since March 19, they were without work and the company in which he worked as a mechanic had laid off over 350 workers, including carpenters and mechanics. He said several companies in Dubai were on the verge of closure due to the pandemic.‘Many Dubai firms facing closure’Gaganjit Singh, a resident of Moga, said since March 19, they were without work and the company in which he worked as a mechanic had laid off over 350 workers. He said several companies in Dubai were on the verge of closure. He said 161 employees of their company returned on the flight on Monday and their tickets were booked by the company. He said over 200 workers were still waiting for their turn to get a flight to return home.He said 161 employees of their company returned on the flight today and their tickets were booked by the company. He said over 200 workers were still waiting for their turn to get a flight to return home. Another passenger, Lakhbir Singh of Mansa, said the situation was bad and over 5,000 workers from Punjab had been laid off by various companies in Dubai, which were on the verge of closure due to the outbreak of Covid-19. He said though the company had been providing them board and lodging facilities along with food, they were now under mental stress as they were without work for nearly three months and did not know what to do.Of the 177 passengers who arrived from Dubai today, 168 hailed from Punjab, two each from Chandigarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir and one from Uttarakhand.A spokesperson for Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) said all passengers were screened by a team of the Health Department, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/161-laid-off-workers-of-firm-among-177-back-from-dubai-in-chandigarh-99693
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jilted lover arrested for opening fire on youth||A 22-year-old jilted lover, who had allegedly attacked a youth with a knife and had opened fire on him in Sector 56 on Sunday night, has been arrested by the local police. The victim is reportedly a boyfriend of the suspect's former girlfriend.What had happenedAccording to the police, the victim, Deepak Kumar, a resident of Sector 56, was having a walk outside his house around 10.30 pm when the suspect, Amandeep Shah, alias Amar (22), who resides in the same locality, arrived there and allegedly attacked Deepak with a knife. The suspect also fired at the victim, but the bullet didn't hit him.According to the police, the victim, Deepak Kumar, a resident of Sector 56, was having a walk outside his house around 10.30 pm when the suspect, Amandeep Shah, alias Amar (22), who resides in the same locality, arrived there and allegedly attacked Deepak with a knife. The suspect also fired at the victim, but the bullet didn't hit him.He then escaped after robbing the victim of his mobile. The police were informed and the victim was taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, from where he was discharged after treatment.Police investigations revealed that Amandeep had an affair with a girl, who was Deepak's classmate.Deepak also used to like the girl following which he hatched a conspiracy to get them separated. "Deepak created a fake Facebook ID of a girl and started chatting with Amandeep. After sometime, he asked Amandeep to meet him. The day they were supposed to meet, Deepak told Amandeep's girlfriend that Amandeep was having an affair with a girl, who had come in contact with him on Facebook, and Amandeep would be coming to meet that girl. This led to arguments between Amandeep and his girlfriend, which led to a break-up," said a police source.The police said Amandeep wanted to take revenge from Deepak following which he got a country-made pistol from Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh, in November last year. He was waiting for the right time to attack the victim.The police said a case against Amandeep had been registered under Sections 307, 323 and 394 of the IPC and under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Sector 39 police station.The police said the suspect worked as a supervisor with an online shopping website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jilted-lover-arrested-for-opening-fire-on-youth-99695
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Teaching at Panjab University to remain suspended till June 30||The Panjab University authorities today announced that teaching would remain suspended till June 30, while the non-teaching staff would continue to function with a minimum of 33 per cent attendance till further orders.33% non-teaching staffFrom June 16, only 33 per cent of the non-teaching staff in university departments/centres and regional centres will attend office. However, no employee will be allowed to leave the headquarters without permission. The decision has been taken in light of the MHA guidelines. Earlier, the PU campus was expected to open for the teaching staff from June 16. However, after protests by faculty members, the decision was revoked.As per the new notification, teaching will remain suspended till June 30 in the university. From June 16, only 1/3rd of the non-teaching staff in university departments/centres and regional centres will attend office. However, no employee will be allowed to leave the headquarters without permission. In teaching departments where the number of non-teaching employees is five or less, the Chairperson will be authorised to call more than 33 per cent of the staff on duty depending upon the requirement.The office timings will be from 9.30 am to 5 pm (with lunch break from 1 pm to 1.30 pm). The controlling officers/chairpersons/directors/unit heads and others should report to duty in their respective offices/departments/centres on all working days and the remaining staff shall report on a rotational basis.“To maintain social distancing and following other precautions/guidelines issued by the Centre, the heads should take decision regarding rotation of staff, seating arrangements and the distribution of work and time. Cleaners, gardeners, maintenance and security staff shall report for duty everyday as per the requirement. However, the staff residing in areas designated as ‘containment zones’ shall be exempted,” stated the orders.The staff shall strictly observe the protocol and safety precautions issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare — frequent hand wash and maintenance of proper hygiene; maintaining social distancing; avoiding crowding of staff members; cleanliness and sanitisation of the personal area (table, personal belongings, etc).It was also decided that teaching will remain suspended in affiliated/constituent colleges till June 30. However, principals of the colleges can call employees on need basis. Besides this, the affiliated colleges located in Chandigarh and Punjab would follow the guidelines issued by the respective governments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teaching-at-panjab-university-to-remain-suspended-till-june-30-99699
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||30 Chandigarh Housing Board allottees win Rs 1,000 each in draw||By paying only Rs52 online, a woman resident of Sector 41-A won a prize for Rs1,000 in a draw conducted by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) here today.The CHB had recently introduced the facility of online payment for dues so that the allottees are not required to visit the office.To further encourage online payments, the CHB had decided in March to hold a computerised draw every month to give a reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions, irrespective of the amount paid. The computerised draw was to be held in April. However, due to the lockdown, the draws for March, April and May could not be conducted.Now, a computerised draw to decide 10 winners for each of these three months was held today under the supervision of Subeena Bansal, member of the board. A total of 30 winners were chosen.Among the winners, the lowest deposited online payment was of Rs52 and the highest deposited amount was Rs1, 54,588.A total of 16 persons, more than half of the winners, had deposited less than the prize money of Rs 1,000 and the maximum winners — 12 — were from Maloya.The 30 winners include 14 allottees of small flats, 11 of residential property and five of commercial property.The prize money will be credited in the bank accounts of the winners in the next few days.The next draw for June will be held in July.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-chandigarh-housing-board-allottees-win-rs-1-000-each-in-draw-99701
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||10K enrol for online mock JEE series||The Tribune Mock JEE-2020 is being conducted in association with Chitkara University.As many as 10,000 aspirants have enrolled for the series of tests to be conducted online.This activity has helped the organisation remain in contact with children during the lockdown period and has received a warm response by students who were preparing for JEE test as it provided them with a replica of the actual test while they were stuck at their homes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10k-enrol-for-online-mock-jee-series-99702
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||13 Chandigarh villages sans development fund for 1.5 years||Over one and a half years after 13 UT villages were merged with the civic body, the latter has now sought Rs 102 crore for their development from the Administration.Villagers, who have been facing problems such as poor condition of roads, non-functional streetlights, stinking sewerage and improper drinking water supply, now question the delayed move of the authorities. “It is strange the MC got the villages from the Administration without any development funds. They should have been merged only after the required funds were issued. After 1.5 years, they are now seeking funds. When will the funds be issued, when will the tender be floated and when will the works get completed?” said Manpreet Singh, a villager from Khuda Ali Sher.Slamming the authorities, Congress councillor Satish Kainth said: “The two bodies are playing with villagers. All these days, the MC had been doing only minor repair work in the villages. This is a blow to the villages as the UT does not own these anymore and the MC has no funds.”Kainth said the MC did not even have funds even for the villages that were already under it. “The MC got Rs 25 crore village development fund only for existing villages. There has been no separate fund allocated for the new ones,” he added.Upgrade of sewerage and storm-water drainage system, road works, tiles in inner gullies, lighting dark spots and improving drinking water supply are among the issues dogging the residents.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said they had written to the Administration seeking Rs 102 crore for the development of 13 villages and Rs 7.5 crore for the development of Mani Majra. It was approved by the MC House on May 29. MC officials said they had been regularly following up with the Administration regarding funds since the merger.The 13 villages — Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas — were merged with the MC on November 30, 2018. While nine villages — Butrela, Badheri, Attawa, Palsora, Maloya, Dadu Majra, Burail, Kajheri and Hallo Majra — were already under the MC limits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-chandigarh-villages-sans-development-fund-for-1-5-years-99703
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two Panjab University fellows get award||Research fellows Ranjot Kaur and Teenu Sharma, working at the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), Panjab University, were selected for the Young Scientist Awards during a recent event, ‘Disso Research Presentations India-2020 (DPRI-2020) - Online Presentations’.The event was organised by the Society for Pharmaceutical Dissolution Science (SPDS) and Association of Pharmaceutical Teachers of India (APTI).Ranjot Kaur, a UGC-Meritorious Senior Research Fellow at the UIPS, was the runner-up at the national-level contest. She has been working under the guidance of Prof Bhupinder Singh Bhoop (UIPS), along with Prof Om Prakash Katare (UIPS) and Prof Anupama Kaushik (UICET). She presented her research work on “Inhalable Lipid Nanovesicles Encapsulating Voriconazole with Modulated Drug Release and Improved Lung Pharmacokinetics”. Meanwhile, Teenu, a DST- Inspire Senior Research Fellow at the UIPS, has been declared the north-zone topper. She has also been working under the guidance of Bhoop and Katare. She presented her research work on “Biotin-conjugated lipidic nanocarriers for improved biopharmaceutical performance of chrysin: Studies on Dissolution Kinetics, Pharmacokinetics and IVIVC”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-panjab-university-fellows-get-award-99705
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||NGO distributes masks||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngo-distributes-masks-99706
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||DIG (Traffic) is nodal officer for foreign returnees in Chandigarh||UT DIG (Traffic) Shashank Anand has been deputed as the nodal officer for city residents returning from abroad under the Vande Bharat Mission.As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the UT Administration, all foreign returnees have to, immediately on arrival, undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for seven days at an approved facility on a payment basis followed by home isolation for further seven days, in case the person tests negative for Covid-19 during the first seven days of arrival.A police official said family members of persons returning from abroad were requested to share their particulars in advance with the office of the nodal officer by an email or by phone so that necessary arrangements for bringing passengers to the city from airports and their institutional quarantine could be made in a timely manner.Family members of foreign returnees are not allowed to receive them at the airport. Passengers returning from abroad are being brought to the city by road in an authorised transport on a payment basis. It is also advised to such persons not to book connecting domestic flights to reach Chandigarh on arrival in India.The police said any person who violates the set provisions would be liable for legal action under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 (punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two year or with fine, or with both), Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, and Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC (punishable with six-month imprisonment or Rs 1,000) as the case might be.A total of 198 persons had reached the city since May 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dig-traffic-is-nodal-officer-for-foreign-returnees-in-chandigarh-99707
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Civic body challans 58 vendors in Chandigarh||In its first anti-encroachment drive after the Covid-19 crisis hit the city, the Municipal Corporation (MC) today realised that there was widespread encroachment in the UT and challaned 58 shopkeepers and vegetable-fruit vendors.Two tempos, which were selling vegetables and fruits without any permission, were also impounded. Unauthorised vendors selling fruits and vegetables sitting on roadside or on cycle carts were also challaned.Under the garb of social distancing, shopowners have encroached upon the MC land by fencing corridors. Though it is meant for keeping visitors away to maintain social distance, owners have flooded verandhas with their goods turning it into a kid of storage area.Such shopkeepers and vendors were penalised in Sectors 22, 18, 38, 15, 46, 47 and industrial area today.“It was our first city-wide drive after Covid. The drive will continue in the coming days,” said an enforcement wing official.Earlier, during the day, Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav directed officials concerned to carry out the drive along with the police.“Some vegetable and fruit suppliers have got their own rehriwallahs in different areas and they sell through them. They say there will be no sale otherwise. But, this is not the way. Those vendors, who have been authorised only should operate,” shared an official.An official taking a sympathetic view quipped unemployment was also the reason for rise in number of vendors.Another official shared, “The MC has allowed around 750 vendors to sell vegetable and fruits during the Covid-19 crises, but 600 more are operating in connivance with some suppliers and others.”A few days ago, these columns highlighted the issue of how taking advantage of social distancing norm, shopkeepers had increased encroachments.But, the MC drive does not seem to have an effect for long. In the absence of stringent action, anti-encroachment drives have always remained a formality. Contrary to the bylaws under the Street Vendors Act, shopkeepers are issued a nominal challan of Rs 2,000. The MC is also releasing their seized items after they pay fine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-challans-58-vendors-in-chandigarh-99708
16-06-2020||Ambala||Woman, paramour held for poisoning husband||The police today arrested a woman and her paramour for allegedly killing her husband by giving him some poisonous substance.The suspects have been identified as Gita and Surjit Singh, while the deceased has been identified as Amrik Singh (45).Somnath, a resident of Chaurmastpur, alleged that his brother Amrik Singh got married to Gita Devi around 20 years ago. They had five children out of the wedlock. Amrik used to work as a labourer.He reached home around 6:30 pm on June 12. His health started deteriorating after having a meal. Gita and two neighbours took Amrik to the CHC, Chaurmastpur. Later, he was referred to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where he was declared brought dead. “On June 14, we came to know that Amrik was given come poisonous substance,” said Somnath.The police have booked Gita and Surjit Singh on the complaint of Somnath under Sections 302, 328 and 34 of the IPC.The SHO of the Naggal police station said: “The suspects have been arrested. They will be produced before a court on Tuesday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-paramour-held-for-poisoning-husband-99711
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Smart City Ltd, BEL sign pact for command centre||Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has signed a contract with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) for the implementation of Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) in the city.The total value of the contract is Rs 295 crore. It includes civil construction of the Integrated Command and Control Centre complex, including buildings for the ICCC, supervisory control and data acquisition system of all utility services and a police command centre.These command centres will act as the brain of the city with an on-premise data centre hosting all relevant solutions for all following field systems and data analytics tools for informative decision-making, better disaster management and smarter governance.The Integrated Command and Control Centre will monitor smart field elements like CCTV surveillance wherein more than 1,000 cameras will be installed for real-time surveillance of traffic junctions and other important buildings of the city such as waterworks, parks, government hospitals, community centres, parking locations and schools on around 285 locations.This system will include advanced video analytics system and will generate automatic event alerts. It will help in real-time surveillance of the city and generate alarms for specific incidents. The BEL will implement the system in 18 months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-smart-city-ltd-bel-sign-pact-for-command-centre-99741
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Restaurant industry in tricity needs to be rejuvenated quickly, says association||The restaurant industry of the tricity has been worst hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We will raise industry’s concerns with respective government departments of the UT Administration and try to seek breathers urgently required by the industry. This was stated by Sunveer Sondhi, who was recently appointed as the head of the Chandigarh Chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI).Sunveer said: “The industry needs to be rejuvenated quickly as several small and midsize restaurants might not be even in a position to reopen due to the financial stress these have been subjected to due to the lockdown.”“Apart from snatching the livelihood of many, the lockdown has created existential problems for the owners too. Restaurants have been allowed to reopen under the Unlock 1.0 following standard operating procedures. But several issues such as rent sought by landlords during the lockdown needs to be addressed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restaurant-industry-in-tricity-needs-to-be-rejuvenated-quickly-says-association-99748
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala railway division sends 100 Covid-care coaches to Delhi||The Ambala Division of the Northern Railways has sent 100 coaches, which were refurbished as Covid isolation coaches earlier in May, to Delhi. The division swung into action after the Centre called for 500 Covid-care railway coaches in the view of soaring cases in the Capital and shortage of beds reportedly.“More than 150 sleeper-class coaches, around 90 per cent of the total Covid care coaches of the division, have been refurbished at the Jagadhri workshop. Some have been modified in Chandigarh too. For now, around 100 such coaches have been sent to Delhi and more will be dispatched, depending on the requirement,” said the division’s DRM GM Singh.Sharing that one coach will accommodate around 16 people, the chief of public relations, Indian Railways, explained, “One coach comprises nine coupes. The middle berth has been removed and one coupe has been reserved for paramedics. Each of the eight coupes will accommodate two patients at a time.”Inside coachesA source from the Chandigarh railway station said modification of Integral Coach Factory (ICF) coaches began in the first week of May. Around eight such coaches were modified in the city, the source added. “In regular cubicles, we had to increase the number of coat hooks, dustbins and water bottle holders. However, in the cubicle reserved for paramedics, we had to add a bracket for oxygen cylinders. The paramedics coupe had to be separated from other cubicles with an AC curtain,” the source said. The coaches were identified by the Railway Traffic Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-railway-division-sends-100-covid-care-coaches-to-delhi-99750
16-06-2020||Mohali||Intra-state bus service from Mohali ISBT begins||The Covid-19 pandemic came as a blessing in disguise for the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter-State Bus Terminal in Phase 6 here as the Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) started operating buses to various destinations in Punjab from Monday.The decision was taken after the UT Administration closed its operations from the ISBT-43 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.Passengers will have to buy tickets from counters. The authorities have made it mandatory for passengers to wear face mask at all times.The ISBT was inaugurated by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal on December 17, 2016. However, only one terminal was made operational at the bus stand.After the Congress came to power in the state, it abandoned the terminal terming it a white elephant. The company, which constructed and operated the ISBT, also fled after it went bankrupt.Jasbir Singh Sahota, who is supervising the operations at the ISBT, said not more than 25 passengers would be allowed in a bus with a total capacity of 52 seats. Two passengers would be accommodated on three seats, with the middle one kept vacant, while one passenger would occupy the adjacent row with two seats.Sahota said the terminal became operational with the first bus leaving for Ferozepur in the morning. Buses to Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Patiala, Bathinda and other cities of the state would also ply from the terminal.Commuters complained of lack of basic facilities such as safe drinking water and fans at the ISBT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/intra-state-bus-service-from-mohali-isbt-begins-99751
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||397 released from Burail jail so far||To decongest jail amid the Covid-19 pandemic, 397 prisoners have been released from Model Jail, Burail, so far.The step was taken by the Prisons Department on the directions of Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority (SLSA).Action-taken reportAs per the action-taken report pertaining to the release of prisoners submitted to Justice Jaswant Singh on Monday, of the total 1,007 prisoners, including 420 convicts, 583 undertrials and four children with their mothers, 39.42 per cent of them have been released from the jail on parole or interim bails till June 14.As per the action-taken report pertaining to the release of prisoners submitted to Justice Jaswant Singh on Monday, of the total 1,007 prisoners, including 420 convicts, 583 undertrials and four children with their mothers, 39.42 per cent of them have been released from the jail on parole or interim bails till June 14.As per the directions received from the Supreme Court on the release of prisoners amid the Covid-19 pandemic, 220 undertrial prisoners were considered for release, but 188 were released on special interim bails. Similarly, 356 convicted prisoners were considered for parole, but only 209 of them fulfilled the criteria. Out of them, as many as 22 convicts have been released on the completion of sentence or on regular parole.Out of the total 576 prisoners considered for release, the authorities ordered to release 484 prisoners, but actually 397 prisoners were released from the jail.The report stated that 87 prisoners could not be released. However, the special parole applications of 62 convicts were rejected, while special parole applications of 30 convicts were pending.Parole and interim bails of the convicts and undertrials, who were released since March 27, were extended last month with extension in the period of the lockdown. They have been asked to return on the conclusion of their parole and interim bails in a staggered manner from July 2 to July 23.The undertrials and convicts were released from the Burail jail on special parole and special interim bail initially for 60 days. Later, the period was extended.At least 31 prisoners had undergone their sentence during a Special Lok Adalat held for those involved in petty crimes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/397-released-from-burail-jail-so-far-99752
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Parents to submit self-declaration affidavit||Parents, who want to complain against any private school to the UT Fee Regulatory Body constituted under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, will have to furnish a self-declaration affidavit as stated under provisions of the Act.The decision was taken by the UT Education Department at the first meeting of the Fee Regulatory Committee held on Monday. The Director, School Education, Rubinderjit Brar, said, “We have decided to seek affidavit from parents, which is well within the law.”Recently, parents of various private schools in the city started lodging joint written complaints with the committee. Hundreds of parents were signing a single complaint.Parents have been complaining against private schools “charging an excessive fee and thereby indulging in profiteering and commercialisation of education”.However, as per the provision of the Section 11 of the Act, the complaint will accompany a self-attested affidavit disclosing particulars of the unaided education institution concerned along with names and addresses of complainants.Meanwhile, the decision has not gone down well with most parents as they fear coming forward and submitting their personal details when it comes to complaining against schools where their wards are studying.A parent said, “The committee is under pressure of private schools and finding lame excuses to delay the disposal of complaints. Each complaint is supported by at least one affidavit. The committee must have sought replies of schools on the basis of the same.”Another parent said, “This committee could not even decide a sole complaint it received prior to the lockdown, which had the complainant’s affidavit as well the school’s reply too. Asking for individual affidavits of all parents is unnecessary paperwork during coronavirus days.”Pvt schools get more timeThe UT Education Department has decided to be lenient with private schools by giving them two weeks more time to comply with Section 5 provisions as per which they have to upload fee structure and balance sheet on their official website.On June 3, the orders released by the UT Adviser stated: “All private schools will display details of fee structure (specifically tuition fee) as per the provisions of Section 5(c) of the Fee Regulation Act, 2016, on their website and also intimate the same to the Administration on or before 15th June, 2020.”However, private schools had yet to comply with the directions even after the deadline, which expired today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-to-submit-self-declaration-affidavit-99753
16-06-2020||Our CorrespondentDera Bassi||Entry, exit points to Mubarakpur Camp sealed||As the coronavirus seems to spreading its tentacles in Mubarakpur Camp near here, the district administration and the police authorities today sealed the entry and exit points to restrict the movement of outsiders in a defined geographic area.Shopkeepers were not allowed to open their shops in various markets. As a result, the market in the Mubarakpur area, especially Camp, which was brimming with activity a couple of days ago, bore a deserted look today.After a new Covid-19 positive case was reported today, the police issued orders to shop owners to close their establishments. Later, an official clarified that it was not a compulsion, but an appeal.Gurbakshish Singh, DSP, Dera Bassi, said in an attempt to prevent the spread of Covid-19, a defined geographic area was sealed. On asking if the police issued orders for the closure of shops, he said shopkeepers might have themselves closed their establishments as a precautionary measure.Dera Bassi SDM honours 50 Mission Fateh warriorsThe Mission Fateh campaign, initiated by the Punjab Government, is being widely publicised throughout the district under the guidance of Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan. As part of the campaign, 25 publicity vans were flagged off from the District Administrative Complex yesterday. These vans will spread awareness among people about the coronavirus. These vans would be of great help in controlling the pandemic. These views were expressed by Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa while honouring 50 Mission Fateh warriors for spreading awareness about the coronavirus. Only 10 badges were pinned keeping in view the social distancing norms. He said the Mission Fateh was a part of the sincere efforts being undertaken by the state government in which every citizen must contribute. The campaign could not succeed without the support of people. The SDM said Mission Fateh warriors should exhort maximum people to download COVA app so as to ensure that accurate information reaches people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/entry-exit-points-to-mubarakpur-camp-sealed-99754
16-06-2020||Panchkula||BJP’s virtual rally criticised||Workers get face shieldsChandigarh: Members of the Chandigarh Traders’ Association, Sector 17, here, distributed face shields and masks among safai karamcharis and horticultural workers working in the area for their safety from Covid-19. Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president of the association, said: “Face cover plays an important role in prevention against the Covid-19. Use face shield and mask not only for your own safety, but also for others too”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjps-virtual-rally-criticised-99756
16-06-2020||---||Certificates to incomplete realty projects cancelled||Chandigarh, June 15A month after suspending the Zirakpur Executive Officer (EO) in case involving issuing illegal completion certificates, the Local Government Department has issued a public notice informing that all such documents for residential-cum-commercial projects issued between January 28 and May 29, this year, have been cancelled.The notice issued by the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO), Local Government Department, has warned the promoters of the projects not to use the illegally issued completion certificates in any public office. The Executive Officer (EO), Manvir Gill, was placed under suspension last month by Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, Sanjay Kumar, as the certificates in question were issued during Gill’s tenure in Zirakpur.Affecting over a dozen projects, the department in an internal probe found a lot of discrepancies in issuing of the completion certificates. The case files were never sent for approval to the secretary and the minister incharge.A probe by the CVO revealed that despite instructions from Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra that technical approval for completion/occupation certificates had to be given at the level of the government, the EO continued to issue certificates illegally. Pointing to a larger builder-official-politician nexus, the certificates issued to incomplete projects by the Zirakpur MC were meant to be used by builders to stop payment of assured monthly returns to their investors.Though the projects are still incomplete on the ground, the certificates managed by the builders help them stop the assured returns to the investors. The EO did not even carry out physical verification of the projects for issuing fire safety no-objection certificate or giving permissions for sewerage and water connections and setting up of sewage treatment plant. Official record pertaining to some of the projects is said to be missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/certificates-to-incomplete-realty-projects-cancelled-99732
