17-06-2020||Mohali||Two masked men rob woman’s PNB branch in Mohali, take away Rs 4.8 lakh||Two masked and armed men robbed a women’s branch of the Punjab National Bank in Phase 3A on Wednesday and took away Rs 4.8 lakh in cash, police said.There were around six employees---including a man---at the bank when the suspects entered the place, police said. While one suspect pointed a gun at them, the second went around the bank collecting cash from various counters and dumping it in a suitcase, police said.It took them around 4 minutes to collect the money, police said. They immediately disappeared from the scene.Police said nobody was hurt.A mounted security camera inside the bank captured the entire incident.A screen grab of a footage of the two men entering the bank premises shows one having a handkerchief tied to his face and the other wearing a facemask.Facemasks have been made mandatory in public places during the ongoing COVID-19 public health crisis.  Police found in their preliminary investigations that the bank did not have an armed guard.Mohali Superintendent of Police HS Virk said: “We are trying to identify the suspects through footage from CCTVs inside and outside the branch. It looks like they were holding an air pistol and a knife in their hands”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-masked-men-rob-womans-pnb-branch-in-mohali-take-away-rs-4-8-lakh-100486
17-06-2020||---||Two more test positive for COVID-19 in Mohali||Mohali, June 17Two more cases of COVID-19 surfaced on Wednesday, taking the total count of the district to 186.Disclosing this, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the persons found positive include an 18-year-old male and a 36-year-old female, both residents of Dappar.He said both patients were contacts of an already positive case and were admitted to the COVID Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The total number of cases in the district stands at 186 with 56 active cases and 127 recovered cases.Three people have died so far from the virus in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mohali-100437
17-06-2020||---||SEWA observes Domestic Workers’ Day||Mohali, June 16The Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) in Punjab held an awareness drive to observe International Domestic Workers’ Day at Phase XI here today. The participants included domestic workers and household caretakers.The association has been advocating the rights of domestic workers in several states, including Punjab.Their campaign, ‘My Fair Home’, across five districts in Punjab laid emphasis on the domestic workers’ right to work. The aim of the campaign was to urge the employers to take a pledge to provide a fair home to their domestic workers, where their rights are protected and respected.A study by the National Domestic Workers’ Sector Skill Council reveals that more than 85 per cent of the domestic workers have not received their wages and the employers have turned down their request for wages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewa-observes-domestic-workers-day-100128
17-06-2020||Naina Mishra||ICMR refutes ‘mid-Nov peak’ study; withdrawn||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16The study claiming that the peak of Covid-19 will arrive in mid-November, which lists a PGI faculty member — Dr Shankar Prinja — as its first author, was refuted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) today.Dr Prinja is a member of the national task force operations research group, duly approved by the Director, PGIMER. An exercise was carried out to understand the health system preparedness requirements for the country in view of the pandemic. — Dr Ashok Kumar, PGIMER spokespersonThe study, titled “A Model Based Analysis for Covid-19 Pandemic in India: Implications for Health Systems and Policy for Low- and Middle-Income Countries”, has six other co-authors, besides Dr Prinja from the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGI, as the corresponding author.The ICMR posted on its official Twitter handle: “The news reports attributing this study to the ICMR are misleading. This refers to a non-peer reviewed modelling, not carried out by the ICMR and does not reflect the official position of the ICMR.”The official statement of the ICMR further reads: “The ICMR has not funded the study, the paper was neither peer reviewed or published. Scientists of the ICMR have not contributed to the particular study/manuscript.”The ICMR further stated: “The manuscript has been written by an author who is not an employee of the ICMR. When questioned, the first author accepted the mistake and withdrew the paper. Since there was no direct involvement of the ICMR in developing the manuscript, the issue of convenient withdrawal does not arise.”Meanwhile, PGIMER spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar mentioned in an official statement: “Dr Prinja is a member of the national task force operations research group, duly approved by the Director, PGIMER. An exercise was carried out to understand the health system preparedness requirements for the country in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.”“A pre-print non-peer reviewed version was posted on a website, which claims that any material posted should not be reported in the news media as established information to guide clinical practice or policy. The media has misinterpreted the reporting, as a result, the authors have withdrawn from the website,” stated the PGI spokesperson.The study claimed that the peak stage of Covid-19 pandemic in India had been delayed by the eight-week lockdown, along with strengthened public health measures, and it may now arrive around mid-November during which there could be a shortage of isolation facility, ICU beds and ventilators.Dr Shankar Prinja could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/icmr-refutes-mid-nov-peak-study-withdrawn-100094
17-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||PEC exams in Nov-Dec, decides Senate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16The Senate of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) today decided to conduct online classes for the next academic session and scheduled the final exams for the current semester for November and December.Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC, said the online classes would start from July 27. The Senate discussion revolved around two things — how to close the current semester and start the next one. “It has been approved that the next academic session will start on July 27 and the classes will be conducted online. Students who don’t have access to or cannot afford the online mode of communication will be allowed to stay at PEC hostels and use infrastructure,” said Sanghi.“The decision has been taken assuming that things will be back to normal in December. We intend to start the physical mode of classes from November 1, but only if the situation allows. In case things continue to remain serious, a call will be taken accordingly. If things get better early, we won’t hesitate in taking the decision as per the situation,” said Sanghi.He added: “Whether faculty can take online classes from home or the campus that will be allowed as per the instructions of the Centre.” Since March 15, the faculty has already been taking classes for the ongoing semesters.The Senate also approved conducting exam in November-December. As this year belongs to odd semesters, around 2,100 students are expected to appear for exams. “We intend to conduct exams in the campus during November and December. The approval came considering the current situation,” added Sanghi. “The first year students are likely to join late, so their exams may get delayed. But for all other classes, the scheduled is prepared for November and December,” said a source.The student intake usually happens in August. However, due to MHA’s instructions on not opening teaching institutes till August 15, the decision on new admissions is likely to come during joint counselling.MTech admission will be completed by the last week of August and the proposal for changes in minor courses was also accepted. “These were the two key decisions (online classes and exams) approved by the Senate. There were other minor issues related to the curriculum, students’ attendance, minor changes in courses and others which were also discussed,” said sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-exams-in-nov-dec-decides-senate-100097
17-06-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Covid weighs down coolies’ hopes in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16The two-month halt on passenger trains during the lockdown wreaked havoc on the lives of railway porters. Even when the trains are back on track for two weeks now, lesser footfall and Covid scare has stripped them of hope to recover from the financial lows.At the Chandigarh railway station, about 30 porters have reclaimed the platform — two teams of 15 each to clock day and evening shifts. Vijay Singh Meena, president of the city’s coolie union, says, “Of the 15, seven or eight coolies visit the platform, alternatively, as we are working on a 50 per cent strength. We are 38 coolies here. Those residing in containment zones and above 60 years of age are staying at home.”Asking for financial help, Meena, through the All-India Railway Lal Vardi Coolie Union and Akhil Bharatiya Railway Mazdoor Sangathan, has written seven letters to politicians and railway officials, including PM Narendra Modi, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, Chairman of Railway Board Vinod Kumar Yadav and the Divisional Railway Manager (East Coast), but to no avail.Meena shared, “The state and the Central Government has financially helped all labourers, except coolies. I’m at the brink of starvation and burdened with loans. I have withdrawn my children from school as I can’t afford their fee and haven’t paid the rent for my one-bedroom house in Dariya for three months.”At city’s railway station only two trains, Jan Shatabdi Una-Delhi (leaves in the morning for Delhi and drops off passengers from Delhi to the city) and Pashchim Express, are doing the rounds. Pawan, a railway sahayak who is now selling vegetables for a living, said, “Coolies are hired either by tourists or those who are shifting to a new city. Now, most passengers are travelling out of necessity. To support my old parents and two children, I have started selling vegetables.”Until Covid affected footfall, porters or sahayaks (formerly coolies) would ferry luggage daily. “Working on alternate days, I have been able to make either Rs 50 or Rs 100 a day. Because of the virus, no one wants us to touch their belongings. As the only breadwinner in my family, I fear for the future of my children,” said Rakesh Kumar, another porter.Ration for reliefThe two-time ration supply by the railway authorities has brought some respite to their miserable condition.Today, the Ambala Division of the Railways distributed 10-kg wheat, 5-kg rice, 2-kg pulses, 1-kg sugar, 1-kg cooling oil and 250-gm tea among 35 railway sahayaks. “For a family of four, all this ration will last for 10 days maximum. We need financial assistance,” said Meena.GM Singh, DRM, Ambala Division, said railways provide coolies with OPD hospital services, one-time travel pass and uniforms. "Since there's no monetary provision for coolies from the Centre, our hands are tied. As and when the passenger trains resume their normal routine, things will get better for them."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-weighs-down-coolies-hopes-in-chandigarh-100098
17-06-2020||---||Farmhouse manager axed to death by workers in Mohali||Mohali, June 16A 65-year-old manager of a farmhouse here was allegedly axed to death by three of his workers, including a minor, over a petty dispute.The victim has been identified as Balkar Singh, a resident of Sohian Kalan village in Amritsar district. Balkar was working as a manager at Kahlon Farms near Nada village here for the past 35 years.The suspects have been identified as Mukesh (20), Manish (20) and a minor, all residents of Hardoi district in Uttar Pradesh. They used to work for Balkar at his farmhouse where they used to live in a room.The police said Balkar was unhappy with their drinking habits. They used to have heated arguments over the issue for the past few days. The suspects attacked Balkar with an axe while he was asleep in his room at the farmhouse on Sunday night.The suspects fled from the spot, leaving Balkar in a pool of blood. The victim was admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injuries this afternoon, said the police.The police recovered the axe used in the crime from the spot. The body has been kept in the mortuary for post-mortem examination.Nayagaon Station House Officer Ashok Kumar said: “Disagreement over small issues between Balkar and his workers led to the crime. On Monday, we had booked the suspects under Sections 307, 323 and 34 of the IPC on the statement of the victim’s son, Ajit Singh. A case of murder was registered against them today. We have sent police teams in Hardoi district to nab the suspects. We are also getting help from our technical wing to crack the case soon.”All suspects from Uttar PradeshThe suspects have been identified as Mukesh (20), Manish (20) and a minor, all residents of Hardoi district in Uttar Pradesh. They used to work for Balkar at his farmhouse where they used to live in a room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmhouse-manager-axed-to-death-by-workers-in-mohali-100103
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||CITCO’s Sukhna Lake restaurant lifts shutters||As the lockdown restrictions ease, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited’s (CITCO) Chef Lakeview at Sukhna Lake here has lifted shutters to welcome customers again.Diners and guests will be greeted by waiters donning masks and gloves, thermal checks, sanitisers and, of course, fewer tables.Chef Lakeview at Sukhna Lake will again come alive with the reopening of its renowned food joint.Jasvinder Kaur Sidhu, Managing Director, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited, said: “CITCO is all set to open its prime restaurant at Sukhna Lake. It is ready to cater to food connoisseurs of the tricity by reopening its restaurant “Mermaid” where one can have an unforgettable dining experience while enjoying great food.”CITCO would reopen its restaurants with additional hygiene and safety measures, following social distancing norms both on the restaurant floors as well as in the kitchens, she said.Mermaid Restaurant at Chef Lakeview will reinforce social distancing with staff trained according to the new norms and implementing measures such as distanced seating arrangements, demarcated waiting spots in queues and controlled customer inflow. The recently renovated parlour and other CITCO’s food joint outside the restaurant will too adhere to the social distancing norms, along with additional hygiene features, introducing takeaway facility. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citcos-sukhna-lake-restaurant-lifts-shutters-100105
17-06-2020||---||Work at Mohali District Courts resumes||Mohali, June 16Work at the District Courts here started with the filing of new cases after about three months of hiatus.Disclosing this here today, Manpreet Singh Chahal, president of the District Bar Association, Mohali, said that nowall kind of new cases could be filed in the court apart from urgent matters.As of now, the court will hear only urgent matters. Fresh non-urgent matters will be adjourned for the time being till the next date.Chahal said in a meeting held with the District and Sessions Judge, Rajinder Singh Rai, it was agreed that to curb the spread of coronavirus in the courts complex, minimum attendance of general public should be ensured. No hearing would be held on non-urgent matters, except anticipatory bail and stay matters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-at-mohali-district-courts-resumes-100121
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 arrested for snatching mobile in Chandigarh||Challans no deterrentChandigarh: Even as the Municipal Corporation has issued 55 challans on the second day of the anti-encroachment drive, but it failed to act as a deterrent. During a random check, it was found that encroachment was still rampant in Sectors 46, 32, 28 and 20. Yesterday also, over 50 challans were issued. It seems Rs2,000 meagre challan amount is no deterrent. TNSMan held with 10-gm heroinChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a Sector 35 resident while possessing heroin. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Ankit Kapoor (27), was arrested from near the Sector 35 market while possessing 10 grams of heroin. A case has been registered against him at the Sector 36 police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNSJuvenile held for minor’s rapeChandigarh: The police apprehended a 15-year-old boy for allegedly raping a nine-year-old girl. Sources said the incident was reported on June 14. The victim’s medical was conducted at the GMSH-16. A case has been registered. TNSRallies banned in Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: Amrit Kaur Gill, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate, has banned all rallies, dharnas and protest marches in the district with immediate effect and the orders will remain in force till August 14. The DM said people in large numbers had started organising dharnas, rallies and protests without following guidelines. OCWill move court, says Ex-councillorMohali: Former councilor Kuljit Singh Bedi today threatened to move court if three months extension was given to previous company for carrying out sanitation work in the city. Bedi raised questions over the functioning style of the Municipal Corporation (MC) as to why the tenders have not been floated for sanitation work as the earlier contract with a company ended on June 15. Bedi wrote to the Minister Local Bodies, Secretary and Director of the Local Bodies Department, asking them to take immediate note of the matter. TNSWorkers honouredPatiala: MC Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur on Tuesday honoured cleanliness workers for their services during the Covid-19 pandemic at the MC office. MP Preneet Kaur also conversed with the workers through video calling and said they were doing their service selflessly. She said the role being executed by the cleanliness workers was exemplary. TNSTwo booked for carjackingMohali: The Mullanpur police have booked two unidentified persons for carjacking near Siswan village here late on Monday. According to the police, the victim, Ashok Kumar (35), a resident of Madawala village, was going home in his Brezza when the miscreants stopped and threatened him to get out of the car. Ashok then handed over the car keys to the miscreants following which they sped away with the vehicle. In his complaint to the police, the victim, a scrap dealer, said he had also kept Rs30,000 in his car. Harmanpreet Singh, Station House Officer at the Mullanpur police station, said, “A case has been registered under Section 392 of the IPC. It was not clear whether the miscreants conducted the robbery on gunpoint as the victim was unable to see anything in their hands due to darkness. We scrutinised the CCTV footage from where it has been established that the car went towards Baddi.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-snatching-mobile-in-chandigarh-100122
17-06-2020||---||Chandigarh reports 3 new cases from Sector 25, tally 368||Chandigarh, June 17Three more positive cases from Sector 25 were reported on Wednesday. They were family contacts of a positive case reported on Tuesday.Eight more cases of Covid were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 368.On Tuesday, two fresh cases surfaced in Sector 41, three were reported from Khuda Ali Sher and one each from Sector 25, Bapu Dham Colony and Ram Darbar.A 35-year-old man, a resident of Sector 25, is among the new cases reported today. He works at an office of the Punjab Government in Sector 35. He had last attended the office on June 4. The patient has 18 workplace contacts and seven of them belong to the city. His four family members have been sampled for Covid while 10 community contacts are currently asymptomatic.Two women from Sector 41, aged 22 and 54, who are family contacts of a Covid case of Delhi, have also tested positive for the virus.Three new patients are from Khuda Ali Sher — a 74-year-old man, a 55-year-old woman and a two-year-old boy.They are family contacts of an infected person who had returned from Uttar Pradesh.A 12-year-old boy from Bapu Dham Colony, who is a family contact of a Covid patient, has also contracted the virus.A 58-year-old man from Ram Darbar has also tested positive for Covid. He is a workplace contact of four cases in Punjab. They work at a private factory in Dera Bassi. He has two family contacts, who are asymptomatic, besides 23 community contacts.Meanwhile, an 80-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony was discharged from the PGI today. She has been shifted to Sood Dharamshala, a post-discharge quarantine facility. — TNSFive test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: Five Covid cases were reported from the district on Tuesday. Three of them are from Delhi and one from Lucknow. A female resident of Panchkula, who had returned from Rajpura, has tested positive. TNSFour more infected in MohaliMohali: Four more Covid cases surfaced in the district on Tuesday. A 43-year-old man from Sante Majra, a 70-year-old man from Baltana, a 22-year-old youth from Sector 127 in Kharar and a 44-year-old man from Phase X have contracted the virus. Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the Sante Majra man had a travel history to Gurugram, the Phase X resident had returned from Delhi and the youth from Ahmedabad. Meanwhile, a 31-year-old man and a 57-year-old woman recovered from Covid on Tuesday and were discharged from the Banur hospital. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-3-new-cases-from-sector-25-tally-368-100109
17-06-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Outstation people move to Panchkula, Mohali for testing||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 16The rising Covid cases in states such as Gujarat, Mumbai, Delhi and the subsequent delay in testing and treatment there is forcing people to look for help elsewhere. Many such persons have sought help from their relatives in Panchkula, Mohali and peripheral areas to find a suitable accommodation for them.Panchkula, Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi have been witnessing such cases and doctors expect a sharp spike in this trend in the coming months.Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Civil Hospital, Sector 6, said, “Almost all outstation cases reported from Panchkula are like this. If you see the trend, all cases are from places where the number of cases is more.”Of the 29 outstation positive cases reported from Panchkula so far, 15 are from the Delhi-NCR, five from Gujarat and four from Mumbai.Medical teams involved in contact-tracing, isolation and quarantine process confirmed that in some cases people “already knew their condition”.A 22-year-old girl, who had tested positive for Covid-19 in Kalka yesterday, was living in a rented accommodation in Housing Board Colony arranged by her sister. The girl, who was studying in Delhi, came here by train on June 12. Her samples were collected on June 13.In another case in Panchkula, a girl married in Delhi returned to her parents only to test positive. Later, her in-laws were also found infected.One person from Delhi gave an incorrect address of Industrial Area, Panchkula, only to get tested. He was later found positive. Today, his three companions also tested positive for the virus. Sources said the trend had become a major issue for the local administration who are chalking out a strategy to deal with it.Zirakpur residents paranoidIn Zirakpur, where it is easy to get accommodation in secluded and sparsely populated housing societies, residents are wary of every outsider coming in. There have been cases when people have tried to move in the dead of night. Pommy Chatrath, SMO, Community Health Centre, Dhakoli, said, “People are wary of outsiders here and report the matter if they notice a new face in their locality.”Of 34 cases in 3 days in Mohali, 9 travellers, 18 their close associates||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/outstation-people-move-to-panchkula-mohali-for-testing-100099
17-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Fearing Covid, many leave Bapu Dham||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16Fearing Covid-19 and social stigma attached to it, many families in Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), Sector 26, have shifted their base to different places.Some have moved to their native states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar or Jammu and Kashmir, while others have shifted to Mani Majra, Kishangarh, Panchkula, Morni, Dhanas or Zirakpur. Most of them have taken houses on rent and a few of them have got their own houses.Those affected said their employers had called only those for work who were not from the colony. A woman sweeper requesting anonymity said, “I work at a mall. I had called my boss to allow me to come for work, but he refused as I live in Bapu Dham Colony.”“Working class is suffering due to the social stigma attached to the place. They think that if they shift to other place, they won’t find any difficulty in getting work,” said an old resident of the colony. “There are many misconceptions, which is also one of the reasons for people moving out of the colony. Some think if they will visit a hospital to get their kidneys or other ailments checked, they will be declared Covid positive. Some are hiding their medical ailments to avoid testing. Even if they have some symptoms, they prefer to take precautions at home. They are getting tested only in severe cases,” he added.The shifting of the Sector 26 grain market to Sector 17 is also one of the main reasons for their relocation. Many fruit and vegetable vendors and those involved in loading and unloading of goods would live on rent in the colony, but not anymore.A member of the residents’ welfare association requesting anonymity said, “Many houses have been lying locked here. Even people who have been living here for the past 30-35 years have moved out.” Area councillor Dalip Sharma said, “A large number of people are moving out of here. Nearly 3,000 from UP and Bihar and 230 from J&K have returned to their native places via Shramik trains. There may be others, who have returned to their home states.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fearing-covid-many-leave-bapu-dham-100100
17-06-2020||Shashi Pal Jain||5-yr-old burnt alive, 50 huts reduced to ashes in Kharar||Kharar, June 16A five-year-old boy was burnt alive while at least five other children had a narrow escape when a fire broke out in around 50 shanties at the nearby Tewer village here this afternoon.The victim has been identified as Ajit, son of Suresh Kumar. The shanties were reduced to ashes.There were nearly 50 closely situated huts in a field where migrant labourers were putting up on rent. While adults living in the area had gone out for work, over five children were present in these shanties.All of a sudden, a fire broke out and engulfed the shanties. Ajit sustained 100 per cent burns in the mishap. Other children ran away.The fire was so fierce that all huts in the area were completely burnt. A fire engine from Kharar was pressed into service.Rajinder Dev Sharma, a resident of the village, said the fire started after 2 pm. On hearing noise coming from the area, residents of the village and people working in the nearby fields rushed to the spot. Kharar SDM Himashu Jain, SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal, DSP Pal Singh, Kharar (Sadar) SHO Satbir Singh and Kharar (City) SHO Bhagwant Singh also reached the spot.SDM Jain said the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. He said an inquiry into the incident would be conducted. He said the fire might have been caused due to burning of a stove in a hut or due to high-voltage wires passing over the huts.“Our first task is to rehabilitate the dwellers of this hutment as they are without a roof now. The Punjab Chief Minister has granted a sum of Rs2 lakh to the aggrieved family,” he said.Dr Tarsem Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, Kharar, said the boy was brought dead at the hospital. He had received 100 per cent burns.All migrants living in these huts were taken to a gurdwara in the village and were given food by the administration. Arrangements were made for their night stay at a government school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-yr-old-burnt-alive-50-huts-reduced-to-ashes-in-kharar-100089
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs lifted partially from 7 Bapu Dham pockets in Chandigarh||Except a few affected blocks, the UT Administration has lifted the restrictions from seven pockets in the buffer zone of Bapu Dham Colony as no Covid-19 cases have been reported from these areas for the past 28 days. Now, only Pocket No. 15 is under the containment zone in the colony.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the issue was examined by a committee, which was of the view that there was no need to continue with the perimeter control in seven pockets of Bapu Dham.To prevent the spread of the virus, six hotspots in the city were declared as containment zones on May 2. Except Bapu Dham, the restrictions in all other areas have already been removed. For effective implementation of the guidelines to fight the pandemic, Bapu Dham was divided into 20 pockets. As no positive coronavirus cases were reported from some areas for a long time, the perimeter control from 12 pockets of Bapu Dham had already been removed by the Administration.Unable to come out of their houses for long, residents had held protests for lifting the restrictions from their area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-lifted-partially-from-7-bapu-dham-pockets-in-chandigarh-100091
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mechanic held with 33 stolen mobile phones in Chandigarh||A mobile mechanic who, along with his accomplices, had allegedly committed a theft of mobile phones worth several lakhs from a store in Sector 37 last month, has been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police.The suspect has been identified as Mani Rattan (27), a resident of Sector 25. He was arrested from Sector 25 yesterday. The police said 33 mobile phones, worth around Rs9 lakh, were recovered from him.On May 28, Anil Dhingra, a resident of Sector 21, had lodged a complaint that 55 mobile phones were stolen from his showroom in Sector 37 on the intervening night of May 27 and 28. The police had registered a case regarding the incident at the Sector 39 police station.The police said the suspect claimed that he, along with his three accomplices, had committed the theft “to meet their daily expenses as they could not earn anything during the lockdown”.The police said raids were being conducted to nab the other suspects, two of whom had been identified as Islam and Rohin. Mani was produced in a court today, which remanded him in three-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mechanic-held-with-33-stolen-mobile-phones-in-chandigarh-100092
