18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Only those who have registered themselves on website to be allowed to enter Chandigarh: Badnore||As many visitors coming to the city have been tested positive for COVID-19, the UT Administration has decided to take stringent measures to prevent further spread of the virus.During the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed concern over the increasing number of COVID-19 cases.He directed Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Beniwal to ensure enhanced checking at the border points and making sure that only those who have registered themselves on the website for entry to Chandigarh are allowed.He also directed thermal screening and mandatory downloading of Aarogya Setu application by all visitors.Badnore also directed Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), to examine if instead of self-quarantine, the administration can implement self-home quarantine for visitors.The administrator wants Adviser Manoj Parida to see if those who violate the quarantine instructions can be penalised by putting them in institutional quarantine.During the meeting, the Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, stated that they have 63 active cases and the Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula, stated that they have 43 active cases.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, stated that out of 475 samples tested, seven have been found positive. Similarly, Dr BS Chavan, Director-Principal, GMCH, stated that out of 124 samples tested, five were found positive for COVID-19.The administrator also directed KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, to ensure necessary preparations for the monsoon.Badnore instructed the Secretary, Engineering, to look after the pending works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-those-who-have-registered-themselves-on-website-to-be-allowed-to-enter-chandigarh-badnore-100965
18-06-2020||Panchkula||In biggest single-day spike, Panchkula reports 20 new coronavirus cases||In the biggest single-day spike, Panchkula reported 20 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday.The patients belong to various residential sectors, Kalka, Raipur Rani and Pinjore.The infected patients have been moved to an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. Efforts are being made to trace their contacts to curb the infection. On Wednesday, a family of four working at the Civil Hospital tested COVID-19 positive.More details awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-biggest-single-day-spike-panchkula-reports-20-new-coronavirus-cases-100857
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Thieves break into ATM in Kishangarh, loot over Rs 7.60 lakh||Unidentified miscreant robbed an ATM of Union Bank of India at Kishangarh on Wednesday night.They stole around Rs 7.60 lakh.The accused walked into the ATM at around 8.30 pm, opened the machine from the rear end and stole the cash.Cops are suspecting this to be an inside job—who knew the code to open the machine. The footage of the CCTV camera revealed that a man with his face covered walked into the booth and opened the back of the machine.Then, he stole the cash and left.The incident came to light on Thursday morning when the staff noticed that there was no cash in the ATM.The police were informed about the incident. They reached the spot and initiated an investigation. Forensic experts also visited the spot and lifted the fingerprints.Meanwhile, a case has been registered at IT Park police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-thieves-break-into-atm-in-kishangarh-loot-over-rs-7-60-lakh-100856
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh reports 4 new case, tally rises to 374||Chandigarh on Thursday reported four new coronavirus cases, taking the union territory's case tally to 374.Out of the four cases, two have been reported from Sector 31.A 32-year-old woman, along with her one-and-a-half-year-old daughter, tested COVID-19 positive. Earlier, this woman's husband was found positive.Another case was reported in Sector 43.A 43-year-old man tested positive for the deadly disease. He was admitted to GMSH-16 with Influenza-like Illness (ILI).A 30-year-old male migrant worker living in rented accommodation in Manimajra was reported to be positive for Covid-19.He travelled to Amritsar on June 9 and returned to Chandigarh on June 11. He developed fever on June 13 and was hospitalised on June 16. He has 12 community contacts, all of whom have been shifted to institutional quarantine.On Wednesday, five more COVID-19 cases were reported from the city. Three of the fresh cases were reported from Sector 25 and two from Ram Darbar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-reports-4-new-case-tally-rises-to-374-100820
18-06-2020||---||Bank robbery in Mohali, Rs 4.8L gone in 2 minutes||Mohali, June 17In a broad daylight robbery, two unidentified men looted Rs4.8 lakh at gunpoint from an all-woman branch of Punjab National Bank near Cama Hotel in Phase 3A here today.According to the police, the robbers went inside the bank during the lunch break (around 1.40 pm). They had their faces covered with a mask/handkerchief and were wearing gloves.Five women employees were present inside the bank at the time of the incident. Flashing a knife, one of the robbers, who was wearing a cap, threatened the employees. He told them to keep sitting without raising the alarm.In the meantime, his accomplice picked cash from a counter by pointing a gun at a woman employee and put the money in a briefcase. After committing the crime, the robbers fled from the spot.The robbery was executed in nearly two minutes. The incident was recorded on a CCTV camera at the bank.While fleeing, the handkerchief of a robber used by him to cover his face fell.According to sources, the miscreants had come in a white Hyundai i20 car. However, the police have not confirmed this information.No security guard was present inside the branch, where all employees were women.This apparently helped the robbers commit the crime with ease. The Phase 3A market where the branch is located often remains empty as only a few showrooms are opened.SSP Kuldeep Chahal, SP (City) HS Virk and Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of the Mataur police station, along with police teams, visited the spot. Virk said, “We are trying to identify the miscreants through the footage of CCTV cameras installed inside and outside the bank. It looks like they were holding a gun and a knife in their hands. However, no one was hurt in the incident. We have started an investigation. The district borders have been sealed to prevent the robbers from escaping to another district or state.”Virk said the miscreants were apparently in their 30s.According to the police, the miscreants did not take anyone hostage while robbing the bank.A case under Section 392 (punishment for robbery) of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered in this regard at the Mataur police station.No security guard at the bankNo security guard was present inside the branch, where all employees were women. This apparently helped the robbers commit the crime with ease. The Phase 3A market, where the branch is located, often remains empty as only a few showrooms are opened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-robbery-in-mohali-rs-4-8l-gone-in-2-minutes-100594
18-06-2020||---||Nine fresh cases take Mohali count to 193||Mohali, June 17Nine positive cases of Covid-19 were detected in Mohali district today.Among them, two patients, an 18-year-old boy and a 36-year-old woman, hail from Dappar village. Both had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient.In Zirakpur, a 24-year-old youth has tested positive.A 48-year-old woman and a 21-year-old youth, both residents of Baltana, were also found positive for Covid today. They are contacts of patients from Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh.In Dera Bassi, a 36-year-old woman, who had recently given birth, has been found infected. A 30-year-old youth of ATS Society has also been found positive for the virus.A 30-year-old woman and a 53-year-old woman, contacts of an already positive patient, were also found infected today. They have a recent travel history to Delhi.A total of 193 positive cases have been reported from the district so far.While there are 58 active cases, 132 patients have recovered and three have died.Five patients recover, dischargedFive patients were discharged from a hospital after recovery on Wednesday. They are a 36-year-old man from Falcon View Society, a 42-year-old woman from Kurali, a 39-year-old man from Dulwa Khadri village, a 25-year-old youth from Neholka village and a 27-year-old woman from Dappar village.Civil Surgeon visits affected plantThe Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, along with senior health officials, on Wednesday visited a beer plant at Bhankharpur village near Dera Bassi, where four employees were found infected with the virus four days ago. The four employees were working in the administrative department of the plant.Dr Manjit Singh said as a precautionary measure, they had sealed the department and the rest of the workers had been directed to to home-quarantine themselves. He said random sampling of all employees of the company would be started on Thursday. A total of 11 samples have been taken so far and the reports are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-fresh-cases-take-mohali-count-to-193-100595
18-06-2020||---||Youth hangs himself to death at Maloya||Chandigarh, June 17A 26-year-old youth reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Maloya last night. The police said the victim’s family revealed that he was disturbed following a dispute with his sister-in-law.The victim has been identified as Arjun (26). He was found hanging by his family members, who rushed him to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.The police said the victim was unmarried and unemployed. No suicide note was recovered from the house. The victim’s family alleged that his sister-in-law used to harass him, which provoked him to take the extreme step.“His sister-in-law is staying at her parental house for the past four months,” said a police official.Meanwhile, high drama was witnessed at the hospital last night after the victim’s family claimed that they did not want the victim’s autopsy to be done. The police pacified the family and shifted the body to the mortuary.Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Maloya police station. Three suicide cases have been reported from the city this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-hangs-himself-to-death-at-maloya-100597
18-06-2020||Naina Mishra||City Covid sample testing rate dips 40% in Unlock 1.0||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17The UT Administration has reduced the Covid testing rate during the Unlock 1.0 even as easing lockdown restrictions called for stern measures like raising sample collection and testing.The sample testing rate has dropped by almost 40 per cent this month as compared to the fortnight ending May 31.Data reveals that only 1,330 samples were tested in the UT from June 1 to 16 as compared to 2,199 from May 16 to 31, the last two weeks of the fourth phase of the lockdown. In May, 3,647 samples were tested, which is close to 60 per cent of the total Covid samples tested in the UT.With the increased testing in the last two weeks of May, the number of Covid cases in the city rose to 103. This is in a sharp contrast to only 40 cases being recorded in the month of June. Notably, cases are now being reported from densely populated UT villages like Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, and Daria. The average number of samples tested has dipped to 83 per day from 137 per day in the last week of May.Experts said stopping of active sampling in Bapu Dham Colony was the reason for a fall in the testing rate.A senior epidemiologist at the PGI said, “We are not testing asymptomatic contacts of Covid patients if they are not household contacts. This is why the sampling count has gone down. Besides, active testing in Bapu Dham has also been stopped.”UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said, “We are strictly following the ICMR guidelines on testing. A reason for lesser testing in the first two weeks of June could be lesser number of people requiring testing as per protocol.”Gupta added, “The non-household contacts of positive cases are being quarantined and tested if they develop symptoms. However, close and workplace contacts are also being tested.A minor discretion has to be exercised by medical experts on the basis of several other parameters.”UT count of tests per million lowest in regionAt 5,187 tests, Chandigarh has recorded the lowest number of tests per million as on date. Punjab and Haryana, on the other hand, have tested 6,638 and 6,747 samples per million, respectively. At 7,686, Himachal Pradesh too has conducted more tests per million.Positivity rate constant in JuneA constant decrease in the positivity rate has also been observed when the UT began testing more samples last month. From 7 per cent on May 16, the positivity rate was reduced to 6.1 per cent on May 31. However, the positivity has been observed to be constant at 6 per cent in the month of June.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-covid-sample-testing-rate-dips-40-in-unlock-1-0-100598
18-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Panel for changing fish, meat market status to general trade||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17Having failed to run the AC Fish and Meat Market in Sector 41 for 11 years, a committee of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation today resolved to change its status to general trade market.“Booths are lying closed for the past 11 years despite various attempts to auction them. They are in a dilapidated condition now and items are being stolen every now and then. We had earlier changed its status from fish market to fish and meat market, but the situation remained the same. We should now change it to general trade market to woo buyers. We will take it to the House meeting for approval,” said Shakti Prakash Devshali, Chairman, Gaushala Committee, MC.The committee members also directed the officials concerned to check open and illegal sale of chicken and meat, especially in the residential areas. “The violators should be first issued a notice and a challan for subsequent violation. Why will they take a booth when they can sell on roadsides under unhygienic conditions?” said the members.Earlier, the MC had to withdraw fish tenders as only nine persons expressed interest in buying 32 booths. The civic body later decided to rent out these through an open auction, but that also didn’t work out.The UT Administration constructed the Sector 41 fish market for Rs 5 crore in 2006 and later handed it over to the MC in 2009.The MC initially offered to sell the booths for Rs 60 lakh each. Later, it offered to rent out booths for Rs 30,000-35,000 per month. After this, they had decided to rent them out through an open auction with Rs10,000-15,000 as monthly rent. All these schemes failed attract people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-for-changing-fish-meat-market-status-to-general-trade-100599
18-06-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Canara Bank directed to pay Rs 5K for deficiency in service||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17The Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed Canara Bank to pay Rs5,000 to a city resident for deficiency in service.In a complaint to the forum, Parminder Pal Singh Bhatia, a resident of Sector 27-D, Chandigarh, submitted that he was maintaining a savings bank account with Canara Bank, Sector 44-C. Bhatia said his daughter got admission in Manchester Metropolitan University, UK. For confirmation of acceptance for studies (CAS), he had to show financial documents. He got balance certificates from all his banks, including Canara Bank, issued. However, the university asked him to obtain the balance certificate as per their sample language.He said he again obtained balance certificates from five banks as per the sample language. He also visited the Canara Bank branch for getting the balance certificate, made written request and agreed to pay charges, but officials kept on delaying the matter on one pretext or the other. They wasted a day and ultimately denied to issue the same, stated the complainant.It was submitted that due to the arbitrary act of the bank, the complainant had to apply for a priority visa for his daughter instead of a general visa and spent extra Rs22,111, along with paying Rs12,000 extra for on-the-spot ticket.In its reply, the bank stated that they never refused to issue balance certificate, but it was the complainant who advised the bank official to issue the same with ‘To Whom It May Concern’ as the heading, which is not permissible. The same was already issued on September 10, 2019, but the complainant had refused to accept it.“It is a privilege of the customer to have balance certificate and the request of the complainant for getting the certificate issued as “To Whomsoever It May Concern” is in no way wrong or out-of-the-way request. As it is clear that the complainant managed to obtain similar certificates from other banks, there is a deficiency in service on part of the bank,” observed the forum and directed the bank to pay Rs5,000 to the complainant towards compensation and litigation cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/canara-bank-directed-to-pay-rs-5k-for-deficiency-in-service-100600
18-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Two new Covid cases surface in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 17A woman schoolteacher, belonging to Saheedgarh village in the Bassi Pathana sub-division, and a 20-year-old expectant mother from Mandi Gobindgarh have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to 81.Civil Surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said a 20-year-old expectant mother, a resident of Shanti Nagar of Mandi Gobindgarh, was tested positive. He said she had come from Panipat on June 13 and her samples were collected for testing. He said both patients were admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur.He said 6,922 samples had been collected so far, of which 81 tested positive and the results of 270 were awaited.The Civil Surgeon said 72 had been cured and there were only nine active cases in the district now.Yesterday, a 20-year-old girl of Adarsh Nagar in Mandi Gobindgarh was tested positive and her brother runs a reputed salon.Similarly, a resident of Amloh town, who had gone to Tamil Nadu with two friends for work and stayed in Delhi on his way back, was also tested positive for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-new-covid-cases-surface-in-fatehgarh-sahib-100601
18-06-2020||---||NTA clears rumours regarding NEET-UG||Chandigarh, June 17The National Testing Agency (NTA) informed candidates and parents that no decision regarding the postponement of NEET-UG entrance exam has been taken. It had come to the notice of the NTA that a fake public notice, dated June 15, with subject line ‘Postponement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) UG July – 2020’, was being circulated through various sources and the social media forums.“The NTA is investigating the source of the fake notice, which had an intent to misguide candidates, parents and public. Stringent action will be taken against such anti-public elements,” the authorities said.In a statement on its website, the agency stated: “All candidates, parents and public are hereby informed that no such decision has been taken by the NTA or concerned authorities till date. Public is further being advised to be aware of any fake communication in this regard and rely only on the information available on the official website — www.nta.ac.in and ntaneet.nic.in.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nta-clears-rumours-regarding-neet-ug-100602
18-06-2020||---||Food joint catches fire, estimated loss Rs11 lakh||Chandigarh, June 17All items in a Sector 37 takeaway food joint were destroyed in a fire that broke out this afternoon.According to Nikhil Madaan, proprietor of the outlet, all items, including chimney, ‘tandoor’, imported equipment, microwave and AC, were damaged. He pegged the loss at Rs 11-12 lakh. “The fir broke out due to a short circuit,” he said.One of the cooks suffered minor injuries on his hand due to the short circuit. Two cooks and a manager present at the time of the incident rushed outside the premises. “There were fire extinguishers in the booth, but they did not find enough time to use them,” Madaan added.According to the Fire Department, a fire tender from the Sector 38 fire station was pressed into service and the fire was brought under control in sometime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/food-joint-catches-fire-estimated-loss-rs11-lakh-100604
18-06-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||‘No scheduled power cuts in Zirakpur for 4 months’||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, June 17Zirakpur PSPCL officials said today that residents would not have to face frequent power outages now.The satellite town of Chandigarh has been facing frequent, scheduled and unscheduled power cuts for a long time now. Outages ranging from two to five hours have been a regular feature here, causing huge losses to the industry and manufacturing units in the sub-division. Residents complain of frequent power cuts in peak summers, leaving them miserable.“Frequent power cuts force residents here to spend sleepless nights. If things remain as it is, people will think twice before buying an accommodation here,” said Jasveer Singh, a resident of Maya Garden City.Baltana resident Rohit Kumar said: “I have not seen any improvement in the power supply here for the past seven years.”In the Lohgarh area, residents often complain of inflated power bills and interrupted electricity supply.Zirakpur PSPCL XEN Khushwinder Singh said: “We have completed all infrastructural augmentation. As of now, there are no scheduled cuts planned for the next four months. We have set up a grid in Dhakoli to cater to Peer Muchalla and got the transmission line doubled for eight-hour back-up with adequate load.”The power woes of Baltana residents have been on a rise, but a new feeder line from Dhakoli grid has been established and the set-up will be operational shortly.“Senior officers of the PSPCL will be inaugurating the line in a day or two,” he added.“The 66-KV power grid in Ramgarh Bhudda is expected to fill in for the power shortage in the area and the grid will also feed Dhakoli grid,” the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-scheduled-power-cuts-in-zirakpur-for-4-months-100605
18-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Proposal awaits Badnore’s nod||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17The UT Sports Department is all set to open local sports complexes for recreational enthusiasts. A proposal to open local complexes for general public has been finalised and will undergo approval process this week.As per the authorities, category-A sports will be allowed under different time slots and limited-access format. The list includes mostly non-contact disciplines — archery, shooting, cycling, fencing, athletics (certain events), weightlifting, lawn tennis, badminton, table tennis and others.Last month, the department had opened selective complexes strictly for sportspersons. Partial facilities at the sports complexes of Sector 38 (West), Sector 7, Sector 34, Sector 42 and Lake Sports Complex were allowed in the first phase as per a manual issued by the department. Trainees of various disciplines, including badminton (Sector 38 sports complex), athletics (Sector 7), table tennis (Sector 50, Sector 34 and Sector 23), archery, tennis and weightlifting (Lake Sports Complex and Sector 42) were allowed to practise.“A proposal has been made and submitted for the approval of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore. Recreational enthusiasts will be allowed to play in the complexes that are already open for sportspersons,” said Tejdeep Saini, Director Sports, UT.“Members will be allowed to play in different time slots. The players’ schedule won’t be distributed. Minimum presence and proper safety measures will be promoted. There will be no hindrance in players’ training timings. The enthusiasts have to maintain social distancing and have to follow all rules/regulations before entering the premises and while playing here. Also, members of over 65 years of age will not be allowed as per the Sports Authority of India (SAI) guidelines,” added Saini. The department earns significant revenue by allotting membership to enthusiasts for playing at various complexes. The time slot remains of one-hour on all working days. “We are also likely to start approving new membership in the coming days. The fee is likely to remain unchanged for the rest of the session,” said a source close to the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proposal-awaits-badnores-nod-100606
18-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Municipal Corporation’s Covid material cost cut to Rs20L, councillors smell rat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17The cost of Covid-control material being purchased by the Municipal Corporation (MC) has all of a sudden come down drastically from Rs2.82 crore to Rs20 lakh.The Rs2.82-crore tender was cancelled after the MC House meeting and a new tender was floated for Rs20 lakh.In the last MC House meeting, splurging of this huge amount was questioned by the councillors, cutting across party lines and it was suggested to include medical experts in the purchase committee. Following this, the civic body included two medical professionals, including UT Health Director Dr G Dewan, in the committee.After the committee meeting, it was decided that 2,000 PPE kits, which were to be bought by the MC for Rs2.10 crore, would not be procured now. “It has been felt that the PPE kits are not required now,” said Chief Engineer Shailender Singh.Officials in the purchase committee said since there were only a few containment zones now, the kits were not needed.Councillors wondered how come 2,000 PPE kits were required till May 29 when the agenda was tabled in MC House meeting for approval and about a fortnight later these were not required.“The matter should be investigated. Who raised the demand earlier and how come things have changed suddenly. Earlier also, there was no need to buy PPE kits by the corporation as these are lying unused at the Deputy Commissioner’s office,” said RK Garg, president of the Second Innings’ Association, a senior citizens’ body.Congress councillor Satish Kainth said, “It’s a scam. They failed to show the inventory of donated Covid material as to which organisation donated what. They wanted to show that the donated material has been bought. They did not even float any tender through the Government e-Marketplace (GeM).”MC Commissioner KK Yadav had already refuted all allegations and said that all norms were followed in the buying process and there was not even a single thing to prove any of the charge. According to him, the tender has been refloated as per the House’s sentiments.Now, gloves, masks, including N-95, and sanitisers (5-litre bottles) are being purchased through the GeM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/municipal-corporations-covid-material-cost-cut-to-rs20l-councillors-smell-rat-100609
18-06-2020||---||Traders boycott Chinese products||Chandigarh, June 17Members of the Chandigarh Traders’ Association, Sector 17, have decided to boycott products made in China.The association president, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, said they had called a meeting to discuss the present relationship between India and China who recently attacked on Indian Army and 20 soldiers sacrificed their lives.“Our duty is to stand by our nation and security forces who sacrifice their lives to safeguard our country. The least we can do is to make them feel that the ones they are fighting for are standing with them,” he said.In the meeting, it was decided that every citizen should start boycotting Chinese products and use Indian merchandises that were best and affordable, he said.The members said they would not purchase imported goods and specially boycott the Chinese items and would buy only Indian-manufactured goods. The traders even pledged to boycott Chinese items.Panchhi appealed to all trader associations and resident welfare associations to come forward and encourage their members buy Indian goods rather than Chinese items.He said they would also make the public aware about boycotting the Chinese products.Ex-servicemen’s body flays Chinese action on LACChandigarh: The National Federation of Defence Honorary Commissioned Officers said it was very unfortunate that the Chinese Army was not implementing the agreement reached between local commanders to withdraw their troops during their meeting held last week, which resulted in physical clash between the two sides at Galwan Valley.The federation also said that while no step should be taken by India in haste, all pros and cons should be fully weighed for a strong action in retaliation. Members of the federation also paid floral tributes to the martyrs.Churches council condemns killing of soldiers in LadakhChandigarh: All Churches Council has strongly condemned the killing of brave Army Colonel and 19 soldiers who were killed by the Chinese army in a cowardly act in the Galwan valley of Ladakh border area on Monday night.The council president, Anil Masih, said they all martyred in line of duty and made supreme sacrifice for our country. “The nation always stands with martyrs and with their families who don’t forget their duties in any circumstances. They are the real heroes of our country,” he said and added that their sacrifice should not be forgotten.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-boycott-chinese-products-100610
18-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Kharar SDM orders probe into Tewer fire, one arrested||Kharar May 17Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain today ordered an inquiry into the fire that broke out at Tewer village here yesterday in which 50 shanties were reduced to ashes and a five-year-old boy was killed.The police arrested Jagtar Singh, one of the owners of the land where the huts were constructed, and sent him to two-day police remand.The SDM said the naib tehsildar of Majri would probe the incident and he had been asked to submit a report within three days.He said the families of the victims had been kept at Government Senior Secondary School, Tewer village, for the time being and were being provided food and other eatables. He said a report regarding their loss was being prepared and it would be sent to the administration for financial help.The police have registered a case against Jagtar Singh and Narinder Singh, both owners of the land where the huts were constructed, under Sections 304, 427 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Ashwani Kumar said victim’s father Suresh Kumar told the police that they were also given temporary electricity connection by the land owner.Suresh had alleged that Jagtar and Narinder were responsible for the death of his child as they had given them electricity connection from their motor through the same open wire.Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu also visited the spot to take stock of the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-sdm-orders-probe-into-tewer-fire-one-arrested-100611
18-06-2020||---||Flight with 116 passengers from Auckland lands at Mohali airport||Mohali, June 17 The fifth evacuation flight, carrying 116 passengers from Auckland, landed at the Chandigarh international airport here this evening as part of the Vande Bharat Mission. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to various parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.  All passengers were subjected to medical screening and social distancing norms were strictly followed. Nobody was found symptomatic. The passengers hailing from the district will not be sent home and would be kept under quarantine at various government facilities or hotels for 14 days as a precautionary measure. The district administration had made proper arrangements and sent the passengers belonging to the other districts and states to their respective areas where they will undergo quarantine period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flight-with-116-passengers-from-auckland-lands-at-mohali-airport-100612
18-06-2020||---||Suspect’s aide ‘flees’ Zirakpur farmhouse||Chandigarh, June 17The UT police claimed to have recovered an automatic pistol and live cartridges from a farmhouse on the Patiala road in Zirakpur.The police claimed that the suspect, Sumit Kumar Bhaita, from whose farmhouse the weapon was recovered, was an accomplice of Vainkat Garg (22) of Ambala, , who was arrested for providing shelter, weapon and a car to the assailants involved in a firing at a liquor vend in Sector 9.The police said Vainkat had revealed that Sumit, a resident of Sector 48, Chandigarh, was one of their accomplices and had a farmhouse in Zirakpur.Acting on the information, the police conducted a raid at the farmhouse on Tuesday. However, Sumit managed to escape in an Audi car. The police recovered an automatic pistol, three live cartridges and a magazine from a garage at the farmhouse.The police claimed that on a tip-off, they managed to recover the Audi car today. “Sumit is yet to be arrested,” the police claimed.Sources said Sumit had been rounded up by the police and was not formally arrested.DSP Central Krishan Kumar said they were yet to verify whether Sumit had any role in the Sector 9 firing.According to the police, Sumit was earlier booked in a case under the Arms Act in 2014.Cops have also recovered two mobile phones of Vainkat Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspects-aide-flees-zirakpur-farmhouse-100616
18-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court orders show-cause contempt notice to Panjab University Vice-Chancellor, Registrar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17In an out-of-the ordinary case of institutional censure, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has suo motu directed the issuance of a show-cause contempt notice to the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar for wilful disobedience of its order on framing a promotion policy for the faculty of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital.Rapping the university for “leaving much to be desired”, Justice Arun Monga asserted: “I am, prima facie, of the view that conduct, callousness and seemingly nonchalant approach of the applicant deserves denunciation. Once an order or direction attains finality, it must be complied with dignity and in entirety in letter and spirit, no matter, how unhappy its sufferer is”.Justice Monga added the court was of the preliminary view that the university officials were, prima facie, liable to show cause why proceedings under Article 215 of the Constitution, read with Sections 11 and12 of the Contempt of Court Act, be not initiated for willful disobedience of its order dated May 30, 2019.Directing the High Court Registry to issue the show-cause notice to the Vice-Chancellor, Justice Monga observed that he was the executive head and overall in-charge of the affairs, besides being the chairman of the Syndicate and Senate — the apex decision-making bodies of the university.The rap and the notice came after the university repeatedly sought an extension to implement the High Court’s May 2019 orders in Mili Bansal nee Gupta’s case, even though it was granted four months for the purpose. Justice Monga asserted that it was reflective of the contumacious attitude of the university.Referring to the initial time-extension plea “to overcome the discrepancies in the existing policy and give shape,” Justice Monga questioned: “Why would one need six to eight months for it...?”Justice Monga added that extension was again sought on the “phony ground of lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic”. “And, what precluded the applicant from overcoming the discrepancies in the ‘existing’ policy prior to the lockdown date.... It was declared on March 23, which is a much later event. It seems to be a mere ruse and cannot be permitted.”Justice Monga asserted that the filing of applications after the expiry of time period was to dodge the resultant contempt proceedings arising out of non-compliance. Holding the university under moral and legal obligation to finalise the existing promotion policy, Justice Monga asserted that it, perhaps, took the court for granted.Before parting, Justice Monga asserted that Panjab University was one of the country’s top league premier education institutions, where upcoming talent was polished. It was required to be a role model not only for the students, but the faculty as well, so they could flourish with zeal and enthusiasm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-orders-show-cause-contempt-notice-to-panjab-university-vice-chancellor-registrar-100618
18-06-2020||Mohali||Actor Sushant’s ‘fan’ ends his life||Youth held with 1 kg of opiumMohali: The Nayagaon police arrested a youth with 1 kg of opium from the Nada bridge here on Tuesday night. The suspect has been identified as Saddam (19), a resident of Aonla in Uttar Pradesh. Saddam used to work as a barber in his native town. ASI Surjit Singh Pattar said, “The suspect was seen carrying a black carry bag in his hand. On suspicion, we stopped him and seized the drug.” A case has been registered against him at the Nayagaon police station. TNSMan held with illicit liquorChandigarh: A resident of Mauli Jagran has been arrested by the crime branch of the Chandigarh police with 660 quarters of country-made liquor. The accused has been identified as Karan. The police said they received a tip-off that the accused was supplying liquor near the tubewell in scrap market of Mauli Jagran. The police reached the spot and nabbed the accused. A case under the Excise Act has been registered against the accused at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSMuddy water supply continuesChandigarh: The supply of muddy water continues in some parts of the city. “Earlier, it was too muddy, but things have imrproved a bit. However, it is still not drinkable. We have an RO installed,” said JJ Singh, RWA, president, Sector 48. While in Mani Majra, muddy and contaminated water supply system has been irking the residents. “There is imminent health hazard to thousands of residents of Modern Housing Complex due to the supply of muddy water,” wrote Colonel Gursewak Singh (Retd), president, RWA, to the UT Adviser. “Residents are now scared as with the threat of the Covid-19 pandemic looming large, they may get affected adversely by drinking contaminated water which may affect their immune system,” he added. TNSCong against e-conferenceChandigarh: City Congress councillors on Wednesday wrote to Mayor Raj Bala Malik criticising the move of the MC to hold House meeting through video-conferencing. “It has been brought to our notice that the upcoming Municipal Corporation meeting is going to be held again via video-conferencing. There is no work being done in the city and the ongoing works have also been stopped, We request you to call a meeting at the House,” stated Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla. TNSNomenclature of nursing staffChandigarh: To acknowledge the efforts of nursing staff, the UT Health Department has decided to change the nomenclature of staff nurses and nursing sister to nursing officers and senior nursing officers, respectively. The decision will be applicable to the employees working under the UT Health Department in Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and allied hospitals. The department is examining the same nomenclature for nurses working under the Department of Medical Education and Research in Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said there would be no financial implications for the same. TNSTwo arrested in carjacking caseMohali: The Hoshiarpur police today arrested two persons in a carjacking case that took place near Siswan village here on Monday. Harmanpreet Singh, Station House Officer, Mullanpur, said, “Both suspects have been arrested. They have also confessed to the crime. We will seek their production warrants soon. Their identities are not known to us yet.” According to the police, the victim, Ashok Kumar (35), a resident of Madawala village, was going home in his Brezza when the miscreants stopped and threatened him to hand over the car keys. Ashok handed over the keys to the miscreants following which the latter sped away with the vehicle. TNSSanitary napkins for just Re1Chandigarh: As a social drive, Jan Aushadhi Suvidha sanitary napkin is being made available at a minimum price of Re1 per pad. The market price of similar napkins is around Rs3-Rs8 per pad. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/actor-sushants-fan-ends-his-life-100626
18-06-2020||---||New Mohali Sewa Kendra timings||Mohali, June 17Owing to the heat wave, the Sewa Kendras in the district will be operational from 7.30 am to 3.30 pm from June 18 to 30. Earlier, the timings were from 9 am to 5.30 pm.People can avail themselves of all type of services at the centres by taking prior appointment from mSewa app, COVA app, website dgrpg.punjab.gov.in or by dialling 8968593812-13. If the appointment counter is free, it can be utilised for the walk-in applicants.The decision has also been taken in view of the necessity to maintain social distance due to the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-mohali-sewa-kendra-timings-100627
18-06-2020||---||5 more test +ve in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 17Five more Covid cases were reported from the city today, taking the count to 370. Of the total cases, 58 are active.Three of the fresh cases have been reported from Sector 25 and two from Ram Darbar.The Sector 25 cases are of women aged 54, 30 and 26. They are family contacts of a 35-year-old man from the sector, who was diagnosed with the disease on Tuesday.Two women from Ram Darbar, aged 48 and 25, tested positive for Covid today. They are family contacts of a Covid patient.Four recover from diseaseThree residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and a resident of Daria have been discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital and have been shifted to Sood Dharamshala, a post-discharge quarantine facility.A total of 306 patients have recovered in the city so far.71 PGI staffers get exposed to virusOn Tuesday, as many as 71 PGI staffers were contact-traced after being exposed to the virus while treating a 42-year-old woman from Kapurthala in Punjab. The woman had come to the PGI on June 12 in a critical condition. Her 32 high-risk contacts and 39 low-risk contacts have been identified. As the woman was in possession of a negative Covid test report issued by a hospital when she reached the PGI, she was rushed to the ICU for further management of her condition. As per protocol, she was tested for Covid at the PGI on June 14. Her report came positive for the virus.In Panchkula, 2 more with travel history infectedPanchkula: Two more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Wednesday. Both patients hail from Barwala block. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said both of them had a travel history. One of them, an 18-year-old boy, had recently travelled to Dwarka in Delhi for work, while the other one, a 24-year-old youth, worked at an automobile manufacturing unit at Dharuhera in Rewari. “The patients have been shifted to the Civil Hospital. Efforts are underway to trace their contacts to check the infection from spreading further,” she said.Home isolation for mild cases Panchkula health officials have allowed home isolation for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms. The patients will be advised to remain in home isolation for seven days following which they will be tested for the virus.More areas get containment tag District Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has declared certain areas in Kalka’s Basant Vihar, Marranwala village, Tagra village, Housing Board Colony, Kalka, Sector 6 and Kundi village in Sector 20 as containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-test-ve-in-chandigarh-100634
