22-06-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports two coronavirus cases||Panhkula reported two new cases of coronavirus cases on Monday, officials said---a development that takes Panchula’s district tally to 96.A 21-year-old woman from Buddanpur in Panchuka’s Sector 16 and a 46-year-old man from a group housing society in Sector 20 have tested positive.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said, “The woman from Buddanpur is a contact of an already infected person. The source of infection to the other patient is being investigated”.Both have been moved to an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital.According to the DIPRO office, Panchkula has 53 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-two-coronavirus-cases-102736
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temperatures hover below normal in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures hovered below normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Monday, with common capital Chandigarh recording a high of 34.5 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said here.The maximum temperature in Chandigarh was three notches below the normal, it added.Ambala in Haryana recorded a high of 34.8 degrees Celsius, down three notches against the normal. Hisar recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, six degrees below the normal. Karnal recorded a high of 34 degrees Celsius, three below normal.Amritsar in Punjab registered a maximum of 37.5 degrees Celsius, one degree below the normal.Ludhiana and Patiala also recorded below-normal maximum temperatures at 34.9 degrees Celsius and 35.5 degrees Celsius respectively.According to the Met Department forecast for Punjab, light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places on Tuesday, at most places on Wednesday and at many places on Thursday.The forecast for Haryana said light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places on Tuesday and at most places on Wednesday and Thursday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maximum-temperatures-hover-below-normal-in-haryana-punjab-102706
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn caps COVID test fee at Rs 2,000||The Chandigarh Administration on Monday capped the Covid-19 test charges for private laboratories in the city at Rs 2,000 against a fee of Rs 4,500.Manoj Parida, IAS, Adviser to the Administrator and Arun Kumar Gupta, IAS, Principal Secretary Health met with the private SRL Diagnostics Laboratory, which is authorized to test COVID cases in the city. The upper limit of Rs 2,000 was fixed for every test, as compared to the existing rate of Rs 4,500.  At present, many states are charging Rs 2,400 for such test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-caps-covid-test-fee-at-rs-2-000-102657
22-06-2020||---||Five new COVID-19 cases take Chandigarh tally to 411||Chandigarh, June 22Five people were reported COVID-19 positive in Chandigarh on Monday. With the new cases, the tally in the Union Territory has reached 411.The fresh cases include two from Dadu Majra — 62-year-old woman and 36-year-old man, who is a family contact of an already positive case of Sector-24. He has three family contacts, all of whom have tested negative.The third case is of a 37-year-old man from Sector 50.Two more cases are reported from Khuda Alisher — 31-year-old man working in private sector in Chandigarh and has nine family contacts, all of whom have been sampled; 48-year-old man, who is a workplace contact of an already positive case of Sector-43 and has four family contacts.Most cases in the UT have been from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26.With the five new cases, the active cases have climbed to 83.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-new-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarh-tally-to-411-102621
22-06-2020||Panchkula||Human remains found in Pinjore sent for examination||The police have identified the human remains that were discovered from a vacant land of HMT behind Pinjore Gardens yesterday.Officials said the remains belonged to a 35-year-old man from Saini Mohalla in Pinjore, who was missing for the past 25 days. The victim, Dharampal, was a taxi driver.Inspector Naveen, SHO at the Pinjore police station, said, “We identified the human remains to be those of Dharampal. Family members were able to identify his clothes and a car key in his trouser pocket.” He said the cause of death was yet to be determined.The human remains were collected and sent for examination. They were later handed over to the family. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/human-remains-found-in-pinjore-sent-for-examination-102389
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cyclist found dead on slip road identified, probe on||A cyclist, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances on the slip road near the Poultry Farm chowk on June 19, was identified today.The victim has been identified as Davinder (30), a resident of Ram Darbar. Davinder, who worked as a painter, didn’t return home on June 18. His body was found on the roadside the next day. Blood was oozing out of his nose, while there was no other visible injury mark on the body.The body was shifted to a mortuary. “He is a resident of Ram Darbar and his father is a tailor,” said a police official. The police said an investigation had been initiated and the actual cause of death would be ascertained after autopsy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-found-dead-on-slip-road-identified-probe-on-102391
22-06-2020||---||Chandigarh cops to bring shooter on production warrant soon||Chandigarh, June 21The UT police will soon bring shooter Nitin Nahar on production warrant. Nitin is a key shooter involved in the firing at the house of hotelier Rakesh Singla, brother of liquor baron Arvind Singla.Nitin, a resident of Indra Colony, Jhabal Road, Amritsar, was apprehended by the Punjab police two days ago from near Colour Resorts, Attari Road, Amritsar, along with his accomplice Bikramjit Singh, who had reportedly provided him a safe hideout.Five assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at businessman and hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33 on May 31. At least 17 bullets were fired at the house. The assailants had come looking for Rakesh’s brother Arvind Singla, who is an established liquor contractor.So far, two shooters and several aides involved in the crime have been arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-to-bring-shooter-on-production-warrant-soon-102367
22-06-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Zirakpur’s nature park lies in utter neglect||Zirakpur, June 21A nature park, Jagrukta Park Bir, at Bhabat village area in Zirakpur is in a state of utter neglect. The park was developed by the State Forest Department on its land.If one pays a visit to the park, he/she can easily see that hedges are hardly pruned, trees are not manicured and the grass is left untrimmed.Set up in 2016 on the 15 acres in the forest land at Bhabat village, the nature park was inaugurated by MLA NK Sharma. It presents a picture of negligence and the widespread apathy on part of the authorities concerned.The park was built with much enthusiasm as species of trees, herbs, shrubs and plants were planted. Apart from this, a long track was also laid to allow visitors to roam around easily.“The Forest Department has invested its resources in planting saplings and deployed staff to maintain the park. After two years, not a single penny was spent on the maintenance or development of the park, due to which it seems to be dying a premature death,” said Jatinder Kumar, a member of an NGO, who is looking after the park at present.In the absence of proper upkeep, the place now presents a picture of neglect. Instead of joggers and environment lovers, couples seeking privacy and anti-social elements frequent the place. Fallen trees and broken benches force people to give the park a miss, he said.Most of the solar lights at park have been lying defunct. In the absence of proper lights, the nature park seems to be turning into a safe haven for criminals after sunset.“Parks are set up with a notion to provide better atmosphere for a walk or stroll. But the apathetic attitude of the authorities concerned has worsened the situation,” said Pardeeep Pasricha, a resident.Another resident Sukhjit Singh said it was sad to see that the department concerned was not bothering about the maintenance of recreational places where residents could spend quality time. The department should come forward with a concrete plan to maintain all parks of the city.Guramanpreet Singh (PFS), DFO, Mohali, said: “We have not received any funds. We have already apprised the officials concerned of the shortage of funds”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpurs-nature-park-lies-in-utter-neglect-102369
22-06-2020||---||2 held for duping shopkeepers||Mohali, June 21The police have arrested two persons, who allegedly duped some elderly shopkeepers, on the pretext of exchanging Indian currency with US notes.The suspects have been identified as Vijay (30), a resident of Muradabad in Uttar Pradesh, and Lalchand Ali (25), a resident of Assam. The police also recovered Rs 43,000 and $520 in US currency along with some gold items from their possession.The suspects were produced in a local court today, which sent them to three-day police custody.As per the police, in the recent past, the suspects had duped Gurnam Singh (60), a shopkeeper of Sohana of Rs 3.5 lakh, and Rajesh Kumar (55), a Phase 3 shopkeeper of Rs 2.5 lakh, on the pretext of exchanging US dollars with Indian Rupee.The suspects had taken the victims into confidence by offering $20 for Rs 400, which was quite cheaper than the actual exchange rate in the market. Greed led victims give Rs 3.5 lakh and Rs 2.5 lakh, respectively, to the suspects. In return, Vijay and Ali gave a polythene bag covered with newspaper and assured the victims that their amount was in it. After a few minutes, when the victims opened the bag, they found only pieces of newspapers inside.Phase 11 SHO Jagdeep Singh said, “We had received these two complaints. We came to know from a tip-off that the suspects were all set to commit a similar type of crime following which we nabbed them from Sector 66. They used to target elderly shopkeepers after winning their faith. ”A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 420, 120-B and 34, IPC, at the Phase 11 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-duping-shopkeepers-102371
22-06-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Zirakpur shopkeepers flout weekend norms||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, June 21Lockdown on weekends is evoking a mixed response from residents and shopkeepers in Zirakpur as the threat of Covid-19 looms large with more and more cases being reported from in and around the town.While most of the markets were closed on Sunday afternoon, some of the shopkeepers, especially eateries, flouted norms and operated with impunity during the morning and evening time.Liquor vends and vegetable vendors were the ones who go unchecked, residents said.As per the guidelines issued by the state government for weekends, standalone shops or malls will remain closed on Sundays, while these can open till 5 pm on Saturdays.However, essential commodities shops will be open on all days till 7pm.“‘Firstly, the traders who flout norms and keep shops open late till evening increase the risk of spreading the virus. Secondly, they gain an unfair advantage over their competitors who abide by government guidelines. We have brought this to the notice of MC officials and the police, but they are just not bothered,” said a shopkeeper on the VIP road.Residents too have been complaining about the nuisance created by roadside eateries near housing societies on the VIP road.“‘There is no fear of police. Some of the eateries are running late till 9:30pm with people standing near road and having food,” said Subhash Bhatt, a retired banker residing in Maya Garden, Phase 2.In Gazipur market, vegetable vendors occupy almost both sides of road. There have been instances when they jostle for space leading to altercations. “‘PCR vehicles have to come and intervene, but the situation is back to square one the next day,” said AK Verma, a resident of Jamuna Enclave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-shopkeepers-flout-weekend-norms-102372
22-06-2020||---||Rs 80K looted from finance firm office||Mohali, June 21Three days after a robbery at an all-woman branch of Punjab National Bank in Phase 3A, another incident of loot took place at Sohana village here.The incident occurred on Saturday when two unidentified miscreants allegedly decamped with Rs80,000 from a finance company office located on the Sohana-Landran road in a populated market of Sohana village. The incident was captured on CCTV. The footage showed two men having their faces covered with cloth entering the place and leaving after a few minutes.Sub-Inspector Barma Singh, the investigating officer, said the two robbers entered the company office around 11 am and looted Rs80,000 from a female employee sitting at the counter. The robbers also took along the mobile phone of the employee.According to the police, the company employees were also under lens and the matter was being investigated from various angles.A case has been registered at the Sohana police station on the complaint of Janvi, the manager of the finance company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-80k-looted-from-finance-firm-office-102392
22-06-2020||---||CHB employee held for duping man of Rs 22.25L||Chandigarh, June 21A senior assistant working with the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has been arrested for allegedly duping a businessman of Rs 22.25 lakh.The complainant, Kuldeep Kumar Luthra of Modern Housing Complex, Mani Majra, alleged that Surinder Kumar, who was his friend, had promised to send his son abroad and get his another son a job in the CHB.The complainant paid the money to Surinder in 2015 and 2016. However, neither his son was sent abroad nor the other son got a job.The police investigated the complaint following which a case of cheating was registered against the suspect at the Mani Majra police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-employee-held-for-duping-man-of-rs-22-25l-102394
22-06-2020||Mohali||Builder booked on fraud charge||The police today booked a real estate builder for cheating. He is alleged to have fraudulently sold a prime land on the Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway in Zirakpur.A case has been registered against Alamjit Singh Mann under Sections 406, 420 and 82 of the IPC for cheating, fraudulently selling land and causing unlawful loss to MMD Infrastructure. Amit Nanda, a partner in the firm, had filed a complaint to the Mohali SSP in this regard last year.Complainant Amit Nanda said Mann had allegedly sold a jointly owned and possessed land registered through a sale deed dated July 2018 at Singhpura village, Zirakpur. He further alleged that Mann later got the sale deed registered in the name of another builder through fraudulent means.Nanda said he and his partners owned 47.5 per cent of the prime land, while the remaining was owned by Mann and his family. Though Mann had received crores of rupees from the complainant for the land share with him, he had claimed exclusive possession and ownership of the entire land, which he sold fraudulently. He said Mann and others sold a specific portion of the land to another builder though he was not authorised to do so.The complainant further alleged that Mann and his family members had also mortgaged the land before selling it. As the mortgage amount was not paid, the bank had declared Mann and his family members as defaulters. An advertisement for having taken possession of the land was also issued in July 2017. “Cheating and fraud have been committed by Mann as he could not have given the land as collateral without the consent of the complainants,” Nanda said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-booked-on-fraud-charge-102365
22-06-2020||---||CGC seeks hostel fee, students harried||Mohali, June 21Several hostellers of the Chandigarh Group of Colleges (CGC), Jhanjeri, were shocked on receiving a text message from the authorities asking them to submit the hostel fee for the next session before July 7.We are bound to reserve our hostel seats and the students have not been asked to pay immediately. The opening of colleges depends on the Centre's approval. We have also adjusted the charges for the lockdown period. — Dr GD Bansal, Director General, CGCHowever, the management said they demanded the fee for the next semester as they had to reserve the hostel seats and mess charges had already been waived.“The authorities should understand that in the current times, it’s impossible to pay any amount. Our families are going though a tough time. We have already paid for the lockdown period, but the authorities are not willing to adjust it for the next session,” said a Kashmiri student on the condition of anonymity.No written complaint was submitted with the management in this regard. “Students will pay the fee once the college opens. But before that, the management should not pressurise anyone,” said Tehleel Manzoor, president of a global students’ union. Meanwhile, the management has said no student was pressurised to submit the fee.“We are bound to reserve our hostel seats and the students have not been asked to pay immediately. The opening of colleges depends on the Centre’s approval. We have also adjusted the charges for the lockdown period,” said Dr GD Bansal, Director General, CGC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cgc-seeks-hostel-fee-students-harried-102396
22-06-2020||---||Give time to yoga, Milkha Singh advises youngsters||Chandigarh, June 21Former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh (90) celebrated 6th International Day of Yoga by performing various asanas at his home today. In his 40 minutes of yoga practice, Milkha Singh asked the youngsters to give time to keep their body fit by doing yoga regularly. Singh, who is also known as ‘Flying Sikh’, performs regular exercise and yoga for the past 30 years.Meanwhile, several educational, social and political organisations held activities to mark the day.UT Sports DepartmentPlayers of various local sports coaching centres, functioning under the UT Sports Department, celebrated the day by participating in various yoga online classes.Govt collegeThe Government College of Yoga Education and Health organised a session where a common yoga protocol was followed abiding by the guidelines of social distancing. The event was presided over by Dr Manjushree from the Directorate of AYUSH.Morning session at PECPunjab Engineering College celebrated International Yoga Day by holding an early morning yoga session for its faculty and students. The session, held online via Google Meet, was conducted by instructor Sunil Kumar. He began with explaining the benefits and importance of the activity and how vital it is for our physical and mental health.NCC cadets participatePatiala: NCC cadets of 5 Pb Bn NCC, Patiala, celebrated International Yoga Day at their homes. Members of their family also participated from various locations through video-conferencing. Col Navjot Kang, CO, 5 Pb Bn NCC, Patiala, said 1,044 persons — 856 NCC cadets and 188 their family members — were part of the yoga day celebrations. They had registered themselves on a portal. Cadets uploaded their videos on the social media. Col Navjot Kang said NCC Cadets were told about the importance of yoga for not only boosting the immunity system and remaining healthy but also to maintain good mental health.Mission FitInternational Day of Yoga was celebrated by members of Mission Fit, Chandigarh, under the guidance of Deepak Thakur, founder of the mission, and his team trainers Priyanka, Chandani Kapoor, Nitin Sharma and Naman Soni.Centre for Swami Vivekananda StudiesThe Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies, PU, conducted two online lectures. Dr GD Sharma from Yogpeeth, Haridwar, spoke on ‘Efficacy of Tridoshas and Tribandhas in the modern context’. ‘Tridoshas’ means an imbalance of the three forces of the body: ‘vat, pitt and kapha’. “When these three are in the right balance, our personality becomes attractive, impressive and our outlook becomes positive,” he said.BJP celebrates dayChandigarh: A yoga camp was organised by the local BJP unit at the party office, Kamalam, in Sector 33 here on Sunday. The camp was attended by several leaders, including the party president Arun Sood. Yoga instructor Monika Thakur conducted the camp wherein she guided the participants about different asanas. The programme was also broadcast live on the social media. TNSNo gatheringChandigarh: Keeping in view the social distancing protocol, no formal gathering was planned to observe International Yoga Day and employees of the Ambala division of the Northern Railways performed yoga asanas at home. Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singh, along with his wife Harvinder Kaur, also participated. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/give-time-to-yoga-milkha-singh-advises-youngsters-102377
22-06-2020||Open House||Consequences can be damaging if migrants don’t return||Punjab govt should help returneesThe first lesson of humanity teaches us to give helping hand to needy person. Citizens of India should not be deprived of health and other facilities on any grounds. Punjabis are known for their sacrifice and love in distressed situations. The Punjab Government should walk a step ahead to help returnees from other states in this pandemic instead to leaving them to their fate.BS Dhillon, MohaliTravelling not a good optionSince implementation of the Unlock 1, lakhs of migrant labourers have been sent to their native places. The government and the authorities concerned are making efforts to provide them food and jobs through MNREGA like schemes in their own states. In this hard time, travelling again means spreading coronavirus pandemic.Ankitaa Sharmaa, ChandigarhScreen them before entry into tricityReturnees from other states should be screened at entry points of the tricity by the authorities concerned. The paramedical staff can do thermal scanning of temperature, cold or any other disease, which causes Covid-19. Migrants can be allowed to enter tricity only after clearance. Certificates may be issued to them to this effect. Returnees found with signs of Covid should be quarantined at government expenses and allowed entry only after clearance from the authorities.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliSealing is not a long-term solutionSealing inter-state or inter-district or tricity borders may delay the spread of coronavirus for the time being, but it will not contribute to the long term solution to the problem for which tracing, testing and isolation needs to be intensified in an unprecedented manner. We are already witnessing its fallout in traffic bottlenecks on borders jeopardising the lives of not only commuters but the police staff on duty too.Prof Manjit Kaur, MohaliNot right time for free movementSealing borders of the UT will bring more hardship to the general public. Regulating returnees will be a better idea. Otherwise, it will add fuel to the fire. Covid-19 will keep troubling us in the near future. There is need to put in place effective regulations in every sphere. It is not the right time to allow free movement of people.KC Rana, ChandigarhAllow them to return with precautionsIt is important for outsiders to visit the city, which houses good hospitals. Being capital to two states Chandigarh has many offices. The local airport caters to the needs of passengers from all the three states, including HP. So, it is not advisable to stop entries of outsiders, who need medical facilities or who want to look after their elders or who want to get their work done from offices. In view that outsiders may not carry infection the authorities should allow them to enter tricity with due precautions.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhTime to rebuild their livesThe authorities in the tricity should allow migrants back with open heart and precautions. They have families, who need our help. Migrants are the people, who built our homes and serve us in many ways. They make us comfortable in our homes while they don't have one of their own. Now, is the payback time to bring their lives back on track. Let's welcome them and rebuild their lives.Jasmeet Kaur, ChandigarhEmpathise with themWe should be emphatic towards this vulnerable class, which has a major role in economic activities. They must not be considered as carriers of the pandemic and be treated with compassion instead of hate. It is high time that the state governments honour the directive of the Central Government else the country will have negligible economic activity.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurIt'll be wise to seal bordersIncreasing number of Covid cases in the tricity is a cause of concern. The situation will go out of hands if outsiders continue to pour in the tricity. Residents will contract virus easily. It will be wise if the authorities seal borders for the safety of residents. The police must keep tight vigil to prevent the entry of outsiders in the tricity.MR Bhateja, NayagaonBe helpful and sympatheticWe must be empathetic and sympathetic towards returnees from other states. After all, they are also human beings. During normal days, they worked for us in the capacity of domestic helpers, labourers, workers and companions. We cannot completely ignore them in these difficult and testing times. Central and state governments must collectively take care of their transport, food, employment and rehabilitation.Dr Karan Singh Vinayak, ChandigarhExtra vigil is need of the hourHaving once failed to check the exodus of migrant laborers, which has adversely affected the industrial growth and development works, the UT Administration and the Punjab and Haryana Governments will now do well to thoroughly screen all returnees and those coming from the hotspots like Delhi at entry points and quarantine all suspected cases. They should be looked after well enough before letting them join the main stream. Such an action will prevent the spread of coronavirus from infected returnees.SC Luthra, ChandigarhSealing border is temporary solutionSealing border is a temporary solution for Covid-19 pandemic. The Administration should allow migrants from other states back in the tricity and make special arrangements for their quarantine. Returnees should be screened at entry points and fined if they don't follow preventive guidelines. Local residents can pass on information to the Administration about people coming to the tricity.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhMany loopholes in process of returnSealing borders seems to be a better option as the process of allowing returnees with precautions and regulations will surely have many loopholes. If this process is followed properly, it can be effective. Returnees must be quarantined for 14 days after they enter the tricity. If needed, their complete tests can be conducted. Legally we can't refuse anyone to move from one place to another, but in the present situation we are helpless. So, sealing borders and that too with strictness is an effective method of reduce the Covid-19 cases in the tricity.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhCommon strategy to control virusWith the opening of state borders and movement of persons through roads, trains and flights, virus infection could increase substantially. Coordination should with neighbouring states is must so that a common strategy can be formed to screen returnees coming to the tricity and conduct their tests. Returnees must be quarantined for at least one week.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhStop entry to tricity for two monthsThe authorities of the tricity should ban the entry of returnees for at least two months till the danger of coronavirus reduces substantially. In emergency cases, returnees should thoroughly be checked and allowed entry only if found negative for the disease. This will certainly reduce the fear of spreading virus in the region.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhBanning returnees is unconstitutionalReturnees from other states are not aliens, but our fellow citizens. Their contribution, even if for mutual benefit, in farms, factories and infrastructure projects cannot be underrated. Denial movement across state-borders is unconstitutional. It is hypothetical that returnees add to Covid infection load in the tricity. Health may be a state subject, but it is inhumane to deny entry/treatment to limit coronavirus count in the tricity. There is no India without states and UTs. Screening/checking can be helpful. Corona knows no barriers or borders. So why should parochialism creep in?Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaCheck for Covid symptoms at borderSealing the border to control rising Covid cases in the tricity is not a solution. Important thing is to manage and handle the situation. Returnees crossing borders should be checked for Covid symptoms. Though it is time consuming, necessary to curb the surge in Covid cases. Isolation wards on borders can handle symptomatic cases. Passes should be mandatory for interstate movements. Limited number of people should be allowed to move from one state to the other. Masses should understand the gravity of situation and restrict their interstate movement and follow protocol.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliPartial sealing of borders mustReturnees from other states are adding to woes of the Administration in the tricity as most are bringing coronavirus with them. At this juncture, sealing of borders is the only way to stop the spread of disease. Therefore, the government should partially seal borders if complete sealing is not possible.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhGive priority to healthAllowing migrants back from their home states is not at all advisable as they may be carriers of the virus. It will be in the interests of migrants that they stay at their present places and come back only when the rate of infection subsides. Health of all should be given top priority. No such action should be taken at the moment, which worsens the pandemic.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliSealing borders is pragmatic stepPermitting people from other states with some precautions and regulations is no more than a theoretical approach because individuals follow rules as per their convenience. Sealing borders temporarily, on the other hand, seems pragmatic as it will ensure a tighter security and more importantly, limit the spread of virus infection. Although people might not like it, such desperate actions can guard all.Bhavna Sharma, ChandigarhMedical checkup before travellingClosed borders have led to economic damage. It has affected the livelihood of many. We cannot afford to seal the tricity borders. Returnees should go for a medical checkup before travelling and show their medical record to the authorities concerned before entering the tricity.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaUnfit to handle complex taskTo ensure that returnees from other states do not add Covid case of the tricity is easier said than done. It entails cumbersome procedures besides ready availability and expert application of testing gadgets. Given our callous approach to disciplined living, we are unfit to handle such a complex task. It would thus be wise to seal borders for some time again.DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhTry to live with the epidemicAfter opening borders, it is not in the interest of the tricity economically to seal it again. The authorities should check people at bus stands, railway stations and airport. Suspected cases should be sent to quarantine and self-isolation. As the epidemic has come to stay, we should try to live with it. People should cooperate with the authorities concerned by following their instructions religiously to defeat this monster.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhFocus on restoring normalcySealing borders is not the answer. Our focus should be to gradually restore normalcy with due precautions. People have to move in/out of Chandigarh in connection with their work. People coming from other states need to be screened at entry points, with their tests done and home address noted. They should be informed about Covid test results. Returnees from other states should inform the UT Administration in advance so that their screening and tests can be done on time.Colonel RD Singh (retd), AmbalaWelcome them, but with cautionCovid 19 cases are spreading fast in the tricity because as more and more returnees are coming back. Welcome returnees with caution. Check travel history of returnees, strengthen surveillance, regularly screen them and home quarantine those found Covid positive. To fill the vacuum of migrants and get the economy moving, the Administration should register landless poor people in the periphery, who have been earning their livelihood in Chandigarh as vendors. It will help them earn, generate revenue and contribute to economic growth in the tricity.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (Retd), ChandigarhSealing will defeat purpose of Unlock 1.0Many visitors have been found Covid positive. The rising infection in the tricity is not a threat to the local public, but a challenge for the authorities concerned to combat the Covid surge. To seal borders in order to control virus will defeat the purpose of Unlock 1.0, as it would create hassles for the public, for those working in the tricity and daily wagers. The authorities should enhance checking at entry points and allow entry of those, who are uninfected and registered in the tricity.SS Arora, MohaliAdministration cannot take riskThe circumstances may turn unfavorable if frequent entry to returnees is allowed. Also, it would be unjustified to stop the entry of original natives of the city, who live in other states or abroad for different reasons and wish to reunite with their families. They should be allowed entry with the condition of self-quarantine for 14 days. On the other hand, the Administration cannot afford to take risk while allowing migrants to return.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliStricter check for those entering tricityIt may be prudent to go for strict checking of persons entering the tricity from red zones or having travelling history or contacts while adhering to the safety protocol. Do not seal interstate borders. Hassle free and hazard free travelling should be allowed with adequate safety measures. It will build confidence of the public, dealing with Covid-19 dragon.Jagdish Singh Jassal, PatialaEntry should be restrictedQuestion arises as to why migrants, in complete disregard to the humanitarian safety and law of the land, rushed to their hometowns during the national Lockdown? Had their states employment potential they would not have come to prosperous areas. Their irresponsibility or misconduct has put other nationals' health and finances in jeopardy. Illiteracy cannot guarantee them immunity from responsibility. Re-entry of such migrants, having neither vision nor inclination to obey laws, needs be restricted.MPS Chadha, MohaliLife should move onWith the return of labourers for paddy transplantation and workers to industry the number of visitors coming to/passing through the tricity has increased. Hence, there is escalation in the number of Covid 19 cases. You cannot stop people forever. People are aware of the saying "prevention is better than cure". Visitors would themselves take necessary precautions and maintain personal hygiene as propagated in the media. The sealing could be implemented for shorter duration in the containment zones and when necessary. Otherwise normal life should move on.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliQUESTIONPublic places in Chandigarh, particularly Sukhna Lake, see rush during the weekends. Should the UT authorities adopt the Punjab model of implementing strict regulations during the weekends to check crowding at public places as there is no abatement in Covid cases in the tricity?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consequences-can-be-damaging-if-migrants-dont-return-102378
22-06-2020||A series of pictures shows various phases of the solar eclipse as seen in the sky from Chandigarh on Sunday. While India witnessed its deepest annular solar eclipse of this century for over three hours||Celestial delight: Chandigarh sees maximum coverage of sun||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/celestial-delight-chandigarh-sees-maximum-coverage-of-sun-102380
22-06-2020||Panchkula||25-yr-old TB patient hangs self  in Panchkula||A 25-year-old patient of tuberculosis (TB) allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his house at Rajiv Colony in Sector 17 here on the intervening night of June 19 and 20.The patient, identified as Vicky, had been undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. He was discharged from the hospital on Friday morning.On getting information, the police reached the spot and shifted the body to the Civil Hospital for a postmortem. The body was later handed over to the family.Brij Pal, Sector 16 chowki in-charge, said they came to know about the incident around 5.30 am on Saturday. The victim’s family told the police that the patient was stressed due to his prolonged illness. He was battling TB for the past four years and was on a regular medication. He had also received treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh. He was admitted to the Civil Hospital here from June 13 to 19.The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-yr-old-tb-patient-hangs-self-in-panchkula-102388
22-06-2020||---||Security guard turns Good Samaritan, feeds migrants||Mohali, June 21A 63-year-old security guard of a private company, who had earlier helped children of migrant labourers by providing them free education in the Industrial Area, Phase 8, here, has been distributing food and ration among stranded workers since the lockdown was imposed in the district.Says NRI support a big helpI have been getting only Rs7,000 a month since the lockdown, but I’m able to fulfil some basic needs of poor families with the support of an NRI. I have educated 185 children of migrants so far. — Nirmal SinghNirmal Singh, a resident of Dhangrali village in Ropar, said he had distributed food and ration among migrant families, who had lost their livelihood due to the lockdown, with the help of a Canada-based NRI, Surinder Ahluwalia.Earns Rs 7,000 a monthThe security guard said, “I have been getting only Rs 7,000 a month since the lockdown, but I’m able to fulfil some basic needs of poor families with the support of an NRI. I have educated 185 children of migrants so far.”Surinder Ahluwalia said, “I am really impressed by the dedication and selfless work of Nirmal Singh. He should be given recognition. He can also become an inspiration for others.”He said, “I have been in touch with Nirmal Singh and have provided him with some meagre help for a cause. I approached him after reading about him in a newspaper.” He had also urged the state government to provide him proper space in a building close to his workplace so that he could teach more needy children while performing his duty as a security guard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/security-guard-turns-good-samaritan-feeds-migrants-102354
22-06-2020||---||Youth ends his life at Daria||Chandigarh, June 21A 22-year-old youth reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Daria today. The victim has been identified as Anshum Mishra, who worked as a service supervisor with an automobile company.The police said they received information from the GMSH, Sector 16, about the victim being brought dead there by the family in an auto.The police reached the hospital and also visited the victim’s house. The police have ruled out any foul play. They recorded the statement of the victim’s family.A police official said some jewellery was missing from the victim’s house following which his family had questioned him regarding it. “It is suspected that this led the victim to take the extreme step,” said a police official.The body has been shifted to a mortuary and samples taken for the Covid test. The police said the autopsy would be conducted after receiving the Covid report.Was questioned over missing jewelleryA police official said some jewellery was missing from the victim’s house following which his family had questioned him regarding it. “It is suspected that this led the victim to take the extreme step,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-ends-his-life-at-daria-102390
22-06-2020||Mohali||177 arrive by evacuation flight from Dubai||The sixth evacuation flight carrying 177 passengers from Dubai landed at the Chandigarh international airport here late this evening. The flight was operated under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate Indian nationals stranded abroad.All repatriated passengers will reach their districts under the supervision of their respective state government representatives and will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.The Air India Express flight IX1183, which was scheduled to arrive at 5.25 pm, reached late at 6.30 pm.Ishan, a resident of Panchkula, said they were informed that the delay was due to the medical screening of some passengers at the Dubai airport.Shruti, a resident of Ludhiana, said she was allowed to board the flight today after she produced a medical certificate about her pregnancy. She said her parents had come to receive her at the airport.All passengers were subjected to medical screening. None of the passengers was found symptomatic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/177-arrive-by-evacuation-flight-from-dubai-102357
22-06-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh may revise quarantine protocol for visitors today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 21With the number of coronavirus cases increasing in the city daily, the UT Administration is likely to take a call on the revision of quarantine protocol for those visiting the city from other places, particularly from Covid-19 hotbeds.The Tribune has learnt that with the earlier guidelines of self-monitoring by those visiting the city from outside not working to contain the spread of the virus, the Administration is likely to take some drastic measures whereby those coming from other states could be mandated to go for self-quarantine for a certain period.People visiting the city from Panchkula and Mohali for their day-to-day works are likely to be kept out of the purview of the orders.Sources in the Administration said: “The final direction in this regard will be taken on Monday in the war room meeting to be held under UT Administrator VP Badnore”.On June 18, the UT had discussed certain measures that could be undertaken by people who recently visited the city, but no order on this front was passed. Hence, the guidelines issued earlier, which mandate only self-monitoring by visitors, are in force.During the Administration’s meeting on June 18, where the Administrator also interacted with Principal Secretary (Home) Arun Gupta, Finance Secretary AK Sinha, Commissioner KK Yadav and other officials of the city, Badnore expressed concern over the increasing number of Covid cases and noted that many of these could be found in visitors coming from outside.He directed Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal to ensure enhanced checking at border points and make sure that only those have registered themselves on the website for entry to Chandigarh are allowed.Badnore had directed Gupta to examine if instead of self-quarantine, the Administration can implement self-home quarantine, which will restrict the movement of visitors.The Administrator also wanted the Adviser to see if those who violate self-quarantine instructions can be penalised by putting them in institutional quarantine centres.When contacted by The Tribune, Gupta said the decision regarding quarantine of people coming from other states would be taken in the war room meeting on Monday. “The decision will be taken in the tomorrow’s war room meeting,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-revise-quarantine-protocol-for-visitors-today-102362
22-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali ill-prepared for monsoon||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 21Though pre-monsoon showers have already started, the city is still not adequately prepared for the rains. The authorities are yet to start cleaning of blocked road gullies and stormwater drains.Pre-monsoon showers that lashed the city recently have exposed the tall claims of the Municipal Corporation regarding preparedness for the monsoon, which is likely to hit the city on June 25. More than 45 per cent of the road gullies and stormwater drains are lying blocked.As the monsoon is round the corner, residents believe that the civic body doesn’t have enough time to clean stormwater drains. There is a lack of coordination among agencies responsible for maintaining the drainage system. This is evident from the fact that roads in Zirakpur, Mohali and Kharar turn into virtual rivers as the stormwater drainage system completely fails after the rain.Surjit Singh, a resident of Phase 3B1, said if the MC had taken corrective measures on time, the city could have been saved from witnessing flooding during the monsoon season.However, MC officials claimed that more than 60 per cent of the choked road gullies and stormwater drains had already been cleaned.MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said all choked road gullies and stormwater drains would be cleaned before the onset of monsoon. Wild growth in the N-choe had already been removed.Though the corporation has removed wild growth from the N-choe, seasonal rivulets such as Patiala ki Rao behind Balongi, N-choe passing through Phase 9, 10, and Sector 67 and Lakhnour choe near Phase 11 are yet to be cleaned.Tall claims exposedPre-monsoon showers that lashed the city recently have exposed the tall claims of the Municipal Corporation regarding preparedness for the monsoon, which is likely to hit the city on June 25. More than 45 per cent of the road gullies and stormwater drains are lying blocked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-ill-prepared-for-monsoon-102364
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two more test positive in Chandigarh||The city reported two new cases of Covid-19 today, taking the tally to 406.A 45-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 22 and pharmacist at Haryana MLA Hostel, Sector 3, is among the new patients. The second person to test positive today is a 25-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran.With the two new cases, the number of active cases in the city has risen to 84. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-test-positive-in-chandigarh-102395
22-06-2020||---||4 more contract virus in Mohali, 12 recover||Mohali, June 21Four more cases of Covid surfaced in the district, taking the infection count to 222.The persons infected with the virus are a 40-year-old woman from Dera Bassi and a 60-year-old woman, a 60-year-old man and a 42-year-old man from Baltana, Zirakpur.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the three patients from Baltana were influenza-like illness cases. He said they were admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.He said 12 more patients had been discharged from the Banur hospital.As of now, there are 68 active cases in the district, 151 patients have been cured and three have died of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-contract-virus-in-mohali-12-recover-102393
22-06-2020||Panchkula||7 new cases in Panchkula tally||Panchkula reported 11 new cases of Covid today. Since four of these patients do not belong to the district, they would not add to its tally.A 42-year-old man from Sector 26, a couple in their 30s from Shakti Nagar in Kalka, a 17-year-old girl from Bitna Colony, and a 27-year-old woman, an 11-year-old girl, and a 22-year-old girl from Raipur Rani have tested positive for Covid.“The three from Raipur Rani are contacts of an already infected person. Officials are trying to identify the source of the infection to other patients,” said Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur.Two patients are from Baltana and one each from Chandigarh and Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh. “A couple in their 60s from Baltana will be added to the Punjab tally. A 22-year-old girl from Hardoi will be added to the Uttar Pradesh count,” she said. A woman employee of the Haryana MLA Hostel in Chandigarh will be added to the UT tally.The state bulletin stated that Panchkula saw no new case of Covid today. On variation in numbers, the Civil Surgeon said they could only confirm the exact numbers by tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-new-cases-in-panchkula-tally-102355
22-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh not monsoon-ready, 40% road gullies yet to be cleaned||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 21The city apparently is not ready for the monsoon season. Even as the monsoon is expected to arrive in the city in three days, the local Municipal Corporation has been able to clean only 60 per cent of the 30,000 road gullies so far. Since a large number of road gullies are yet to be cleaned, it could increase the chances of waterlogging during rain.“No road gullies have been cleaned in our area. Due to rain the other day, water accumulated at the place where the apni mandi is set up. Even at places where road gullies are being cleaned, the work is not being done properly,” said Joginder Singh, general secretary, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 56.Many gullies have not been cleaned properly. In front of the Sector 17 bus stand, after cleaning the road gullies, workers kept the waste in the open. Due to rain, it again covered the road gullies.“It wastes the whole effort. After cleaning the gullies, the waste should be removed right away,” said a resident of Sector 24.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the monsoon is expected to hit the city on June 24 or 25.MC Executive Engineer Vijay Premi, in-charge of this work, said, “All manholes have been cleaned while 60 per cent of the road gullies have also been cleaned. By the first week of July, the work on all road gullies will be over. The work on major roads has already been completed and only some internal roads are left. In two to four days, work will start in UT villages. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, the work got affected.”The city witnesses waterlogging during the monsoon every year. In some parts, even a brief spell of rain leaves roads, traffic junctions and parking lots inundated, inconveniencing commuters.Monsoon likely to hit city on June 24-2532.9 mm of rainfall recorded||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-not-monsoon-ready-40-road-gullies-yet-to-be-cleaned-102353
