23-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports four new coronavirus case||Mohali reported four more coronavirus cases on Monday, officials said.Two men, ages 43 and 36, and two teenagers---a girl age 16 and a boy age 15---tested positive on Monday. All four are from Mohali’s Sector 91.The 43-year-man and the two teenagers had recently returned from Delhi, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said. The last case was a man who recently returned from Himachal.All four have been moved to a Covid Care Centre at Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Three people have been released from the hospital after they made full recovery, the doctor said.District authorities say put Mohali’s tally at 226 COVID-19 cases, 52 of them active. Punjab’s tally, however, puts the district’s number at 219.None of the new cases have been added to the official state tally yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-four-new-coronavirus-case-103252
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGI-Chandigarh staff restrained from observing strike||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday restrained the PGIMER Employees Union from proceeding on strike or disrupting the functioning of the institute or hospital in any manner owing to the prevailing coronavirus pandemic.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan also directed the Deputy Commissioner and the Senior Superintendent of Police to take preventive steps to ensure that there is no violation of the court orders.Taking a serious view of the issue, the high court made clear that in case any of the office bearers of the union(s) proceed on strike or hunger strike, they may be arrested immediately and sent in civil imprisonment.The order comes in the wake of a contempt petition filed by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) against Tarandeep Singh Grewal and Harbhajan Singh Bhatti, General Secretary and President of the Ministerial and Secretarial Employees Union of the PGIMER, respectively, for disrupting COVID-19.The authorities were directed to ensure the maintenance of law and order and the association and union do not indulge in any illegal activity that hampers the smooth functioning of the institute. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-staff-restrained-from-observing-strike-103229
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Severed feet wrapped in newspaper found near Chandigarh's sector 17||The Union Territory police was left puzzled after finding two severed feet wrapped in newspaper on a cycle track near Chandigarh's Sector 17 road on Tuesday.The cops received information and rushed to the spot. The feet were found lying near at bushes of the Sector 17 and Sector 18 dividing road.The spot was video-graphed, and a team of Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CSFL) also reached. The cops examined the close by areas to check for more disembodied parts in the bushes. "The feet seem to be of a woman", said a police official. The feet are kept at the mortuary of Government of Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH) Sector 16. Meanwhile, the investigation has been initiated by the police at Sector 17 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/severed-feet-wrapped-in-newspaper-found-near-chandigarhs-sector-17-103206
23-06-2020||Vibha Sharma||Monsoon expected to reach Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in next 48 hours||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 23The Southwest Monsoon has arrived over the hill state of Uttarakhand and is expected to reach Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Chandigarh in next 48 hours, the IMD said on Tuesday.Conditions are becoming favourable for its further advance into the remaining parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, entire Western Himalayan Region, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, most parts of Punjab and some parts of Rajasthan during the next 48 hours, the weather office said.In the past few days, it further advanced into the remaining parts of north Arabian Sea, most parts of Kutch, some more parts of Gujarat region, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Uttarakhand.The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) now passes through Ahmedabad, Shajapur, Fatehpur and Rudrapraya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monsoon-expected-to-reach-punjab-haryana-and-chandigarh-in-next-48-hours-103181
23-06-2020||---||4 new coronavirus cases in Chandigarh; 87 active cases in UT||Chandigarh, June 23Four people have tested coronavirus positive in Chandigarh, taking the total number of infected cases in the union territory to 415. There are 87 active cases at present.The four new cases are a 48-year-old woman of Mauli Jagran, who has been admitted to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16; a 29-year-old woman of Sector 38-C, who has been admitted to the PGI; a 27-year-old man of Sector 29, who has been admitted to the PGI; and a 26-year-old woman of Sector 38 West, who has been admitted to the PGI.Till now, Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 has contributed maximum infections to the UT tally. Now, no area in the UT is in the containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-new-coronavirus-cases-in-chandigarh-87-active-cases-in-ut-103118
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Protesting AAP leaders detained in Chandigarh||Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema along with other AAP MLAs and party leaders, who were marching towards Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence here were detained by the police for several hours on Monday.They were protesting against the state government’s move to give hundreds of acres to private parties through PUDA, instead of reviving the Bathinda thermal plant.Other leaders included Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Meet Hayer, Jai Krishan Singh Rori, Harchand Singh Bursat and Sandeep Singla.Cheema alleged that the power and land mafia, which was earlier commanded by the SAD, was now patronised by the Congress. Cheema and fellow party MLAs were on their way to remind the Finance Minister of his election promise on restarting the Bathinda thermal plant, but were detained by the UT police. The leaders alleged that they were detained without being heard. Meanwhile, the AAP flayed the government for curtailing administrative and executive powers of the mayors and termed it an attack on the established democratic system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-aap-leaders-detained-in-chandigarh-102792
23-06-2020||---||14-day home quarantine must for visitors to Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22In view of the rising number of Covid cases in the city, Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), UT, today ordered mandatory self-home quarantine for 14 days for visitors from outside the tricity.“We won’t put a notice outside their houses. They will have to adhere to the order themselves,” Gupta said.Not applicable if stay less than 72 hoursThe order will not be applicable to visitors spending less than 72 hours in the city. This will help business executives, government employees and other such persons who come to the city for official work and leave after a short stay.Registration on UT website mandatoryAll visitors entering the UT from places other than the tricity will have to get themselves registered on the UT website. Outsiders staying in the city for not more than 72 hours will also have to register themselves. The police will check their registration at the UT borders.However, the order will not apply to visitors spending less than 72 hours in the city. This will help business executives and government employees, who come to the city for official work and leave after a short stay.During a war room meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said in the recent past, most Covid cases were of persons coming from outside the city. He appealed to the RWAs, voluntary agencies and social workers to cooperate with the authorities in monitoring the stay and movement of persons coming from outside the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-day-home-quarantine-must-for-visitors-to-chandigarh-102873
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid test cost capped at Rs 2K in Chandigarh||The UT today capped the Covid-19 test at a private laboratory at Rs2,000. UT Adviser Manoj Parida met officials of SRL Diagnostics Laboratory, the only lab authorised to conduct the test in the city. The upper limit of Rs2,000 was fixed for the test. The existing rate is Rs4,500. Many states are charging Rs2,400 for this test.Anybody can get checked for Covid-19 at the lab. No recommendation from any doctor or hospital is required. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-test-cost-capped-at-rs-2k-in-chandigarh-102875
23-06-2020||---||No containment zone in Chandigarh now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22With the UT Administration removing the containment zone tag from pocket number 15 at Bapu Dham Colony, there is now no containment zone in the city.Houses in this pocket remained under containment restrictions for nearly two months.The Administration has also removed the perimeter control from all buffer zone pockets. There were restrictions in some blocks in the buffer zone.“Although these pockets have been removed from the perimeter control, regular surveillance and sanitisation of the areas will continue,” said an official during a war room meeting today.Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, said for every affected area, they would have a joint action committee comprising municipal, health and police officials under “incident commanders”, who would liaise with local voluntary organisations and residents welfare associations (RWAs) to keep a watch in the areas and to ensure observance of social distancing and the necessary hygiene practices.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said in case there was a fresh outbreak in any of the areas that had recently been opened up, restrictions would be imposed again. He advised residents to wear masks and strictly follow social distancing and hand hygiene norms. They should also keep a watch and inform the Administration about any suspected case from outside the city.Chandigarh Admn gets tough with violatorsKeeping in view reports of frequent violation of norms related to social distancing and wearing of masks, it was decided that a special drive would be undertaken to impose on-the-spot fine on such violators. The UT has already fixed a fine of Rs500 for spitting at public places and for violating social distancing norms by owners of shops/commercial establishments, Rs2,000 for violating home quarantine norms and Rs500 for violating social distancing norms by owners of auto-rickshaws/two-wheelers, Rs2,000 in the case of cars and Rs3,000 in the case of buses.The Administrator also directed the DGP to ensure that there was regular checking of persons coming from outside the tricity to Chandigarh. Only those who register themselves for the visit on the website of the Administration will be allowed to enter Chandigarh. The Police Control Room will also randomly check their locations to ensure that they observe proper home quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-containment-zone-in-chandigarh-now-102876
23-06-2020||---||5 fresh cases reported from Chandigarh, tally 411||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22Five more persons in the city were diagnosed with Covid-19 today. With the surfacing of the new cases, the UT tally has reached 411.A 62-year-old woman and a 36-year-old man from Dadu Majra are among the fresh cases. The samples of the woman’s six family contacts living in her house have been taken for the Covid test. The man is a family contact of an already positive case of Sector 24. He has three family contacts, all of whom have tested negative for the virus.A 37-year-old man from Sector 50 has also contracted the virus. He had returned from Delhi, where he works, on June 16. The patient has three family contacts. One of them resides in Sector 50, while the other two stay in Mohali.Two more cases have been reported from Khuda Ali Sher. A 31-year-old man, working in the private sector in the city, has tested positive for the virus. He has nine family contacts, all of whom have been sampled. A 48-year-old man, who is a workplace contact of an already positive case of Sector 43, is the other patient. He has four family contacts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-fresh-cases-reported-from-chandigarh-tally-411-102878
23-06-2020||Panchkula||Two more contract virus in Panchkula||Two new cases of Covid were reported from Panchkula today. A 21-year-old woman from Buddanpur in Sector 16 and a 46-year-old man from a group housing society in Sector 20 have tested positive for the virus.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said, “The woman from Buddanpur is the contact of an already infected person. The other patient’s source of infection is being investigated.”The two new patients have been shifted to an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital.Panchkula has 96 positive cases with 53 of these active. As many as 49 patients from other districts are also receiving treatment in Panchkula. Over 8,000 samples have been tested so far and the results of 163 samples are awaited.However, the state Covid-19 bulletin says Panchkula has 55 active cases.According to a district police press release, Panchkula has 23 containment zones. There are six containment zones under the jurisdiction of the Sector 5 police station. There are four such zones each in Sector 20 and Kalka, three in Sector 14, two each in Pinjore and Chandimandir and one each in Mansa Devi Complex and Raipur Rani. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-contract-virus-in-panchkula-102880
23-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Chandigarh gets notice on only-tuition-fee order||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to the UT Administration and other respondents on a petition filed by the Independent Schools Association for quashing the order directing all private unaided schools to collect only the tuition fee on a monthly basis from students while not stopping or reducing the monthly salary of the teaching and non-teaching staff.Representing 78 schools, the association, through senior counsel Puneet Bali and Vibhav Jain, also sought quashing of another order whereby all private unaided schools were directed not to increase the fee for the current session without specific approval from the Administration.Taking up the matter through videoconferencing, Justice BS Walia also issued a notice regarding stay for July 1. Claiming that the schools were making painstaking efforts to ensure that the students did not suffer in their curricular and co-curricular activities during the current academic session, Bali added the institutions were providing education and holding classes through online platforms.“Suffice it is to mention that the effort in physically teaching students in a regular classroom cannot even remotely be compared with the effort that the teacher has to expend in providing online education. Several schools have made investments in technology platforms, devices and extensive training of teachers in the interest of students,” Bali submitted.He added that the school association members were for all intents and purposes functional and the teaching-learning process had been continuing with minimal interruption. The petitioner-schools had even prepared timetables for the online classes being conducted by them.Some schools were even conducting two online sessions to mitigate the hardships faced by the parents.Going into the technical aspects of the matter, Bali added that the impugned memo/order dated June 2/3 passed by the UT under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, on fee regulation was liable to be set aside. “A bare glance at the provision would make it luminous that the respondent is not empowered under the Act to pass any such order for regulation of fee of private unaided schools.He also submitted the impugned memo/orders were without competence. Although fee could be regulated, there was no legislative power under the Disaster Management Act or the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act whereby the respondents could direct the schools not to increase the amount for the present academic session. They could not even advise the schools to carry on the classes online and seek merely the fee as charged in the last academic session from the students. “Therefore, in the absence of any power conferred under the said Acts, the arbitrary action on the part of the respondents is completely non est and liable to be set aside”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-notice-on-only-tuition-fee-order-102881
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||MC moves HC on takeover of waste plant||The Municipal Corporation today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the stay order of a local court on taking over the possession of the waste processing plant in the city.Representatives of the plant had on Saturday handed over an order to MC officials regarding extension in the stay on taking over the possession of the plant.The local court had earlier given a three-month stay to the company. After the time period ended, the Municipal Corporation served a notice on the company asking it to vacate the premises. However, the firm again moved the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-moves-hc-on-takeover-of-waste-plant-102883
23-06-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula needs high-end machine to ramp up testing||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 22Though Panchkula has upgraded its testing capacity by making its lab functional round-the-clock, there is still a room for improvement at a time when people are coming from Covid hotspots like Delhi to get themselves tested.Mohali leads in testing in tricityAt one point in time, Panchkula was leading the tricity in testing. At present, Mohali is at number one spot in terms of maximum testing. It has tested around 11,000 samples, whereas Panchkula is trailing behind with over 8,000 samples tested so far.Officials on the condition of anonymity said the district lab required a high-throughput automated RNA extraction system that would take less time to extract samples to improve its testing numbers.The present RNA extraction machine is handling 24 samples in 90 minutes, whereas the high-throughput machine is capable of conducting up to 96 samples in lesser time.According to sources, additional research scientists are also an important requirement.As far as manpower is concerned, the lab has 10 technicians, four data entry operators and one research scientist.On an average, the Panchkula lab is testing 300-400 samples each day. Once it had tested 625 samples in 24 hours.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “We are trying to increase our testing capacity. Though sample pooling is one way to increase testing capacity, we opt for individual sample testing on contacts of active patients and persons with travel history to Covid-19 hotspots as the other concern is that a single positive specimen in a group may make it necessary to repeat tests on all individuals in that group,” she added.“The Panchkula lab also receives samples from other districts such as Yamunanagar, Fatehabad and Ambala,” said Dr Neeraj Arora, nodal officer for Covid-19 testing at the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-needs-high-end-machine-to-ramp-up-testing-102885
23-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Parts of Baltana declared micro-containment zones||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 22The district health authorities today declared parts of Baltana, Zirakpur, micro-containment zones in the wake of increasing Covid cases there.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said, 13 positive cases had surfaced in Baltana in the past three days. The administration had declared a lane in Harmilap Nagar a micro-containment zone after seven members of a family tested positive from there.Cases are not scattered. Most of these are either confined to houses or different pockets because of which parts of the area have been declared micro-containment zones. — Dr Manjit Singh, Civil SurgeonHe said all seven family members were contacts of a positive patient from Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh. Also, two positive cases were reported from New Govind Vihar in Baltana, he added.Dr Manjit Singh said, “Cases are not scattered. Most of these are either confined to houses or different pockets because of which parts vof the area have been declared micro-containment zones.”Earlier, several areas in Dera Bassi were declared micro-containment zones after 30 cases surfaced from there. Of these, 17 were from Mubarakpur Camp alone.17 recover, dischargedThe Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said 17 patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur after they recovered on Monday.He said of them, four were from Kurali, two each from Baltana and Nayagaon, three each from Lalru and DeraBassi and one each from Mohali, Zirakpur and Dhakoli. No new case was reported from the district today, he added.As of now, there are 51 active cases in the district, 168 persons have cured and three died due to the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parts-of-baltana-declared-micro-containment-zones-102886
23-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Ayurvedic treatment helps 47% patients recover in chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22Around 149 of the 316 recovered Covid-19 patients in the city have been treated with Ayurvedic medicines.Dr Naresh Mittal at Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, said nearly 47 per cent of the total recovered patients in the city had recovered and discharged from the hospital, while 28 of their patients were still under treatment.He said the hospital had handled 186 patients so far and five of their patients, who had developed clinical complications, were referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER).The hospital is also a part of efficacy and safety trail of a combination regimen of Standard of Care (SOC) plus a selected standardised Ayurvedic drug (AYUSH 64 as adjuvant) in the management of mild to moderate Covid-19 with that of standalone SOC (active control).At Dhanwantry, the first batch of 100 patients was given Ayush 64 formulation, along with ‘agastya haritaki’ and ‘anu taila’, and the remaining 100 were being given only Ayush 64. However, no diabetic patient has been included in the Ayush 64 trial.Recovery shows in 48-72 hrsDr Mittal said, “It has been noticed that patients with cough and fever have shown recovery within 48 to 72 hours. Patients here are treated with Ayurvedic medication at large, but in emergencies such as post delivery or psychiatry cases, experts from the Government Medical College Hospital, Sector 32, are consulted.”Dr Mittal said patients were also being given immunity boosters such as ‘giloy ghan vati’, which contained extracts of ‘giloy’ (botanically known as Tinospora Cordifolia), which, in Ayurveda, was known to be a potent immuno-modulator (immunity booster) herb and ‘sudarshan ghan vati’. Besides, the patients were also asked to practice breathing exercises, he said.The institute has also prepared a mixture of 10 herbs known as ‘aarogya amrit kada’, which is given to paramedical staff for 10 days.On May 7, the UT Administrator had decided that all new asymptomatic and mild cases will be sent to the Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, which is a 50-bed Covid facility, while critical cases will continue to be sent to the PGIMER.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ayurvedic-treatment-helps-47-patients-recover-in-chandigarh-102888
23-06-2020||---||Parents want clarity on next semester at PU||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22Fearing last-minute pressure of paying the fee, parents of those studying in Panjab University (PU) want some clarity regarding starting the new semester.Usually, the PU starts the process for new and existing admissions to various courses in June-July. However, due to the lockdown, there are no clarifications about examination, admissions and starting of the new semester.“The authorities should come up with a decision as things are not going well financially with a majority of the parents. We should be informed well in time so that if someone wants to arrange the fee, he/she can avoid last-minute hassles. The university should not totally depend on the MHA guidelines,” said Romen Singh, a parent.The city is already witnessing a series of protests by the parents opposing charging of fee by schools. “We cannot come and protest, but the authorities should give us sufficient time for the submission of the fee. A majority of the students in the PU belong to middle-class families. The more they delay the new semester, the less time parents will get to submit the fee,” said Manmohan Choudhary, another parent.Meanwhile, sources said even the authorities were unaware about the problem and they were waiting to hear from the MHA.“The coming months are crucial for the PU management, parents and students. Once the authorities get green light for opening the university, they will try to complete all thing as soon as possible to cover up for the time lost during the lockdown,” said sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-want-clarity-on-next-semester-at-pu-102889
23-06-2020||Mohali||Congress protests hike in fuel prices||Members of the Congress today held a protest rally against the BJP-led Central Government for “cheating people by continuously increasing the prices of petrol and diesel for the past 16 days”.Raising slogans against the Modi government, they carried a motorcycle on a horse cart through various parts of the city.Mohali city Congress former president Inderjit Singh Khokhar said earlier, demonetisation had hit the economy hard and later the introduction of the GST had hit the industry. He said common people, especially migrant workers, were affected due to the lockdown and prices of essential commodities had steeped. He said the increasing prices of petrol and diesel would affect the poor, middle class and farmers.He said the price of crude oil was decreasing by the day, but despite it, citizens were bearing the brunt. He said citizens were already facing a number of difficulties, including unemployment. He said several had lost their jobs and hundreds of migrants died on roads due to the wrong decisions of the Centre. He said about 38 crore middle-income group and 12 crore farmers were affected by inflation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-protests-hike-in-fuel-prices-102890
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||CHB to accept online challans only||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will no longer accept challans filed manually.However, to facilitate allottees who do not have internet facility or are facing any difficulty in the generation of a challan, a few branches of HDFC bank — at Sector 9-D, Sector 22-B, Sector 37-D and Industrial Area Phase I and II — have been identified to assist in the generation of challans.In June last year, it was observed that Rs 112 crore was lying in the suspense account of the CHB — money was deposited by allottees, but it could not be reflected in their individual account against a particular property. During the past one year, the CHB has made efforts by checking its old records and requesting a copy of challans from the allottees.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, shared: “The efforts not only consumed manpower of the CHB but it was also an inconvenience for allottees. Entries amounting to Rs 110 crore have been reflected in the respective accounts of the allottees.” He said efforts were being made to identify the dwelling units against which the remaining Rs 2 crore in suspense account was deposited.A statement by the CHB stated: “Allottees made several mistakes while filling offline challans such as using a different challan than the prescribed one for a particular payment, mentioning wrong information about the dwelling unit number or not mentioning vital information in the challan. To ensure mistakes were not repeated, the Chandigarh Housing Board has recently started facility of online payment. A number of allottees and applicants have started making online payments through debit card, credit card and online banking. There are no additional charges for making online payment.” “However, a considerable number of allottees are still making offline payments in cash/cheque/drafts. Mistakes are leading to further complications and delay while issuing no-dues certificate and transfer letters. To resolve the problem, a facility for generation of challan for cash/cheque/draft payment has been provided at the website — www.chbonline.in,” read the statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-accept-online-challans-only-102891
23-06-2020||---||Get unique No. by June 30, arms licence holders told||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 22In accordance with the directions of the Union Government, those did not have Unique identification Number (UIN) on their firearms should get the same by June 30, said Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.He said all arm licence holders hailing from the district and those who had come from other districts/states and did not have UIN on their firearms should get the same from the PLA branch, room number 311 (second floor), District Administrative Complex, Sector 76, before June 30.Dayalan said all arms licences without the UIN would be considered invalid and the entire onus would be on the licence holder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-unique-no-by-june-30-arms-licence-holders-told-102893
23-06-2020||---||Mohali cops challan 2,200 in a month||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 22The Mohali police issued challans to over 2,200 persons for various offences such as not wearing proper face mask, spitting in public places and not maintaining social distancing in the past one month. The cops collected a sum of Rs 6.73 lakh from the violators.Fact fileAs many as 2,155 persons were challaned for not wearing face masks and a sum of Rs 6,61,400 was collected from them. Similarly, 43 persons were challaned for spitting in public places and a sum of Rs4,300 was collected from the violators. Four persons were challaned for not maintaining social distancing and an amount of Rs8,000 was collected from them.This was disclosed by a police spokesperson while honouring 80 public volunteers for making exceptional contribution towards ensuring the success of Mission Fateh.These public volunteers assisted the police at nakas and checkpoints in making people aware of the safety precautions to be taken in the wake of the Covid pandemic.He said the district police, under the guidance of SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, were also rendering valuable service in ensuring the success of Mission Fateh by ensuring strict action against those not wearing masks, spitting in public places and failing to maintain social distance.The spokesperson said the challans were issued from May 20 to June 21. As many as 2,155 persons were challaned for not wearing face masks and a sum of Rs6,61,400 was collected from them. Similarly, 43 persons were challaned for spitting in public places and a sum of Rs4,300 was collected from the violators. Four persons were challaned for not maintaining social distancing and an amount of Rs8,000 was collected from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-cops-challan-2-200-in-a-month-102894
23-06-2020||---||Cyclist’s autopsy conducted||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The autopsy of a 30-year-old man, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances on the roadside, was held today. His viscera samples will be sent to the CFSL to ascertain the exact cause of death. Man Was found dead on roadsideThe victim’s body was found on the slip road near the Poultry Farm chowk here on June 19. His cycle was also recovered from the spot. Since the victim was not carrying any identity proof, the police could not establish his identity and shifted the body to a mortuary.The police said during autopsy, no injury marks were found on the victim’s body.“We have taken the victim’s viscera samples, which will be sent to the CFSL to ascertain the exact cause of death,” said a police official.The police said the victim’s medical history was also being examined. No foul play came to fore during preliminary investigations.The victim’s body was found on the slip road near the Poultry Farm chowk on June 19. His cycle was also recovered from the spot. Since the victim was not carrying any identity proof, the police could not establish his identity and shifted the body to a mortuary.On June 21, the police identified the victim as Davinder (30), a resident of Ram Darbar.Davinder, who worked as a painter, was missing since June 18. The victim’s family had revealed that Davinder didn’t return home on June 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclists-autopsy-conducted-102895
23-06-2020||---||Wife, brother booked for man’s murder||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 22The police have booked a woman and her brother, reportedly on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, in connection with an alleged murder case of her husband Sukhbir Singh.The suspects have been identified as Amrinder Kaur and Aminder Singh, residents of Ambala.Gurdial Singh, father of the deceased, alleged that Sukhbir got married to Amrinder around 19 years ago. Sukhbir’s wife and brother-in-law used to beat him. The couple had two children born in wedlock. The woman had threatened to kill Sukhbir several times.“On April 12, I received a call from the Baldev Nagar police station that Sukhbir was undergoing treatment at the PGI and he died on April 11. There were injury marks on his body. I lodged a police complaint on April 12, but no action was taken following which I moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court to get the case registered,” Gurdial alleged.Now, a case has been registered under Sections 302, 120-B and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.The investigating officer said Sukhbir had suffered head injuries due towhich he slipped into coma and later succumbed to his injuries.Sunil Kumar, Station House Officer (SHO) of the Baldev Nagar police station, said: “A case has been registered on the complaint of Gurdial against Sukhbir’s wife and brother-in-law. The suspects are yet to be arrested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wife-brother-booked-for-mans-murder-102896
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Youth nabbed in murder bid case||A youth wanted in a case of attempt to murder registered in November last year was arrested by the UT police.According to the police, the suspect has been identified as Gurvinder Singh, alias Ladi, a resident of Chhat village, Zirakpur.The police had registered a case against Gurvinder and four others at the Sector 34 police station on the complaint of victim Munish, a taxi driver. He had alleged that while he was present at a taxi stand in Sector 32, the suspects arrived in a Bolero and attacked him with rods and baseball bats.The victim was admitted to a hospital with serious injuries. Three suspects were arrested earlier. The police said one of the suspects was still absconding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-nabbed-in-murder-bid-case-102897
23-06-2020||---||Haryana ex-Chief Secy moves HC against UT Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22Depinder Singh Dhesi, former Chief Secretary of Haryana, today move the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the Union Territory of Chandigarh through its Administrator and other respondents for setting aside communications vide which penal rent 50 times the normal fee was imposed on him.This, his counsel Deepak Balyan claimed, was from June 2010 to April 2011. He added the same was in violation of the Government Residences Chandigarh (General Pool Allotment Rules) 1996.Appearing before the Bench of Justice BS Walia, Balyan also sought directions to the respondents to recalculate the rent for the period and waiving the penal rent imposed on the former IAS officer.Balyan said the action of the respondents in charging the penal interest from the date of his transfer from the government accommodation in Chandigarh was illegal, erroneous and discriminatory. It was also contrary to the allotment rules.Elaborating, he said the demand for Rs 6,59,425, including interest, raised now in 2020 for the period of 2011 was illegal, arbitrary and discriminatory. It was a violation of principles of natural justice and unconstitutional to the extent that six-month retention period was prescribed from the date of transfer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-ex-chief-secy-moves-hc-against-ut-chandigarh-102898
23-06-2020||Zirakpur||Residents up in arms against mobile tower||Residents of Golden Enclave in Lohgarh here are up in arms against the installation of a mobile tower on the rooftop of a commercial building in the area. The residents said harmful radiations from the tower posed a risk to their health.Tejinder Pal Singh Jain, who lives near the building on which the tower has been installed, said all residents of the area were worried about their health.“We have requested the MC authorities to remove the mobile tower from the residential area. We are anxious about the health of our family members,” said Garry, another resident.Area councillor Jai Pal Singh said the MC would send a team to check whether the owner had the required permission to install the tower or not. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-up-in-arms-against-mobile-tower-102899
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Charging Rs1 for carry bag costs footwear giant dear||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed a footwear giant to pay Rs1,000 as compensation for charging Rs1 each for two carry bags.In a joint complaint to the forum, Jeevaraj, a resident of Sector 38, Chandigarh, and Ravi, a resident of Sector 56, Chandigarh, submitted that they had purchased two pairs of shoes from an exclusive showroom of Liberty (opposite party) in Sector 22-C, Chandigarh, for Rs1,299 each on October 21, 2019.The opposite party had charged Rs1 each for two carry bags, bearing its logo and brand name. The complainants never intended to purchase the carry bags. Alleging that there was an unfair trade practice on part of the showroom, they prayed for the compensation, along with the cost of litigation.“The opposite party did not appear to contest the claim of the complainants. This act draws an adverse inference against it. Non-appearance of the opposite party shows that it has nothing to say in its defence against the allegations made by the complainants,” observed the forum.“At any rate, charges of such things (carry bags) cannot be separately foisted upon the consumers and will amount to overcharging. In this manner, definitely and surely, the complainants and other gullible consumers like them have certainly been taken for a ride by the opposite party…“The act of the opposite party by forcing the gullible consumers to pay additional amount for the carry bags amounts to deficiency in service and its indulgence into unfair trade practice,” stated the forum.It directed the opposite party to refund Rs2 wrongly charged for the carry bags, pay Rs1,000 as compensation for harassment and mental agony and Rs500 as litigation expenses to the complainants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charging-rs1-for-carry-bag-costs-footwear-giant-dear-102901
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar  to keep cadets engaged||A webinar under ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ was started today by the NCC Group Headquarters, Chandigarh.Cadets from Chandigarh, Punjab, Karnataka, Goa, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh are participating in personality development and national integration activities while staying at home.Brig Harsh Chhibber, NCC Group Commander, Chandigarh, said the event was being organised to celebrate the diversity in our nation and to create awareness about history, geography, culture, cuisine and language amongst the cadets. The event would give a platform to the cadets for showcasing their respective regions through presentations and performances, he said.“The programme is being conducted and coordinated by the NCC Air Wing and is an attempt by the NCC to keep cadets engaged in socially productive activities,” Group Captain MR Pandeya, the air wing’s commanding officer said.The programme started with a welcome note by Dr Shilpi Ahuja, caretaker of the NCC air wing at DAV College, on the behalf of the Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate. The activities include group discussions, debate, quiz and cultural performances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-to-keep-cadets-engaged-102902
23-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||No practice, swimmers want city pools opened||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22As the Ministry of Sports allowed opening of certain sports complexes across the nation, local swimmers are now demanding opening of pools.Mohali’s Jasnoor Kaur, a national-level medallist, has written to the MHA and the Sports Minister for allowing them to practise for a limited duration in a week. “We have no place to practise. We want that pools should be open for professionals. After the lifting of the lockdown, the tournaments will start in no time and we may not have enough time to work on our performance,” said Jasnoor.She added: “If the government has opened malls and shopping centres and other sports complexes, then swimming pools should also be allowed to operate. If other athletes can follow social distancing while training, the competitive swimmers can do the same as well. No amount of out-of-water training can compare with the workouts we undertake inside the water,” added Jasnoor.As per the Sports Authority of India (SAI), swimming has been kept under category-D, which is the last priority for the Sports Department.“We have all-weather pools in Chandigarh that can cater to the need of the swimmers even during the ongoing conditions,” said Atul, a swimmer.Another major concern of the swimmers remained repair of the swimming pools. “The pools have been closed from the past three months. After the government allows opening them, it will take at least a month to repair the centres across the nation. Swimmers have been forced to quit because they cannot support their livelihood,” said Tanya, another swimmer.There are four all-weather swimming pools in Chandigarh and Mohali that operate even in winters for professionals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-practice-swimmers-want-city-pools-opened-102903
