24-06-2020||Mohali||Deadly attack on Hindu leader: British citizen Jaggi Johal’s bail application rejected||The NIA Court here on Wednesday rejected the bail application of British national Jagtar Singh Johal alias Jaggi Johal, accused in the deadly attack on Hindu leader Amit Arora.NIA Special Judge Karunesh Kumar rejected the bail application of accused Jaggi Johal in view of the serious allegations against him.Jaspal Singh Manjhpur and Ranjodh Singh Sarao, counsels for Jaggi Johal, told the NIA court that he was being implicated in false cases.They argued that Johal was abroad when Hindu leaders were attacked in Punjab. They further lamented that the challan filed by the NIA against the accused in the court did not provide any concrete evidence against Jaggi.The defence counsels also informed the court that Jaggi Johal had been cleared by the Punjab Police, but the case was recently handed over to the NIA. But the NIA probe team could not prove any allegation against Jaggi Johal in the challan. Therefore, the accused should be granted bail, they argued.Rejecting the defence arguments, the NIA counsel said that there were serious allegations against the accused. Therefore, the accused should not be granted bail.The court, after hearing the arguments of both the parties, rejected the bail application of accused Jaggi Johal in view of the serious allegations against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deadly-attack-on-hindu-leader-british-citizen-jaggi-johals-bail-application-rejected-103865
24-06-2020||New Delhi||India achieves record TB notifications; Chandigarh leads on TB notifications per lakh people||India witnessed record TB case notifications in 2019 managing to register 24.04 lakh patients and reducing the numbers of missed TB patients from an average of 10 lakh a year since 2015 to just 2.96 lakh in 2019.India has the highest TB burden in the world with WHO projecting an estimated annual TB case incidence of 26.90 lakh in the country.Out of these estimated cases, India detected 24.04 lakh cases last year reducing the gravity of challenge posed to TB elimination by missed patients, shows the latest TB India report, released by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday.The record high notifications were powered by the private sector which reported a 45 per cent jump in notifications last year. Of all cases notified, 6.7 lakh were from the private sector, a rise of 45 per cent from 2018.The rest were notified in the government system. Chandigarh leads India on TB notifications per one lakh people. As against the all India average of 177 TB case notifications per lakh people, Chandigarh in 2019 reported the highest TB notification rate of 606 per lakh people with Delhi next at 575, Puducherry at 314, Haryana at 255 and Himachal at 235.States and UTs with high TB notification rate such as Chandigarh have achieved wide case coverage by catering to people beyond their boundaries.Of the 24.04 lakh notified TB cases in 2019, 94.4 per cent were put on treatment.TB notification rates for Punjab are 196 per lakh people.India has set a target of TB elimination in 2025 ahead of the UN goal of 2030.The government also announced awards for best states under National TB elimination programme.In the category of more than 50 lakh population, the first prize went to Gujarat, second to Andhra Pradesh and third to Himachal Pradesh.In less than 50 lakh people states, prizes went to Tripura and Nagaland and among UTs to Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/india-achieves-record-tb-notifications-chandigarh-leads-on-tb-notifications-per-lakh-people-103800
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh reports two new cases, tally rises to 420||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported two new cases of coronavirus, taking the union territory’s case tally to 420.A 38-year-old woman, a resident of Khuda Lahora, and a 37-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 29-B, tested positive on Wednesday.With the latest cases, the tally of Chandigarh’s active cases has risen to 92.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-reports-two-new-cases-tally-rises-to-420-103758
24-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||10 more take Fatehgarh Sahib virus tally to 100||Ten more persons tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the tally in the district to 100.Panic prevailed in Badochi Kalan village, after nine family members of a milkman, who had tested positive for the virus two days ago, wre also found infected.The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, said all patients had been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. Besides, a lawyer of Amloh town, identified as Subhash Chander Lutava, president, Bar Association, Amloh, also tested positive, he said.He has been shifted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, Dr Aggarwal added. The total number of active cases in the district have now risen to 24, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-more-take-fatehgarh-sahib-virus-tally-to-100-103753
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||ASI injured as gun goes off||Theft at office in Bapu DhamChandigarh: A theft was reported from the office of a transport company, Natik Road Carriers, in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26. The complainant, Vikas Rana, reported that someone stole Rs8,000, a phone, an ATM card and some documents from the office on the intervening night of June 19 and 20. TNSNursing officer’s purse snatchedChandigarh: A motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched a purse from a nursing officer at the GMCH, Sector 32, while she was returning home after duty on Monday night. The 27-year-old victim was targeted near a private school in Sector 32. As per the complainant, the purse contained Rs4,000, an ATM card and other documents. TNSFather’s Day celebratedMohali: St Soldier School, Mohali, celebrated Father’s Day with enthusiasm. More than 100 fathers participated in dance, music (vocal), cookery and push-up competitions online. Gaganpreet Singh and Manbir Singh won the cookery contest, whereas Mandeep Singh and Deepak Kotwal secured the first position in singing and dance contests, respectively. Amit Verma and Jagninder Singh shared the top spot in the push-up competition. TNSOnline mehndi competitionChandigarh: MCM DAV College for Women organised an online inter-college mehndi competition in which as many as 40 students participated. TNSQuiz on yoga awarenessChandigarh: The NSS unit of Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36-B, Chandigarh, organised an online quiz on yoga awareness. Students were asked to send their videos, pictures of performing yoga. TNSVirtual session to mark Yoga DayChandigarh: The NSS unit of Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, organised a virtual session under the theme, ‘Breath and Mind Connect: Being Yogi’, to mark International Yoga Day. TNSDAV-10 holds webinarChandigarh: DAV College, Sector 10, organised a webinar on NLIST: facilitating e- resources, promoting knowledge and research through college libraries. Dr Kruti J Trivedi, Scientist C (LS), INFLINET Centre, Ahmedabad, was the resource person. TNSOlympic Day celebratedChandigarh: Hockey Chandigarh celebrated Olympic Day at the Sector 42 Hockey stadium under the guidelines of Hockey India and the UT Administration. A two-minute silence was observed in the memory of late Balbir Singh Sr. An online skill competition was organised. TNSAryan- Praveen claim 2nd spotChandigarh: The team of Aryan Raj and Praveen from Asha School, Chandimandir, claimed the second position in the Online Unified Sports Competition, organised by the Special Olympics Bharat. TNSTwo snatchers held in PanchkulaPanchkula: Sleuths of the Crime Branch, Sector 19, nabbed two snatchers here on Tuesday. The suspects, Gorav, a resident of Sector 15, and Baljinder, a resident of Sector 10, had snatched a headphone worth Rs 25,000 from a person on June 21. A complaint in this regard was lodged at the Sector 14 police station. The suspects will be produced before a court on Wednesday. TNSUnidentified body foundPanchkula: An unidentified body was found near Vriksha Ashram in Saketri on Sunday. A DDR was registered at the Mansa Devi police station. The body has been kept at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here, for identification. The police said the person, aged around 50-60 years, was wearing a yellow T-shirt and blue payjama. TNSPO lands in police netPanchkula: The Sector 21 police have nabbed a proclaimed offender (PO), Vicky Kumar. The accused, a resident of Daya Colony, Ropar, Punjab, was declared a PO in a case related to property. TNSFour booked for thrashing manChandigarh: A Sector 38 resident was thrashed and his car was vandalised by four persons at the Sector 38 and 38 (West) light point. According to the police, complainant Sunil alleged that Bunty, Sonu, Gollu and Vicky came in a Creta SUV and stopped him at the light point. The miscreants then thrashed the victim and broke the front and rear windscreen of his car. The suspects then fled from the spot. The police were informed about the incident following which a case under Sections 341, 323, 506, 427 and 34 of the IPC was registered against the suspects. TNSYouth hangs self to deathMohali: A 24-year-old youth allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at a house in Phase 5 here. The deceased has been identified as Harpreet Singh, a resident of Ganganagar district in Rajasthan. No suicide note was recovered from the spot. The police have initiated inquest proceedings. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asi-injured-as-gun-goes-off-103749
24-06-2020||---||3 youths attacked in Mohali market||Mohali, June 23Some unidentified persons attacked three youths near the Phase 3B1 market here this evening.According to sources, the incident took place near the house of the Mohali SSP.A PCR vehicle reached the spot after getting information. The injured persons were shifted to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, here.A passerby said a group of around 10-15 persons attacked the victims with weapons.Inspector Rajiv Kumar, Station House Officer of the Mataur police station, said: “We have not yet received any information about the attack.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-youths-attacked-in-mohali-market-103748
24-06-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula issues advisory for outstation people||In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Panchkula district due to outstation people, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja issued an advisory here today.“It is essential and expedient not only to have registration of such visitors on the government portal but also to ensure home quarantine for a minimum of 14 days by all persons coming to Panchkula district from Haryana or other states and staying for more than 24 hours in the district,” the advisory read.It also states that persons visiting Panchkula from other districts of the state or the country are required to observe home quarantine in the district for at least 14 days upon their arrival here, except government employees attending office in the district.51 challaned for not wearing markThe police challaned 51 persons for not wearing face masks in public places here on Tuesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-issues-advisory-for-outstation-people-103747
24-06-2020||---||2 suffer bullet injuries, 6 hurt in clash over land||Ambala, June 23Two persons suffered bullet injuries while six others were injured in a clash between two groups over a land dispute in Fulelmajra village of the Saha block here today.Those who suffered bullet injuries have been identified as Sandeep, a resident of Mithapur village, and Ramnath, a resident of Pasiala village. Other injured persons are Rahul, Lal Chand, Amarjit, Sahil, Vivek and Komal, all from a same family of Fulelmajra village.While Sandeep and Ramnath were referred to a hospital in Chandigarh, others are undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment.As per information, a land dispute near the Fulelmajra village pond is said to be the reason behind the incident.Some gunshots were also fired during the clash. Two youths, who allegedly belong to other party that attacked Rahul’s house, suffered bullet injuries. However, it was still not clear who opened the fire during the clash.Kin of Sandeep and Ramnath alleged that the duo was stopped on the way to their village. They were attacked by some persons from Fulelmajra village.Chander Bhan, SHO of the Saha police station, said: “Rahul stated that a few persons came on four motorcycles and attacked his house at Fulelmajra village. A case has been registered on the complaint of Rahul while the statements of Sandeep and Ramnath are yet to be recorded as they are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Chandigarh. The matter is being investigated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-suffer-bullet-injuries-6-hurt-in-clash-over-land-103746
24-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Outstation students worried as Panjab University plans to conduct exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23As the Panjab University (PU) authorities explore ways to conduct semester exams for exit classes next month, students who come from faraway places are a harried lot.The PU had recently announced its plan to conduct exit semester exams in July and it was proposed to allot examination centre to the nearby place of residence of the candidate. However, the option was only mentioned for the students belonging to Punjab. Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examinations, had further asked the authorities concerned to provide the details of the students by June 29, otherwise no change of exam centre will be allowed.Students residing in states such as Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Leh, Ladakh, Delhi and other faraway states/cities have started enquiring about the development. While students demanded that decision should not be taken in a hurry considering the Covid-19 pandemic, the PU authorities maintained that they were just making preparation and would abide by the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines.“We are in the planning phase. We are waiting for the UGC guidelines and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) directions. Any decision will be taken considering the students’ comfort and interest,” said an official requesting anonymity.“From allowing students to stay in hostels, a few of which are not in our possession, to providing them a safe environment, there are a lot of concerns which we have to keep in mind. More than 60 per cent of our students are from outstation. Exam centres can be made in Punjab, but not in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh or others. So, it’s very difficult to take any decision,” said a professor.Research work submission period extendedMeanwhile, the PU Vice-Chancellor has allowed MPhil and PhD students to submit designation/thesis till December 31, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/outstation-students-worried-as-panjab-university-plans-to-conduct-exams-103745
24-06-2020||---||Chandigarh plans to open govt schools with 50% staff||Chandigarh, June 23The UT Education Department today held a meeting with cluster heads to discuss the future course of action in government schools.According to sources, the department may call 50 per cent staff to schools from June 29 onwards.The department is also mulling to conduct online admission of Classes pre-Nursery to IX.Teachers have been told to maintain online teaching record, make weekly online videos and assignment related to their class and subject.As per the discussions, the cluster head can anytime ask teachers to submit online teaching material.The planning of tests for Classes VII to X that will be held tentatively on July 5 was also deliberated. All students taking the test will be marked present.Teachers have also been asked to prepare online material for Classes VI to VIII.As per the discussions, their tests could be also be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-plans-to-open-govt-schools-with-50-staff-103744
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Allow us to serve liquor, hoteliers urge Chandigarh Administration||As the Punjab Government has allowed restaurants in the state to serve alcohol, local hoteliers now fear losing business during the Covid-19 pandemic.The hoteliers believe that the bacchus lovers would now have an option to dine out in Mohali restaurants, which would put a deep dent in their business.Timings a hindranceA microbrewery owner said, “Operational timings are already hindering us from operating in full steam and if our customers start moving to Mohali, we will have nothing to offer.”“We are already having a near to no business. Now that the Punjab Government has allowed hotels to serve liquor, booze lovers will surely go to Mohali,” a local hotelier said.Interestingly, the UT Administration follows the Punjab State Excise Act, 1914, in order to penalise Chandigarh-based restaurants, in case of any negligence.The City Chandigarh Hospitality Association has written to the Finance Secretary and Secretary, Excise and Taxation, to allow them to serve alcohol in food and beverage outlets. “...since Chandigarh is governed by provision of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, it is requested to allow sale of alcohol in hotels/restaurants and other hospitality services as per designated guidelines. This will facilitate some movement in the paralysed hospitality sector and ensure more revenue to the UT Administration,” wrote Ankit Gupta in the memorandum.“If the Administration allows us to serve alcohol, it will be a big help for us. Operational timings are already hindering us from operating in full steam and if our customers start moving to Mohali, we will have nothing to offer,” said a microbrewery owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allow-us-to-serve-liquor-hoteliers-urge-chandigarh-administration-103724
24-06-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Sumedh Saini case: CBI seeks more time to search status report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23The CBI today sought more time to search a status report demanded by the Punjab Police in a 29-year-old kidnapping case of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani.The Punjab Police had recently booked former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and seven other police personnel in the kidnapping case and sought the status report. On the complaint of the victim’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, a case was registered at the Mataur police station in Mohali on May 6.The CBI had initiated a probe against the former DGP on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in July, 2008. However, the Supreme Court later quashed the investigation on technical grounds.The Punjab Police had filed an application in the court on June 6 seeking record of the preliminary inquiry conducted by the CBI in the kidnapping case to proceed further with the investigations.It was informed by the Punjab Police in their application that the High Court had returned the status report in the case to the CBI in 2016. When the case came up for hearing today, the CBI told the court that it required more time to search the report as it was facing staff shortage. The court fixed July 18 as the next date of hearing in the case.The CBI had earlier submitted that it had weeded out the record. Contesting the CBI’s claims, the Punjab Police, in their additional reply, submitted that the High Court had returned the status report to the CBI in 2016, then how could the agency say that it did not have any record.Saini was injured in a terrorist attack in 1990. His four security personnel were killed in the incident. Later, the police arrested Balwant Singh Multani in the case. The police claimed that Multani fled from the police custody but his family members alleged that he died due to torture by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sumedh-saini-case-cbi-seeks-more-time-to-search-status-report-103721
24-06-2020||---||Mohali cops nab 2 with 50-gm heroin||Mohali, June 23The Special Task Force (STF) unit of the Mohali police arrested two persons for possessing 50 grams of heroin late last night.The suspects have been identified as Harish Kumar, alias Happy, and Ravinder Kumar, both residents of Hansi in Hisar. The suspects were produced before a court today, which sent them to one-day police remand.Vehicle impoundedThe duo was nabbed at a naka near Kuber Hotel on the Zirakpur-Ambala highway following a tip-off. Happy and Ravinder were coming from the Ambala side in a white Swift car to deliver the drug in the Zirakpur area. On frisking, the police recovered 50 grams of heroin hidden in the car’s auxiliary box. The police nabbed the duo and impounded their vehicle.According to the police, the duo was nabbed at a naka near Kuber Hotel on the Zirakpur-Ambala highway following a tip-off. Happy and Ravinder were coming from the Ambala side in a white Swift car to deliver the drug in the Zirakpur area. On frisking, the police recovered 50 grams of heroin hidden in the car’s auxiliary box. The police nabbed the duo and impounded their vehicle.During preliminary investigations, the suspects told the police that they were friends. They were into drug peddling to earn money after the death of their fathers. The suspects also told the police that a Delhi-based drug peddler used to supply them drugs in Hisar.A case under the Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspects at the STF police station, Phase 4, here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-cops-nab-2-with-50-gm-heroin-103717
24-06-2020||---||3 held for looting Rs89K from finance firm office||Mohali, June 23The police have arrested three suspects who had looted Rs89,900 from a finance company office located on the Sohana-Landran road in a populated market of Sohana village.The suspects have been identified as Vijay Kumar (24), Aakash Sisodia (25) and Vinod Kumar (24), employee of the finance company, all residents of Malout in Punjab.The caseThe miscreants had looted Rs89,900 from a woman employee sitting at the counter. They also took along her mobile phone. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. The footage showed two men, with their faces covered, entering the office around 11 am and leaving after a few minutes.The trio was arrested from Mauli Baidwan village. The incident took place on Saturday when two unidentified miscreants allegedly decamped with Rs89,900 from Upmoney finance company office.The miscreants had looted Rs89,900 from a woman employee sitting at the counter. They also took along her mobile phone. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. The footage showed two men, with their faces covered, entering the office around 11 am and leaving after a few minutes.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Barma Singh said during investigations, it was found that the company’s employee, Vinod, was also partner in crime with Vijay and Aakash. The cash was to be deposited in the bank that day and Vinod was aware of it. He informed Ravi and Aakash about the cash and left the office a few minutes before the crime.The police were suspecting the involvement of some employees in the crime.Inspector Daljit Singh, SHO of the Sohana police station, said: “We have cracked the case within 48 hours by arresting all suspects. They will be produced before a court tomorrow.”A case under Sections 379-B, 506 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Sohana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-for-looting-rs89k-from-finance-firm-office-103711
24-06-2020||Vijay Mohan||Paper-based device helps examine patient samples on mobile phone||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23Researchers at the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh, in collaboration with a team of doctors from the Civil Hospital, Panchkula, a dental college in Imphal and a private hospital in the National Capital Region (NCR), have come up with a unique paper-based contraption that can be used in conjugation with a mobile phone to examine patient samples.Microscopy deviceCalled Foldscope, it is an affordable origami-based microscopy device composed of a series of paper clippings. Upon assembly, the device can hold a specimen slide for observation and this specimen can be viewed via a mobile phone camera attached to it. “The Foldscope can be used as an in-house diagnostic tool and personal health monitoring tool on a routine basis due to its affordability and zero maintenance cost. It could be a better alternative to the clinical microscope,” Dr Alka Rao of IMTECH said.The researchers have explored and validated the clinical utility of Foldscope in the diagnosis of diseases using various patient samples. Their study evaluated the use of Foldscope in clinical diagnosis of oral and urinary tract infections and evaluated its efficacy as a motivational tool for improving oral health among schoolchildren in India.The study, published in the Journal of ‘Microscopy’, identifies Foldscope as a particularly convenient tool to diagnose urinary tract infection (UTI) and monitor kidney stones. Using this tool, one can easily monitor own-kidney stone status at home with a simple glass-slide, a Foldscope and a mobile phone. “Such monitoring has the potential of avoiding kidney stones reaching a painful state or the need for surgery in recurring cases,” Dr Rao said.According to information made available by the Ministry of Science and Technology, the ease of operation and low cost of the Foldscope enables it to be employed in public healthcare centres for primary diagnosis of oral health and UTI or as a personal health monitoring device.For assessment, a patient sample such as urine is smeared on a transparent glass slide and visualised under a Foldscope mounted on a cellphone. Sample images can be enlarged using the zoom function of the mobile, which can be stored in the phone’s memory for later reference or maintaining patient records. Foldscope can be assembled using paper clips and mounted on cellphone using coupler and glue drops.The researchers qualitatively compared the Foldscope to a clinical microscope by examining five different types of clinical samples. Of the different types of samples, Foldscope was effective in detecting infection in dental plaque samples and urine samples. The use of Foldscope was also evaluated as an educational tool for motivating oral hygiene among 80 schoolchildren and it was found that students in the Foldscope intervention group had better measures of oral hygiene than did students in the non-intervention group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paper-based-device-helps-examine-patient-samples-on-mobile-phone-103709
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid cases rising, PGI reluctant to open OPDs||The PGI authorities are reluctant to open the OPDs due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city.The PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, said, “We are waiting for the number of cases to decline before we make the OPDs fully functional.”He took a round of the OPDs to assess whether social distancing was maintained with patients coming via tele-counselling.On a routine day, the PGI has a patient load of 10,000. However, at present, the load is 10 per cent due to the Covid-19 pandemic.To avoid the congregation of patients in the OPDs, the institute has decided to spend Rs86 lakh to ramp up infrastructure required to ensure social distancing once the OPDs open.The UT Administration has planned to convert two areas on the campus into holding and screening areas, which will be established outside and inside the new OPD building.It includes conversion of the ground floor of the multi-level parking into a holding area at an estimated amount of Rs25 lakh.Two blocks of washrooms, three shops and the Heating, Ventilation and Air-conditioning (HVAC) system will be constructed. The facility will cater to more than 400 patients at a time.Inside the OPD building, only two blocks on the third floor require modification and will include aluminum partitions. For additional furniture, CCTV cameras, public address systems and related works, Rs15.7 lakh has been earmarked.OPD patients as on June 23Department - TotalOPD services||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-cases-rising-pgi-reluctant-to-open-opds-103707
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pedestrian hit by tipper, dies||A pedestrian was killed after being hit by a recklessly driven tipper near the Sector 39/40 light point this morning. The victim, who is yet to be identified, died on the spot.According to the police, complainant Satbir Singh of Sector 39 reported that he was exercising in the backyard of his house around 7.45 am when he saw a speeding truck coming from the Sector 38/38 (West)/39/40 roundabout hitting a pedestrian. The victim’s body was severed into two.The police were informed about the incident, who apprehended the tipper driver, identified as Parminder Singh, a resident of Mohali district.The police said the victim was not carrying any identity card that could help establish his identity. The body has been shifted to the mortuary at the GMSH, Sector 16.A case has been registered against the driver at the Sector 39 police station. The tipper was impounded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pedestrian-hit-by-tipper-dies-103705
24-06-2020||Mohali||4 from Sec 91 in Mohali test +ve||Four new cases of Covid-19 have surfaced in Sector 91 here, taking the total district count to 226.The persons found infected with the virus are a 43-year-old man, a 16-year-old girl, a 15-year-old boy and a 36-year-old man, all residents of Sector 91.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the first three patients had returned from Delhi and were contacts of a Covid patient. He said the fourth patient had returned from Himachal Pradesh and was a contact of another patient.He said the new patients were admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Manjit Singh said three patients had been cured of the disease and were discharged from the Banur hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-from-sec-91-in-mohali-test-ve-103704
24-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Now, dine-in at eateries in Mohali till 8 pm||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 23Residents have a reason to cheer as the state government today allowed restaurants and hotels to operate the dine-in facility from tomorrow.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan today ordered certain relaxations with immediate effect for opening of restaurants, hotels and other hospitality services in the district. He said the restaurants could allow dine-in till 8 pm with 50 per cent occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less.The restaurants in hotels are allowed to serve food, including buffet meals, up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity or 50 guests, whichever is less. These restaurants would also be open to persons other than the hotel guests. The bars shall remain closed. However, liquor can be served in rooms and restaurants as permitted under the state excise policy.Dayalan said any violations of these guidelines and lockdown measures would be punishable under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Besides, violators would invite legal action under Sections 188 of the IPC.Kashish, manager of Hotel Cama, said they suffered huge losses as the dine-in facility was closed for the past three months.Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Phase X, said the state government decision would save the hotel industry, which was on the brink of disaster.Jaswinder Kaur of Phase 3B2 said the women folk could now hold small kitty parties in restaurants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-dine-in-at-eateries-in-mohali-till-8-pm-103703
24-06-2020||---||High Court: Allotment subject to outcome of writ petition||Chandigarh, June 23The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ruled that the allotment of liquor vends would be subject to the final outcome of a writ petition challenging the UT’s excise policy for 2020-21. The Bench also issued a notice of motion for July 8 to the Chandigarh Administration and other respondents.The notice and assertion came after the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh was told that certain department stores had been given the licence to sell foreign liquor at a fee of Rs20 lakh, while L-2 retailers had to pay approximately Rs4 crore as licence fee.As the petition filed by Rajbir Singh came up for hearing through videoconferencing, senior advocate Anand Chhibbar described the policy adopted by the Administration as “wholly arbitrary” and beyond the “scope of legislative bounds”. Chhibbar submitted that the policy was leading to complete cartelisation and monopoly of certain individuals through their firms.Accepting the notice, senior panel counsel Ajay Jagga with advocate Saurabh Goel prayed for 10-day time to file a reply. “The same be filed within the time given with an advance copy to counsel for the petitioner. Allotments which have been made meanwhile shall be subject to the final outcome of this writ petition,” the Bench added.Referring to the provisions of the excise policy, Chhibbar said it was not promoting free trade. Elaborating, he submitted that the policy stated that there would be five wholesale licensees for any brand of foreign liquor, which shall sell liquor to all retail licensees. Chhibbar added that big retail players had obtained authorisation for foreign brands, which had harmed independent retail outlets like the petitioner.Giving reasons, Chhibbar said instead of buying foreign liquor directly from a reputed manufacturer, the petitioner now had been left at the mercy of the competitor retailer having wholesale authorisation for a particular foreign brand.“This is one way that cartelisation of foreign trade in Chandigarh has empowered a few big retailers, from whom the petitioner is forced to buy foreign liquor. Hence, the petitioner is always at a competitive disadvantage,” Chhibbar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-allotment-subject-to-outcome-of-writ-petition-103702
24-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court acts tough to prevent strike by PGI staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23Prescribing strict action to prevent a hunger strike by the PGI employees’ union, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that union members resorting to work stoppage may be arrested immediately and sent to civil imprisonment.“It is made clear that in case the respondents or any of the office-bearers of the union(s) proceed on strike/hunger strike, they may be immediately arrested and sent to civil imprisonment,” Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan ruled.The assertion by Justice Sangwan came on the contempt petition filed by the PGI against Tarandeep Singh Grewal and Harbhajan Singh Bhatti, general secretary and president of the Ministerial and Secretarial Employees Union, PGI, Chandigarh.It came over three months after the High Court, in a previous order, made it clear that disruption of healthcare services in the institute was not acceptable. Issuing a notice of motion, Justice Sangwan also directed the UT Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate and the Senior Superintendent of Police to take necessary steps to prevent violation of the High Court’s earlier orders restraining as many as five respondent-unions from “proceeding on strike or disrupting/disturbing the functioning of any of the activities of the institute/hospital in any manner”.Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, petitioner’s counsel Amit Jhanji submitted that the High Court had passed the restraint orders during the hearing of petitions filed in public interest against the strike by the unions. He submitted that the respondents had formed a new union, the Ministerial and Secretarial Employees Union, PGI, and had started threatening the institute with a hunger strike.Jhanji said the respondents, on the face of it, were contemplating violating the previous order, dated August 27, 2019, and March 6, “wherein the respondents-union(s) were restrained from proceeding on a strike or disrupting or disturbing the functions of any of the activities of the institute/hospital”. The case will come up for hearing on July 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-acts-tough-to-prevent-strike-by-pgi-staff-103685
24-06-2020||---||3 thieves, two swindlers land in Mohali police net||Mohali, June 23The police have arrested three thieves, who had allegedly stolen various laptops, mobile phones and two-wheelers worth several lakhs from the tricity, and two fraudsters, who allegedly duped banks and innocent people, in two cases.Those arrested are Ajay Kumar, alias Haryanvi, Kamlesh Shankar, both residents of the Industrial Area, Phase VII, Mohali, Sarvesh Kumar, a resident of TDI City, near Balongi, Vimlesh Kumar, a resident of Kajheri, Chandigarh, and Bimal Kumar, a resident of Zirakpur. The police have recovered four LCDs, laptops and CPUs, several mobile phones, 12 taps and 10 two-wheelers from their possession.According to the police, Ajay, Sarvesh and Kamlesh were involved in various thefts in the industrial area of Mohali during the lockdown period of three months.ASI Avtar Singh, in-charge of the Industrial Area police post in Phase 8-B, said, “Vijay Kumar, a scrap dealer, has also been booked in the case. He is at large. We hope to arrest him soon and recover more stolen items from him.”A case has been registered against them under Sections 454, 457, 380 and 411 of the IPC. The suspects were produced in a local court, which remanded them in two-day police custody.In another case, Vimlesh and Bimal were arrested for allegedly duping several persons on the pretext of selling them two-wheelers, financed from banks on fake ID cards and addresses.Phase I SHO Manphul Singh said, “The suspects had duped HDFC, Yes Bank and Indian Bank by furnishing fake identities of migrant people to secure loans for vehicles. They had purchased four vehicles each from Pinjore and Mohali and two each from Panchkula and Chandigarh by duping banks. The vehicles were later sold to innocent buyers.”“We have recovered eight unregistered two-wheelers, including seven Activa scooters, so far. A few accomplices of the suspects are at large,” said the SHO. A case has been registered against them under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC. The suspects were produced in a local court, which remanded them in three-day police custody.According to the police, a case of theft was already registered against the suspects at a police station in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-thieves-two-swindlers-land-in-mohali-police-net-103684
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 9 liquor vend goes for Rs 7.56 cr||A liquor vend in the inner market of Sector 9 fetched the highest amount of Rs7.56 crore during an e-auction of vends at Tagore Theatre, Sector 18, here today. According to the UT Excise and Taxation Department, its reserve price was Rs4.12 crore. Bajaj Spirits Pvt Ltd bagged the contract. The firm got eight vends in all.The department fetched a revenue of Rs265.32 crore from the e-auction of 78 liquor vends. An additional amount of Rs5.49 crore has been received as participation fee. It received 157 bids electronically. The reserve price of the vends was Rs216.33 crore.E-auction for 16 vends starts todayThe e-auction for the remaining 16 liquor vends will start at 11 am on June 24. The closing date is on June 29 at 2 pm. Technical bids will be opened the same day at 3 pm and financial bids at 4.30 pm. “Most of these could go through on June 24 due to issues in technical bids,” said an officialLast year, the department had earned Rs343.63 crore from the auction of 81 liquor vends, showing a 34 per cent increase over the reserve price compared to 22.65 per cent this year.Not only the total amount, the highest liquor vend bid amount also went down this year. In 2019, the highest-ever bid was for Rs10.78 crore for a Dhanas village vend. The reserve price for the vend was Rs6.5 crore. The bid for the Dhanas vend fell to Rs7.05 crore this year.Officials reasoned that the total earning of the two fiscals could not be compared as last year, the contract was for 12 months (April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020), but this year it was for nine months (July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021).Rakesh Kumar Popli, Collector (Excise), told Chandigarh Tribune, “Despite the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, we managed to do well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-9-liquor-vend-goes-for-rs-7-56-cr-103681
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGI nurse among 7 more infected in Chandigarh||A 26-year-old nursing officer from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) is among seven more persons to have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city, taking the number of infections in the UT to 418.The woman, a resident of Sector 38 (West), was diagnosed with the disease on Monday evening. She was shifted to the Nehru Extension Block (Covid hospital) this morning.She was posted in the Emergency OPD. Two health care workers — a junior resident and a staff nurse — have been quarantined as they were her close contacts.Her three family contacts have been sampled for Covid.Panchkula man contracts virusPanchkula: A 67-year-old man, a resident of Sector 7, tested positive for Covid-19 here on Tuesday. The patient is undergoing dialysis and had got the test done from a private laboratory. As of now, the district Covid tally is 97. TNSThe nursing officer said, “Two days ago, I had oxygenated a patient, who later tested positive for Covid. While at work yesterday, I started feeling lethargic and left for home early. As the fever spiked to 102°F in the evening, I was shifted to the isolation ward.”She added, “Despite taking so many precautions like wearing N95 mask, head cap, gloves and suit, I contracted the virus. Whenever a patient comes with an emergency, we don’t think about our safety at that moment and the patient’s first aid becomes our priority.”A 48-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran, who is a family contact of a Covid patient, has been found infected too. Three persons of a family in Sector 29 — a 27-year-old youth, a 53-year-old man and a 24-year-old woman — have also contracted the virus.A 29-year-old woman from Sector 38, who is a family contact a Covid patient, has also tested positive for the infection. Besides, a 30-year-old man from Sector 22 has tested positive for Covid. He has seven family contacts and all are asymptomatic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-nurse-among-7-more-infected-in-chandigarh-103675
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Symptomatic visitors to report at health centre||All symptomatic visitors, who come to the UT from outside the tricity, will have to report at the nearest health centre and, if found positive, will be shifted to a Covid hospital or a Covid care centre or put under home isolation depending on the severity of their symptoms.If found negative, no further test is required, but even then self-home quarantine will be a must. Any asymptomatic person developing symptoms later on should call helpline number 9779558282 for treatment.The visitors will have to mandatorily download the Aarogya Setu app and keep updating their health status.Officials said there would be random checking at entry points, railway stations and bus stands. It would be mandatory for house/hotel/guest house owners to get any visitor registered on the UT website, if the hasn’t already done so.It has already been mandated that all those coming from outside the tricity, even for 72 hours or less, would have to register themselves on the UT website.However, those visiting Chandigarh for a period less than 72 hours for business-related activities will not be subject to quarantine on production of a return journey plan.Regular monitoring of quarantined persons will be done by a team constituted for the purpose. Any person violating the norms would be liable for action, which could be a fine or imprisonment.Residents have also been asked to inform the authorities about any violation that comes to their notice.Arun Gupta, UT Health Secretary, said, “If a Chandigarh resident is coming from outside the tricity after many days, these rules will be applicable to him or her as well.”Aarogya Setu app a must||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/symptomatic-visitors-to-report-at-health-centre-103668
24-06-2020||---||Disembodied feet, foetus found dumped in Sector 17 Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 23The UT police went into a tizzy after disembodied human feet were found on a cycle track on the road separating Sector 17 and 18 here this afternoon. A foetus was also found dumped nearby. Body parts weren’t decomposed Ajit Kishore, a manager with the SBI, who was having a walk around 1 pm, saw a disembodied foot wrapped in a newspaper lying on a cycle track on the rear side of the SBI building in Sector 17 near the Press light point. He informed the police.Cops rushed to the spot and initiated an investigation. During a search in the area, they found another foot wrapped in a newspaper and a foetus in a polythene bag.A team of the CFSL also reached the spot.Police officials said the feet were lying close to each other and seemed to be a few days old, as these were not decomposed. The newspaper in which these were wrapped was of May 29.A police official said the feet appeared to be of a woman.The police found the female foetus dumped in bushes, hardly a few metres from the place where the feet were spotted. The recovery of the disembodied parts led to an extensive search of the area along the cycle track. The search continued till late in the evening.The police said they were investigating the case from various angles. The police suspect the feet and the foetus had some connection. The foetus and the feet have been kept in the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.Sources said it was suspected that someone had dumped the body parts at different locations. The sources added that the information of newborns was being collected from hospitals to get a clue to the crime. On a complaint of Ajit Kishore, a case under Section 318 of the IPC has been registered. The sources said more sections would be added to the case after the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/disembodied-feet-foetus-found-dumped-in-sector-17-chandigarh-103665
