29-06-2020||Mohali||Two flights carrying 324 passengers from Auckland and Kuwait arrive at Chandigarh International Airport||Two evacuation flights, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals from abroad, carrying 324 passengers landed at the Mohali International Airport here on Monday.The first Air India flight carrying 140 evacuated passengers arrived from Auckland via New Delhi at the Mohali airport at 7.30 am.The second flight by GoAir carrying 184 passengers from Kuwait via New Delhi at the Mohali airport arrived at 6.30 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per government guidelines.Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of all the authorities/agencies which were involved in the processing of passengers which were governments of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, CISF, Immigration, Customs and Punjab Police etc., along with Chandigarh International Airport.Health department spokesman said that during the screening, the health officials took utmost precaution and the passengers also maintained social distancing.He informed that no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold etc and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.He further elaborated that all the passengers were also impressed upon by the health department teams deployed at the airport to take all health related precautions such as cover their face with masks, using hand sanitizers, washing hands as much as possible and observe social distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-flights-carrying-324-passengers-from-auckland-and-kuwait-arrive-at-chandigarh-international-airport-106157
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three fresh COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh; total count 434||Three women tested positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh on Monday, taking the infection tally to 434 in the Union Territory.So far, six people have died from the virus in the Union Territory.According to a bulletin, the cases include a 76-year-old woman, a 31-year-old woman from Sector 46 and a 42-year-old woman from Maloya.Thirteen patients were also discharged on Monday after they recovered from the infection.A total of 349 persons have been cured of the virus as of now, the bulletin said.So far, 7,548 samples have been taken for testing, the bulletin said, adding that results of 29 are awaited.There are 79 active cases as of now in the city, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-total-count-434-106156
29-06-2020||Vijay Mohan||INST synthesises compound for anti-cancer and anti-tumour applications||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29Scientists from the Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Mohali, have synthesized a novel inorganic-organic hybrid compound that can inhibit breast, lung, and liver cancer cells, opening up new possibilities for metallodrugs. These are drugs that contain a metal as an active ingredient and are most commonly used as anti-cancer or anti-microbial agents.A solid compound based on phosphomolybdate cluster, an inorganic salt belonging to the Polyoxometalates (POM) family, had been earlier identified to have anti-tumor potential. A team of INST scientists led by Dr Monika Singh and Dr Deepika Sharma has chalked out a mechanism by which the compound kills cancer cells.POMs are an evolving class of inorganic metal oxides which over the last decade have established promising biological activities by the virtue of their great diversity in structures and properties.In order to probe into the mechanism of how the cancer cells are attacked by the compound, the team synthesised it by hydro-thermal method. An aqueous mixture of sodium molybdate, phosphorus acid, and bipyridine was heated in an acetate buffer solution of pH 4 at 160 degrees Celsius for 72 hours.The compound’s cytotoxicity, or the quality of being toxic to cells, was determined on breast cancer, lung cancer and liver cancer cells by conventional colorometry. The observations were further compared with that of a routinely used chemotherapeutic agent.The mechanism of cell death occurring in breast cancer, lung cancer and liver cancer cells were also evaluated and the effect of the synthesized materials on the cell division was determined.The in vitro results showed that this hybrid solid is less toxic towards normal cells and its anti-tumor activity was also found to be comparable with that of a routinely used chemo-therapeutic agent.POMs have evolved as a promising candidate for future metallodrugs for combating cancer. The compound synthesised by the INST, an autonomous institute of the Department of Science and Technology, could open new avenues for anti-tumor applications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inst-synthesises-compound-for-anti-cancer-and-anti-tumour-applications-106120
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||In freak accident, car rams into pillar outside Sector 17 shop in Chandigarh||An out-of-control car drove over a footpath at Sector 17 and rammed into a pillar outside a showroom in what is one of the rare instances of road mishap in an area where vehicles are strictly prohibited.Eyewitnesses say all three occupants of the car escaped after the incident.Footage from a close-circuit camera outside the showroom shows that the car in question was parked in the parking space beyond the footpath. The footage shows three people heading towards the car. A few minutes later, the car starts, picks up speed almost instantly, then drives over the footpath and onto the area near the showroom.Photos and videos from the scene of the incident show that the car narrowly missed the shop front, instead hitting a pillar just outside the showroom. Photos show the front of the car wrecked completely, with the airbags jutting out of the broken windshield.The car has now been impounded and taken to the police station in Sector 17, sources said.The area outside shops in Sector 17 is reserved for pedestrians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-freak-accident-car-rams-into-pillar-outside-sector-17-shop-in-chandigarh-106102
29-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab varsity residents in a state of worry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28After second Covid case was reported at Panjab University (PU) today, its residents are now extremely cautious. A 42-year-old PU staffer tested positive for the virus today.The campus residents, comprising PU teaching and non-teaching staff, are already dealing with the psychological pressure of two Covid-19 isolations wards in the arena.The emergence of this case has added to their concerns. “We have to remain positive and take extreme precautions to stop any further transmission of the disease. The PU campus is a small arena and we can deal with it with a collective effort,” said Deepak Kaushik, president, PU (Staff) Non-Teaching Association.Meanwhile on Thursday, Prof RK Singla, PU Dean, University Instruction, formed four committees that visited all departments on the campus to facilitate lab maintenance, building maintenance and ensuring Covid-19-related measures as per the standard operation procedures (SOPs) of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).There are nearly 1,400 units (houses) on Sector 14 and Sector 25 campus of the PU with 2,000 residents.“If the UT Administration can issue strict guidelines for people entering the city, why can’t PU think on the similar lines? We already have two isolation wards on the campus. There have been rumours about collection of patients’ samples here, which is adding more to the psychological factor,” said Rajesh Gill, president, PU Teachers’ Association.On Wednesday, a 37-year-old woman employee, posted at the re-evaluation branch of the administration block at the PU was found Covid positive. Sources said her brother worked as an assistant programmer and her sister was posted at the DSW office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-residents-in-a-state-of-worry-105933
29-06-2020||Mohali||PPE kits, N95 masks donated||Tricity’s Jia Diamond’s initiative ‘Kuch to Karo Na’, aimed at helping frontline Covid warriors and the underprivileged was conducted in Mohali, Zirakpur, Panchkula, Chandigarh and Sonepat. HC Goyal, founder, Jia Diamonds, said, “As part of our corporate social responsibility we donated 200 PPE kits and 1,000 N95 masks among different hospitals in tricity during the campaign.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ppe-kits-n95-masks-donated-105934
29-06-2020||Mohali||Minister inaugurates school at Saidpur village||Health and Family Welfare Minister, Punjab, and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu inaugurated the newly constructed Government Primary School building, built at a cost of Rs 20 lakh, at Saidpur village today. Sidhu also inaugurated SC dharamshala and ‘phirni’ (Outer area) of Saidpur village.The minister said there were adequate funds for carrying out development centric projects especially in the rural sector.Minister’s political secretary Harkesh Chand Sharma, Sarpanch (Saidpur) Balvir Kaur, President block Congress committee Thekedar Mohan Singh Bathlana, besides Mandeep Singh Goldy, Surjit Singh, Bhupinder Kaur, Ranjit Singh, Dharam Singh, Gurjeet Singh and Satnam Singh (All panches) were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-inaugurates-school-at-saidpur-village-105935
29-06-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||District Courts enhance limit on filing of cases||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, June 28The District and Sessions Judge has increased per day limit of filing of cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments (NI) Act. Now, advocates can file 100 cases a day instead of 50 cases earlier.The decision was taken after assessment of pattern and volume of filing of cases in the past one week. The order said from now on, an advocate could file a maximum of 10 complaints under Section 138 of the NI Act on a particular day. In the previous order on June 11, the District and Sessions Judge had allowed restrictive filing of fresh cases as per the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The District and Sessions Judge has also allowed the resumption of the work of copying agencies for providing certified copies of judgments/orders (including interim orders) as the same are required for filing of fresh cases. The permission was given on a request made by the District Bar Association president, NK Nanda .As per the order, the copying agency of the District and Sessions Judge and that of the Civil Judge (Sr Div) has started functioning from 10 am to1 pm. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, initially the restriction is imposed on the number of applications to be entertained on a day i.e. 50 applications relating to the copying agency of superior courts and 50 relating to the copying agency of subordinate courts. As per the order, only advocates are allowed to file applications and receive certified copies.Advocate Pankaj Chandgotia said the revised order of the District Courts was a welcome step towards restoring normalcy. It would help alleviate the sufferings of advocates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/district-courts-enhance-limit-on-filing-of-cases-105936
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man booked for employing minor girl as domestic help||A Dhanas resident has been booked by the Chandigarh Police for employing a minor girl as domestic help.According to the police, complainant Varsha Arora, superintendent, Aashiana, Children’s Home for Girls, Sector 15, stated that Dhanendra, a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas, employed a 14-year-old girl as domestic help at his house.The girl, who was admitted to Aashiana, revealed that the suspect did not even pay her for the work.A case has been registered against the suspect under Section 73, 79 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act at the Sarangpur police station and an investigation has been initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-employing-minor-girl-as-domestic-help-105938
29-06-2020||---||PGI chosen for validation of rapid antigen testing||Chandigarh, June 28The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is among the seven sites chosen by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for validation of the rapid point-of-care antigen detection tests for Covid-19.As per the initial plan, both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests will be conducted on around 300 patients. The results will then be collated for authenticity and other parameters.The PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, said, “The availability of an antigen-based detection test is very limited across the world. Most of such tests have relatively moderate sensitivity, but high specificity. The test is a promising tool to keep a track of Covid patients by rapid testing. We are thankful to the ICMR for having entrusted us with this responsibility and we will strengthen our capacities wherever required.”Further detailing about the execution plan, he said, “A committee will be constituted to work out the modalities and comprehensive plan, along with timelines, to meet the desired expectations of the ICMR and contribute towards containing the pandemic.”Need for antigen for mass testingA letter from the ICMR dated June 25 read, “The gold standard RT-PCR diagnostic test for Covid-19 has limitations in terms of widespread availability. In view of this, there is an urgent requirement of reliable and convenient rapid point of care antigen detection assays with high sensitivity and specificity. Such assays could be used as potential diagnostic tests in all possible public and private healthcare settings and made available for mass testing,” the letter further reads.”How it’s different from rt-pcr test||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chosen-for-validation-of-rapid-antigen-testing-105939
29-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||School bus operators seek relief||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28The Chandigarh School Bus Operators’ Welfare Association has decided to move court and stage protests in the tricity over being unable to meet monthly expenses due to the lockdown.They claim to have been facing major losses in dispersing salaries to the staff. They claim to have a fleet of nearly 1,200 buses, which operate for schools in the tricity and are managed by 3,600 staff members. More than 250 families are operating this business.The bus operators charge between Rs1,200 and Rs1,500 (approx) per student and claim to have faced a loss of approximately Rs4 crore since April.Though buses are not operating as schools are closed, the operators claim they have expenses to bear — employee salaries, taxes, installments, insurance and extension of policy terms. A meeting in this regard was held today.“We have sought relief measures for school bus operators. Despite a number of letters, no response has been received by the Administration. Since March 25, the buses are not operating, but the liabilities of road tax, installments, insurance and salaries of staff continue to burden us. We demand a financial relief package immediately,” said Manjeet Singh Saini, president, Chandigarh School Bus Operators’ Welfare Association.The association demanded that parents or schools should pay at least 50 per cent of the transportation fee for the past months and decide the future course of action. “We have been bearing 75 per cent of the monthly recurring expense and 25 per cent cost towards the diesel expense. We will be unable to disperse further staff salaries. We want the Administration to find a way for us,” said Saini.He added: “The future course is also very difficult. We are allowed to travel with 1.25 ratio of the total number of seats. What if in future the schools want to reduce the capacity to 50 per cent per bus, how will we manage operational costs? The rising price of diesel will burden us even more.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-bus-operators-seek-relief-105940
29-06-2020||---||Man in police custody for firing at ex-Navy officer||Mohali, June 28Rajesh Malik, an accused, in the firing incident that took place yesterday at Jal Vayu Towers, Sunny Enclave in Kharar, was today produced in a local court which remanded him in three-day police custody.Malik had allegedly shot at a retired Navy officer, Narinder Verma, who was sitting on a bench in the parking lot of the society last evening. Verma is currently undergoing treatment at Max Hospital, Mohali. His condition is reportedly stable. He was shot at in the chest. A surgery to extract the bullet is yet to be conducted, said sources.The accused was arrested on the spot and a case against him was registered at the Sadar Kharar police station.Gurnam Singh, ASI, said the pistol used by the accused was recovered, but his ammunition licence was yet to be seized. If more ammunition was found on the same licence, the police would seize them also, he added.On Saturday, Fateh Singh, a resident of the society, informed the police that he and two other residents, including Narendra Verma, were sitting on benches near the parking lot when Rajesh Malik, a resident of the same society, allegedly fired three shots from a pistol one of which hit Narendra Verma.Inspector Sukhveer Singh, SHO, Kharar Sadar police station, said: “In the recent past, the victim had given a testimony against the accused in case of a fight. Since then, Malik was holding a grudge against Verma and that may be the reason behind the incident. CCTV footage is being checked.”According to residents of the society, Malik and Verma had a dispute over Residents’ Welfare Association elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-in-police-custody-for-firing-at-ex-navy-officer-105943
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||NCC cadets asked to ensure cyber hygiene||Additional Director General, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate, Maj Gen Beji Mathews, today advised cadets to keep in mind the security aspects of online platforms and ensure cyber hygiene when using the social media.Addressing cadets on the culmination of the first-ever webinar on the theme of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat,’ he encouraged them to be flag bearers of the youth in national integration campaigns.Maj Gen Mathews also commended the enthusiasm, confidence and active participation of cadets from various states in the novel experiment to deal with the unprecedented circumstance and moving ahead with NCC activities in the new normal.The week-long event conducted by the Chandigarh NCC Air Wing witnessed the participation of 100 cadets from Punjab, HP, Haryana, Chandigarh, Karnataka and Goa. The colorful show put up by the cadets included video presentations on cultural aspects of each state, songs and dance performances, skits and basic phrases of each others’ languages.The interaction was made interesting by conducting a debate contest on whether the social media is a boon for humanity and an online quiz at the end of the webinar. The debate was won by Yashika. Nishtha came second, while Sudeep Raj third. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ncc-cadets-asked-to-ensure-cyber-hygiene-105944
29-06-2020||OPEN HOUSE ||Restrict number of visitors, separate entry & exit points||UT can follow PunjabIt’s really surprising to see huge rush at the Sukhna Lake, Rose Garden or other public places in Chandigarh particularly during the weekends raising concern about the further spread of coronavirus. Many visitors avoid wearing face masks and also do not follow proper social distancing norms. The UT Administration must take strict measures to prevent gatherings at public places during the weekends. It may impose Lockdown restrictions on the lines Punjab Government. Safety of residents is more important than anything else.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliIssue e-pass for visit to Sukhna LakeThere is no abatement in Covid-19 cases in the tricity. It’s a long fight ahead. To curtail rush at public places, including Sukhna Lake, it is absolutely necessary that the UT Administration starts issuing e-passes for visiting Sukhna Lake. Any person not following the guidelines like wearing face mask or maintaining social distance should be home quarantined for at least a week and penalised.BS Dhillon, MohaliImposing curfew not enoughWith the UT Administration failing to stem the spread of coronavirus and cases increasing rapidly, the issue has to be taken up seriously. People mostly contract virus at public places. So, the number of people visiting public places like Sukhna Lake should be limited. Imposing curfew on the weekends is not sufficient as there can be overcrowding can on the weekdays too.Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarhensure staggered movement of citizensThe transmissibility and severity of the Covid-19 pandemic is continuing. In this scenario rush at public places is not desirable. A regulatory framework has to be put in place to control the rush and ensure staggered movement of citizens. There should be paid entry tickets, given on an hourly basis, to a fixed number of visitors. Each entry point must be closely monitored with thermal scanners. Marshalls should be deployed to ensure social distancing and for desisting visitors from crowding. Regular announcements should be made on dos and don’ts.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpurno harm in levying finesWhereas it is expected of educated residents of Chandigarh to take all precautions in order to stall the spread of coronavirus, there is no harm in levying reasonable to heavy fines on violators of guidelines and using the money collected as local Covid care fund. During this crisis, a sense of responsibility is the least one can look for in the City Beautiful conceived for the physical, mental and emotional well being of its residents.Prof Manjit Kaur, MohaliLearn from others’ failuresSo far, social distancing and masks are the only tools to control the spread of Covid-19. If people keep on assembling in large numbers without these precautions, coronavirus may go beyond control. As such the UT Administration should not allow unregulated crowds at public places, including parks, throughout the week where people assemble in groups of eight to 10 and enjoy playing cards without masks what to talk about other precautions. We should learn from failures of the Delhi Government.KC Rana, Chandigarh.It’s now or neverAmid apprehension of the peak in pandemic in Chandigarh, the UT authorities must adopt the Punjab model of implementing strict regulations during the weekends. If UT doesn’t take these measures now, the circumstances may turn unfavorable. Public places in Chandigarh, particularly Sukhna Lake, witness huge rush during the weekends. This can ultimately lead to spike in Covid cases. Therefore, due precautions are mandatory. The authorities must fix visiting hours with proper thermal scanning at public places. All must wear masks, gloves and maintain social distance at such places.Jasleen Kaur, MohaliAllow only 50 visitors at a timeOn the weekends, entry at public places must be restricted. For this purpose, a register must be kept at the entry point. Only 50 visitors at a time be allowed at a particular time. They must enter their names and mobile numbers in the register and vacate public place after an hour. In case they do not do so, penalty be imposed on them. Another batch of 50 visitors should be allowed after an hour. Alternatively, visitors must pay entry charge for visiting a public place. The move will prevent gatherings at public places.Tarlok Singh, ChandigarhUT cops can follow Punjab normsAfter a long spell of the lockdowns, people are eager to come out of their homes in search of fresh air. In this effort, some visitors care two hoots about the guidelines, essential to keep coronavirus at bay. Hordes of youngsters can be spotted at Sukhna Lake without masks and jostling with each other caring little about maintaining social distance. The Punjab Police is doing well by enforcing strict guidelines on the weekends and holidays. The UT police must follow their counterparts in Punjab and seal entry points at public places, including Sukhna Lake, particularly on the weekends and holidays.SC Luthra, ChandigarhStay home, stay safeDuring this pandemic, people are becoming impatient. They are waiting eagerly to be outdoors and want things to bounce back to normalcy. They want to be with nature, see open sky and get rid of anxiety and stress. But, there is no place safe during the crisis. So, it is imperative to stay home and stay safe. During this challenging time, we must to cooperate with the government by strictly following the Covid norms.Anchita Sharma, ChandigarhUT must not go Punjab wayThe UT authorities should not follow the Punjab model of implementing strict regulations during the weekends particularly at Sukhna Lake where people go to get fresh air and be with nature. People should be educated to wear masks, follow social distancing and sanitisation before entering public places. Thermal screening can done at entry points of public spots. Precautions are better rather than making strict regulations, which sends wrong signal among the public at large.TBS Bedi, ChandigarhIgnorance can prove fatalDespite of warnings by the government, people have become complacent towards Covid-19 pandemic. This ignorance can prove fatal. People should avoid gathering at public places’ as there is no need of commercial activities on weekends and other holidays. It has been observed, that during the lockdown, the pollution level was at minimum and the environment was refreshed. Even challenging task of ‘Clean Ganga’ has been achieved. It shall be wiser to impose strict weekend lockdown in the whole country.Prof Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhOld dictum safety saves holds goodAs there is no abatement in Covid cases, the UT authorities need to take every possible measure to control its spread. It will be a good step if crowding at malls, Sukhna Lake and other parks is restricted or altogether stopped during the weekends. The old dictum ‘safety saves’ holds good for the control of this horrible virus as well. When one returns home, he/she is to wash his/her clothes, take a bath immediately and change into fresh attire. This is not possible for every one every time. So, it’s better to refrain from venturing crowded places.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhDon’t act tough against visitorsThe Punjab Government can implement strict rules for visitors, but the UT authorities should not act tough against weekend visitors. The best way is to deploy officials to make people, who visit Rock Garden, Sukhna Lake and other public places during weekends, aware through announcements to follow regulations like to use masks, not to spit in the open, keep social distance and avoid crowding. All these precautions are for residents’ safety.MR Bhateja, NayagaonPrevention is better than cureSurely, the Chandigarh Administration should adopt the Punjab model of implementing the weekend lockdown to check crowding at public places as the Covid-19 cases are surging in the tricity. Chandigarh being a tourist attraction also attracts visitors from nearby towns of Punjab as well as Haryana during the weekends, which leads to overcrowding. Due to overcrowding physical distancing norms cannot be followed, which can spread coronavirus. Also, public places like Sukhna Lake should be out of bounds for the people till the pandemic abates. People should themselves restrict their movements. Remember, “Prevention is better than cure.”Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, Chandigarhcurbs inevitable as Self-regulation failedWhen the lockdown was eased, it was expected that people would take preventive measures against the deadly Covid-19. Even the so called educated elite belie this notion and throng Sukhna Lake and other public spots in numbers. When self-regulation fails, mandatory curbs become inevitable. The UT Administration must adopt the Punjab model of implementing strict regulations to check crowding at public places. Complacency on our part is the culprit for the re-surge in pandemic, inviting stringent civil/civic restrictions. People ought to adhere to “be-home, stay safe” panacea and venture out only if they must to expect more relaxations to take life and economy back on fast rails.Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkulamost people don’t follow guidelinesMost people are carefree and do not follow Covid guidelines. The authorities should maintain discipline and control rush at public places. Bureaucrats and politicians are not above the law. Everyone must follow norms like wearing masks and maintaining social distance. No one should be spared if violating rules and regulations. Violators must be punished.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohalimark separate lane for joggers, walkersThe UT Administration should put restrictions on crowding at Sukhna Lake in wake of the pandemic. Separate lanes should be marked for those, who want to jog or walk early in the morning or late in the evening. Passes should be made mandatory for those, who want to enjoy nature or exercise at the lake. A specific time should be allotted to those, who exercise and visitors coming to enjoy at the lake. CCTVs must be installed and online challans be issued to those violating norms. The Sukhna Lake area should be sealed and entry be allowed strictly through passes.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliUT must follow in footsteps of PunjabThe Punjab Government with its proactive approach has done well to restrict the spread of coronavirus. The Chandigarh Administration can also follow restrictions imposed in Punjab during the weekends and other holidays to restrict peoples’ movement at public places like Sukhna Lake, Rose Garden, markets’ and parks. Elderly and children must not venture in public places in order to keep safe from the virus.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliSocial distancing is a mythMan is a social animal and cannot keep aloof for months’ altogether. What is wrong if he/she comes out to a public place like Sukhna Lake or Rock Garden? The Punjab Government’s decision of imposing the lockdown on Saturdays/Sundays and public holidays to prevent spreading Covid-19 is a dream. The Punjab CM must visit Hall Bazaar in Amritsar or any other market in Ludhiana to see for himself that social distancing is a myth. How can anyone be so sure that Covid-19 will spread on the weekends only? If the UT Administration adopts the Punjab model of regulations to check crowding at public places then it would be a perfect example of blind following a blind.Gurpreet Malhotra, ChandigarhOn-the-spot fine for violationsIt is surprising to see blatant violation of social distancing and safety measures at Sukhna Lake. To reduce the impact of coronavirus we have to reduce the transmission of disease. Fresh restrictions should be imposed again. There must be strict checking at entry point of the lake and public places. Violators of norms should be fined on the spot for ignoring Covid norms.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaPeople tend to mess up thingsIt would be wise for the UT authorities to adopt the Punjab model to prevent crowding at public places for the sake of society’s general health. The ambience of fresh air and serenity suggests that Sukhna Lake is a priceless gift to residents, who must do everything within their power to conserve a healthy environment. Following the age-old adage “prevention is better than cure” the UT authorities ought to adopt strict regulations in view of the fact that left to themselves people tend to mess up things, unwittingly risking their own and others’ health and lives.DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhFollow punjab with harsher restrictionsOur so-called learned citizens have not been taking into account the seriousness of the matter. Instead of taking extra precautions, they have started misusing privileges posing danger to society. During the weekends and holidays, locals tend to rush to Sukhna Lake or other public places. As there is nothing new to visit such places, it can be avoided. The Chandigarh Administration should follow the Punjab model of regulations with even harsher restrictions to stop further spread of the coronavirus in the city.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliBan use of vehicles on the weekendsPeople living near Sukhna Lake are eminent personalities and are well aware of the existing conditions. Our youngsters are aware of the fact that safety saves, they don’t care. They may be wearing masks and sanitising their hands regularly, but it is difficult for them to maintain social distance in crowded places. As experts tell us, the pandemic is to peak in the coming months. May be we can ban use of vehicles on the weekends. Only bicycles and no motorcycles be allowed at the weekends. Entry at Sukhna Lake and Rose Garden should be through tickets only. If that is not enough, impose strict restrictions during the weekends on the Punjab pattern.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliHarsh decision will control situationTo keep the situation arising out of the Covid pandemic under control, the authorities must take harsh decision even if some inconvenience is caused to citizens. If needed regulations adopted by the Punjab Government on the weekends should be implemented in the UT. There is need to control overcrowding at public places on the weekdays too. Citizens should cooperate with the authorities.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhTime-bound entry at public placesCovid-19 pandemic has become way of life. With relaxation in working hours, there has been a spike in Covid cases. Challenges are greater especially for youth, as they love to socialise. Opening few public places like Sukhna Lake helps people go out, feel refreshed and relaxed. Strict regulations or closing of public places is not the solution. It would add more fuel to fire. Taking precautions like social distancing and allowing few people for limited time at public places will give everyone an opportunity to move around in natural environment and relax. The government should help people to regain their mental and physical health. More restrictions may take a toll on their lives.Charu Malhotra, MohaliThe move has already failed in PunjabIs coronavirus so intelligent that it infects residents only on the weekends and not on the weekdays when people irresponsibly intermingle at public places discarding all precautionary norms? If the UT authorities adopt Punjab model of implementing strict regulations during the weekends to check crowding at public places, it won’t help as the move has already failed in the border state. There’s wide gap between the authorities claims and the ground zero reality. Either implement complete Lockdown or leave irresponsible public to God’s mercy.MPS Chadha, MohaliOnus lies on residentsDespite making people of City Beautiful aware of precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19, it has been observed that the former have adopted a casual approach towards the issue. Whether its market or Sukhna Lake, the social distancing norm has gone for a toss. In sector gardens', too, one can watch people jogging without masks in the evening. In such a situation, the only way to prevent crowding is to step up policing at public places where cops can warn and take legal action against those, who violate Covid norms. Following Punjab model may not be of much help. Only making residents understand their responsibility will keep the pandemic under control.HJS Gill, Chandigarh QUESTIONThe Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, usually finishes repair/recarpeting of roads before the arrival of monsoon. This year, the MC wasn’t able to do so due to the Lockdown and labour shortage. Hence, it has decided to carry out the work even during the monsoon, whenever there is a long, dry spell. Do you think it is a wise move or should the MC wait for the monsoon to get over before starting work?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restrict-number-of-visitors-separate-entry-exit-points-105946
29-06-2020||---||Panchkula doc, 76-year-old woman found infected||Panchkula, June 28An anaesthesia specialist posted in the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Sector 21 here was among two persons found positive for the Covid-19 in the district today. The doctor was in direct contact with high-risk patients.Considering the seriousness of the matter, the Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, has ordered an assessment by experts for the prevention of Covid-19 spread in the healthcare setting.“With so many asymptomatic patients, it is not always possible to segregate Covid and non-Covid patients. In spite of the best preventive measures, healthcare workers are always at significant risk, especially with the ever-increasing number of patients. Three private hospitals in Panchkula are most vulnerable due to patients coming here for treatment from other districts and states,” she said.Health officials said around 12 employees, including four doctors, who came in contact with the anaesthesia specialist, had already been home-quarantined. They would be sampled for the Covid-19, if required.As many as seven Covid positive persons, including three from Panchkula, are undergoing treatment at the Sector 21 hospital.The infected doctor, who lives in Rail Vihar, Sector 4, Mansa Devi Complex, is now admitted to the same hospital. “We have instructed doctors to inform the hospital and get themselves tested if they develop any Covid-19 symptoms. We are taking all safety measures. We exactly don’t know how the doctor contracted the virus,” another doctor at the Sector 21 hospital said.On June 27, a 31-year-old nurse from Parwanoo, who works at the Sector 21 hospital, had tested positive for coronavirus. She used to commute daily between Parwanoo and Panchkula through public transport. It is not clear whether the doctor contracted the infection from the nurse.Another person who tested positive for the virus is a 76-year-old woman from Sector 17 here. With this, the number of infected persons in the district rose to 111.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-doc-76-year-old-woman-found-infected-105947
29-06-2020||Mohali||Minor fire at PNB branch in Kharar||A minor fire broke out at a Punjab National Bank branch near the Kharar bus stand here this evening. No major loss of goods was reported.Surinder Pal Singh, assistant manager of the bank, said he rushed to the branch on getting information about the incident. He said the fire broke out due to a short circuit in the changeover switch near the cash counter. The flames burnt the switch and other electrical equipment, he added.A fire tender was pressed into service. The fire was brought under control in around 30 minutes.Inspector Baghwant Singh, Station House Officer, Kharar City police station, said, “The incident occurred around 7.30 pm. Only wiring was damaged in the fire, which occurred in a small portion of the branch. No other loss was reported.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-fire-at-pnb-branch-in-kharar-105948
29-06-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Brass band business hits the low note during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28Harish Band of Phase I in Mohali, which featured in the Emotional Atyachar song (Dev D, 2009) is fighting a battle for survival. The ‘Dev D walla group’ is not alone, but close to 50 brass band groups, who lend pomp and show to wedding ceremonies, are staring at dark days. They have already been without any work for four months now.With the Unlock 1.0 bringing relaxations for almost every professional, brass band groups have got no respite. The 50-person limit on attendees has kept them away from marriage functions which were once inconceivable without ‘band, baja and ghodi’.SR Nagar, president, Brass Band Welfare Association, Chandigarh, had approached BJP leader Satya Pal Jain, who then wrote to Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore and the Ministry of Home Affairs to offer some relaxations to the brass band groups.“'People are just not interested in hiring brass bands as close relatives and friends only add up to the permitted size of gathering. Log bhool gaye hai ki shaadiyon ki shaan hamse hua karti thi,” laments Nagar.Normally, 11-12 people form a group. The group earns nearly Rs 15,000 from each event they perform at during the wedding season.“We have been sitting idle for four months now. Just one month is left for a three-month break when weddings are generally not organised,” said of Pawan Masih of Ashoka Brass Band of Sector 38 here.According to the traditional Indian calendar, June 29 is Bhadli Navami, the last day considered auspicious for marriages in this season. “After this, the bookings are very few,” said Dheeraj, the proprietor of Harish Band.Members of this underprivileged section of the society rued that not a single packet of ration has been provided to them in these tough times as society needs them only in happier times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brass-band-business-hits-the-low-note-during-lockdown-105950
29-06-2020||---||Punjab University staffer, 2 others test +ve||Chandigarh, June 28Three persons were found positive for Covid-19 here today, taking the tally to 431.A 42-year-old woman, a Panjab University staffer, from Maloya is among the affected persons. She is the family contact of a Sector 29 woman, who is also an employee of the university.The Maloya woman, who is an employee at Girls’ Hostel No. 10, Panjab University, has three family members and two community contacts. All of them have been sampled for Covid-19. As many as 14 staff members of the DSW office have been home-quarantined.A 31-year-old man, who returned from Kazakhstan on June 21 and quarantined at Hotel Lemon Tree, has also tested positive for Covid-19. His family resides in Sector 40, here. A two-and-a-half-year-old boy, who resides in Sector 30, was also found positive for the virus. He is the family contact of an already Covid positive 76-year-old woman from the same sector.56-yr-old woman beats virus, DischargedMeanwhile, a 56-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 16, was discharged from the Nehru Hospital Extension, PGI, after she got the better of the virus.Chandigarh 4th in recovery rateWith the recovery rate at 77.8 per cent, Chandigarh has been ranked fourth in the country in terms of recovery rate as per the Ministry of Home and Family Welfare. At the 13th spot, Punjab figured in top 15 with the recovery rate of 65.7 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-university-staffer-2-others-test-ve-105952
29-06-2020||---||10 more contract virus in Mohali district||Mohali, June 28As many as 10 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today.The affected persons include two women, aged 50 and 16, and four men, 24, 25, 82 and 40, all residents of Kharar. A 61-year-old man and a 57-year-old woman from Maya Garden, Zirakpur, have also contracted the virus. A resident of Sector 71, Mohali, a 23-year old man and a woman from Tasimbli village near Lalru were also found infected.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said three patients from Kharar were the contacts of already positive patients, while two others were influenza-like illness (ILI) cases. The 25-year-old man from Kharar had returned from Delhi. All patients had been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Dr Manjit said there were 59 active cases in the district while 194 had been cured and three died of the disease.3 patients dischargedThe Civil Surgeon said three patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital on Sunday after defeating the virus. They were a 21-year-old resident of Zirakpur, a 57-year-old resident of Kurali and a 53-year-old from Lalru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-more-contract-virus-in-mohali-district-105955
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Checking to intensify at Sukhna: Adviser||Zirakpur resident held with heroinChandigarh: The crime branch of the UT police has arrested a Zirakpur resident while possessing 72.58 grams of heroin worth several lakhs. The police said they got a tip-off that Yusuf Masih, a resident of Khushal Enclave, Pabhat road, Zirakpur, was involved in drug smuggling, following which they nabbed him from Sector 47 while riding an Innova SUV on June 27. The police said 72.58 grams of heroin was recovered from the suspect. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him at the Sector 31 police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNSMan booked for sexual harassmentChandigarh: The Chandigarh Police have booked an unidentified person for eve-teasing a woman. According to the police, the woman had come to Burail, Sector 45, for some personal work. While leaving, she asked the way from a pedestrian at the Sector 33/45 light point after which the suspect started harassing her and also passing lewd comments on her. The suspect then escaped from the spot following which the victim informed the police. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. TNS9 arrested for drinking at dhabaChandigarh: Nine persons were arrested for consuming liquor at a dhaba in Sector 30 in violation of the District Magistrate’s order. A team of the Industrial Area police station was patrolling in the Sector 30 market when they found Sunil Kumar, Jai Ram, Pardeep Rawat, Rajesh, Bhuvan, Harshdeep Singh, Ravinder Kumar and Manoj Kumar consuming liquor at the dhaba. The dhaba owner, Ashwani Kumar, was also been arrested. A case was registered at the Industrial Area police station. The suspects were later released on bail. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/checking-to-intensify-at-sukhna-adviser-105959
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Eatery manager, cashier, four customers booked||HOOKAH SERVED TO CUSTOMERSThe police have seized 20 hookahs from the restaurant.Six persons, including four customers, were booked for violating the social distancing norms at a restaurant in Sector 7, where a hookah was also served to the customers.A team of the Sector 26 police station had visited some restaurants yesterday to check whether social distancing norms were being observed there.The police said at a restaurant in Sector 7, they found a hookah being served to the customers, which was illegal. Social distancing norms were also violated by the customers, they added.Inspector Narinder Patial, SHO, Sector 26 police station, said among the seven customers, who were sharing a hookah, three were minors.While minors were let off after counselling, the police booked the restaurant manager, identified as Manjit of Mohali, cashier Arpan Sharma, who is a resident of Sector 16, Chandigarh, and four customers, who were identified as Kush, Karan, Raman and Yashpal, all residents of Mohali. The police have also seized 20 hookahs from the restaurant. “We will keep a watch on the activities at the restaurant to ensure hookah is not served to the customers,” said a police official.A case has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC has been registered against all the persons at the Sector 26 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eatery-manager-cashier-four-customers-booked-105961
29-06-2020||---||Painter murdered over petty issue in Mohali||Mohali, June 28A 35-year-old man was allegedly killed by six unidentified persons over a petty issue at Badmajra village near Balongi here late on Saturday night.The victim has been identified as Sanjay Yadav (35), a resident of Badmajra village and native of Uttar Pradesh. Sanjay, who had been working as a painter, was living in a rented accommodation along with his family.As per information, the incident took place around 11.30 pm near the victim’s house when Sanjay saw three persons urinating near his house. As he objected to their act, they started abusing him and a scuffle broke out between them following a heated exchange.After this, they left the place. A few minutes later, they came back with three more persons. They called Sanjay out of his house. As the victim came out, they repeatedly attacked him on his legs with a knife. They also hit him on his head using a brick.The assailants then fled on their bikes leaving the victim in a pool of blood.According to the police, a few villagers had seen the suspects fleeing on three bikes after committing the crime. The police also said the suspects might be in an inebriated state, as a few bottles of alcohol and glasses were found at the spot.Sanjay was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Phase VI where he succumbed to his injuries.SP (Investigation) Harmandeep Hans said, “The attackers are yet to be identified. Some rivalry can be the reason behind the murder and we are probing this angle too. No weapon has been recovered from the spot.”He added that the footage of CCTVs was also being scrutinised. Due to darkness, the suspects were not clearly visible in the footage as the cameras were not night-vision gadgets.A case under Sections 302, 34 and 450 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified assailants at the Balongi police station on the statement of the victim’s wife, Urmila. The investigation has been initiated into the case. Sanjay is survived by his wife and a six-year-old daughter. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital. The postmortem examination will be conducted tomorrow.SIx assailants flee on bikes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/painter-murdered-over-petty-issue-in-mohali-105962
