30-06-2020||New Delhi||Indigenous airborne Locust control system on MI-17 helicopter at 3 BRD Chandigarh||The versatile MI-17 helicopter will now be used locust control operations.The Indian Air Force has tasked 3 Base Repair Depot located at Chandigarh to undertake the challenging task of indigenously designing and developing an Airborne Locust Control System (ALCS) for Mi-17 helicopters in view of envisaged delay in provisioning of modification kits from the UK due to COVID lockdown, according to a statement by Agriculture Ministry.Using all indigenous components, the atomised airborne spraying of pesticide has been successfully achieved in air through a configuration of nozzles mounted both sides on external trusses of a Mi-17 helicopter, it said. The nozzles used for the purpose are a mix of commercially available nozzles as well as the nozzles developed by CSIO, Chandigarh.Anticipating Locust attack, the Ministry of Agriculture had signed a contract with M/s Micron, UK to modify two Mi-17 Helicopters for spraying atomized pesticide to arrest locust breeding in May 2020. However, due to COVID-19 pandemic, the UK-based firm would be able to manufacture and supply the modification kit to IAF only from September 2020 onward for system integration and testing.  In the meanwhile, an unprecedented locust attack started manifesting from last week of May and was fast spreading practically across many states. Malathion in appropriate concentration would be filled in the internal auxiliary tank of 800 litres capacity fitted inside the helicopter and pumped into the nozzles by using an electrical pump as well as compressed air, achieving nearly 40 minutes of spaying duration in the infected zone covering an area of approximately 750 hectares in each mission.A team of Test Pilots and Test Engineers of Aircraft and Systems Testing Establishment, Bangalore, have successfully carried out ground and airborne trials of ALCS on a modified Mi-17 helicopter.  Being an indigenously developed system, the ALCS would offer inherent advantages of in-house maintenance, future upgradeability, saving of foreign exchange and help in making the country Self Reliant in aviation related technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indigenous-airborne-locust-control-system-on-mi-17-helicopter-at-3-brd-chandigarh-106693
30-06-2020||Mohali||35-year-old man murdered in Mohali||Two days after a painter was murdered in Badmajra, a 35-year-old man, also a migrant worker, was found murdered by using a handle of the hand pump at Phase 8 here late Monday night.The incident came to light around 9 am when morning walkers informed the police about the body lying behind the liquor vend in an open ground near YPS Chowk here.The police teams including DSP (city 2) Deep Kamal, Inspector Rajnish Choudhary, ASI Raspreet Singh and Constable Balvinder Singh reached the spot on getting the information and initiated the investigation and took the body into its custody. The victim was not wearing a shirt.The victim has been identified as Raja Ram (35), who worked as a gardener and as a labourer in Mohali.Raja Ram was living with his relatives in Amb Sahib colony here, said the police.The assailants have not been traced yet by the police.According to the police the victim was murdered around 1.30 am last night by some unidentified persons after attacking him multiple times by the hand pump handle on his face and head.ASI Raspreet Singh said, “The face and head of the victim was badly injured as the assailants had attacked him repeatedly with the handle. The hand pump handle, containing blood stains, used in the crime has also been recovered from the crime spot and samples of blood and possible fingerprints were collected by the forensic team.”DSP Deep Kamal said, “We have started the investigation of murder from various angles. Few persons have been rounded up under suspicion. We will interrogate them for more details.”A case of murder has been registered against the unknown suspects at the Phase 8 police station today.The victim’s body was sent to the mortuary of Civil Hospital in Phase 6 where his post mortem would be conducted tomorrow, said the police.Two days on, Balongi police is still clueless about the accused, who allegedly killed a painter, Sanjay Yadav, by attacking him with a knife and brick outside his house.Station House Officer of Balongi police station, Amardeep Singh, said, “We are investigating the matter. No lead has been found yet by our teams.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-year-old-man-murdered-in-mohali-106680
30-06-2020||---||12 new COVID-19 cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, June 30Twelve more COVID-19 positive cases surfaced in various parts of Mohali, taking the total count in the district to 271.Meanwhile, a 43-year-old man, resident of Mohali and an anchor of a Punjabi channel, died of COVID—19 this morning, taking the death toll to four in the district.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the journalist was under treatment at Ivy Hospital for renal disorders.Also read: PTC news anchor Davinder Pal Singh dies of CovidThe fresh cases reported include a 37-year-old female from Baltana; 32-year-old, 24-year-old, 33-year-old, 18-year-old, 39-year-old, 28-year-old, 28-year-old, 20 -year-old from Behra, all contacts of an already positive patient; 46-year-old man from Lalru, who had returned from Uttar Pradesh; 25-year-old man from Phase-4; and 55 year-old male from Dhakoli (ILI case).Dr Manjit Singh said all patients have been admitted to the COVID Care Centre.A 23-year-old man of Kharar was discharged from the hospital today.As of now, of the total positive cases, 197 have cured. The district has 70 active cases with four deaths.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan on Tuesday gave a clarion call to people to download the COVA app on their mobile phones.He said a contest named ‘Mission Fateh Warrior’ has been started and the same was open for those who had downloaded the app. He added that the winners would be honoured with T-shirts, gold, silver and bronze certificates.In order to participate in the contest, COVA app has to be downloaded, join the ‘Mission Fateh’ and then register for the contest.The points would be added to a person’s account based on the selfies uploaded with regard to the activities connected with the mission. In case, a person gets some other person to download the app and get connected with the mission using a referral code, then that person gets additional points.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-mohali-106677
30-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||PTC news anchor Davinder Pal Singh dies of Covid||Senior journalist and anchor Davinder Pal Singh died due to COVID-19 on Tuesday. The PTC anchor contracted the deadly disease in Delhi about a month ago.He was moved to a private hospital in Chandigarh, where he was kept on the ventilator for several days.From Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal to Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, several prominent personalities took to social media to extend condolences on the death of the journalist.Deeply saddened to learn about the demise of young and dynamic journalist of PTC News, Devinderpal Singh. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family, friends and colleagues. May the gentle soul rest in peace! pic.twitter.com/Ae0hU6uXsA  Saddened to known about the untimely demise of a talented and promising journalist of PTC News, S. Davinder Pal Singh. My heartfelt condolences to his family & friends. May Gurusahib grant eternal peace to the departed soul. 🙏🏻 pic.twitter.com/gQezwYG1HV  Chief Minister @capt_amarinder Singh expressed sorrow over the demise of Davinderpal, senior journalist and anchor of PTC News. "May God grant him eternal peace and give the family strength to bear this loss", the Chief Minister said in his condolence message. pic.twitter.com/JeEmTvf92k  Saddened by the untimely demise of senior journalist & anchor of PTC News Davinderpal Singh. My deep condolences to his family. May Waheguru Ji grant peace to the departed soul. pic.twitter.com/L4Sp5ZLfJh  Shocked and pained to hear about the untimely demise of a young and bright journalist of PTC News, S. Davinder Pal Singh. My sincere condolences to his family. May Waheguru grant eternal peace to his soul. 🙏🏻 pic.twitter.com/KxfFS0SWBB||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ptc-news-anchor-davinder-pal-singh-dies-of-covid-106614
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Schools entitled to tuition fee irrespective of offering online classes: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday ruled that all the schools were entitled to collect tuition fee irrespective of offering online classes during the lockdown.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur of the High Court also asked schools to continue to make an endeavour to impart online/distance learning to prevent education from being adversely impacted due to the “present or future lockdowns”.“The school management of each school shall work out their actual expenditure incurred under the annual charges for the period the school remained closed and recover only such genuine expenditure incurred by them including actual transport charges and actual building charges, but shall not recover any charge for this period for any activity or facility towards which no expenditure was incurred,” Justice Nirmaljit Kaur added.The schools were also restrained from increasing the fee for 2020-21 and adopt the fee structure of 2019- 20.In a major relief for the parents, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur added those unable to pay the school fee could file an application, along with necessary proof, about their financial status.“After looking into it sympathetically, the schools would give concession or exempt the entire fee as the case may be,” she added.In case the parent was aggrieved following an adverse decision by the school on his application, he could approach the regulatory body constituted under the provisions of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Un-aided Educational Institutions Act, 2016.“No parent shall misuse the concession by laying a false claim,” Justice Nirmaljit Kaur added.The directions came on a bunch of petitions filed by the Independent Schools’ Association Chandigarh and others petitioners against the State of Punjab and other respondents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schools-entitled-to-tuition-fee-irrespective-of-offering-online-classes-punjab-and-haryana-hc-106580
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh reports 5 new cases, tally rises to 439||Chandigarh on Tuesday reported five new cases of coronavirus, taking the union territory's case tally to 439. Three cases were reported from Sector 41, where a 15-year-old boy, a 47-year-old woman and a 53-year-old tested positive for contagion. The other two cases were recorded in Sector 23 in a 65-year-old woman and a 36-year-old woman. Active cases in the city have now shot up to 84.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-reports-5-new-cases-tally-rises-to-439-106535
30-06-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Restaurants may get to serve liquor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29The UT Administration may allow restaurants and hotels to serve liquor under Unlock 2.0 from July 1.Recently, the Hotels and Restaurants Association, Chandigarh, submitted a memorandum to the Administration to allow them to serve liquor on the pattern of Punjab and extend the dine-in timings till 11 pm.A senior UT official said the request was under consideration, but the final decision would be taken tomorrow on the basis of the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs for Unlock 2.0 .He said the Administration was also likely to allow Apni Mandis to operate from July 1.The Administration is likely to follow the fresh directions issued by the MHA on implementation of curfew from 10 pm to 5 am.Punjab has already allowed restaurants to serve alcohol. “As the UT is governed by the provisions of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, allow us to serve alcohol in hotels/restaurants and other hospitality industry as per the guidelines. It will ensure more revenue to the Administration and also provide some relief to the hospitality industry,” the association stated. “It will be a big support if the Administration allows us to serve alcohol. Limited timings are preventing us from operating in full steam,” said association president Arvinder Pal Singh.He said hoteliers continued to face huge losses due to short operational hours, non-serving of liquor and other reasons during the pandemic. “The lockdown has hit our business badly and it’s high time our industry got some relief,” he said. “With little business, most restaurants have limited their work to home delivery and takeaways. “It is difficult to recover even our operational costs,” he said.At a recent meeting, the UT Administration had discussed the representation of the association for allowing alcohol during dining at restaurants and also in banquet halls during functions. However, the UT had asked them to wait till the present lockdown/unlocking instructions ended on June 30.Three more infected in city, 13 recoverChandigarh: Three new cases of Covid were reported from the city on Monday, taking its tally to 434. A 60-year-old woman from Sector 29 was reported positive for the virus. Her son, who is her only household contact, will now undergo Covid test. She has another son and a daughter, who live at Sector 33 and Panjab University, respectively. A 39-year-old woman from Sector 23 was also found infected. She has three family members, who have been sampled for a Covid test, and three family contacts living in the building where she resides. Her source of infection is not known. Besides, a 15-year-old boy from Sector 41 also contracted the infection. He is a family contact of a Covid patient. Meanwhile, 13 patients defeated the virus, taking the number of Covid recoveries in the city to 349. TNSFinal call after MHA guidelines||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restaurants-may-get-to-serve-liquor-106407
30-06-2020||---||2 flights with 324 passengers from NZ, Kuwait reach Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 29Two flights carrying 324 passengers landed at the Chandigarh international airport here today. The flights were run under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate Indian nationals stranded abroad.An Air India flight carrying 140 passengers from Auckland arrived at 7.30 am while one by GoAir carrying 184 passengers from Kuwait landed at 6.30 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of their respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines. A spokesperson of the Health Department said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc, during the screening and all were asymptomatic for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-flights-with-324-passengers-from-nz-kuwait-reach-chandigarh-106408
30-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh behind 18 states, UTs in testing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29The city is behind at least 18 states and union territories in testing samples for Covid-19, reveals the “Tests per million” analysis of states/UTs.At a time when even states and UTs like Goa and Ladakh have tested more than 40,000 samples per million population, the UT has conducted only 6,323 tests per million population so far.‘Admn dodging ICMR guidelines’Medical experts feel that the guidelines of the ICMR are being "dodged" by the UT Administration. An expert from the PGI’s School of Community Medicine said, “The ICMR also asks states to test influenza-like illness (ILI) cases coming to hospitals. One of the reasons could be that hospitals are not testing ILI patients. Besides, in order to check the extent of community infection, more pregnant women should be tested as they represent community.”UT health officials claim that the low testing is due to "less spread of Covid in the city". Arun Gupta, Health Secretary, UT, said, “One reason behind low testing as compared to other states could be less spread of the disease in Chandigarh and hence lesser number of people requiring testing as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) criteria.”However, medical experts feel that the guidelines of the ICMR are being "dodged" by the UT Administration. An expert from the PGI’s School of Community Medicine said, “The ICMR also asks states to test influenza-like illness (ILI) cases coming to hospitals. One of the reasons could be that hospitals are not testing ILI patients. Besides, in order to check the extent of community infection, more pregnant women should be tested as they represent community.”“Active surveillance of high-risk population is also important in the city. Augmented testing will lead to more cases and the Administration, it seems, is avoiding it,” said a doctor from the PGI.”There are no specific areas like containment zones or hotspots in Chandigarh where all symptomatic ILI cases can be tested as per the ICMR criteria.Earlier, an active search of cases in Bapu Dham Colony by the UT Administration resulted in 250 positive cases from the area. However, from June 19 to June 27, only 21 samples have been taken from the colony.In the UT, the testing has dipped by 18 per cent from last month. This has resulted in less number of cases being reported in June as compared to May.Sero Antigen Rapid TestIn a fresh advisory to states, the ICMR has emphasised on 3Ts -- Test, Track and Treat -- to control the spread of Covid-19. In order to ramp up testing, the UT Administrator on Monday declared that the UT would start the Sero Antigen Rapid Test after the PGI starts the validation of kits received from the ICMR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-behind-18-states-uts-in-testing-106412
30-06-2020||Mohali||Three more test positive in Mohali||With the surfacing of three more cases of coronavirus, the district Covid tally has gone up to 259. The persons affected with the virus are a 28-year-old man from Mauli Baidwan, a 30-year-old man and a 24-year-old youth from Baheda village.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the Mauli Baidwan resident was a case of influenza-like illness while the other two were contacts of a Covid patient. He said the new patients were admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Manjit Singh said two patients had been cured and were discharged from the hospital today. They are a 35-year-old woman and a seven-year-old girl, both residents of Kurali.The Civil Surgeon said of the 259 patients, 196 were cured while three died of the disease. The district had 60 active cases, he added.Meanwhile, officials of the Health Department have sealed a portion of the State Bank of India branch inSector 68 where an employee was found positive. DC Girish Dayalan said they had directed the bank to close the wing where its employee was working. Health teams were sent to the bank to take a list of persons who were in contact with the employee besides taking the samples of the family members and other contacts of the employee. All employees were directed to home-quarantine themselves. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-test-positive-in-mohali-106415
30-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||MC has no funds for development works||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29The financial position of the local civic body continues to be in a mess in the fiscal 2020-21 too. KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, today revealed that against the committed liabilities of Rs597 crore for the current financial year, the civic body had funds to the tune of Rs581 crore. With a deficit of Rs16 crore, the corporation is not in a position to undertake development and maintenance work.KK Yadav, MC CommissionerHouse should find a way out: YadavWe have no money for maintenance and development works. The MC House should discuss the situation and find a way out. Sanctioned works worth Rs121 crore are also stuckAccording to the MC chief, Rs402 crore will be spent on salaries, Rs50 crore on pension, Rs120 crore on electricity and Rs25 crore on running two petrol pumps of the civic body. On the other hand, it has only Rs581 crore, which includes grant-in-aid and earnings from its own sources.The MC had earlier estimated earnings of Rs321.51 crore from its own sources, but after the Covid-19 outbreak, it has now effectively declined to Rs241 crore. Even its grant-in-aid, which was Rs425 crore earlier, saw a cut of 20 per cent. It is only Rs340 crore now.The civic body had earlier passed the annual budget of a whopping Rs1,472.40 crore for the financial year 2020-21. It was done in anticipation of getting funds according to the recommendations of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission, but it did not happen.“We have no money for maintenance and development works. We do not have funds even for day-to-day works. The MC House should discuss the situation and find a way out.Sanctioned works worth Rs121 crore are also stuck,” said Yadav in the monthly General House meeting today.On this, Congress councillor and the Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “The BJP-run MC has miserably failed to run the corporation. The Mayor should resign and the MC House should be dissolved. No work is being undertaken as the MC neither has money nor intent to do it.”City BJP president and councillor Arun Sood said, “In 15 years of the Congress rule, the MC coffers were emptied and no addition to the revenue was made. Now, its leaders are indulging in tall talk. All major works are being done and we have funds for that.”The councillors of the two parties targeted each other during the meeting and did not find any way to take the MC out of the financial mess. Later, another committee was formed to discuss the matter.Funds available for dedicated projectsThe MC has Rs63 crore for road recarpeting. It has spent Rs10 crore on illumination of dark spots and Rs9.5 crore are still left to be utilised. Funds to the tune of Rs39 crore are available for raising the water storage capacity. While the civic body has spent Rs12 crore on development of villages, it is still left with Rs13 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-has-no-funds-for-development-works-106418
30-06-2020||---||Close shave for visitors as car spins out of control in Sector 17||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29Visitors had a narrow escape at the Sector 17 Plaza after the driver of a car, which was parked in a parking lot, lost control over it and drove over the pedestrian path before ramming it into a pillar of a clothing showroom. Nobody was hurt in the incident.Besides the driver, there were two more persons in the car. Sources said all persons escaped after the accident. However, the police did not confirm it. The footage of a CCTV camera installed outside a showroom revealed that the car was parked in the parking lot when three persons arrived and sat in it.The car suddenly started moving towards the ramp, accelerated and went into the corridor before hitting the pillar outside the showroom.An employee working there stated that there was a loud sound following which everyone got scared.“A major tragedy was averted as the car could have crashed into the front glass of the showroom and hit someone inside,” the employee said. There were customers in the showroom at the time of the incident.The front portion of the car was completely damaged and its airbags got deployed.The police were informed, who reached the spot and initiated an investigation.The car was taken to the Sector 17 police station. The police said no complaint had been received in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/close-shave-for-visitors-as-car-spins-out-of-control-in-sector-17-106419
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Snatching bid  in Sector 9||Car-borne miscreants made an attempt to snatch a gold chain from a woman, hardly 200 metres from the Chandigarh Police Headquarters in Sector 9 here this evening.Sources said the woman, a resident of Mohali who works as a pharmacist at a dispensary in Sector 9, was walking towards Matka Chowk where her husband was waiting to pick her up. As the victim reached outside the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) office, a youth came and tried to snatch her gold chain.The police said the victim’s chain fell following which the suspect escaped from the spot. According to the victim, the suspect ran towards an i20 car parked nearby and sat on its rear seat. The miscreants then sped away in their car.The police were informed, who visited the spot and initiated an investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatching-bid-in-sector-9-106420
30-06-2020||Mohali||75-yr-old man dies as car hits scooter||A 75-year-old man was killed after a rashly driven car hit him at the Ranimajra village chowk near Omaxe Society in Mullanpur here today.The vicitm has been identified as Jarnail Singh, a resident of Bhagat Majra village in Mohali district. Jarnail Singh was a shopkeeper, said the police. According to the police, Jarnail Singh was riding a TVS scooter when the mishap took place. A speeding Nissan Micra hit his scooter on the left side. The victim sustained severe injuries.The police said the car driver fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. The victim was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 here but he died on the way. A case has been registered at the Mullanpur police station. Sub-Inspector Harpal Singh said, “The car has been impounded and its driver will be nabbed soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75-yr-old-man-dies-as-car-hits-scooter-106421
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man ends his life after tiff with mother, wife||A 32-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Dadu Majra Colony. The victim reportedly had a fight with his mother and wife yesterday.He has been identified as Sandeep, who earlier worked as a safai karamchari with the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh. He had lost his job before the lockdown. However, the police claimed that it was not the reason behind the suicide.In the morning, he was found hanging after which the police were informed, who rushed the victim to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.The police said no suicide note was found from the spot.The victim is survived by his 62-year-old mother, 28-year-old wife and a four-year-old son. The police have initiated inquest proceedings at the Maloya police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-ends-his-life-after-tiff-with-mother-wife-106422
30-06-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||CBI court refers complaint against policemen to SSP||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, June 29Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI court, today referred the complaint of Prem Singh Bisht against some police officials to the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Chandigarh, for taking necessary action.In the order passed, Garg said the allegations levelled in the complaint were serious. So, to avoid miscarriage of justice to the complainant in the graft case involving police officers, an inquiry was needed. The order further stated that “the court deems it fit to refer the matter to the Senior Superintendent of Police, Chandigarh, for taking necessary action on the present complaint against the police officials in accordance with law under intimation to this court.”Prem Singh Bisht is the complainant and witness in a 2017 graft case. In his application submitted before the special CBI court, he alleged that he was being threatened by some police officers of Chandigarh, who were asking him to turn hostile in a case against Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who was the then SHO of Mani Majra Police Station. In 2017, the CBI had arrested Sub-Inspector (SI) Mohan Singh while allegedly accepting bribe of Rs2 lakh from Bisht at the Sector 31 market. Bisht approached the CBI after SI Mohan Singh allegedly demanded Rs9 lakh from him to drop the names of three of his employees from an FIR registered for an attempt to murder.Later, the complainant had also filed an application against SHO Jaswinder Kaur under Section 319 of the CrPC.Consequently, the CBI has now referred the matter to the competent authority for taking into consideration the facts of the case for the purpose of issuance of sanction against Jaswinder Kaur.The CBI had not chargesheeted Jaswinder Kaur, but it is still awaiting report for the grant of prosecution sanction against Kaur from the competent authority.Bisht had alleged that he was getting threats from cops, including Rajdeep Singh, Jaswinder Kaur and Constable Ashok. He said they wanted him to submit an affidavit in the favour of Jaswinder Kaur or they would falsely implicate him and his partner in an NDPS case. Bisht also expressed fear for his life and demanded security. He had asked for a CBI investigation in the case. Bisht has sought directions for preserving the phone records and CCTV footages of the police officials concerned.KP Singh, public prosecutor for the CBI, argued and placed the facts regarding the application moved by the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-refers-complaint-against-policemen-to-ssp-106424
30-06-2020||---||National consumer disputes redressal panel junks UTI plea||Chandigarh, June 29The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi, has dismissed a revision petition filed by the Unit Trust of India (UTI), Mumbai, against an order of the State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, Chandigarh.The UTI challenged the order of the State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, directing them to give all maturity amount to a man — Chandigarh resident Vardan Singh Rana — whose benefits were transferred by the UTI to the account of his stepmother after the later updated the documents and claimed to be his mother.Ram Murti Singh Rana, Vardan Singh’s father, had purchased units of Children Gift Growth Fund, 1986, in the name of Vardan who was a minor at that time. Vardan Rana became a major in July 2010. When he approached the UTI for the payment of the value of the units, he was told that the same had already been paid on April 28, 2009, and April 29, 2009, to his mother Indira Rani.He challenged the decision before the District Forum, Chandigarh, seeking compensation. He lost the case after the UTI contested that Indira Rani, submitted guardian updation form with a letter from a bank giving the details of a bank account in the name of the complainant. The signatures of Indira Rani had been attested by the bank. Her name was accordingly updated as the guardian of the complainant and a cheque in the name of the complainant with his account number printed on it was sent to Indira Rani. Vardan challenged the Forum’s decision dated December 20, 2011, before the State Commission, Chandigarh.The commission had ruled that the UTI erred in making the payment to complainant’s stepmother and directed the UTI to pay a sum of Rs3,49,878 to the complainant with interest as per the terms and conditions of the scheme. Compensation quantified at Rs10,000 and the cost of litigation was Rs5,000.Vardan Rana had proven that the name of his biological mother was known to the UTI before the name of Indira Rani was updated as the guardian of the complainant in 2005. The national commission ruled that the UTI was grossly negligent in updating the name of Indira Rani as Rana’s mother. The order said that for the reasons stated above, the view taken by the state commission does not call for any interference by this commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-consumer-disputes-redressal-panel-junks-uti-plea-106425
30-06-2020||---||Jyoti member of child rights panel||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, June 29Dr Deepak Jyoti, a senior Congress leader of the area, has been appointed the non-government member of the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights.She took the charge today. Before taking the charge, she called on Aruna Chaudhary, Minister for Social Security Women and Child Welfare Minister, and thanked her.Dr Deepak Jyoti also thanked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for assigning her the responsibility to protect children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jyoti-member-of-child-rights-panel-106426
30-06-2020||---||e-conference marks Statistics Day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29The National Statistical Office (Field Operations Division), Mohali, under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, celebrated Statistics Day through video-conferencing here today.To pay tributes to Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, also known as the ‘Father of Statistics’, on his birth anniversary, the Centre has been celebrating Statistics Day on June 29 every year since 2007.The day is aimed at creating awareness among the youngsters about the role of statistics in socio-economic planning and policy formulation for the development of the country.In continuation of the steps taken by the ministry for improving the data system on sustainable development goals (SDGs), the theme selected for Statistics Day, 2020, covers SDG-3 (ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages) and SDG-5 (achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-conference-marks-statistics-day-106427
30-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Sewadar, 3 others test +ve in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 29Residents of Bassi Pathana and Sirhind heaved a sigh of relief as 66 out of 67 close contacts of the head of Jai Maa Mission, Swami Jyoti Maa Mahadev, who recently died due to Covid, were tested negative.One ‘sewadar’ was tested positive and shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. After the mission head died, a controversy had erupted over the immersion of his ashes and Bassi Pathana SDM Jaspreet Singh had taken the ashes into his possession and placed them in a temple.Three other positive cases have also surfaced in the district, taking the tally to 110. There are 25 active cases in the district till date. The affected persons are a 23-year-old expectant mother from Amloh, a 28-year-old resident of Pola village and a 44-year-old resident of Jakhwali village.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill has extended the lockdown in the Amloh subdivision. She has ordered that all shops would remain closed till Tuesday in the subdivision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewadar-3-others-test-ve-in-fatehgarh-sahib-106428
30-06-2020||Vijay Mohan||INST synthesises compound for anti-cancer use||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29Scientists from the Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Mohali, have synthesised a novel inorganic-organic hybrid compound that can inhibit breast, lung, and liver cancer cells, opening up new possibilities for metallodrugs. The drugs contain a metal as an active ingredient and are most commonly used as anti-cancer or anti-microbial agents.A solid compound based on phosphomolybdate cluster, an inorganic salt belonging to the polyoxometalates (POM) family, had been earlier identified to have anti-tumor potential. A team of INST scientists, led by Dr Monika Singh and Dr Deepika Sharma, has chalked out a mechanism by which the compound kills cancer cells.The POMs are an evolving class of inorganic metal oxides which have established promising biological activities over the last decade by the virtue of great diversity in structures and properties.To probe into the mechanism of how the cancer cells are attacked by the compound, the team synthesised it by hydro-thermal method. An aqueous mixture of sodium molybdate, phosphorus acid and bipyridine was heated in an acetate buffer solution of pH4 at 160 degrees Celsius for 72 hours.The compound’s cytotoxicity or the quality of being toxic to cells was determined on breast cancer, lung cancer and liver cancer cells by conventional colorometry. The observations were further compared with that of a routinely used chemotherapeutic agent.The mechanism of cell death occurring in breast cancer, lung cancer and liver cancer cells were also evaluated and the effect of the synthesised materials on cell division was determined. The in-vitro results showed that the hybrid solid is less toxic towards normal cells and its anti-tumour activity was also found to be comparable with that of a routinely used chemo-therapeutic agent.The POMs have evolved as a promising candidate for metallodrugs for combating cancer. The compound synthesised by the INST, can open up new avenues for anti-tumour applications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inst-synthesises-compound-for-anti-cancer-use-106429
30-06-2020||---||CHB official’s bail plea rejected||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29The District Courts has rejected the bail application of Surinder Kumar, an employee with the Chandigarh Housing Board (HB), who was arrested by the police for cheating a man of Rs 22.25 lakh.The police arrested Surinder Kumar, a senior assistant, on June 20, 2020, after registering an FIR on the complaint of Kuldeep Kumar Luthra, a resident of Modern Housing Complex (MHC), Mani Majra.In his complaint to the police, Luthra stated that Surinder cheated him of Rs 22,25,000 on pretext of either sending his son abroad or getting him appointed in the CHB office. However, he failed to fulfil both the promises even after receiving the payment, Luthra added.He had made the payment through cash and cheques, Luthra said.Surinder came in his contact when he met him at the CHB office where the former was an employee, Luthra said. The accused helped Luthra in getting his house at the MHC transferred in his name.Thereafter both had cordial relationship. When he was admitted to the PGI for brain tumor (cancer) Surinder met him and assured him of all help, Luthra added. Later, Surinder took 22.25 lakh on the pretext of either getting an appointment for his son at the CHB office or sending him abroad, but he failed to fulfil the promise, Luthra said. When Luthra demanded his money the accused gave him cheques of different amounts, but they got dishonored.While dismissing the bail application of Surinder Kumar, the Judicial Magistrate-First Class (JM-IC), Kushal Singla, in the order stated: “The accused has duped many innocent persons. Moreover, recovery of money is yet to be effected. The case is in the preliminary stage of the investigation. The challan in the case is not yet presented. In view of this accused Surinder Kumar is not entitled to the concession of bail.”The District Courts heard the case through video conferencing. Advocate Ashok Sehgal opposed the bail application of the accused, Surinder Kumanr, on behalf of the complainant, Kuldeep Kumar Luthra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-officials-bail-plea-rejected-106430
30-06-2020||---||Non-functional street lights on Zirakpur highway irk motorists||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, June 29Safety on the Zirakpur flyover has become a major concern as most of the street lights are lying non-functional for the past few days. The stretch poses a threat to motorists at night.Two-wheeler riders are at a great risk as the traffic moves at a high speed on the highway, leaving little room for light motor vehicles. The situation turns grim at night when the volume of traffic decreases. It gives an opportunity to miscreants to strike at will.“It is scary to cross the flyover at night as the stretch plunges into darkness after the sun sets with a few street lights functioning. The authorities concerned should repair the street light at the earliest,” said Bhavna Arora, a staff nurse at the GMCH-32, who commutes daily between Zirakpur and Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-functional-street-lights-on-zirakpur-highway-irk-motorists-106431
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||UT auctions 11 liquor vends, earns Rs34.22 cr||The UT Excise and Taxation Department has earned a revenue of Rs34.22 crore from e-auction of 11 liquor vends.In the second round of e-tendering held today, the department received a total of 23 e-bids against 11 liquor vends. The reserve price of the vends was Rs27.82 crore. The revenue fetched was an increase of 23 per cent against the reserve price.The department had fetched a revenue of Rs265.32 crore from the e-auction of 78 liquor vends on June 23.The department got an overwhelming response from the trade by collecting a revenue of Rs299.54 crore from 89 liquor vends in the shape of licence fee against the reserve price of Rs244.16 crore, registering an increase of nearly 22.68 per cent over the reserve price. The department also received Rs6.30 crore as participation fee.On June 23, the department had successfully allotted 78 out of 94 vends under the new excise policy for the remaining period of the current financial year from July 1 to March 31.For the remaining 16 vends, the department had invited e-bids. However, five liquor vends are yet to be sold out. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-auctions-11-liquor-vends-earns-rs34-22-cr-106432
30-06-2020||---||Uprooted trees damage three vehicles at hospital||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, June 29Three vehicles, including two ambulances, have suffered damages after eucalyptus trees fell on them on the Civil Hospital complex here.High-velocity winds uprooted the trees, which caused extensive damage to a van and an ambulance.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said: “We immediately made alternative arrangements for the damaged vehicles. One vehicle has been arranged from the Red Cross Society, while another has been taken from the Banur hospital. The third vehicle is being repaired. One 108 ambulance is already there. In case of an emergency, we can call a vehicle from private hospitals.”He said two vehicles suffered severe damages, while one would be back in service soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uprooted-trees-damage-three-vehicles-at-hospital-106433
30-06-2020||---||Working Women Hostel residents seek fee concession||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29At a time when workers are facing financial crisis, the authorities have asked the residents of Working Women Hostel, Sector 24, to pay full fee for the lockdown period by June 30.Residents of the hostel have sought concession in fee as most of the time they did not stay in the hostel.In a letter to the chairman, Child and Women Development Corporation, UT, the residents stated that during the lockdown period, most of the residents vacated the hostel and went to their respective hometown. As the outbreak worsened, they were neither allowed to come to the hostel nor collect their belongings.“Since we never stayed on the premises during the lockdown period, there arises no question of consumption of electricity and water by us. On that basis, we should not be compelled to pay the complete fee amount of Rs 9,666 from April to June, which is inclusive of water, electricity and maintenance charges,” they said.The residents said some girls were working in the private sector or providing tuitions. In some cases, they haven’t received their salary, while in other half the amount had been deducted from the salary which further added to their woes.They said some girls were allotted the hostel, but they could not come here due to transport restrictions. Even these girls were asked to pay the fee when they neither stayed in the hostel nor their belongings are here.In this hour of crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was not possible for them to pay the entire amount. The residents requested the authorities to consider reducing their fee to half or provide some concession.They said heavy fine would be imposed if they failed to pay the entire fee by June 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/working-women-hostel-residents-seek-fee-concession-106434
30-06-2020||Mohali||Enrol as voters, Mohali DC appeals to people||Despite the ongoing crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the process of modification in the voters’ list will continue as per the directions of the Election Commission of India.Disclosing this here today, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “Anyone who is a resident of the district but is not enrolled as a voter or wants some correction in his details or has any objection in the current list can access the website www.nvsp.in or can contact the helpline at 1950”.Dayalan also appealed to all eligible persons to avail of this opportunity and enrol as voters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/enrol-as-voters-mohali-dc-appeals-to-people-106435
30-06-2020||---||Bansal lashes out at Modi government||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29The Chandigarh Congress today held a protest against the Narendra Modi-led BJP government over hike in fuel prices at the Sector 17 Plaza here today.Congress workers removed their shirts and resorted to sloganeering against the Centre. The protest was led by former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal and Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra.Lashing out at the Modi government, Bansal said it had betrayed the trust of people of the country. Despite a fall in crude oil prices in the international market, the prices of petrol and diesel skyrocketed in the country. BJP leaders, who used to create a ruckus during the UPA regime over fuel price hike, were now silent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bansal-lashes-out-at-modi-government-106436
30-06-2020||Amit Bathla||Congress factionalism comes to fore||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 29A divide in the Panchkula unit of the Congress was visible on Monday as a protest against the Central Government over hike in fuel prices was led by Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary in an apparent lack of coordination among party leaders.Former Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan decided to keep himself away from the demonstration.According to one of his close associates, everything was not well between the four-time MLA and national coordinator of the All India Mahila Congress, Ranjeeta Mehta, who was present at the protest.Leaders in close proximity to Chander Mohan accused the party’s woman leader of encouraging factionalism.Notably, Mehta was one of the party ticket seekers during the Assembly elections last year. But, the party went ahead with Chander Mohan, who unsuccessfully fought against Gain Chand Gupta.Talking to the Chandigarh Tribune, Mehta while responding to allegations against her questioned, “Why a leader, who got around 56,000 votes in last Assembly elections, is staying away from issues concerning common man? When it comes to raising people’s voice, he remains absent.”“It is obvious that people will ask questions about such behaviour. How I am responsible for rift within the party?” she added.Earlier in the day, scores of Congress leaders raised slogans against the Modi government over skyrocketing fuel prices and submitted a memorandum for President Ram Nath Covid through city Magistrate Sushil Kumar.The protesters, who were holding placards, raised slogans and held demonstration on a tonga as part of the statewide protest against the Central Government condemning the increase in fuel prices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-factionalism-comes-to-fore-106437
30-06-2020||---||Day after, Mohali cops yet to arrest suspects||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 29A day after a 35-year-old painter was allegedly killed by six unidentified persons over a petty issue at Badmajra village near Balongi here, the police are still groping in the dark about the suspects.SP (Investigation) Harmandeep Hans said: “No arrest has been made so far. We have formed several police team to investigate the case. We hope to crack the case soon.”The victim, Sanjay Yadav, a resident of Badmajra village and a native of Uttar Pradesh, was working here as a painter.The incident took place around 11.30 pm on Saturday night near the victim’s house. Sanjay saw three persons urinating near his house. As he objected to their act, they started abusing him and a scuffle broke out between them following a heated exchange.The assailants repeatedly attacked Sanjay on his legs with a knife. They also hit him on his head using a brick.A case of murder was registered at the Balongi police station. The body was handed over to his family members after conducting a post-mortem examination.Dr Charan Kamal Singh, who conducted the victim’s post-mortem at the Civil Hospital, said the main vein of his thigh was found cut. The victim’s head had deep cuts and injury marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-mohali-cops-yet-to-arrest-suspects-106438
30-06-2020||---||MC rejects plan to give Mahila Bhawan on rent||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29The General House of the Municipal Corporation (MC) rejected agenda of giving Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38 on a rent to different art and culture institutions today.Local councillor Arun Sood said, “This bhawan is meant for women empowerment and not for earning rent from it. Its basic purpose will be defeated. We will use bhawan to carry out several women-centric activities.”As per the MC plan, the first floor of the bhawan was to be rented out to Sahitya Kala Academy, Sangeet Kala Academy, and Natya Kala Academy for which the Culture Department was to pay rent of Rs 2.5 lakh per month.However, the MC House approved display of advertisements on 55 public toilet blocks and waiving off license fee of kiosks at the Night Food Street, Sector 14, till full lifting of the Lockdown. Setting up incineration plant was deferred over the issue of its location.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-rejects-plan-to-give-mahila-bhawan-on-rent-106439
30-06-2020||-----------------Jagat Ram Director||Covid-19 and the way forward for healthcare||Rakesh KochharSub-dean, ResearchWe are into the sixth month of Covid-19 in India. The number of cases is still rising and the peak is yet to come. The healthcare system has been stretched to the limit, burdened with the onslaught of Covid-19 at the expense of treatment for non-Covid diseases.The pandemic has affected patients suffering from other diseases. Figures suggest that in March and April, one lakh less cancer patients reached hospitals, 4.5 lakh fewer children received vaccination and 30% fewer obstetric emergencies reached hospitals. The government-supervised treatment of TB, having been interjected, will result in at least 1.5 lakh additional deaths in the next five years. Similarly, with more than two lakh new patients of chronic renal failure added every year, and interruption in dialysis facilities, we are likely to see increased fatalities. The same holds true for patients with coronary heart disease who are facing problems in getting interventional procedures. Data suggests hospitalisation under the PMJAY/Ayushman Bharat Scheme during the 10 weeks of lockdown dropped by 51%. Cancer treatment fell by 64% and institutional childbirth by 26%.In most states, government hospitals are bearing the brunt as these have been dedicated as Covid-19 hospitals. These hospitals are facing a shortage of isolation beds, ICU facilities, ventilators and manpower. With high cost of treatment in private hospitals and their reluctance to treat Covid-19 patients, there is pressure on a tertiary care centre like the PGI.Last year, the PGI had seen nearly 30 lakh patients in the OPD and more than one lakh were admitted, with over 2.5 lakh undergoing surgical procedures. Every day, close to 350 patients used to approach the emergency OPDs with 40% of them requiring hospitalisation. For the northern states, the PGI is the only government facility offering robotic surgery, liver transplantation, bone marrow transplantation, advanced cardiac procedures and PET-CT besides non-surgical specialised interventions. While Punjab accounts for nearly 40% of admissions, patients from UP, Uttarakhand and Bihar also seek treatment at the PGI.The pandemic has exposed inadequacies in the public sector healthcare system, especially at the secondary and tertiary care levels. It should be a wake-up call for Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir to augment infrastructure in their medical colleges.The PGI started the tele-consultation facility about four weeks ago. Of the close to 1,000 patients from medical OPD available for analysis, about 40% were consulting a doctor for the first time, suggesting they should have ideally been seen locally first. One-third needed easily available investigations like blood tests, x-rays or ultrasound before going further. Had these patients come to the PGI, they would have had to come again with test reports. Only 12% of the patients needed immediate attention.Data suggests that most patients at the PGI tax the facility unnecessarily. To optimise tertiary care at the PGI, patients should first be seen at the primary or secondary healthcare facilities and referred only for difficult-to-diagnose conditions or for specialised treatment not available elsewhere. If the district hospitals and medical colleges can provide coronary angiography, management of stroke, hepato-biliary surgery or neurosurgery, then the PGI expertise can be used for complex interventional procedures, robotic surgery or advanced retinal procedures.Non-Covid patients are denied ready access to medical facilities. Delay in diagnosis can lead to progression of the disease, making treatment difficult. A patient of liver cirrhosis or early cancer may become untreatable. A patient in early stage of coronary artery disease may develop heart failure or a simple patient of gallstone may develop complications. Covid-19 has also generated problems like joblessness, depression, and increase in domestic violence or alcoholism. A recent report said there is 60% increase in cases of suicide in one of the northern states.The crisis has also given us an opportunity to assess deficiencies and overcome them. Health infrastructure must be improved and specialised manpower generated or augmented in district hospitals and medical colleges in the region. We need super-specialists like cardiologists, gastroenterologists, neurosurgeons and urologists with corresponding upgrade of equipment and facilities. There is no point in having ventilators and not having critical care specialists to manage the patients or vice versa. Secondly, a referral system should be there in each state. Only cases requiring specialised treatment should be referred to the PGI; all others should be managed by the district hospitals or medical colleges.Each district can have a nodal officer to evaluate the need for referral. The patients could then be referred to the PGI after a tele-consultation with super-specialists. Availability of ICU beds should be checked to avoid inconvenience.Though the OPDs are functional through tele-consultation and telemedicine facilities, to help non-Covid patients at the PGI, plans are afoot to review resumption of physical OPD services in specialties. While ante-natal care and chemotherapy services are already available, along with emergency facilities for trauma, head injuries and medical conditions, there is a need to restart other services. It has been proposed that the OPDs should be started in a staggered manner, beginning from Chandigarh itself and then to the neighbouring states. Patients from Chandigarh should be routed through GMSH-16 and GMCH-32, and from Panchkula and Mohali through their district hospitals. Each patient could carry a slip with the indication for referral clearly defined. The second way of intake into the PGI could be booking an appointment through tele-consultation.Experience with telemedicine in the past two months has shown that it is a win-win situation. With a defined number of patients coming to the PGI, they will get better care. Patients can be allotted a specific time. Patients referred could be given priority in tele-booking appointments. A provision has also been suggested under which patients can be sent back to the referring facility after the diagnosis is established, treatment outlined and the acute phase over.We should utilise the current crisis to streamline the public healthcare system so that resource utilisation is optimised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-and-the-way-forward-for-healthcare-106360
