01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Rediscovering Chandigarh through social media||From pinning that inspiring image on Pinterest to sharing photographs on Instagram, ours is an age of visual content. Virtual platforms have made sharing such content with family, friends and designers significantly easier.Interwoven with the theme of design, social media has been presenting itself as an interesting phenomenon in Chandigarh. Hashtags and location tagging have proven instrumental in providing the youth a window to discover the architectural gems of the city.Earlier, architectural marvels such as the Le Corbusier Museum, Sector 19, were largely visited by the architectural community. However, the advent of social media has been a game changer, drawing people from all walks of life.Repository of ideasThis trend has created public awareness about design and its value in the individual’s experience of a space. Professionals such as architects and interior designers engage with this cyberspace phenomenon on a daily basis as well. Inspiration has come for many a designer through social media. A photographer’s still life work, for instance, may be the source of inspiration for designing an entire space. Also, social media widens our cognisance of interesting new building material and spatial accents that are being created across India and the world, helping us offer multiple options to our clients. The multitudinous nature of these options extends to Chandigarh’s cultural milieu. Instagrammable places such as the new underpass connecting the Rose Garden and Sector 17 have become spaces of brimming activity. The quest for posting novel pictures on social media has led people to the city’s many hideouts. The Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary is one such place. Cycling groups, brought together by Facebook, have also been touring the nooks and corners of the city.Boost to tourismMarketing in the age of social media has been greatly exploited by some designers. In an era where perception rules the roost, virtual presence is a means to create that perception. This potential can be exploited by the Chandigarh administration, which should use the space to proactively market the city’s uniqueness and boost tourism.Another feather to social media’s proverbial hat is bringing people together.Chandigarh’s architect Le Corbusier had based the city’s design on the neighbourhood unit concept leading to the birth of sectors. Nevertheless, the community living that Chandigarh was designed for saw a delayed inception. The 2020 lockdown largely confined people to their sectors. Subsequently, WhatsApp groups of sector residents were formed to assist each other. Thus, knitting the city’s residents together in this hour of crisis.Data overload: The flip side Data overload is the other side of the coin. The deluge of fake news on social media can be confusing and sifting through narratives and counter narratives is a constant struggle, as is choosing a concept for one’s architectural space. Being spoilt for choice has confused many an architect and interior designer’s clients. Attractive shots are presented online after intense spatial styling and picture editing. Just like the unreal beauty standards seen in air-brushed photographs, which are the source of a variety of body image issues, the heavily edited architecture and interior design images create utopian visions in the minds of clients. When the actual space is created, it appears to be different from the mirage created by these online images, leaving clients disgruntled.A bespoke space is what clients want. That is what makes them embark on this virtual image search journey in the first place. And that is what should be responsibly delivered by designers and other project associates. However, a side note of truth should be served as well. Bagging projects on the basis of false promises of delivering a precise rendition of these images is unethical.Social media dilemmaThe potential of social media can be used to vivify life in Chandigarh. The city’s repute as one of the best experiments in urban planning and modern architecture can be built upon.Not only would this serve in increasing the intracity people-to-people connection but also help in promoting tourism. The architectural community has been an asset here and social media the catalyst. In the field of design, social media is both a boon and a bane. You may like how it facilitates vision creation or dislike how it distorts visions. Whatever your stance, social media is here to stay. The trick to resolving this ‘social media dilemma’ lies in using it as a tool to create, curate and connect.( The writer is a Chandigarh-based architect)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-rediscovering-chandigarh-through-social-media-101619892895138.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vulnerable Haryana govt employees to not attend office||The Haryana government has on Saturday issued instructions to exempt from duty employees who fall in the category of persons with severe disabilities and employees suffering from hypertension, blood pressure, heart or lung disease, cancer, other chronic diseases, and pregnant staff.These employees, whether regular, contractual, outsourced, daily wager or those on ad-hoc basis, will not be called for duty even if they are engaged in essential services, according to an order issued by the state government as a preventive measure for safety of this section of employees.If required, these employees will work from home, provided they have the necessary infrastructure. This exemption will remain in force till further orders.Last year on May 8, 2020 and July 16, 2020, the government had issued orders advising that while drawing up roster of staff, employees with severe disabilities may not be called for duty till further orders.According to the letter issued by the office of chief secretary, it had been brought to the notice of the government that May-July 2020 instructions were not being complied with. The employees were being forced to attend office regularly. “Consequently, they are approaching government for necessary guidance,” reads the letter sent to all administrative secretaries, head of departments and commissioners of all divisions in Haryana, DCs, managing directors, chief administrators of boards/corporations, and registrar of all universities.Vulnerable persons including employees of the age of 50 years or above, those suffering from hypertension, blood pressure, heart or lung disease, cancer and other chronic disease are at high risk and will not be exposed to any frontline work requiring direct contact with the public.Similarly, pregnant women employees are also advised to work from home, said a spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vulnerable-haryana-govt-employees-to-not-attend-office-101619891516877.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||IAS, IPS officers with MBBS degree to deal with Covid battle in hospitals||Five Haryana cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers and three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers having MBBS degrees were on Saturday pulled out from administrative duties.Now as a stop-gap arrangement to combat the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, they will be part of medical teams creating and running additional Covid hospitals in Panipat and Hisar.The IAS officers having MBBS degrees include Dr Chander Shekhar Khare, Dr RS Dhillon, Dr Sangeeta Tetarwal, Dr Manoj Kumar, Dr Vaishali Sharma. And the three IPS officers include Dr Dheeraj Kumar, Dr Anshu Singla and Dr Arpit Jain.The services of these officers have been placed at the disposal of additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora for creation and running of 500-bed hospitals in Panipat and Hisar and any other duty required from time-to-time.Meanwhile, the state government has deputed 22 senior IAS officers as in-charges of different districts for monitoring Covid preparedness.These IAS officers will monitor the availability of beds, review availability of adequate health care infrastructure such as isolation beds, oxygen support beds, ICU beds, ventilators, life-saving drugs and consumables, masks, PPE kits, sanitizers, oxygen reserve, etc in government and private health facilities.In another measure, the government has assigned responsibility of coordinating and monitoring the Covid management measures especially in relation to health infrastructure and availability of medicines in districts to the cabinet ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ias-ips-officers-with-mbbs-degree-to-deal-with-covid-battle-in-hospitals-101619891034326.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||125 Covid fatalities reported in Haryana||With 125 more people succumbing to Covid-19, Haryana on Sunday witnessed the biggest number of fatalities in a day. The number of active cases in state also crossed the 1-lakh mark.The state recorded 13,588 new cases and 50,823 samples were taken in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.Seventeen people died of Covid in Hisar; 12 each in Gurugram, Panipat and Panchkula; nine in Ambala; eight in Bhiwani; seven in Fatehabad; five each in Faridabad and Karnal; four each in Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Jhajjar, Kaithal, Jind and Charkhi Dadri; three in Sonepat; two in Rewari; and one in Palwal, raising the state’s death toll to 4,341.On Saturday, Gurugram logged 4,099 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,751, Sonepat 920, Hisar 897, Ambala 365, Karnal 740, Panipat 549, Rohtak 348, Rewari 236, Panchkula 446, Kurukshetra 211, Yamunanagar 333, Sirsa 409, Mahendergarh 526, Bhiwani 312, Jhajjar 264, Palwal 100, Fatehabad 291, Kaithal 207, Jind 458, Nuh 105 and Charkhi Dadri 21.Meanwhile, 8,509 people recovered; 15,668 people were vaccinated; and the active case tally rose to 1,02,516.FIRST DAY OF WEEKEND LOCKDOWNOn the first day of the weekend lockdown in district, Karnal police were seen struggling to keep people inside their homes.Despite clear instructions issued by the administration, people were seen travelling, forcing police to challan them for not providing a valid reason for coming out on the streets.Shiv Charan, in-charge of Sector 6 police post in Karnal, said 25 people have been challaned for not wearing masks or following Covid guidelines.Panipat superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said total 250 people were challaned and six FIRs were registered under Section 188 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act.Meanwhile, people remained indoors and most private vehicles remained off the roads in Rohtak, Sonepat, Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Jhajjar districts on Saturday.Barring pharmacies and essential goods shops, business and trading activities came to halt in these districts.Police imposed fines on people for venturing out without any reason.ADMIT ONLY CRITICAL PATIENTS IN ICUKarnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav made a surprise visit to private hospitals in city and the hospitals were directed to admit only critical patients in the ICU wards.Not a single bed was available in Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital by Saturday evening as all 210 beds with oxygen support and 70 beds in the ICU of the hospital were occupied.No empty bed was available in the ICU of Covid hospitals in Panipat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/125-covid-fatalities-reported-in-haryana-101619890859409.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University’s school of pharmacy gets ₹3 lakh grant||Society Of Toxicology (SOT) has sanctioned a grant of US $4,000 ( ₹3,00,000) to Chitkara University’s school of pharmacy for its initiative to create a safer and healthier world.The grant was sanctioned under the SOT global initiative funding, 2021. SOT encourages proposals to represent collaborations between the society, SOT component groups, SOT committees, and other toxicology organisations. SOT serves the needs of the scientific discipline to enhance human, animal, and environmental health, life-long learning and intellectual scientific stimulation; and diversity of representation in all activities of the society and integrity.Nitin Verma, principal, Chitkara school of pharmacy, Chitkara University, Himachal Pradesh, had applied for the funding. He said the grant will be used to conduct a conference on the theme ‘The science of PFAS: Chemistry, public health, multimedia measurements and Environment’ in August 2021, as one of the priorities under the sustainable development goals — clean water, sanitation and climate action. Experts from the USA, Canada, Australia and other parts of the world will participate in the conference.“It is designed to provide assessment practices as well as latest methods in chemical, pharmaceuticals, pesticide, cosmetics and medical devices risk assessments. The participants will learn all aspects of risk assessment and will receive a certificate documenting their successful completion of the course,” said Dr Ashok Chitkara, chancellor, Chitkara University, Punjab and Chitkara University, Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-s-school-of-pharmacy-gets-3-lakh-grant-101619880953959.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM virtually joins people in offering prayers on 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur||Amid the Covid-19 restrictions, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday virtually joined the people in offering prayers to mark the 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur.The chief minister prayed for the safety and well-being of all in the challenging pandemic situation and exhorted the people to follow Guru's universal message of love, secularism, religious tolerance, freedom of faith and peaceful co-existence. Terming it an occasion to spread the message of Guru Sahib's supreme sacrifice for the sake of humanity and religious freedom, he said the life and philosophy of the ninth Guru remains a beacon of inspiration for the world.Singh said he was extremely blessed to lead his government, in its previous tenure, to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the installation of Guru Granth Sahib at Harmandir Sahib in 2004, Amritsar, and in constructing memorials, including one dedicated to '40 Mukte' (Liberated Ones) at Sri Muktsar Sahib, and several commemorative gates at Fatehgarh Sahib."We have also been fortunate to celebrate the 550th 'Prakash Purb' of Guru Nanak Dev and 350th 'Prakash Purb' of Guru Gobind Singh during our present tenure," an official release quoting Singh said.The chief minister said the state government had made elaborate arrangements to celebrate this mega event with 'Nagar Kirtan' (religious procession) from Guru Ka Mahal (Amritsar) to Anandpur Sahib, and 'Akhand Path' and 'Kirtan Darbar' at Anandpur Sahib.It had also planned to hold an exhibition on the life and teachings of Guru Tegh Bahadur, an exhibition on handicrafts, the Punjabi literary festival, drama (Hind-di-Chadar), sports event, multi-media light and sound show and a Sufi Music festival, said the CM.However, the second wave of Covid had forced change in plans and these events are now being held in virtual format to avoid large gatherings and ensure public safety.As and when the situation improves during the year-long celebrations, grand events will be held on the ground to commemorate the historic occasion, he said.To mark the occasion, a day-long 'Kirtan Darbar' was organised, in which several prominent 'raagis' performed 'kirtan' on TV channels and digital platforms. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar exhorted the people to follow the path of righteousness in the true tradition of humanity, as illustrated by Guru Tegh Bahadur.Meanwhile, devotees paid obeisance at gurdwaras including the Golden Temple in Amritsar on the occasion of 'Parkash purb' of the ninth Sikh guru.They started assembling at gurdwaras in the morning to offer prayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-virtually-joins-people-in-offering-prayers-on-400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-101619878703838.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP’s pharma hub struggles to meet demand as raw material imports dip||The second Covid-19 wave has hit the pharma hub in Himachal Pradesh’s Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial area hard as the cost of raw material, particularly active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), has trebled due to the ban on international cargo flights and delayed clearance by China. The pharma hub produces several primary life-saving, anti-inflammatory and anti-viral drugs that are exported worldwide. After the Covid-19 outbreak, pharma companies had also been producing drugs to fight coronavirus and these medicines are being supplied across the country. Also read: All you need to know about oxygen concentratorsThe cost escalation is primarily due to the ban on international cargo flights and delayed clearance by China that supplies 85% of the API, a key drug manufacturing material, to India. Rajesh Gupta, the president of the Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association, said: “There is a big demand of API after the second wave, but imports are on a slide, leading to the shortage.” Raw material for Covid drugs costlier The drugs for which the cost of raw material has shot up include paracetamol ( ₹ 350 to ₹790 a kg), Propylene Glycol ( ₹140 to ₹400 a kg) and Ivermectin ( ₹18,000 to ₹52,000 a kg). Similarly, the cost of API for Doxycycline has gone up from ₹6,000 to ₹12,000 a kg and Azithromycin ₹8,000 to ₹12,000 a kg. All these medicines are used for treatment of Covid-19 patients. He said the pharma companies were finding it difficult to boost the production of medicines, including the ones needed for Covid patients. Packing material cost goes up, too Gupta said that the cost of packing material was also weighing heavy on the industry. He said the price of the main packing material, PVC, has gone up from ₹110 to ₹180 a kg. There has also been a 25% increase in the price of mono carton and corrugated packaging material, while aluminum prices are up by 40%. “The industrial association has brought the matter to the notice of the state government, but the price control of drugs is an issue that pertains to the Centre,” said state drug controller Navneet Marwah. API-monitoring cell sought Gupta said the Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association (HDMA) has urged the Government of India to set up an API-monitoring cell for regulating the prices of bulk drugs. FACT CHECK *The BBN industrial belt has about 650 pharma units. The ₹40,000-crore drug industry in Himachal Pradesh accounts for every second drug produced in the market. *Indian pharma companies import more than 65% of APIs from China. There are 67 such ingredients that are sourced from different locations in China. They include B12, B1, B6 and vitamin E ingredients and fermentation process-based APIs. *Both active and inactive ingredients come together to form any medication. The API is the portion of a drug that has therapeutic effects on the body, the chemical compound that makes one feel better. Inactive ingredients are the non-medicinal, but important and necessary, components of the drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hps-pharma-hub-struggles-to-meet-demand-as-raw-material-imports-dip-101619871473645.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers prefer govt over private schools for their kids in Punjab||A growing number of schoolteachers and education department officials are admitting their children in government schools in Punjab. Figures released by the education department show that more than 2,000 teachers and officials chose to admit their children in government schools instead of private ones during the enrolment drive till April 30. There are 314 such teachers and education department employees in Fazilka district, the highest in the state, followed by 298 in Bathinda, 208 in Ludhiana, 174 in Patiala and 120 in Fatehgarh Sahib. Also read: Heartbreaking to see Covid crisis overwhelm India’s health systems: US lawmakersIn the Doaba region, 91 such teachers and employees in Jalandhar, 55 in Hoshiarpur, 44 in Kapurthala and 41 in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar admitted their children in government schools. Punjab education secretary Krishan Kumar said that infrastructure in government schools has improved and so has the teaching-learning process over the past few years. “School teachers have put in concerted efforts at the cutting edge. By admitting their wards in government schools, the teachers have reposed faith in their own capabilities, which in turn, gave a fillip to the enrolment drive,” he said. Smart schools draw 3.86 lakh more students There are 12,976 smart schools in the state. Nearly 3.86 lakh more students have taken admission in government schools across the state since 2017. There were 22,91,840 students in government schools in the 2017-18 academic session, while 26,78,399 students took admission in 2020-21. Kulwant Rai, a teacher at the government primary school at Rurka Kalan, who got his four-year-old daughter admitted in kindergarten in the same school, said: “Now, government schools develop the overall personality of kids.” Naresh Kumar, computer teacher at Chandpur Rurka, shifted his daughter from a private school to get her admitted in Class 6 in a government school, saying the smart schools have the competitive edge. Extra-curricular activities, English medium draw students Rajinder Singh, a teacher at Government Primary School, Rastgo, in Bhogpur block of Jalandhar got his son and daughter admitted to the school as it offers opportunities for all-round development through extra-curricular activities unlike private schools that limit themselves to the syllabus. Gurpreet Kaur, a teacher at the Government Primary School at Vimpalke village, said she chose the school for her daughter, who is a kindergarten student, since English medium has been introduced in government schools. “It’s the need of the hour. When there is complete infrastructure in government schools, why pay extra fee in private schools?” Over 1.31 lakh children took admission this year As many as 1,31,261 students shifted from private to government schools during the ongoing enrolment drive that ended on April 30. Of them, 15,398 are students in Ludhiana district, the highest in the state, followed by Patiala with 10,807 students, Hoshiarpur with 10,559 and Jalandhar with 8,854 students. A total of 18,912 students from private schools took admission in Class 4 and 16,829 students joined in Class 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teachers-prefer-govt-over-private-schools-for-their-kids-in-punjab-101619869133526.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board receives 105 e-bids for 36 dwelling units||The Chandigarh Housing Board has received 105 bids for 36 dwelling units in the e-auction of its properties.The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 109 built-up dwelling units on a free-hold basis. The units are available in Sector 38 (West), Sector 49, Sector 51 and in Sector 63. The last date for submission of e-bids was April 30 by 2pm.All the technical e-bids (first envelope) were opened as per the schedule at 3pm on Friday and all the e-bids have been declared technically qualified.The chief executive officer of CHB, Yashpal Garg, said, “This time, the response has been very good; last year no bid was received for these units. We reduced the reserve prices of these units by about 10%. Total 105 bids have been received against 36 dwelling units.”Considering curfew/lockdown related issues due to the pandemic, the financial bids (second envelope) will be opened on May 3 from 10am onwards, said Garg.The details of successful highest bidders for each of the dwelling units will be uploaded on the website, www.chbonline.in, after opening of all the financial e-bids. Considering that a total 105 e-bids have been received, it is expected that the opening of financial bids may take some time and the result of the e-tender may be uploaded on the website by the afternoon of May 3.The highest bidder is allowed to deposit 25% of the bid amount within five working days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-receives-105-e-bids-for-36-dwelling-units-101619817229892.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey legend Yash Pal Vohra dies due to Covid at 92||Rajasthan Royals’ opener Manan Vohra’s grandfather Yash Pal Vohra, a former hockey player of Punjab, succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday, at the age of 92.A contemporary of hockey legends such as late Balbir Singh Senior, Dharam Singh and Bakshish Singh, Yash Pal Vohra had played for Punjab during the 1950s and 1960s. He had also made it to the 24-member Indian hockey probables list for the 1956 Olympics but had missed the cut due to an injury. After he quit playing, Vohra became an administrator and worked for the promotion of the sport. He was the founder secretary general of Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) and served the unit for 25 years. He had also been the secretary of Hockey Chandigarh for several years. He successfully ran the Rock Rovers Hockey Club and looked after the sport for decades. He was also a first-class hockey umpire and inspired many to take up the role.“He was my hero and I took up umpiring after watching him in that role. I spoke to him just two days ago, and he was doing fine. But this terrible disease took him away from us. His immense contribution took Chandigarh Hockey to great heights,” said Satinder Sharma, an international hockey umpire. Since 1971, Vohra and his late brother SN Vohra had been organising an All India Gurmit Memorial Hockey Tournament (A- Grade) and in 2019 was its 48th edition in a row.“He always wanted to provide a platform to young hockey players. Gurmit Memorial Hockey Tournament was one such meet which gave a chance to talented players from across India. We would like to take Vohra Sahab’s legacy forward with pride and passion,” said Anil Vohra, general secretary of Hockey Chandigarh.Manan’s parents and grandmother had also tested positive for the virus but have recovered. “Manan is in Delhi for the Indian Premier League and wanted to fly back home for the last rites of his grandfather. But I told him to carry on with his game as his grandfather would have also wanted the same. His grandfather was his inspiration and driving force,” said Manan’s father Sanjeev Vohra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hockey-legend-yash-pal-vohra-dies-due-to-covid-at-92-101619816989756.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Police file challan against four in Chandigarh property grab case||Nearly two months after the first arrests in the Sector-37 property grab case, the Chandigarh Police on Friday filed a chargesheet against four accused, including a suspended inspector, a journalist and a property dealer. In the challan, police have also invoked the Prevention of Corruption (PCA) Act against the accused – journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta, suspended Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh and Satpal Dagar, brother of a UT deputy superintendent of police. They are accused of kidnapping and torturing Rahul Mehta, 48, the only surviving heir of his family, in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney of his 338 square yards house and selling it to Manish’s brother Saurabh Gupta for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019.Running into 18,132 pages, the challan has listed 78 witnesses. It will be taken up for hearing on May 3. Sanjeev and Manish were the first to be arrested in the case on March 2, followed by Satpal on March 4 and inspector Rajdeep on March 12.Apart from them, police had also booked liquor baron Arvind Singla and businessman Khalendra Singh Kadyan, to whom the property’s GPA was transferred, slain bouncer Surjit Singh, and Ashok Arora, Shekhar and Daljit Singh, who purportedly acted as witnesses in the sale of the house.After the transfer of the GPA, Rahul was abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat in June 2017, before being shifted from one charitable home to another in Maharashtra, Delhi and Rajasthan, where he was finally traced. He is now in police protection.IPC’s Section 328 added on victim’s statement The challan has been filed under Sections 328, 331, 344, 365, 386, 419, 420, 452, 464, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471, 473, 474, 477, 166, 201 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 13(1), (2) of the Prevention Of Corruption Act.Police added Section 328 (causing hurt by means of poison with intent to commit an offence) of the IPC against the accused after Rahul alleged that he was intoxicated by the accused.In his statement to the court, Rahul had said he was the sole owner of the house, which he never sold to anyone. But, Sanjeev, Surjit and two others forcibly entered his house and occupied the upper floor in April 2017. They assaulted him and locked him up in a room, and kept torturing and threatening to kill him, he alleged. After forcibly securing his signature on blank papers and cheques, Surjit left him at a stud farm in Bhuj, Gujarat.Victim’s cousin settled abroad also among witnesses Police have listed Rahul’s cousin Rajiv, who is settled in the UK, as a witness. Rahul’s mother (since deceased) had transferred a part of the property in question to her sister, who also died later. Thereon, there was a dispute between Rahul and her son Rajiv, who moved the high court.Rajiv had told the police that he visited the house in 2017 to discuss the court case with Rahul, but met Surjit there and was told that Rahul was not at home. Rajiv had later also met Sanjeev, who told him that Rahul was safe at some place and they were taking care of him. Sanjeev further claimed that Rahul had transferred his share of the house to his name, and offered ₹25 lakh to Rajiv to withdraw the court case.Four accused at largeOn March 26, Chandigarh Police had announced a cash reward of ₹50,000 for information leading to the arrest of four accused – Arvind, Saurabh, Khalendra and Gurpreet Singh Mani, but they remain at large. According to police, after the property’s GPA was transferred in favour of Khalendra and Arvind, Saurabh had purchased it and Gurpreet had acted as a witness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-file-challan-against-four-in-chandigarh-property-grab-case-101619816689837.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Deadly April accounts for 20% of all Covid fatalities in Chandigarh||At 15,725 Covid cases, April has been a sickening month for city residents with an average of 525 persons testing positive for debilitating virus every day. The figure also means that of 41,923 cases in the city to date, every third (35%) has come in this month. There have also been 99 deaths in April, 20.7% of 478 deaths in the city. The number of active cases has surged from 2,900 on April 1 to 6,906 on April 30. According to experts, there is unlikely to be any respite in the first two weeks of May, at least. The sharp increase in cases comes when Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds are already in short supply. Testing levels have increased, but are drowned by the surge in infections. The number of infections between March and April increased by 200%, but the corresponding increase in tests has been just 65%. The positivity rate has seen a spurt from 5% to 16%.“The next two weeks are crucial. The trajectory of the past two weeks indicate that cases will go up for the next two weeks. With respect to cases, the fatality ratio has been low. The absolute number of deaths is concerning,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and school of public health at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Dr GD Puri, chairman of Covid-19 management panel, at PGIMER said one of the reasons for increased deaths can be the public’s run over health facilities and hospitals. “When there are lower number of hospitalisations, extra care is provided. Now, admissions are happening at a fast pace and facilities are being exhausted. This impacts health care services and leads to increased fatalities,” Dr Puri added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deadly-april-accounts-for-20-of-all-covid-fatalities-in-chandigarh-101619816330604.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||One-year-old among 27 succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity, second highest ever||Covid-19 claimed the lives of 27 people across the tricity on Friday, second only to the all-time high of 29 deaths on April 28.Among the deceased was a one-year-old child from Mauli Jagran in Chandigarh that reported 13 fatalities, the city’s highest single-day toll since the pandemic began in March last year.Mohali reported eight deaths for the second day in row, while six people died in Panchkula.On the infections’ front, the numbers dipped further for the second consecutive day, as 1,905 people tested positive for the virus, 9% lower than 2,096 on Thursday and 11% lesser than 2,159 on Wednesday.Mohali again led the daily tally with 857 cases, followed by 724 in Chandigarh and 324 in Panchkula. The latest deaths pushed Chandigarh’s toll to 478, while the total cases reached 41,923, of which 6,906 are active. The city’s recoveries stand at 35,263.Of the 46,470 patients infected in Mohali so far, 9,031 are still recuperating at hospitals or in home isolation. On Friday, 683 patients recovered, taking the recoveries to 36,944. As many as 595 people have succumbed to the virus in the district.Panchkula’s tally climbed to 21,043, of which 18,181 patients have got cured, leaving 2,655 active cases. The toll reached 207 with the six deaths that included four were males, aged 88, 51, 55 and 48, and three females, aged 44 and 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oneyearold-among-27-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-second-highest-ever-101619815669913.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||88% of Covid victims in Punjab suffered from serious ailments||Eighty-eight percent of the patients who died of Covid-19 in Punjab had serious co-morbid diseases while the rest of the deaths could purely be attributed to the infection, an analysis of the state health department till the second week of April has revealed. Among the deceased with co-morbidities, diabetic patients have emerged as more prone to the virus, accounting for 45% of the fatalities. Also, 43% of the victims with medical history were suffering from hypertension. Besides, 18% of the deceased were already suffering from heart diseases while 9% had kidney problems. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “These were patients with a major co-morbidity and were already being treated. Nearly one-third of the patients who succumbed to the virus had two to three co-morbidities.” “It was also found that 77% of those who died reported for the first time at their nearest health centre even as their symptoms had reached severe level. Only 14% reported when their symptoms were moderate while 8% reported when they still had mild complications,” he added. Of 2,096 fatalities in April, 586 in last 5 days April has been the deadliest month during the pandemic run in Punjab so far, with 2,096 succumbing to the virus with daily average daily deaths at 69. Of these, the state recorded 586 deaths in the last five days only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/88-of-covid-victims-in-punjab-suffered-from-serious-ailments-101619815313259.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination for 18+ age group not to start in Chandigarh tricity on May 1||Running out of vaccine supplies, Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula will not be starting the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group on Saturday.Awaiting more stocks, the three cities will be utilising their remaining doses for people aged above 45.“The existing stock of nearly 1 lakh vaccines will be used for the 45+ age group for the first and second dose. The drive for 18+ beneficiaries will start only after adequate supplies are received,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Earlier, UT had sought permission from the Centre to allow administering the available doses to the new group, but it was denied.Meanwhile, there is no clarity on when more doses will arrive in Chandigarh and Mohali, while Panchkula is expecting them on Saturday. “Vaccines for the 18-44 age group will be received by Saturday evening and we expect to start the next phase by Monday,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer. In Mohali, the drive will be suspended at private facilities from Saturday onwards due to shortage of vaccine. “We will continue the drive for the 45+ age group at 110 government centres in district, including 40 mobile vans,” said Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, in-charge for the vaccination drive in Mohali. Abhijit Singh, zonal director, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said they had returned the unutilised vaccines to the government and will now buy more directly from the manufacturers. “We can resume the drive only after we get the vaccines and the slots on the CoWin portal are opened,” he said.Meanwhile, Panchkula administration has constituted a committee to monitor the demand of oxygen, hospital beds and medicines. HSVP’s estate officer Mamta Sharma has been appointed as the nodal officer to ensure supply of oxygen to all hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-for-18-age-group-not-to-start-in-chandigarh-tricity-on-may-1-101619815249671.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity comes on common ground, weekend curfew clamped||As the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic continues to sweep the tricity, Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula administrations on Friday clamped a weekend curfew in an effort to battle their rising cases.The curfew first started in Mohali at 6pm on Friday. Panchkula enforced it at 10pm, but in Chandigarh, it will come into force at 5am on Saturday.The public movement restrictions will continue through Sunday, before ending at 5am on Monday across the tricity.Thereon, the daily night curfew will remain in force from 6pm to 5am in Chandigarh and Mohali, and 9pm to 5am in Panchkula.Punjab was the first to announce the weekend restrictions earlier this week. Haryana enforced the curfew in nine districts on Friday afternoon. Chandigarh, too, followed suit, announcing its decision around 7.30pm on Friday. “Our imposition of weekend curfew was contingent upon Haryana doing the same in Panchkula. A curfew in Chandigarh can be effective only if it is imposed in the entire tricity,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.The administration has come under criticism for repeatedly changing its stand on the imposition of weekend curfew. After first clamping it on the April 16 weekend, UT decided against it on April 23, only to reimpose it now. Opposition political parties, including Congress and AAP, have termed the administration “confused” on the issue. What it means “No person shall leave their home or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam on any road or public places,” states the order issued by deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Issuing the same order in Panchkula, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja appealed to residents to stay indoors till Monday morning.All essential commodity shops and restaurants in the tricity will be allowed to remain open, but only for home delivery. These include shops and vendors dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetable, dairy, meat, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment. In Chandigarh, shops will be closed by 2pm, but restaurants can continue delivery till 9pm. Similarly, home delivery by eateries is allowed till 9pm in Mohali as well, but shops here will down shutters by 5pm and by 6pm in Panchkula.All private offices will remain closed, and only industries manufacturing essential products, such as masks, sanitisers and medicines, can operate during the weekend. Those specially issued a restricted movement curfew pass are exempted.Any breach of the order will invite action under Sections 51 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.17 areas sealed in UT, MohaliThe UT administration on Friday declared 15 more micro-containment zones in the city, while two such zones were also notified in Mohali. The affected areas in Chandigarh are parts of Sectors 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, 23 and 25, and Sarangpur, Khuda Lahora and Dhanas. In Mohali, these are Usha Yarn area in Dera Bassi and Skynet Enclave in Zirakpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-comes-on-common-ground-weekend-curfew-clamped-101619814893285.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||No ventilator facility in govt hospitals of 4 Punjab districts||No government-run hospital in Bathinda, southern Punjab’s largest city, is equipped with ventilators to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients even as the pandemic is already into its second year. This despite the fact that the assembly constituencies state cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal and Gurpreet Singh Kangar represent in the Punjab assembly are in Bathinda district. As a result, patients ailing with level-3 infection are forced to shell out 25 times for life support in private hospitals. Even the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, a central government-run healthcare facility, started ventilator facility only on Friday. The hospitals in the district, including private facilities, have about 700 beds for level-2 (needing oxygen support and level-3 patients wherein critically ill are put on ventilator support. Also, the ventilator facility is not available in government-run health care facilities in Mohali, Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. Doctors say a patient may have to pay ₹1,000 a day for ventilator facility at a government hospital while private centres charge from ₹15,000-25,000 for the same. Government hospitals in Moga district earlier had two ventilators which were given to the Faridkot Medical College last year. The government hospitals in the district have 79 beds for level-2 patients. Therefore, all critical patients are referred to GMC Faridkot. “It is an utter failure of the state government that government sector hospitals were not equipped with ventilators. The government claims to have spent a whopping ₹1,000 crore to strengthen healthcare infrastructure since the Covid outbreak. Bathinda is a glaring example of deplorable facilities in civil hospitals,” said public health activist Dr Vitull K Gupta, also president of Association of Physicians of India (Malwa chapter). Even as there are eight civil hospitals in Fatehgarh Sahib district, none has ventilator facility for Covid-19 patients. Critical patients are either shifted to Gian Sagar Medical College or Patiala-based Rajindra Hospital. Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh has given grant to the district administration to arrange ventilators. Not even a single government hospital in Mohali district, which is represented in the assembly by state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, has a ventilator. (Inputs by Vishal Rambani and Harmandeep Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-ventilator-facility-in-govt-hospitals-of-4-punjab-districts-101619814711961.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ventilators in many Punjab hospitals lying unused for want of trained staff amid Covid surge||Ventilators in several government hospitals in Punjab are lying out of use amid a health emergency in the wake of the second coronavirus outbreak in the state and elsewhere in the country, exposing the health department’s lack of preparedness to fight the pandemic. In most cases, the ventilators are lying idle as the hospitals don’t have the requisite trained staff to operate them. In Amritsar district, the government and private hospitals have 300 ventilators of which 200 of them are reserved for Covid-19 patients. “Of these, only 30-40 remain occupied. We are prepared for the worst scenario,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh.Amritsar Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) medical Superintendent Dr KD Singh said, “We have 137 ventilators at the hospital, but 50 of them have not been installed yet. We are waiting for technicians to install them. The demand for oxygen beds has increased drastically in the past few days.”A senior doctor said even as the GMCH has enough ventilators to handle rising number of cases, it is short of manpower to operate the equipment. “For every five patients on ventilator, we need four anesthesiologists and as many as technicians and X-Ray technicians besides 20 staff nurses for three shifts in a day. We don’t have enough specialist doctors. Besides, many doctors go on quarantine leave after catching the infection. We have deputed some anesthesiologists and technicians from the civil hospital here due to staff shortage,” he added. In the neighbouring Gurdaspur district, there are only 2 ventilators at a government hospital but they are lying non-operational in the absence of required staff. “We refer critical level-3 Covid patients to Amritsar GMCH,” said Gurdaspur civil surgeon Dr Harbhajan Rao. In Pathankot district, all the 18 ventilators in government hospitals are lying non-operational. Civil surgeon Dr Harbinder Singh said, “We do not have level-3 facility for Covid-19 patients in government hospitals. Also, there is no intensive care unit (ICU) at or specialist doctors to treat patients on ventilators. But we have 13 ventilators in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.” In Tarn Taran district, three ventilators in government hospitals are lying out of use due to staff shortage. “We have 20 level-3 beds in private hospitals but we refer patients to GMC Amritsar for ventilator support. We do not have infrastructure and doctors for treating patients on ventilators in government hospitals,” said civil surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta. In Rupnagar district, none of the 10 ventilators in government hospitals is operational. The administration has written to the higher authorities to make arrangements so that they could handle critical patients. Also, government hospitals in Ferozepur, Fazilka, Mansa and Muktsar districts have seven, six and four each ventilators, respectively, and all of them are not in use. Fazilka civil surgeon Dr Harinder Singh said, “Our team of doctors is learning to use ventilators. The civil hospital may not be a designated government institute to handle a Covid patient with level-3 complications but we will try to provide them life support.” In Jalandhar district, 45 of a total of 165 ventilators in 62 hospitals are occupied, as per details shared by the district administration. In the Jalandhar civil hospital, all of the 18 ventilators were functional with 16 of them in use, officials claimed. Faridkot, Patiala, SBS Nagar districts fare betterGuru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, which caters to south Malwa districts of Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot, has six Covid-19 patients on life support system. The hospital has 76 ventilators on standby in its 450-bed isolation facility. GGSMCH medical superintendent Dr Shilekh Mittal said the occupancy of level-2 and level-3 beds with oxygen requirement has witnessed a sudden increase. Presently, 270 Ccovid patients, including 65 level-3 patients, are undergoing treatment at the hospital. The Rajindra Medical College and Hospital, Patiala, has nearly 100 ventilators which health department officials claimed are functional with adequate staff to operate them. The hospital is currently getting critically ill patients from Ludhiana, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib districts besides the National Capital Region (NCR).“We are having optimum oxygen and trained staff for ventilators round the clock,” said Patiala Development Authority chief administrator Surbhi Malik, who is Covid-19 nodal officer at Rajindra Hospital.In SBS Nagar district, the administration claimed that all 10 ventilators in hospitals are functional. Civil surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor said they have opened ventilator facilities at government hospitals for patients admitted to private hospitals for free. In Hoshiarpur district too, 10 ventilators installed at the civil hospital were functional, an official said. In Ludhiana, all 16 ventilators are occupied. (Inputs by Mandeep Kaur Narula, Vishal Rambani, Gagandeep Singh, Parteek Singh Mahal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ventilators-in-many-punjab-hospitals-lying-unused-for-want-of-trained-staff-amid-covid-surge-101619814649794.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing case: Sikh outfits burn copies of HC verdict, term it political, flawed||Protesting against Punjab and Haryana high court verdict quashing reports filed by special investigation team (SIT) led by former inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in Kotkapura firing case, Sikh outfits, led by former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh, on Friday burned the copies of the judgment while terming it ‘political and flawed’. Number of activists of Sikh outfits and political parties gathered at Kotkapura main chowk, where the firing incident had taken place in 2015. The protesters, who refrained from observing Covid appropriate behaviour, held placards, one of which read ‘Justice did Injustice to Sikhs’. Bhai Ranjit Singh alleged that the judiciary was biased and the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government betrayed the Sikhs in sacrilege-related cases and Maur bomb blast case. “Badals were voluntarily playing into the hands of the establishment to enjoy power, perks and privileges,” he added. Former leader of opposition and Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira said by burning the copies, they have registered their protest against the ‘flawed judgment’, which is totally unacceptable to the people. “Sikh community is upset over the miscarriage of justice. Our act was on the lines of agitating farmers burning three contentious farm laws in Punjab. It’s a democratic form of protest as this verdict has killed all hopes of justice in aggrieved families and Sikh community,” he added. SAD (Democratic) leader and Lehragaga MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa said, “We don’t expect any justice from the present state government as the HC verdict has reflected its utter failure to defend the SIT report in the court.” Dal Khalsa spokesman Kanwar Pal Singh said denial of justice in sacrilege-related cases will push the state back to 80s. Sukhraj Singh, son of Bhagwan Krishan who was killed in Behbal Kalan firing incident, MLA Balwinder Singh Bains, MLA Kultar Sandhwan, MLA Pirmal Singh and ex-MP Sadhu Singh were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-case-sikh-outfits-burn-copies-of-hc-verdict-term-it-political-flawed-101619813929835.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||SMO nabbed accepting bribe from subordinate||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Friday nabbed a senior medical officer (SMO) red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹4,000 from his subordinate at Threawal village falling under the Majitha sub-division.Dr Raju Chauhan, posted at the primary health centre (PHC), Threawal, has been booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, at the VB’s Amritsar range police station.Dr Gurbakshish Singh, posted as a community health officer (CHO) under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) at the health and wellness centre, Abdal village in Amritsar, approached the VB alleging that the SMO was demanding for ₹4,000 each from CHO’s working under him. He also threatened to stop their promotions if the bribe was not paid per month, he alleged.Senior superintendent of police (SSP-vigilance) Parampal Singh said: “A trap was laid and the SMO was arrested red-handed while accepting ₹4,000 from the complainant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/smo-nabbed-accepting-bribe-from-subordinate-101619813269716.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab working on revival of 12 pvt oxygen plants to meet demand||Battling with rising oxygen demand due to the devastating second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab is making efforts to revive and re-energise about a dozen small and medium oxygen plants to augment the supply of life-saving gas in the state. These plants located in Mandi Gobindgarh, Pathankot, Muktsar, Bathinda, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib and having an installed capacity of more than 20 metric tonnes have been lying defunct or manufacturing oxygen for industrial or captive use. The state authorities, particularly the industries department, are trying for their revival and expediting medical oxygen licenses to units producing industrial oxygen. Director-cum-secretary, industries, Sibin C said the department had identified a dozen-odd such plants for revival and re-energisation of their oxygen plants and facilitating grant of licenses for medical oxygen supply to try and meet the rising demand. Punjab, which is seeing a sharp spike in oxygen demand due to the rising trajectory of Covid cases and panic buying, presently requires 200 to 210 metric tonnes of medical oxygen daily on an average. The state has been managing so far with almost 70% of its supplies coming from the quota allocated by the Centre and the remaining from oxygen generation units in the state barring an occasional hiccup, according to sources. The oxygen demand is expected to jump by 50 to 100 MT in a week or so, according to official projections. Sibin said two units in Pathankot and Mandi Gobindgarh started supplying 550 oxygen cylinders to hospitals on Thursday. Another four units are expected to start the supply of medical oxygen cylinders to hospitals across the state within a week. The air separation unit (ASU) of Green Field Industries Private Limited in Muktsar, which was set up in 1996 and has been lying idle for the past eight years, is being renovated at a cost of ₹20 lakh and will resume its operations in a week’s time and start supplying 400 oxygen cylinders per day. Company owner Rajvir Singh said he had shut the ASU after a jump in power tariffs in the state and started oxygen refilling by procuring liquid oxygen from Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. “The administration and a company, Setia Paper Limited, have come forward to help renovate the plant,” he said. Ramesh Chander of Ajay Gases in Mandi Gobindgarh, which supplies industrial oxygen, is expecting the license for manufacturing medical oxygen from the Food and Drug Administration anytime. “We have been supplying 500 medical oxygen cylinders for the past three days, pending license for medical oxygen. There is a separate unit with capacity to refill 1,200 cylinders per day, but we are not getting liquid oxygen despite efforts,” he said. Also, Ludhiana-based Aarti Steel is exploring the option of setting up a five tonne per day pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plant whereas Modern Steel, Fatehgarh Sahib, has started the process to install a compressor at its PSA for filling cylinders, according to government sources. However, two plants in Amritsar and Bathinda have not been found to be feasible as they have been lying closed for the past five years. The chief minister’s office (CMO) is monitoring the progress. Industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora had also on Thursday directed the officials to expedite the licensing process for closed oxygen plants. BATHINDA REFINERY TO SUPPLY O2 HPCL-Mittal Energy Limited (HMEL), which has an installed oxygen capacity of 35 metric tonnes per day, is getting ready to supply oxygen. The company has placed an order with a Noida-based firm for installation of compressor at the outlet of PSA for filling oxygen cylinders. The compressor will be sourced from Italy and the installation work is expected to be completed by May-end, according to sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-working-on-revival-of-12-pvt-oxygen-plants-to-meet-demand-101619812851970.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown no solution, enforce Covid restrictions strictly: Capt||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ruled out imposing a complete lockdown in Punjab. Charing a virtual emergency meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the six worst-hit districts of Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar, Bathinda, Patiala and Amritsar, the CM said: “Lockdown is not a solution as it will lead to exodus of labourers and force them to go to states with even lesser medical facilities.” The CM also directed the district administrations to enforce restrictions strictly and to stop dine-in facility in high positivity areas, with Covid testing of staff in restaurants by the health department. Urging the industry to set up Covid treatment centres and makeshift hospitals, he stressed on the teamwork to fight the pandemic.He also directed the chief secretary to encourage retired doctors and nurses to rejoin for handling Covid facilities and suggested setting up of temporary healthcare facilities in halls or gymnasiums. Micro-containment strategy must be strictly implemented and encouraged, he said.Amarinder expressed concern over the fact that 14 districts in the state currently had over 10% positivity rate and five had more than 60% bed occupancy. A prefabricated 10-bedded hospital will come up at Mohali and a 250-bedded temporary hospital is being set up near Bathinda refinery, with oxygen supply from the refinery, he said, urging all departments to be prepared for the peak and identify areas in the various districts for establishment of temporary hospitals. Additional 2,000 beds for Covid patients are being added in the state, he said. Strict action against black marketers: CMAmarinder warned of strict action against black marketing, hoarding of oxygen cylinders or smuggling of the life-saving gas out of Punjab.Urging private hospitals to increase beds, he said these would be supplied adequate oxygen by the government agencies and no punitive action will be taken in case of any mishap due to lack of oxygen.Even as health minister Balbir Sidhu expressed concern over people of Punjab not getting space in hospitals due to patients coming from outside, the CM said he was not in favour of refusing hospital care to any patient from other state. The CM said he had spoken to the Union home minister for additional oxygen allocation to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-no-solution-enforce-covid-restrictions-strictly-capt-101619812669583.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K clocks biggest one-day spike of 3,532 cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded its biggest single-day spike of 3,532 Covid cases, raising its tally to 1,76,079, officials said. Of the new cases, 2,360 cases are from Kashmir while 1,172 are from Jammu. With 30 Covid deaths —17 in Jammu and 13 in Kashmir, the UT’s death toll reached 2, 283. So far, the toll of people who succumbed to the virus in April has reached 289. Officials said with 932 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 495 in Jammu district, 315 in Baramulla.The number of active cases have reached 28,359. As many as 1,287 patients have recovered, including 977 from Kashmir and 310 from Jammu.As many as 1,45,441 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to around 83% against 98% in the first fortnight of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-clocks-biggest-one-day-spike-of-3-532-cases-101619812309624.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K: Barricades, deserted roads return as 84-hr lockdown kicks in||As an 84-hour lockdown began in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday evening to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, police personnel were seen implementing the same on roads and highways across the UT on Friday.The decision to go under lockdown was taken by the UT administration after its Covid cases crossed the 3,000 mark. As per the order, the curfew will be lifted on Monday morning. Essential services, however, have been exempted from the lockdown.The police have erected barricades at several places, especially on prominent highways, to prohibit the movement of people on the roads. However, government employees and essential service providers are being allowed to move without any hindrance.In Srinagar district, top police officials toured towns and cities to monitor the lockdown implementation. Business hub Lal Chowk wore a deserted look as only security personnel and other frontline workers were seen on the roads. At many places, the police have placed barbed wires to restrict any non-essential movement.Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu on Friday expressed gratitude towards the citizens for adhering to the lockdown.“Gratitude to the people of Srinagar for cooperating fully to ensure the corona curfew is as much a people’s initiative as an administrative measure for our good,” tweeted Mattu, while posting pictures of the lockdown in the old city area on the social media.Similarly in Jammu, all major rotaries, arterial roads and public places wore a deserted look as residents stayed indoors on the first day of the 84-hour lockdown.All commercial establishments, markets, and shops also remained closed. However, essential services providers, including vegetable vendors and grocery stores, were allowed to operate from 6am to 10pm on Friday, besides chemist shops, other allied medical support and vehicles carrying agricultural produce.Marriages with a gathering limit of 50 persons as per the Covid SoPs were also allowed. The wedding invitation cards were considered as valid passes for the movement of such people.Curfew violations in Baramulla Meanwhile, the Baramulla police registered eight cases for violation of the lockdown orders.“While enforcing the lockdown in the district and implementing the orders thereof, Baramulla Police registered 8 cases against shopkeepers/ riders for violating instructions and running their businesses unnecessarily and beyond timings allowed. Further, some vehicles were moving on roads without valid justification, cause and pass,” a police spokesperson said.Officials said that the lockdown — in effect from 7pm on Thursday up to 7am Monday — is meant to prevent the spike in Covid cases in Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Baramulla, Anantnag, Kulgam, Pulwama, Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur and Reasi districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-barricades-deserted-roads-return-as-84-hr-lockdown-kicks-in-101619812012607.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 114 deaths, 6,132 new Covid cases||Punjab on Friday recorded 114 deaths, taking the toll from the pandemic to 9,022, while 6,132 fresh cases raised the infection count to 3,70,973, according to a medical bulletin. This is for the fourth day in a row that the state has reported over 100 deaths. The number of active cases rose from 54,954 on Thursday to 55,798.Twenty new deaths linked to the virus were witnessed in Ludhiana, 17 in Amritsar and 12 in Patiala.Mohali recorded a maximum of 857 fresh Covid-19 cases, followed by 792 in Ludhiana, 696 in Bathinda and 544 in Jalandhar.A total of 5,106 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the recovery count to 3,06,153, according to the bulletin.There are 99 critical Covid-19 patients who are on ventilator support while 669 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 72,21,431 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-114-deaths-6-132-new-covid-cases-101619812009638.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||550 court employees infected with Covid in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday said that at least 550 court employees in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are Covid positive. In a statement, the high court said that a large number of officials and their families are afflicted with Covid and numbers are increasing rapidly. As on April 29, two judges of high court, three judicial officers and 62 other officials are positive. In district courts, around 100 judicial officers and 400 other court employees are positive, the high court said, adding that a spouse of a judicial officer in Punjab has succumbed to the virus and an employee in high court too has died. There are around 20,000 employees in high court and district courts in the two states and Chandigarh. The statement appears to have come in the wake of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) threatening to launch an agitation demanding that cases be listed without the “online mentioning” process. The high court said that in view increasing Covid infections, the courts are functioning in a restrictive manner. It further said that cases will be taken up through video conferencing only. Urgency of cases for listing will be determined by the judges nominated by the chief justice. All pending matters listed for hearing between May 1 and May 28 have been adjourned for hearing in August and September. The high court also said that in case of urgency, a lawyer can request for advancing of hearing on old cases through online mentioning. The PHHCBA, acting on the move, passed a resolution requesting the high court to withdraw the order on listing of cases through mentioning. “The executive committee will be left with no other alternative but to resort to agitation mode in case the needful is not done within seven days,” Bar president GBSD Dhillon said adding, that the Bar was not kept in loop while taking a decision. The high court had restarted physical hearing of cases in February. However, it was suspended last week in view of rising number of cases. Now, cases are being taken up through video conferencing and listing of cases in most categories is being decided after an online mentioning for the same is done. The approval is granted for hearing by designated judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/550-court-employees-infected-with-covid-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-hc-101619811889514.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Former HP CM Virbhadra Singh hospitalised at IGMC||Veteran Congress leader and former chief minister Virbhadra Singh was admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) after he complained of restlessness. Doctors say his condition is stable. IGMC senior medical superintendent Janak Raj said, “He has been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and his condition is stable. He is undergoing some tests.” The octogenarian had tested positive for Covid on April 13 and was hospitalised at Max Hospital, Mohali. He was discharged and brought to Shimla on Friday morning in a chopper. Later in the day, the 86-year-old developed breathing problems and was hospitalised in the cardiac care unit’s ICU. The leader’s son Vikramaditya Singh, a legislator from Shimla rural, had also tested positive on April 11. He was co-in-charge for elections in the Mandi municipal corporation and was at the forefront of the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-hp-cm-virbhadra-singh-hospitalised-at-igmc-101619811710426.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three Punjab-origin brothers get life term for murder in UK||Three Indian-origin brothers found guilty of stabbing to death a 22-year-old man in a dispute in London over a year-and-a-half ago have been sentenced to life imprisonment by a UK court.Kamal Sohal, 23, Sukhminder Sohal, 25, and Michael Sohal, 28, were found guilty of the September 2019 murder of Osvaldo de Carvalho in the Acton area of west London following a trial at Croydon Crown Court in south London on February 16.At the same court on Thursday, Kamal Sohal was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 22 years and Sukhminder and Michael Sohal were both sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 19 years before being considered for parole.Antoine George, 24, a fourth man found guilty of manslaughter in the case, was sentenced to nine-year imprisonment.“This is a particularly tragic case with Osvaldo’s family having to live with the pain of his loss. We know there had been previous hostility between these two groups and sadly that culminated in the events that unfolded that evening,” said Detective Chief Inspector (DCI) Vicky Tunstall, who led the investigation for the Metropolitan Police Specialist Crime South Command.“The Sohal brothers had no qualms about arming themselves and – in Kamal’s case – running down a busy main road waving the weapon around in full view of all those around. They then subjected Osvaldo – who had no chance of defending himself – to a brutal and sustained attack. Osvaldo’s family, I hope, can find some comfort to their pain, knowing that his attackers have now been given lengthy prison sentences,” she said.During the trial, the court heard the convicted men and Osvaldo had been involved in an ongoing dispute when Sukhminder and Michael met Osvaldo and two of his friends on September 24, 2019. They went on to call their brother, Kamal, for support and reinforcement.On receiving this call, Kamal grabbed a large hunting knife which he “brazenly brandished” as he ran along the Uxbridge Road in west London to the scene from his home nearby. George, who had also been in the house, went with Kamal to the scene of the dispute.After his arrival and following a brief chase the three men in the victim’s group ran from the scene; the two friends heading one way, and Osvaldo running a different way.Witnesses described him being chased by a group of men, some armed with knives. They caught up with Osvaldo, surrounded him and stabbed him, and then ran off leaving Osvaldo lying on the ground dying. The three brothers left the scene and returned to Kamal’s address, the Met Police said.“Knife crime has a huge, terrible impact on our communities and I hope the sentencing today reflects the seriousness with which violence of this kind will be taken, and deters potential offenders from carrying dangerous weapons,” said DCI Tunstall.“Reducing violent crime in communities across London continues to be the Met’s top priority. We are working tirelessly – day and night – to take weapons off the street, engage and reassure the public, and keep our communities safe,” she added.Later, George is said to have left the area in a car which had been parked on the driveway outside Kamal’s flat. A post-mortem examination revealed that Osvaldo had suffered multiple stab wounds, including a deep wound to his left leg which would have been caused by significant force. But the fatal wound was a stab wound to his back which was so deep it nearly passed through his body.The Met Police found that in a bid to cover their tracks, later that evening Michael and Sukhminder had set fire to clothes they had been wearing at the time of the stabbing.During the police investigation, it was found that on the day of the murder, George and Sukhminder Sohal went to a shop in Hounslow, south-west London, that sold knives and purchased the weapons used and transported them to Kamal’s flat. But the court heard that those weapons were never recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-punjab-origin-brothers-get-life-term-for-murder-in-uk-101619811709531.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bed capacity in Nahan govt hospital to be increased to 110: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday said the bed capacity in Government Hospital, Nahan, will be increased to 110 beds and 25 beds will be added to the Ayurveda Hospital, which will be used as a dedicated Covid care centre. Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College principal has been authorised to temporarily hire 50 nurses, four data-entry operators, 20 Class 4 employees, three lab technicians and 10 operation theatre assistants for Covid duty on outsource basis through an authorised service provider agency till June 30 to deal with Covid crisis, the CM said, while presiding over a meeting in Nahan to review the situation after a second wave of infections. The CM said the government will also ensure a smooth supply of essential logistics such as personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, face masks, sanitisers and oxygen, so that people are not inconvenienced. He said the government will also take over a few private hospitals in the district.He directed the district administration to increase the bed capacity by exploring possibilities to take over halls of Government Degree College, Nahan and Zila Parishad Bhawan at Nahan. He said this will enhance the bed capacity by 200 beds.Power minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary stressed the need for segregating panchayats into hypersensitive and sensitive based on the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bed-capacity-in-nahan-govt-hospital-to-be-increased-to-110-jairam-101619811229962.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||14.77 lakh people inoculated in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh has inoculated 14.77 lakh people, of which 2.37 lakh have been administered the second dose as well, a government spokesperson said on Friday. The spokesperson said the number of Covid positive cases was increasing in the state but most patients were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. “These cases are recommended to be kept under home isolation, as per, revised guidelines issued by the government of India. All Covid positive patients that do not have any symptoms and have oxygen saturation of over 94% are clinically asymptomatic cases,” said the spokesperson. While all positive cases with fever or upper respiratory tract symptoms without any shortness of breath and an oxygen saturation of over 94% are clinically assigned as mild cases and should isolate at home. He said COVID positive patients must isolate in a separate, well-ventilated room and away from other people at home, especially elderly and those with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, cardiovascular disease and renal disease. He said the patient should at all times use triple-layer medical mask and discard the mask after eight hours of use. Patient must take a healthy diet, rest and drink lots of fluids to maintain adequate hydration. Hand hygiene, using soap and water and washing hands for at least 40 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand rub are a must. “The patient must be in communication with their physician and promptly report in case of deterioration. The patient or care giver must keep monitoring their health,” he said. He said immediate medical attention must be sought if serious signs or symptoms develop such as difficulty in breathing, dip in oxygen saturation, persistent pain or pressure in the chest or mental confusion or inability to move. Patients under home isolation will end isolation after 10 days of onset of systems and three days after breaking fever. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over. Regarding medicines in home isolation, he said, it has been categorically advised not to attempt procurement or administration of remdisivir at home. There is limited role of oral steroids too. However, inhalational Budesonide can be added if symptoms do not resolve after five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1477-lakh-people-inoculated-in-himachal-101619810929573.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP records 2,358 cases, 10 deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded 2,358 new cases on Friday, pushing the state’s Covid count to 99,287 while the death toll mounted to 1,484 after 37 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 594 were reported in Kangra, 442 in Mandi, 220 in Hamirpur, 195 in Solan, 186 in Shimla, 183 in Una, 179 in Bilaspur, 139 in Sirmaur, 121 in Chamba, 42 in Kullu, 35 in Kinnaur and 22 in Lahaul-Spiti. Ten fatalities were reported in Kangra alone followed by seven in Sirmaur, five in Shimla, four each in Hamirpur and Una, three in Mandi, two in Kullu and one each in Kinnaur and Solan. Active cases in the state touched 18,425 while recoveries reached 79,310 after 1,730 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst hit district with its tally reaching 17,785, followed by Shimla where 14,767 people have been infected so far and Mandi with 14,359 cases. Solan’s caseload climbed to 12,891, while Sirmaur has 7,000 cases, Una 6,794 cases, Hamirpur 6,442 , Kullu 5,849, Bilaspur 5,410 , Chamba, 4,364, Lahaul-Spiti 1,879 and Kinnaur 1,747. DGP home quarantined Himachal Pradesh director general of police Sanjay Kundu isolated himself on Friday after he came in contact with somebody who has tested positive for the virus. State vigilance and anti-corruption bureau additional director general of police Anurag Garg has been given the charge of DGP. All urgent and administrative decisions requiring decision at DGP level will be handled by ADGP Anurag Garg till resumption of duty by Sanjay Kundu, states a notification issued by the governor’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-records-2-358-cases-10-deaths-101619810269439.html
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid situation grave in Punjab, Chandigarh: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday observed that the Covid-19 situation is grave in Punjab and Chandigarh.The observations were made by the high court bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh after perusing status reports on the virus situation, which indicated that Covid-19 designated hospitals have almost exhausted its bed availability. The court did not make any remark with respect to Haryana as it had failed to submit a report. The court deferred the hearing for afternoon and summoned the Haryana chief secretary for a hearing through the online mode.The high court was hearing an application from amicus curaie Rupinder Khosla, who had sought revival of a case disposed of last week in which the court was monitoring Covid-19 situation in the two states and Chandigarh.Khosla told court that there is non-availability of essential drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab. Oxygen, ICU beds, ventilators and oxygen concentrators are in short supply due to which a number of deaths are being reported. “It is almost at its edge and can tilt over any time. Before the situation gets out of hands, intervention of this court is imperative,” Khosla had said, pointing to status report on availability of beds for critical care. “..we feel that the situation is indeed grave,” the bench observed ordering revival of petition and impleading Centre’s health ministry and ministry of home affairs as parties. In the afternoon hearing, the Haryana chief secretary told court that there has been sudden dearth of oxygen as some plants in Roorkee, Rewari and Baddi (Barotiwala) have collapsed. “As a result, oxygen has been sought from the plants from Rourkela and Angul in Odisha by means of road, rail and other means,” he said, adding that even Indian Air Force has flown a few sorties to fetch the oxygen from these far flung places. All efforts are being made to meet the demand of deficit oxygen, he told court further assuring that a detailed report would be filed within two days. The Punjab government told the court that the bed capacity has been enhanced and supply of oxygen and essential drugs has been increased. The Centre told court that a virtual control room has been set up and states can raise their demand there.The court said that investigating agencies should act against hoarding of oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators and essential medicines. The court further advised that patients may be segregated into three categories, such as critical, mild to moderate and mild and the plan be drawn up accordingly. The court, while deferring the matter for May 4, directed that district-level nodal teams be set up as ordered on April 23 and compliance reports be filed. “In case of failure to do so, this court will examine whether there is any wilful disobedience of the orders passed by this court by any district,” the bench said. Punjab has 1,230 ventilatorsPunjab has told the court that the state has 1,230 ventilators, 524 in government and 706 in private sector. The daily consumption of oxygen is about 227 metric tonnes and central government allocation is of 177 metric tonnes. The demand for the remaining oxygen is being met through other sources. As of beds and occupancy, the state told court that government sector has 4,193 level-2 category beds and 1,210 are occupied. As of level- 3, there are 550 beds and 523 are occupied. In private sector, 4,678 beds have been allocated for level-2 patients, of which 3,084 are occupied. As of level-3 category, there are 1,486 beds and 1,149 are occupied, the state said.‘16,340 FIRs registered, ₹42 cr fine collected’The Punjab government told the high court that since May 2020, 16,340 FIRs have been registered and 22,561 persons have been arrested for violation of lockdown guidelines. A sum of ₹42.83 crore were collected in fine and a total of 10 lakh persons have been fined for various violations. As many as 7,82,566 challans were isued for not wearing masks alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-situation-grave-in-punjab-chandigarh-hc-101619810089491.html
