02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records highest single-day spike of 157 deaths, 7,327 new infections||A record single-day spike of 157 COVID-19 fatalities and 7,327 new cases pushed Punjab's death toll due to the disease to 9,317 and infection tally to 3,85,270, according to a medical bulletin issued here on Sunday.The number of active cases rose to 60,108 from 58,229 on Saturday, it said.Of the new fatalities, 18 deaths were recorded in Bathinda, 17 in Ludhiana, 15 in Amritsar, 12 in Sangrur and 11 in Gurdaspur, the bulletin said.Ludhiana recorded a maximum 1,404 cases, followed by 1,045 in Mohali, 725 in Jalandhar, 602 in Patiala and 582 in Bathinda, among fresh cases in the state.A total of 5,244 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 3,15,845, as per bulletin.There are 229 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 7,525 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 73,40,768 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Chandigarh too recorded a record 860 new cases, taking the infection tally to 44,306, a medical bulletin issued here said.The death of seven more people took the toll to 496 in the city, it said.The number of active cases stands at 7,592, as per bulletin.A total of 483 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 36,218, it said.A total of 4,12,497 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 3,67,088 tested negative while reports of 124 samples were awaited, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-157-deaths-7-327-new-infections-101619974295046.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||10,000 challaned in April for Covid violations in Chandigarh||The residents’ defiance of Covid-19 protocols of social distancing and wearing masks has yielded the police department ₹1.23 crore from fine collection so far this year.Since January, 20,802 residents have been challaned. A major chunk of these challans, however, were issued in April itself: till April 28, 10,843 challans have been issued and ₹60.94 lakh collected as fine, the highest monthly figures since June 2020, when the drive was started.Between June 2020 and December 2020, the police had collected ₹1.01 crore through 18,954 challans issued for various violations.Intensifying the drive, the traffic wing of the Chandigarh Police in March this year had also started issuing challans to people for not wearing masks after the central government had raised concerns over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city.Consequently, in addition to the personnel posted at police stations on general duty and PCR vehicles, sub-inspector (SI) rank officers of the traffic police were also authorised to challan people not wearing face masks.‘Colonies, markets problem areas’“Colonies and markets are places of primary concern as people tend to ignore the rules more. Roping in market associations and resident welfare associations will definitely make an impact,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, the senior superintendent of police.He added, “People have now started adhering to the safety protocols, but still not wearing masks properly. Anyone wearing the mask improperly by not covering their noses and mouths completely is being checked.”Recently during the hearing of a suo motu plea initiated by the Punjab and Haryana high court, Chandigarh assured the court that people not covering their mouths or noses properly with face masks would be treated at par with those not wearing masks at all, and liable to the same punitive action.As per the data provided by the police, maximum challans were issued for violating social distancing in various markets. Since January this year, the police have challaned 13,546 people for not maintaining social distancing, 4,337 for not wearing masks and 2,509 for spitting in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10000-challaned-in-april-for-covid-violations-in-chandigarh-101619909036125.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University defers polling of all constituencies of senate||Panjab University on Saturday decided to postpone the polling dates of all the constituencies of the senate, the apex governing body of the varsity.“Considering all aspects, it becomes infeasible to hold the senate elections on the dates already notified, hence the competent authority has decided to postpone the elections of all the constituencies for the time being,” read the order issued by PU registrar on Saturday.The varsity has said that the new polling schedule will be issued separately after taking into account the latest Covid guidelines of all concerned states—Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan.The development comes a day after the varsity postponed the May 3 (Monday) elections after the Punjab government advised it keeping in view the pandemic.Last month, the Himachal Pradesh government also withdrew the permission given to the varsity to set up polling booths in the state for the registered graduate constituency.The polls for the election of six members to the PU senate from the constituencies of faculties were earlier scheduled to be held on April 26, but these were later postponed to May 19.HC had pulled up PU V-C for delay in pollsThe polling schedule was issued by PU last month after the high court had pulled up vice-chancellor Raj Kumar for the delay, asking the varsity to conduct the polls within two months.Ex-senator Navdeep Goyal, who is contesting from faculties, said, “Keeping in view the present circumstances, it is a wise decision taken by the university.”“We understand the sensitivity of the situation and nothing is more important than human life. We hope that elections will be held as soon as the situation allows, unlike last year when the elections were postponed arbitrarily and without any justification,” added another ex-senator, Ashok Goyal.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of PU in which 47 members are elected from various constituencies. The four-year term of the last senate had ended on October 31, 2020. While the elections were scheduled to start in August last year, these were postponed twice by V-C Raj Kumar due to the pandemic. The varsity is presently functioning without a governing body.The term of the syndicate, too, had ended on December 31 last year, followed by those of the faculty deans on January 31 without selection of their successors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-defers-polling-of-all-constituencies-of-senate-101619903275163.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bans private sale of remdesivir||The UT administration has banned the private sale of remdesivir injection, used to treat Covid patients, and decided to itself distribute it among hospitals. The health department will procure the medicine from open market or central allocation, and distribute it among all government and private hospitals treating Covid patients. While the antiviral drug does not reduce mortality, as reiterated by PGIMER recently, it is found to reduce hospitalisation duration, only if started within eight days of onset of symptoms.Private hospitals can apply for it to director, health family welfare, UT, via email at dhs_ut@yahoo.co.in. The injections will be provided subject to justification of demand, provision of medical records and stock available with the department. All hospitals have been directed to submit a daily report of the medicine usage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-bans-private-sale-of-remdesivir-101619902435198.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali hits fresh peak of 936 Covid cases, 25 dead in Chandigarh tricity||Mohali on Saturday touched a new high of 936 Covid-19 cases, while Chandigarh and Panchkula also registered a rise in their daily infections.Chandigarh and Panchkula logged 799 and 446 cases respectively, up from Friday’s 724 and 324. Panchkula’s daily positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – rose from Friday’s 14% to 27%, and in Mohali from 18% to 19%. However, it dipped in Chandigarh, from 22% to 20%.At 2,181, tricity’s Saturday tally was second only to its all-time high of 2,201 recorded on April 23 and 14% higher than Friday’s count of 1,905.Mohali had hit its last high of 931 cases nine days ago on April 22, and the number has remained over 800 on six days since.Meanwhile, after witnessing record 13 deaths on Friday, Chandigarh reported 11 more casualties, including a 42-year-old man, which took its toll to 489.Of the 43,446 patients infected in the city till date, 7,222 are still under treatment, while 35,735 have recovered (80%).Mohali reported eight deaths for the third consecutive day, pushing its total fatalities to 603.With the latest cases, majority of which came from Mohali city (323), the district’s caseload reached 47,506, of which 9,170 cases are active –highest in the tricity. As many as 37,733 patients have been cured (81%). Panchkula logged six deaths for the second day in a row, youngest of them being a 43-year-old man, while the other deceased were aged 65 to 88. Among them three had no other illness, and three had diabetes and hypertension.With 21,489 cumulative cases, the district’s total is lowest in the tricity, but the recovery rate, at 86%, is the highest after 18,639 recoveries and much ahead of the national average of 81.8%.A total of 2,637 people here are still recuperating and 213 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-hits-fresh-peak-of-936-covid-cases-25-dead-in-chandigarh-tricity-101619902015039.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||In April, 16 healthcare workers contracted Covid daily at Chandigarh PGIMER||As many as 500 health workers at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research contracted Covid-19 in April – working out to 16 people a day, putting tremendous pressure on the already hard-pressed workforce. A total of 1,720 health workers of the institute, including doctors, nurses and sanitary staff, have been infected since the pandemic broke out in March last year, with April accounting for around 30% of that number amid the unprecedented spike in cases.Institute’s doctors say not all cases came from staff working in the Covid-19 wards, where proper safety protocol is followed. But, often they cannot take adequate precautions due to the heavy rush in the emergency block. “Almost all hospitals in the vicinity have restricted their emergency services, diverting a huge patient load to our institute. Amid this crisis, it’s not humanly possible to take all precautions, as the staff’s priority is to save lives. Yet, irrespective of all protocols, there is a huge chance of getting infected in the hospital set-up,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson and professor at the hospital’s administration department.According to Dr GD Puri, head of Covid management committee at PGIMER, on most days, staff was working almost 15 hours to provide care to the Covid patients. The surging cases are not only pushing the under-training doctors into extra shifts, but also impacting their training and practice, as more workforce is being diverted to Covid duties. “The case surge has burdened not only the medicine and anaesthesia specialities, which mainly deal with Covid care, but also other specialities not routinely involved in it. This has hampered training of resident doctors,” said Dr Uttam Thakur, president of Resident Doctors Association at PGIMER. While the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, does not maintain a record of its staff testing positive, around 40 workers at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, are currently in isolation. “Our focus is to provide psychological support to the positive staff. If a worker tests positive, it impacts the morale of their colleagues as well,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department. More nursing posts soughtOverburdened nurses have written to the UT administrator for more posts to deal with the deadly Covid wave. “AIIMS, New Delhi, has around 2,350 beds and 5,800 nurses, whereas PGIMER has 1,948 beds, but only 2,572 nurses. This is taking a heavy toll on us,” stated Satyaveer Dagur, general secretary of hospital’s Nursing Welfare Association in a letter to the UT administrator, seeking 1,500 more nursing posts from the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-april-16-healthcare-workers-contracted-covid-daily-at-chandigarh-pgimer-101619901656550.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula saw 2,500% surge in deaths in April||Though Panchkula has clocked the least Covid cases and deaths in the tricity area, it recorded the biggest surge in virus-induced deaths in April, with a record 2,500% increase in fatalities. The district registered 53 fatalities in April, which amount to 25% of the death toll, against five deaths in March. A total 21,043 cases and 207 deaths were reported in Panchkula till April 30, as per the bulletin released by the health department. However, crematorium records show 80 Covid-induced deaths in April and 15 in March.Panchkula also logged 8,014 fresh coronavirus infections with an average 400 infections being reported daily, which contributed to 38% of the district’s Covid case count. There has been an almost four-fold increase in cases in April against the 2,193 infections reported in March. Active cases climbed from 1,034 on April 1 to 2,655 on April 30 while the recovery rate dropped from 90% to 86%.The positivity rate touched 25% to 30% on some days, which was the highest-ever in the district. Authorities also doubled the number of tests conducted in April.On whether any relief is in sight, an expert in the field, who did not wish to be named, said, “Cases are likely to continue to rise and fatalities will also be reported in May. There might be some respite by the end of the month. However, it is too early to comment.” Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has constituted a committee, which will monitor and supervise the system and check macro-containment zones. The team, which includes IAS officers, doctors and legal advisers, can be contacted for help.Helpline: 0172-2590-000; ADC Mohd Imraz Raza 96344-65326; Dr Rajiv Narwal 94681-88869; Dr Saroj Aggarwal 97799-03450.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-saw-2-500-surge-in-deaths-in-april-101619900455795.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Soli Sorabjee: The legal luminary||“Dost, when are you coming to Delhi?” Soli J Sorabjee had asked the last time we spoke. Now, I will never get another opportunity to meet the legal luminary who passed away on April 30. It was a painful parting as the former attorney general of India had been a father figure for two decades. Sorabjee was a distinguished authority on law, an erudite and apolitical scholar with encyclopedic knowledge, a prolific writer, jazz lover, ardent protector of freedom of speech, the protagonist in the fight for personal liberty and a human rights watchdog. He had a keen interest in poetry, literature and architecture as well.Brimming with instant wit and humour, Sorabjee lived life to the fullest. He was a gifted mimic and loved receiving gifts. Age for him was just a number and nothing dampened his exuberant spirit. He was always game for a chat, case discussion, legal analysis, joke, or serious debate. Sorabjee never slowed down.Never deterred dissent As a lawyer, I share treasured memories with him from international conferences across the globe, court appearances, events at the India International Centre, book releases, discussions, seminars, fiery debates and creative writing. No subject belied him. Be it a street in Perth, a conference hall in London, a hotel lobby in Hong Kong, or in a bookshop on the Gold Coast, lively discussions ensued in the middle of nowhere. He respected all views and opinions and never deterred dissent.We published nine books with his blessing, the last of which was released on August 29 virtually. He was always encouraging and happily provided a foreword, preface, or speech during the book release. He never missed an event, and his wheelchair was no deterrent. Sorabjee’s thoughts, insights and views have always ignited my academic writings and professional goals.Young at heart His March 9 birthday invite ‘91 and Still Batting’ had drawn a distinguished galaxy of personalities to celebrate the jurists evergreen innings. Brimming with energy, his mind was as crisp as ever. Jazz, not law, was his first love. He has been the solicitor general and the attorney general twice. Platinum innings in the legal profession is but one facet of his omnibus personality.His zest to promote budding lawyers and espouse emerging young entrants ensured that he was held in elevated esteem by the fraternity. He was fair to opponents, respectful to judges, and polite and gentle in courts. He never had qualms or regrets and will remain a paragon in the field.A fiercely independent person, Soli lived life as per his rules. A lover of gastronomic delights — Primula cheese, Thorntons chocolates, Old Parr Whisky, dhansak and Scottish Shortbread were some of his favourites. His family was his biggest anchor. My children Ankit and Aastha who had visited his Mumbai family home, described it as a sprawling colonial bungalow. Sorabjee lives in us to inspire us. Adieu.(The author is a Chandigarh-based lawyer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soli-sorabjee-the-legal-luminary-101619899075203.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||100-bed makeshift Covid hospital to come up in Bathinda in 3 weeks||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the state and central governments have decided to set up a makeshift hospital in Bathinda district that will have 100 beds with oxygen support for patients. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said on Saturday the facility is likely to be functional within three weeks. “Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) will construct the temporary structure near Raman village. A team of doctors and paramedic staff will be supported by the Indian army. We are working to make the project operational soon,” said the DC. HPCL-Mittal group managed-Guru Gobind Singh Refinery has committed to providing land and basic facilities for the hospital near its plant, about 45 km from Bathinda city. When functional, it will be the largest state-managed medical facility for coronavirus patients in southern Punjab. “As per the plan, the upcoming facility will be equipped to treat Covid patients in need of oxygen support. The location has been identified near Raman to have a sufficient supply of oxygen from the refinery. It may be expanded if the need arises in the future,” added the DC. Official sources at the refinery said work to augment industrial oxygen-producing facility at the plant into medical-grade gas is underway on priority. Following a spurt in infections in the last month, Bathinda is now rated among the six worst-hit districts of Punjab. With 653 new cases reported on Saturday, the number of active Covid cases has reached 5,141. As many as 13 Covid-related deaths were reported on Saturday. In the second half of April, 6,969 new cases and 101 deaths were reported. Similarly, other districts of the region also witnessed a sharp surge in Covid cases in the past one month with Bathinda leading among seven districts of the south Malwa belt. Finance minister Manpreet Badal on Saturday took stock of preparedness in government and private hospitals of Bathinda district. He assured hospital managements and patients to provide oxygen and other medical support to the Covid care institutes. Meanwhile, the local administration on Saturday directed 26 private hospitals to prepare 664 additional beds exclusively for Covid patients. The official spokesperson of the administration said 512 beds will be kept for patients needing oxygen support whereas the hospitals will reserve 152 for critically ill patients requiring ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/100bed-makeshift-covid-hospital-to-come-up-in-bathinda-in-3-weeks-101619898956156.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||BSF seized 205kg heroin this year, highest for same period in 5 years||The Border Security Force (BSF) seized around 215-kg heroin till April 30 this year along the 553-km-long border with Pakistan this year, which is the highest in the corresponding periods of last five years. The recovery was around 130 kg and 75 kg for the corresponding periods of 2020 and 2019, respectively.Officials of the BSF say prolonged foggy season was the main reason behind the increase in attempts to push drugs into India. “This year, the fog engulfed the border areas till March end anti-national elements across the border took advantage of it. Also, the water level of the rivers and their tributaries along the border remained high this year, paving the way for the smugglers to push in contrabands into the Indian territory,” said a senior BSF official, who didn’t wish to be named.He said, “Our troops remained extra vigilant and most of attempts were thwarted. We were also successful in catching a Pakistani smuggler.” On April 8, a Pakistani national, who was trying to push in a heroin consignment into the Indian territory near Khemkaran border in Tarn Taran district, was apprehended. With the arrest of Ajmad Ali (19) of Lahore, the BSF had also seized 21-kg heroin and two smart phones from the area. Same day, a Pakistani smuggler was neutralised by the BSF near border outpost (BoP) Kakkar in Amritsar district. From the spot, 22-kg heroin and two AK-47 rifles were also recovered. During these operations, the BSF had also identified two Indian smugglers, including one Jagdish Singh Bhura, who lives in Belgium and has been involved in many terror activities in India.A senior Punjab Police official said, “Besides breaking the supply chain of the drugs in the state, our personnel have been ensuring to attach the assets of the drug smugglers. Due to the increased vigil and strictness of the Punjab Police, there has been a huge shortage of the drugs. Seeing the supply chain broken, desperate Pakistani smugglers leaving no stone unturned to push in more contraband into India. However, with the help of the BSF officials, we have strengthened our second line of defence along the border, and every suspect is monitored.”The seizure of the BSF is different from the recoveries by the Punjab Police. The 22-kg heroin that was seized near the Kakkar BoP was in the kitty of the Punjab Police as the operation was on the basis of Amritsar-rural police’s input.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-seized-205kg-heroin-this-year-highest-for-same-period-in-5-years-101619898597417.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wild Buzz: Love, upside down||At Shanti Kunj Park in Chandigarh’s Sector 16, walkers cannot help but be dazzled by colonies of the Indian flying fox or the Indian fruit bat hanging from large trees in dozens. They make one hell of an unending racket during the day. These large bats can be seen flying in waves over the Rose Garden at dusk like endless formations of bomber aircrafts reducing Berlin to rubble during the hellish nights of the World War II. A voracious fruit eater that forages on guava, mango and litchi orchards located in the countryside adjuncts of the tricity, these bats also help themselves to an assortment of fruit to be found in bungalows’ gardens in the heart of the spaced out urban habitation.It is currently breeding season for this mammal and a female will deliver but one pup after an evolved, expressive and vigorous sexual session with the dominant male. Dominant males establish sexual privileges over a harem of 8-15 females and engage in vicious territorial fights to ward off sniffing Don Juans. The sexual habits of bats have been recorded by field scientists as inclusive of a male performing cunnilingus on the female and the latter reciprocating with fellatio while copulation is underway. Male bats are recorded as grooming their sexual organ before copulation.All these practises serve to lengthen the period of copulation between these fox-like mammals endowed with boundless promiscuity and libido. Couple that with known longevity, a bat in captivity survived nearly 32 years. For all the seeming upside-down discomfort of their existence, it is evident bats have done exceedingly well in their romps among tree rooftops!The tricity region sports an abundance of bat colonies because of the presence of mature trees (especially of the ficus preferred by these creatures), wild and cultivated fruit trees and a chain of check dams, including Sukhna Lake, that serve as perennial water sources for bats to skim over, quench their thirst and regulate body temperature. They can fly long distances to forage at night: a study in Brazil recorded fruit bats flying 200km to find their favourite food! A grace in Sukhna air While veering towards the regulator-end, walkers at the Sukhna Lake may have noticed the most graceful of bird flights, as if they were sailing and bobbing in the infernal air. Migratory whiskered terns are white birds adorned with a black mask, grey-black underparts and they undertake regular forays over gently rippling waters and dripping labourers pruning lotus weed tops. They stage an appearance at the Sukhna in April and May. The march of summer has bestowed upon this species a tuxedoed breeding plumage — splashes and enclaves of black or grey that offset the bird’s predominantly white colouration of winter gone by. Terns prefer the Sukhna in large numbers during those summers when it is drying up as they rest and roost on mudflats and silted isles. As the lake is currently brimming with water, only a dozen terns have arrived and they have colonised two small pieces of driftwood near the regulator-end. The terns don’t let any other avian species sit there though among themselves they regularly quarrel and jostle for space. They throw hoarse abuses and threats at each other while grabbing balcony seats in the driftwood’s limited capacity hall! I leave it to the inimitable descriptions of bird behaviour penned by Dr Salim Ali to capture the essence of Sukhna’s endearing winged tourist: “Flies gracefully back and forth over a marsh, bill and eye directed intently below for signs of life. Plunges into water for fish or stoops on insects or crabs on the ground and bears them away in its stride. Although possessing webbed feet, terns hardly ever alight on water....When not hunting they rest on a rock or mudbank on their ridiculously short legs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wild-buzz-love-upside-down-101619898475618.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh man provides ‘langar on wheels’ to needy during pandemic in Nagpur||NagpurA Sikh man has been crisscrossing the streets of Nagpur city of Maharashtra on his two-wheeler to provide free food to the needy every day, a practice he has been following for the last few years, which continues even during the distressing times of coronavirus pandemic.Jamshed Singh Kapoor, 41, who is an astrologer, has been running this mobile ‘langar sewa’, under which he provides ‘dal khichdi’ to hundreds of people for five hours starting 3pm.Wearing a white T-shirt with ‘langar sewa’ printed on it, Kapoor can be easily be spotted serving dal khichdi to people at various locations in the city, with a container filled with the eatable item tied to his two-wheeler.Talking to PTI about his initiative, Kapoor said that he has been running the ‘langar sewa’ in Nagpur since 2013.“Earlier, only the underprivileged and poor used to come to get food. But with small eateries remaining shut due to the pandemic and the restrictions, people from all walks of life avail this service,” he said.He said people also support him in his endeavour and donate rice and pulses so that he continues to serve the needy.Recalling an incident, Kapoor said a beggar, who used to get food from him, had given him a bag containing some clothes saying that they should be given to some needy people after his death.“I took the bag home. After his death, when I opened it, I found that he had kept ₹25,000 cash inside along with the clothes, which he had not mentioned earlier,” he said.Kapoor says he has been running this service in memory of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, who he says had visited Nagpur in 1512 and provided langar service to the local tribals.He says that he dreams to run the ‘langar sewa’ for the needy 24x7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-man-provides-langar-on-wheels-to-needy-during-pandemic-in-nagpur-101619898415736.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||National Commission seeks report on quota in promotion to judicial officers in Punjab||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has written to Punjab government asking whether reservation in promotion is being given to judicial officers and other court employees belonging to SC category in Punjab.The letter written on April 26 is addressed to the chief secretary says that a communication from the commission on March 22 had asked the government to respond within 15 days. However, the government has not responded to date despite a reminder letter on April 8. “It is therefore requested that the matter be expedited, and an action taken report be furnished within seven days positively. It is requested that till the case is decided by the commission, status quo of the case may be maintained,” the letter reads. In its April 8 letter the state was told that a complaint had been received on non-implementation of reservation in promotions in the case of SC employees working in courts, including judicial officers and the commission has decided to investigate it. The commission had sought a response from the government, which reportedly wasn’t done.Between March 22 and April 8, the government has notified promotions of 20 judicial officers to state superior judicial services and 40 odd more judicial officers were given promotions on April 7. Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in Services) Act, 2006, provides for reservation in promotion for SC category employees — 14 per cent in the case of Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’, and 20 per cent in the case of Group ‘C’ and Group ‘D’ services. Vijay Pal Singh Mattu, a Amritsar based complainant lawyer, who had approached the commission in March, says, “even as the law was passed in 2006, it was never implemented, in the case of judicial services and for other court employees.” The communication from the commission says it has taken a serious view of the state government not replying to its communication. The chief secretary should take notice of the case and in case commission does not receive reply from the chief secretary within the stipulated time, the commission may exercise the powers of civil courts and issue summons for appearance in person or by representative before it, the communication says, seeking response within seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/national-commission-seeks-report-on-quota-in-promotion-to-judicial-officers-in-punjab-101619898295201.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cops hurt during protest: Over 100 farmers booked for murder bid in Patiala||A day after four cops got injured during a farmers’ protest, the Patiala police booked over 100 farmers, including 21 by name, on the charges of attempt to murder. Protesting against land acquisition for the Delhi-Katra expressway, the farmers from different parts of the state held tractor parade in Patiala on Friday. Though the district administration scheduled a panel meeting of Delhi Katra Expressway Kisan Sangharh Committee (DKEKSC) with officials of state government and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is competent authority for the project, on May 4, the farmers have squatted near the CM residence for indefinite period. Deputy superintendent of police Yogesh Sharma said an attempt to murder case has been registered against Harmanpreet Singh Jeji, coordinator of the DKEKSC, Jagjit Singh, sarpanch of Galoli village, and 19 others, and over 50 unidentified people.“We have initiated the process to identify the other farmers present at the protest site where the protestors tried to run over police personnel standing at the spot,” he said.The case has been registered under Sections of 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (punishment for causing injuries voluntarily), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 427 (mischief), 436 (commits mischief by fire or any explosive substance) 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public function), 148 (rioting) and 149 (common intention) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and other sections of Public property (prevention of damage) Act and disaster management act.Meanwhile, Jeji said they will continue their protest till the meeting with top officials on May 4 remain fruitful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cops-hurt-during-protest-over-100-farmers-booked-for-murder-bid-in-patiala-101619898175412.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu slams CM over delay in ensuring justice in sacrilege, police firing cases||Congress legislator Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday slammed Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the alleged delay in justice in the incidents of desecration of a religious text and subsequent police firing incident in Faridkot in 2015.He has been attacking the state government and the chief minister over the issue and had accused Amarinder of evading responsibility in the 2015 sacrilege case.The cricketer-turned-politician on Saturday shared a 2016 video clip of Amarinder in which he is heard “promising to act against the Badals” in the 2015 police firing incident at Faridkot, if voted to power.In a tweet along with the video, Sidhu said, “Big Boast, Small Roast... Big Outcry, No Outcome.” He shared another video clip of the chief minister’s recent interview to a web channel in which he said the law would take its own course and that he could not interfere in the probe by the special investigation team.In another tweet, the MLA from Amritsar East said it was not acceptable to blame the Punjab and Haryana high court verdict quashing the probe report by the Punjab Police’s special investigation team into police opening fire at people protesting the desecration of a religious text in Faridkot in 2015.“People of Punjab did not elect the high court judge. Blaming the verdict for what is the failure of the executive authority will not be accepted. My stand yesterday, today and tomorrow - Justice for Punjab’s Soul... Letter to Jathedar Akal Takht Sahib for Ex-Communication of Badals (2018),” Sidhu tweeted.Along with it he also posted his 2018 video in which he was heard saying that he had written a letter to the Akal Takht Jathedar “seeking ex-communication of the Badals”.On April 27, the Punjab chief minister had hit back at Sidhu for continuously attacking him and his government, describing the cricketer-turned-politician’s outbursts as “total indiscipline”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-slams-cm-over-delay-in-ensuring-justice-in-sacrilege-police-firing-cases-101619897934756.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||CM announces devp projects to mark 400th Parkash Purb||As part of the 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Teg Bahadur, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday dedicated several development projects to the people, including conservation and development of Old Jail at Bassi Pathana where the 9th Guru was imprisoned by Noor Mohammad Khan Mirza for 40 days while he was on his way to meet Aurangzeb. The CM said the state government had sent a memorandum to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a grant of ₹938.37 crore for infrastructural projects in the state as a part of the celebrations. He also announced the facelift of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Museum, Anandpur Sahib, at a cost of ₹2 crore, with Illumination of its façade and modernisation of the first floor with advanced technology, while retaining the original concept of exhibition of paintings at the ground floor. The museum was built in 1977 near Takht Kesgarh Sahib and is the only museum in Punjab on Guru Teg Bahadur. A nature park will be developed in the vicinity of Virasat-e-Khalsa in Anandpur Sahib at a cost of ₹10 crore, the CM said, adding it will be spread over 62 acres with extensive tree plantation. It will be developed as a habitat for rare species of flora and is likely to be commissioned by the end of the year. The CM also announced that the Government of India would soon release a commemorative stamp on the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur. Acceding to the people’s demand, the CM announced upgrade of Baba Bakala panchayat to nagar panchayat. He said the decision will be implemented after the Census. The CM also announced the laying of foundation stone to the upcoming Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur State University of Law in Tarn Taran district. The university had already been established by an Act passed last year. Earlier, Amarinder virtually joined the people in offering ‘ardas’ to mark the auspicious 400th Prakash Purb.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-announces-devp-projects-to-mark-400th-parkash-purb-101619897815271.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: The gem that is literature in the age of gists||“You don’t know what the Inshorts app is?” my brother asked me, incredulously. “No,” I replied gingerly, “What is it about?”“It is a phone app for daily world news, summarised in all of 60 words. Please don’t tell me you are reading entire newspapers!” he exclaimed, in the same cynical tone. “I try to”, I said, guilty as charged. The application may be an efficient way to quickly catch up on news, but whatever happened to reading the good old newspaper cover to cover, paired with a cup of chai?Admittedly, news on the move is a good idea in today’s busy times, but this brutal massacre of long texts and lengthy books has left me a tad heartbroken. There is a growing demand for quick, short and concise reads. However, I feel that literature should not be subjected to a massacre of any kind!This textual annihilation and stagnation of literature reminds one of the profound words of the erstwhile king of short stories Sadat Hassan Manto. The power of an atom was not discovered, it was always there. If an atom is misused or unused, the power of the atom cannot be called weak or dead. Similarly, Manto has likened the atom to literature. Literature has an “innate vitality”. If one does not read it, the gem is still there — powerful and enlightening on its own. If society moves away from literature and books, it by no means indicates the enfeeblement of literature, but points towards the enfeeblement and stagnation of society itself. Manto could not have been more right about it.Simply sharing the gist of a classical piece of writing will be as bland as sharing the binary outcome of a cricket match, without having watched it! In an age of information galore, attention spans are narrowing. We prefer gists. Long texts are becoming repulsive. Also, there is so much that demands our attention now! Charles Dickens’ Great Expectations is fighting a losing battle against the millennial expectations.Some of us have a natural affinity towards books. However, reading does not always come naturally to us. At times, it needs to be gently introduced, just like a slice of say, orange fruit. The moment you bite into its citrus flesh, there is a burst of flavour. It takes a moment to relish its refreshing tang. It is only then that one begins to savour it, and proceeds to peeling it further, revelling in its juicy goodness. Books, for some of us, may feel like drudgery, a monumental project. However, when words begin to paint a picture before our eyes, and whisk us to lands afar, books become blissful haulage. When words strung together form magical sentences which suddenly resonate, they become one’s companions. On days when nothing seems right, books envelope, and provide a refuge like none other.Literature has something to offer to each one of us. There is war and history for my father. There are never enough self-help books for my sister-in-law. There is fantasy fiction for my daughter. There is coming-of-age literature for me. There is political history for my spouse, who is slowly moving from audio to paper. He has tasted the orange for sure!Last week, on April 23, we observed the World Book Day. Let’s give the truncated reading apps a rest, and pick up a newspaper, or even better, a book. Whether or not you are a reader, literature just awaits to be unbosomed.(The writer is a Chandigarh-based contributor) seeratsandhu25@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-the-gem-that-is-literature-in-the-age-of-gists-101619897696427.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ramp up screening of symptomatic patients: Punjab health minister||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Sidhu on Saturday ordered civil surgeons to ramp up screening of symptomatic persons on war footing, especially in rural areas of the state. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation of 11 districts, Sidhu said people have misconception that they are suffering from the seasonal viral and typhoid, but when they reach hospital due to breathing complications, they are diagnosed with Covid-19. Expressing concern, he instructed civil surgeons to intensify the screening drive in villages as 58% of deaths have been registered in rural areas. The minister said that considering the high case fatality rate (CFR) in the state, there is also need to keep close watch on the functioning of private clinics/RMPs in villages. He said senior medical officers must ensure Covid testing of every single symptomatic persons who are getting treatment from such clinics. If any private health facility has not shared the information concerning the symptomatic persons on routine basis, they must be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act for violating Government‘s guidelines, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ramp-up-screening-of-symptomatic-patients-punjab-health-minister-101619897695050.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab hits new peak with 7,041 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Saturday reported 7,041 fresh Covid cases, highest in a day, bringing the infection count to 3,77,990. The state also registered 138 more Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 9,160, according to a medical bulletin.Earlier, the state had witnessed the highest single-day spike of 7,014 cases on April 26.Bathinda recorded a maximum of 22 deaths, followed by 18 in Ludhiana, 12 in Gurdaspur, 10 in Sangrur, eight each in Jalandhar and Amritsar, seven in Fazilka, six in Hoshiarpur, five in Muktsar and four each in Kapurthala and Barnala. Ludhiana recorded a maximum of 1,600 fresh cases, followed by 936 in Mohali, 653 in Bathinda and 566 in Jalandhar, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 55,798 on Friday to 58,229, the bulletin said. The recovery count rose to 3,10,601 after 4,448 more patients were discharged from hospitals, the bulletin said.A total of 114 critical Covid patients are on ventilator support while 644 are on oxygen support.The health authorities have collected 72,81,978 samples for Covid testing in the state so far, the bulletin said.Kapurthala village hits 90% of vaccination target JALANDHAR: Nangal Lubana village in Kapurthala, which had 10% positivity rate during the first wave, has vaccinated 90% of its population in the age group of 45 and above. The village now registers 1% positivity rate. Senior medical officer Dr Kiranpreet Sekhon said with the support of villagers, nine special camps were organised and 1,213 people (or 90.92%) above 45 years were vaccinated. 24X7 oxygen bank established in PatialaPatiala: To ensure the uninterrupted supply of oxygen to Covid patients, the Patiala district administration took a unique initiative by launching “oxygen on wheels” service. Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said any private or government hospital in need of oxygen in the district can avail of the 24x7 oxygen bank service. “Though there was no shortage of oxygen in hospitals across the district, the administration has decided to reserve oxygen cylinders for making these available in need of emergency,” he said. Meanwhile, industries minister Sunder Sham Arora on Saturday appealed to industry for providing oxygen cylinders to district administrations for use in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hits-new-peak-with-7-041-fresh-covid-cases-101619897454897.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Four Covid patients die at Jammu’s Batra hospital, kin allege oxygen crunch||After four Covid-19 patients died on Saturday at Acharya Shri Chander College of Medical Sciences (ASCOMS) and Hospital, popularly known as Batra hospital, on the outskirts of Jammu city, the deceased’s family members created a ruckus and alleged shortage of oxygen and negligence of the hospital management. The family members were seen weeping inconsolably at the hospital, which is located in the Sidhra area.Those who lost their lives are Irshad Ahmad Hamal, Haider Ali, Manjeet Singh and Bitta Kumari Kher.Though the J&K government denied the allegations, ASCOMS principal Dr Pawan Malhotra admitted that the hospital faced some hiccups in oxygen supply on Saturday morning, but denied any shortage.“There was shortage of cylinders this morning. We had informed the government and it intervened. , We had tried to procure them last night. Our requirement is 350 cylinders per day and yesterday, we had 294,” said Dr Malhotra.“We had apprised the government of the status of oxygen at the hospital on Friday itself. For the last three days, we have not been admitting Covid patients as we were not being able to cope with the load. But, those who had already been hospitalised, were being taken care of,” he said.Dr Malhotra said that the kin of all four deceased were apprised of the serious condition of the patients and that they may not survive. “We have 32 more patients on oxygen support. The hospital has not taken in any new patients for the last three days. We had given admitted patients the option to take voluntary discharge, if they wish to,” he added.Dr Malhotra said that Kher and Haider Ali had tested Covid negative, but their lungs had suffered extensive damage. “Their lungs were not functioning independently. Hamal and Manjeet Singh were Covid positive and they too, could not survive,” he added.However, the families of the deceased patients outrightly denied the claims of the principal and said that the hospital kept them in dark about the status of oxygen supply. They also accused doctors and nursing staff at the Covid ward of negligence.One of the protesting relatives said that their family member was undergoing treatment at the hospital for the last 17 days, but died due to non-availability of oxygen.Meanwhile, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday clarified that no patient has died due to shortage of oxygen supply at ASCOM hospital, as the supply is being replenished regularly, as per requirement raised.“Four deaths reported in Batra hospital Jammu today (Saturday) occurred because of routine medical reasons, not because of shortage of oxygen,” said a statement of the administration on its Twitter handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-covid-patients-die-at-jammu-s-batra-hospital-kin-allege-oxygen-crunch-101619896677926.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Over 67% patients who succumbed to Covid in Himachal had co-morbidities: Health dept data||As the second Covid wave ravages Himachal Pradesh, data compiled by the health department reveals that more than 67% patients who succumbed to the virus in the state had co-morbidities.The statistics were presented during a review meeting in Shimla, which was presided over by HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur .Till April 30, 1,484 patients succumbed to Covid in Himachal Pradesh. Of this, 999 (67.3%) had co-morbidities, while 425 (32.7%) were non comorbid.The most common comorbidities among the deceased include diabetes mellitus in 499 cases (49.9%), hypertension in 459 (45.9%), chronic kidney disease in 111 (11.1%) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in 84 (8.4%). Those who lost their lives to the disease include 970 (65.4%) males and 514 (34.6%) females. The data also reveals that 90% of those who died were in the age group of 45 and above.Out of 362 Covid deaths in the state from April 14 to 30, 67 people had received the first dose of the vaccine while only two of those who died had received the second dose.Both the cases were reported from Kangra district and the duration between getting the second dose and deaths were four and 16 days, respectively. Thus, in both these cases, the deceased had succumbed to the disease before development of effective immunity, a press communiqué by the health department states.Meanwhile, a government spokesperson said that since more than 90% of those who have contracted the disease are in home isolation, it is important to have adequate knowledge of self-care procedures.He said proning was one such technique which is extremely beneficial for patients with breathing difficulty, especially during home isolation. It improves ventilation and keeps the breathing easy, he added. Regular monitoring of SpO2, along with other vitals like temperature, blood pressure and blood sugar, is important during home isolation, he added.“Proning is required only when the patient faces breathing difficulty and SpO2 dips below 94,” the spokesperson said.“Avoid proning for an hour after meals. Another alternative for patients under home isolation is regular alterations in lying position. This helps improve ventilation status and blood oxygen levels,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-67-patients-who-succumbed-to-covid-in-himachal-had-co-morbidities-health-dept-data-101619896676673.html
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Grim milestones: J&K sees steepest rise in Covid cases in April||More than 45,123 Covid cases were reported from Jammu and Kashmir in April, the highest since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year. The month also saw 289 deaths in both regions of the UT.In March, J&K had recorded 4,519 infections and 37 deaths. April saw an almost eight-fold increase in cases and 7.8 times more deaths, compared to last month. This has forced officials to devise a new strategy to curb the spread of the disease.The number of active cases also rose exponentially and reached 28,359 by April 30, officials said. Most of these were added after February 9, when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.As many as 1,45,441 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 83.54 %. In the first fortnight of February, the recovery rate was 98%.From an all- time low of 43 cases on February 8, the surge became pronounced by mid-March. The spike got steeper in April, with over 1,200 to 2,000 fresh infections being reported daily since mid-April. On April 30, 3,532 cases were recorded, which the highest single-day spike.Dr Javaid Malik, professor and head of department of chest medicine at SKIMS Medical College, Bemina, said that the cases are rising as the virus is mutating . “This is happening across the country and J&K is no different,” he said. He added that the cases will rise for some more time, before it starts declining again.“It will also depend on whether people follow SoPs and lockdown protocols. If the cases continue to rise, then the government should go for an extended lockdown,” Malik added.Following the surge, hospitals in J&K have started adding more beds and oxygen plants, as the officials apprehend more cases could come in coming days.Earlier, Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) in Srinagar, which is the Valley’s largest tertiary care hospital, and other medical colleges, decided to stop all non-emergency surgeries and admissions to cater to the increasing rush of Covid patients. Even the routine OPDs were shut down and the administration began online consultation for patients.Dr Salim Khan, professor and head of community medicine at Government Medical College, Srinagar, said that the cases have gone up due to high rate of transmission. “Compared to last year, transmission rate is high this time. The lockdown can help flatten the curve, or else there will be huge transmission among the population.”In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections, 1,935 in February and 3,535 in January. As many as 37 people succumbed to the virus in March, 21 in February and 53 in January.The peak of the first Covid wave was in September last year, when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 death.Choudhary Mohammad Yasin, mission director of National Rural Health Mission (NRHM), J&K, said that officials are working overtime to control the disease. “Hopefully, things will get better in the next few weeks,” he said.Many people, however, blame the government for throwing gardens open to the public, especially Tulip Garden, which sees a huge rush of locals and tourists. Many say this is one of the reasons for the rise in cases in Kashmir. “The government did take some decisions in haste, especially holding Tulip festival in the middle of the pandemic, when cases were on rise across the country. So, that’s one of the reasons for spike in cases,” said Dr Seema, a resident of uptown Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grim-milestones-j-k-sees-steepest-rise-in-covid-cases-in-april-101619896674718.html
