03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab needs more tankers to transport oxygen: Capt to Centre||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to the Centre for more Oxygen tankers to be made available to the state. He said the state urgently needs more tankers, as it currently had only 15 at its disposal. These, he said, were not enough to handle the requirement for transporting the oxygen supplies from other states. Punjab has a 195 metric tonne (MT) allocation from plants in other states, but the actual supply received over the past seven days has been around 110-120 MT daily. The number of patients on oxygen support has also gone up from 4,000 to 9,000. “The situation remains fluid and a matter of concern,” he said. The current consumption of oxygen in the state is more than 225 MT daily. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan said a tanker takes 4-5 days to bring the 90MT allocation from Bokaro plant and unless the state gets more tankers, the situation could aggravate. In addition to 90 MT from Bokaro, the state’s current allocation is 60MT from a plant in Baddi, 20MT from Panipat, 15MT from Roorkee and 10MT from Dehradun. Another 80MT is generated daily from air separation units (ASUs) and pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants in the state. Medical education minister OP Soni said more oxygen cylinders were also needed at government hospitals to meet the growing requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-needs-more-tankers-to-transport-oxygen-capt-to-centre-101620065714002.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||No takeaways from restaurants, only home deliveries allowed: Capt||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday banned all takeaway deliveries from restaurants, which, he said, was being used by youngsters as a pretext to move out of their homes. Chairing a virtual meeting to review the Covid situation, Amarinder directed the officials that only home deliveries of food should be allowed. He also gave permission for shops selling fertilisers to be open, modifying the additional restrictions imposed by the state home department a day ago. Reiterating that he was not in favour of a complete and harsh lockdown, the CM warned people against laxity in adherence to the curbs imposed in the state. If the the situation did not improve, we would be forced to consider a total lockdown, he said, adding that he had so far refrained from ordering a sweeping lockdown because it would hurt the poor the most and would lead to exodus of migrant labourers, plunging industries into chaos again. ‘Bed capacity to be increased by 20% in 10 days’ Underlining the need to step up preparedness amid projections of a peak in the coming days, Amarinder ordered 20% increase in bed capacity in the next 10 days. He directed the health and medical education departments to get stadiums, gymnasiums and other such places ready to house patients. Tented camps should be set up, and gyms/halls should be converted into L2 and L3 facilities to be prepared for the worst, he added. Health minister Balbir Sidhu said the situation was grim with only 300 beds now available at L3 level in the state. Health secretary Hussan Lal pointed out that the state’s positivity rate had on Sunday stood at 12%, with the Malwa region showing increase cases in the last 7-10 days. The state’s overall CFR is close to 2%, and even higher in rural areas at 2.7%. The worrying factor was that 17% of all deaths had no co-morbid conditions, he said. Journalists among frontline workers The CM also announced the inclusion of all accredited and yellow card journalists in the state in the list of frontline warriors. All power corporation employees in the state have also been brought into the ambit of frontline workers. These employees, along with the journalists, will now be eligible for all benefits, including priority vaccination, that frontline workers are entitled to from the state government, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-takeaways-from-restaurants-only-home-deliveries-allowed-capt-101620065050214.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||May 3: 157 deaths, 6,798 fresh infections in Punjab||Punjab on Monday recorded 157 deaths for the second consecutive day with Ludhiana district registering a maximum 21 fatalities followed by 13 each in Amritsar and Bathinda districts. According to the government’s media bulletin, the state logged 6,798 fresh infections on Monday and maximum infections (1,198) came from Ludhiana district, followed by Jalandhar (697), Bathinda (623), SAS Nagar (534), Patiala (491), Amrtisar (421), Pathankot (336), Fazilka (307), Mansa (296), Muktsar (254), Gurdaspur (258), Sangrur (240), Hoshiarpur (223). The positivity rate on Monday was the highest in Pathankot (19.36%) and SAS Nagar at 18.99% was not far behind, the bulletin said. Bathinda district recorded 18.04% positivity rate, Fazilka (17%,) while 14 other districts too reported more than 10% positivity rate. The bulletin said 6,016 patients were discharged on Monday, while 7,845 Covid patients were on oxygen support and 213 on ventilator support. Only 30,757 inoculated on MondayDue to shortage of vaccine, only 30,757 doses of Covid vaccine were administered on Monday as most of the vaccination centres remained closed. Of this number, 20,870 got the first dose and 9,887 people got the second jab. -----||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/may-3-157-deaths-6-798-fresh-infections-in-punjab-101620064810242.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Remdesivir black-marketing: ‘Kingpin’ held in Panipat||The Haryana Police have arrested a resident of Panipat who was allegedly involved in black-marketing of remdesivir injection, which is in high demand for treatment of Covid-19 patients.“Accused Pardeep, of Sector 13/17 in Panipat, used to buy injections from an Uttarakhand resident,” police said.As per preliminary probe, the accused has illegally sold 650 injections of 750 vials brought so far.“During investigation, it has come to light that the wrapper of the seized vials is quite different from the company’s injection and it seems that they are not original,” police said, requesting public to be wary of such gangs involved in black-marketing and immediately inform the police.Police said the accused gave 100 injections to his nephew Sumit, 150 to one Saksham and 40 injections to one Keshav for black-marketing.Police on April 27 had nabbed the three youths from Panipat on charges of black-marketing of remdesivir injection and recovered 19 vials from their possession.During police remand, these accused had revealed that they had purchased the seized vials from Pardeep, who runs a medical store at a hospital on Sanoli road. Based on this information, police nabbed Pardeep.While accused Sumit, Saksham and Keshav were sent to judicial custody after completion of police remand, Pradeep has been remanded to four-day police custody.Man held with 4 remdesivir injections

KARNAL
 The CIA-3 of Panipat police have arrested a man for black marketing of remdesivir injection. Police have recovered four injections from accused Gaurav, of Panipat. CIA-3 in-charge, inspector Anil Chhilar said police and the district drug controller arrested him from Sector 13 after he failed to produce bills of the injections. The accused was booked under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, the Essential Commodities Act and the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/remdesivir-black-marketing-kingpin-held-in-panipat-101620061029295.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vij warns Haryana hospitals against overcharging from Covid patients||Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij said that strict action will be taken against hospitals that are overcharging for facilities and other medical assistance from Covid patients in state.Currently, 42 private hospitals in state are treating Covid patients and the government has fixed rates of isolation beds, and ICU beds with and without ventilators.“Strict action will be taken if any hospital is found charging more than the fixed rates from Covid patients,” he said.Vij added that a three-member committee has been constituted for distribution of tocilizumab injection as per requirement of patients admitted at government and private hospitals.Covid state nodal officer Dr Dhruv Chaudhary has been appointed as chairman of the committee mandated to set criteria regarding delivery of injections and other related things.These injections will be made available to local hospitals through local civil surgeons at purchase price and these injections will be given free of cost to government hospitals and medical colleges.Vij said around 70% patients admitted in Haryana hospitals are from Delhi and other adjoining states, who are also being treated in the same way.“To meet the shortage of doctors and paramedical staff in state, around 1,400 students of PG and MBBS final year of medical colleges in state have been ordered to serve in hospitals of Haryana in midst of the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vij-warns-haryana-hospitals-against-overcharging-from-covid-patients-101620060910756.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Non-essential services suspended in Chandigarh for a week, starting Tuesday||In a bid to control the spread of Covid-19 in Chandigarh, the UT administration on Monday clamped week-long restrictions in the city on the pattern of Punjab.As per the fresh orders, there will be day time restrictions from 5pm on May 4 to 5am on May 11. The complete weekend lockdown will also continue during this period.While there will be no restriction on inter-state movement, those entering Chandigarh without Covid negative reports or vaccine certificates will be subject to random testing.As per the latest UT order, all shops selling non-essential items will remain closed. Recruitment exams, except those like UPSC, will be postponed.Visitors entering government offices will also be required to produce vaccination certificates or Covid negative reports.The decisions were taken in the Covid review meeting held here on Monday. In the meeting, chaired by the Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, there was a detailed discussion on the restrictive steps, including lockdown measures, taken by the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. “In view of the fact that Chandigarh is the common capital of Punjab and Haryana, total sealing of borders will not be possible. It was also felt that a total lockdown for a long period will adversely affect the economy and may also lead to migration of labourers from the city, thereby causing massive disruption,” said a UT spokesperson.Several previously imposed restrictions have been retained. All government offices and banks will work at 50% capacity. As far as possible, all private offices will ensure that their staff work from home. Public transport will run at 50% capacity.The ban on cinema halls, gyms, spa, bar, swimming pool and coaching centres will continue. Sports complexes will also remain closed. Special permission can be given by secretary (sports) to athletes preparing for Olympics etc. Crowded places such as Sukhna Lake, museums, libraries, Rock Garden etc. will remain closed for public.Restaurants, including cafes, coffee shops and eating joints will be allowed to provide only take away services. These won’t be allowed to offer sit-in services. Home deliveries will be allowed till 9pm.The complete ban on all social, cultural, sports and political gatherings will continue. Gathering for occasions such as marriages will be restricted to 50 and for cremation/funeral, it will be 20 persons.Schools, colleges and coaching centres will remain closed. However, teaching staff will be required to come as per detailed instructions to be issued by the education department.Meanwhile, all hospitals, nursing homes and health-related facilities like testing laboratories etc. will function normally. Shops selling essential items like milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy products, eggs, meat and mobile repair are also allowed to run as normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nonessential-services-suspended-in-chandigarh-for-a-week-starting-tuesday-101620046628599.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||60-year-old Covid patient ends life in Rewari hospital||A 60-year-old Covid patient committed suicide by jumping off the third floor of the Civil Hospital in Rewari on Monday. The patient had retired from the post of sub divisional officer (SDO) in the state’s power department recently. Also read: Govt to rope in medical interns, final yr MBBS students to fight new Covid waveHospital authorities said the patient had been brought to the isolation ward on Sunday after he tested positive. Doctors said he was rushed to the trauma centre but was declared brought dead. A police spokesman said the victim’s son told them that his father was mentally upset for the past many months. “We are collecting CCTV footage of the incident and interrogating the medical staff of the isolation ward about the incident,” the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/60yearold-covid-patient-ends-life-in-rewari-hospital-101620046446514.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana added nearly 200,000 Covid-19 cases, over 1,000 fatalities in April||Haryana, where a week-long lockdown started on Monday to curb the spread of Covid-19, added nearly 2 lakh cases and over 1,000 fatalities between April 1 and April 30.Gurgaon, which is the worst-affected district in the state, contributed 59,540 cases during April. Districts like Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal and Sonipat also fuelled the sharp increase in infections.Data issued by the state's health department showed that as on April 1, Haryana's total Covid-19 case count was 2,92,409, which rose to 4,87,978 on April 30, a jump of 1,95,569 cases.The total fatalities increased from 3,164 to 4,216 during the period, it showed.Among the worst-hit districts like Gurgaon, which share borders with Delhi, the infection count rose from 63,408 on April 1 to 1,22,948 on April 30.The count in Faridabad increased by 24,919 cases from 47,849 to 72,768 between April 1-30, while in Sonipat it increased by 13,568 new from 15,500 to 29,068 during the period.In Karnal and Hisar, the cases jumped from 14,668 to 27,251 and 17,467 to 29,755, respectively, during April.The per day fatalities in Haryana, which on an average was around 10-12 per day till April 1, rose to 100 and above towards the month's end.Similarly, daily case count for the entire state which on an average was around 1,500 to 1,600 jumped to more than 13,000 by April end.Gurgaon district, which till April 1 was reporting about 300-400 cases per day, saw a huge surge by month-end with 4,000 plus daily infections.Faridabad district's daily case count jumped from around 100 per day around the beginning of April to 1,500 plus by the month's end.The active cases in Haryana rose from 10,362 on April 1 to 97,562 on April 30, recovery rate dropped from 95.37 per cent to 79.14 per cent and the Covid-19 positivity rate jumped from 4.67 per cent to 6.63 per cent.Haryana is under lockdown from Monday to 5 am of May 10, a measure taken by the state government to check spread of infection.Earlier, a weekend curfew was imposed in nine districts -- Gurugaon, Faridabad, Panchkula, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad -- from 10 pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday.With a sharp surge in case, the demand for medical oxygen and oxygen beds has risen manifold and the state government has maintained that it is doing its best to tackle the present situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-added-nearly-200-000-covid-19-cases-over-1-000-fatalities-in-april-101620043316369.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||BSF guns down Pakistani intruder along border in Tarn Taran||A Pakistani intruder, who was trying to push in a drug consignment into Indian territory, was shot dead by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel near the border at Khalra village on Sunday night. The incident took place at 9.45pm when the accused was found roaming across the barbed-wire fence and ahead of the zero line, a senior BSF official said, adding that three Pakistani currency notes in the denomination of ₹10 and 20-gm tobacco were recovered from the intruder. Also read: Govt to rope in medical interns, final yr MBBS students to fight new Covid wave“Our troops noticed the accused intruding into Indian territory, ostensibly on a recce to push in a drug consignment through the barbed-wire fence. When our personnel challenged him to stop, he didn’t pay heed. When he tried to flee towards Pakistan, the troops opened fire and he was killed,” the official said. “The accused appears to be in his 50s. His identity could not be ascertained. Pakistani Rangers were informed about the body, but they refused to claim it. We have now handed it over to the local police for its identification,” he said. On April 8, a Pakistani national was arrested with 21kg of heroin near Khemkaran, 15km from Khalra. In another operation in Amritsar’s Kakkar village on the same day, a Pakistani national was shot dead and 22kg of heroin and two AK-47 rifles were recovered. On February 13, a Pakistani intruder was shot dead by the BSF near Khalra village. During the area’s search, the BSF recovered 14kg of heroin, a pistol, a magazine and six rounds of ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-guns-down-pakistani-intruder-along-border-in-tarn-taran-101620041765825.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid lockdown brings life to halt in Haryana||On Day 1 of the week-long lockdown across Haryana to contain the spread of Covid-19, police struggled to keep people indoors in Rohtak, Hisar and Jhajjar districts even as state home minister Anil Vij appealed to residents to adhere to the curbs. “I never wanted to impose a lockdown, but people are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, said. When asked about his earlier assurances of not imposing a shutdown in the state, he said that there was no alternative left after the active cases crossed 1 lakh with nearly 15,000 new cases being reported daily. Though there were fewer vehicles on roads as prohibitory orders were imposed, police personnel were seen taking rounds of various sectors in Rohtak and asking shopkeepers except chemists to close down shops Movement in case for health emergency, vaccination and buying essentials was allowed. Shopping malls and gyms remained closed home delivery of food items from hotels and restaurants was allowed. Police get cracking at 11am In the morning, people were seen waiting around vegetable and fruit stalls near Jat Bhawan in Rohtak, flouting social distancing norms. But after 11am, the police got cracking and the streets wore a deserted look. Sheela Devi, a shopkeeper, said: “We have adequate supply of daily needs, but the police asked me to close the shop at 11am, otherwise they would be forced to issue a challan. Though fewer customers came today, most of them were done with their purchases by 9.30am. It’s important to save lives first, business and profit can follow,” she said. Raju, a retail fruit seller, said: “We are buying limited fruits because of fewer customers. My income has fallen over the past few days. The police want us to go back home at 11am.” (With inputs by Bhavey Nagpal in Ambala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-lockdown-brings-life-to-halt-in-haryana-101620039845581.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana police struggles to enforce fresh Covid-19 lockdown on Day 1||The first day of the week-long lockdown in Haryana received a mixed response in the northern districts, where the police struggled to keep people off the roads and markets while routine traffic continued on highways and link roads.“We have deputed all senior cops to monitor the situation and violators are being challaned (fined) for coming out without permission,” said Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia. He said police check posts were erected to enforce the lockdown and violators were being booked.Highway and city roads were also busy in Kurukshetra and Panipat.“People are not following the guidelines and coming out without any valid reason,” said a cop deputed on the NH44.The Haryana government announced a week-long state-wide lockdown beginning 5 am on Monday till May 10 to curb an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the disease in the state. On Sunday, the state recorded 145 deaths due to the infection—the most in a 24 hour period. It also reported 13,322 new infections, taking the case tally to 514,888. The lockdown came a day before a weekend curfew imposed in the nine worst-affected districts of Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts, was set to end at 5am on Monday.The state government guidelines said that vaccination centres, banks and essential services will remain functional during the lockdown along with all health services, including hospitals, nursing homes and clinics. Bank branches and ATMs, IT vendors for banking operations will also remain functional. Bank branches will be allowed to work as per banking hours during the lockdown.The entire supply chain of essential goods is allowed to function including manufacturing, transport, wholesale or retail sale through local stores. E-commerce companies are allowed to operate, ensuring strict social distancing norms. All goods traffic will be allowed to ply.The guidelines added that buses for public transport with 50% capacity, taxi and cab aggregators with a maximum of three passengers in addition to the driver and metro rail will also be allowed to ply. Also, passenger movement by trains will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-struggles-to-enforce-fresh-covid-19-lockdown-on-day-1-101620035521071.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab prescribes local drugs to treat critically ill Covid patients||The Punjab government on Monday decided to use Itolizumab and Dexamethasone drugs in the Covid treatment protocol in light of the low availability of Tocilizumab for treating critically ill patients. An order in this effect was passed by principal secretary, health, Hussan Lal on Monday. Also read: Reports on Centre not placing new order for Covid-19 jabs ‘baseless’, says govtSharing the development on Twitter, chief secretary Vini Mahajan said the decision to use Itolizumab and Dexamethasone was taken on the advice of the experts’ group of the Punjab government to tackle Covid-19, headed by former PGIMER, Chandigarh, director Dr KK Talwar. The order by the principal secretary, health, says, “It has been observed that doctors are prescribing injections of Tocilizumab-400 mg. This injection is not made in India and its availability in the country is low. Since this drug is not easily available, the doctors treating critically ill patients are advised to prescribe drugs that are equally effective and available in the market.” Amid the rising demand for Tocilizumab, there have been reports about black-marketing of these injections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-prescribes-local-drugs-to-treat-critically-ill-covid-patients-101620034981005.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||No entry in Punjab without negative Covid-19 test or vaccination certificate||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise across the country, the Punjab government on Sunday issued that no one will be allowed to enter the state without a negative Covid-19 test result or a vaccine certificate.In a set of new guidelines to curb the spread of the virus, the state government further said that all non-essential shops would be closed till May 15."Nobody to enter the state whether by air, rail or road without either a Covid-19 negative report or vaccination certificate. In addition, all non-essential shops will continue to remain closed till May 15," the order said.It added, "The daily night curfew from 6 pm to 5 am and a weekend curfew from 6 pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday will continue. RT-PCR testing of road and streetwise vendors to be carried out."In the last 24 hours, Punjab reported 7,327 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5,244 discharges, and 157 deaths, the state health department informed. There are currently 60,108 active cases. The total number of discharges stands at 3,15,845 while the death toll is at 9,317.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-entry-in-punjab-without-negative-covid-19-test-or-vaccination-certificate-101620006020267.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||32 ventilators lying unused in upcoming medical college in Mohali||Even as several parts of the state are reeling under an acute shortage of critical care facilities for Covid-19 patients, 32 ventilators are gathering dust at the upcoming Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali.The ventilators were received nine months ago under PM-Cares Fund, but the institute itself has not been made operational yet. Punjab government had planned to start the first academic session from 2021, but it was delayed due to the Covid-induced lockdown.Principal Dr Bhavneet Bharti said, “We received 32 ventilators under PM-Cares Fund, but we cannot use these until we make the college operational. We are waiting for a team of the National Medical Council to visit for inspection, which was due in March. We will get a go-ahead only after inspection.”It may be recalled that on Thursday, Hindustan Times had reported how eight ventilators, which the civil hospital in Phase-6 had bought around eight months ago were lying unused due to lack of infrastructure and staff to operate it. The next day, hospital authorities had handed over the ventilators to two private hospitals in Mohali. Member of Parliament Manish Tewari said, “In such trying times when people need critical care, ventilators are lying unused. I will take up the matter with the authorities concerned.” Mohali has emerged as a medical tourism destination with 30 private hospitals, having top-class facilities, catering to patients from the region. These currently have 256 ventilator beds, of which 251 were occupied, as on Sunday. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “We will be making the BR Ambedkar Medical College operational soon. We are trying to have some ICU beds in government hospitals too.”Om Parkash Soni, minister of medical education and research, Punjab, said, “We are coming up with 100 more beds at three medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot. We will use these ventilators there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32-ventilators-lying-unused-in-upcoming-medical-college-in-mohali-101619987518660.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula takes the lead, inoculates 89 people in 18+ group||Leading the tricity in starting Phase 3 of the vaccination drive, Panchkula on Sunday inoculated 89 people in the 18-44 age group.Ramping up the drive, the administration has increased the vaccination sites for this age group from one to five from Monday onwards. These are at Government Dispensary, Sector 25; Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Ayush Dispensary, Sector 9, Primary Health Centre (PHC), Pinjore; and Community Health Centre, Raipur Rani. Online registration and appointment through CoWin portal is mandatory for this age group.The drive for those aged above 45 (only second dose) will continue in 11 centres at Sector-26 Polyclinic; Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4; Government Dispensary, Sector 12-A; Sub-Divisional Hospital, Kalka; and MLA Hostel Dispensary; and the PHCs at Old Panchkula, Nanakpur, Surajpur, Kot, Barwala and Hangola.Meanwhile, there is still no clarity on when more supplies will arrive in Chandigarh and Mohali to cover the youngest age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-takes-the-lead-inoculates-89-people-in-18-group-101619987218675.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana announces Covid-19 lockdown till May 9||The Haryana government on Sunday announced a lockdown in all 22 districts of the state till May 9, prompted by an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, which crossed the 100,000 mark, and deaths. Health minister Anil Vij announced the government’s decision on social media platform Twitter, stating that the entire state would be under lockdown from May 3.The announcement came a day before a weekend curfew imposed in the nine worst-affected districts of the state, Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts, was set to end at 5am on Monday.Haryana on Sunday recorded its highest death toll over 24 hours, with 145 deaths taking the toll to 4,486, while 13,322 new infections took the case tally to 514,888.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar held meetings with the district administration officials in Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Sonepat and Bhiwani on steps to check spread of the infection. He said everyone must follow Covid-related guidelines.The chief minister appealed to all to refrain from creating an atmosphere of fear and urged them to instead play a positive role in this fight against the pandemic.He said, “We should move forward with the thought ‘Jaan Hai toh Jahan Hai’ and continue this fight against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-clamped-in-haryana-till-may-9-101619987038764.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Record 145 deaths in a day in Haryana||A record 145 people succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Haryana on Sunday while 13,322 new cases of infection were detected in the state. The virus claimed 16 people each in Hisar and Karnal, 14 in Rohtak and 11 in Bhiwani. The number of active cases rose to 1,05,270 while 10,423 people recuperated. Around 1,441 critical Covid patients are undergoing treatment in government and private hospitals. Gurugram district detected 3,609 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,755, Sonepat 934, Hisar 879, Ambala 316, Karnal 773, Panipat 794, Rohtak 525, Rewari 49, Panchkula 198, Kurukshetra 144, Yamunanagar 349, Sirsa 638, Mahendergarh 583, Bhiwani 428, Jhajjar 265, Palwal 101, Fatehabad 216, Kaithal 230, Jind 405, Nuh 99 and Charkhi Dadri district 32 cases. On Saturday, the state had recorded 125 fatalities and 13,588 new cases. Vaccination camp for scribes A special Covid vaccination camp will be organised at the MLA dispensary in Chandigarh for journalists, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said on Monday. The journalists must carry their Aadhaar Cards to get the jab. He said vaccination of those aged between 18 and 44 years had started in all districts from May 2 in 200 centres. The health minister said around 1.1 crore people in the state fell in the age bracket. Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Rajeev Arora said 14,918 vaccine doses were administered to people in the 18-44 category across the state. The consolidated number of beneficiaries who have been administered vaccine doses till Sunday was 38.47 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/record-145-deaths-in-a-day-in-haryana-101619986859620.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Robber injured in police encounter commits suicide in Amritsar jail||One of the four alleged robbers, who were arrested after an hour-long encounter on the outskirts of Patti town in Tarn Taran district in January, committed suicide in the Amritsar central jail on Sunday morning. Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi of Bhullar village in Tarn Taran’s Bhikhiwind sub-division was found hanging in a bathroom in the jail’s hospital ward. He was complaining of having severe pain for some time due to a bullet wound in his leg, officials said. Gurpreet along with Gurjinder Singh of Manakpura village, Rajbir Singh, alias Raju of Gandiwind and Jagjit Singh alias Jaggi of Naushehra Pannua village was injured in the encounter at a resort where a marriage function was underway on January 18. Their accomplice Gurmeet Singh of Jatta village was killed in the firing. Two police constables were also injured in the incident. The accused had allegedly committed seven robberies at gunpoint within 24 hours. The police had said they were facing nearly 50 criminal cases in Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ludhaiana, Jalandhar and Rupnagar districts. Additional deputy commissioner of police (city 1) Harjit Singh said their preliminary investigation suggested that Gopi ended his life early in the morning.An assistant jail superintendent said, “At around 6:45 am, our staff noticed Gopi hanging in a bathroom. He was admitted to the jail’s hospital ward for the last a few days after he complained of pain in the leg. His condition was fine till Saturday night.”The body was handed over to the family after conducting post mortem on it at the Amritsar civil hospital. A judicial probe has also been initiated in the matter, he added.On January 18, the accused allegedly opened firing at a police party that was chasing them on the Tarn Taran-Patti road. Later, they took shelter in the marriage palace where a function was going on. Nearly, 50 police personnel reached the spot to flush them out of the banquet hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robber-injured-in-police-encounter-commits-suicide-in-amritsar-jail-101619986738525.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shops selling non-essentials to stay closed in Punjab till May 15||The Punjab government on Sunday directed that the shops selling non-essential goods will remain closed and nobody will be allowed to enter the state without a negative Covid-19 report not older than 72 hours or an over two-week-old vaccination certificate till May 15. The state government has already imposed a night curfew from 6pm till 5am and weekend lockdown from 6pm on Friday till 5am on Monday.The order on additional restrictions was issued by the department of home and justice which also said that chemist shops and those dealing with supply of milk, bread, vegetables, dairy and poultry products such as eggs, meat, mobile repair, etc will be allowed to open. There will be no restrictions on laboratories, nursing homes and all other medical establishments. The four-wheelers, including cars and taxis, would not be allowed to have more than two passengers. “No pillion riders will be allowed on motorcycles and scooters except those belonging to the same family or living in the same house,” reads the order. However, vehicles carrying patients to hospitals are exempt from these restrictions. All government offices and banks have been directed to work at 50% strength other than those where officials are involved in pandemic management. Further, no gathering of more than 10 persons will be allowed even for weddings, cremations or funerals whereas all religious places would be closed at 6pm. The district authorities have been instructed to ensure social distancing in sabzi mandis that would be open only to fruit and vegetable wholesalers. RT-PCR testing of road and street vendors has been ordered. The department has also suggested that appeals be made to farmer unions not to hold gatherings and restrict number of protesters to token presence at toll plazas, petrol pumps and malls, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shops-selling-non-essentials-to-stay-closed-in-punjab-till-may-15-101619986680948.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cong’s Ambala councillor who alleged oxygen scarcity at civil hospital booked||Five days after Congress councillor Mithun Verma and some locals gathered outside the isolation ward of the civil hospital and alleged unavailability of oxygen, police booked him on charges of spreading infection and obstructing doctors from discharging their duties.Soon after the incident, several doctors at the hospital had written to civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh flagging the ‘misconduct’ of the public representative and a case was registered on Saturday. The civil surgeon, too, had dismissed Verma’s claims regarding oxygen scarcity.In his complaint, Dr Pavneesh Aggarwal said Verma and a few others had gathered outside the sampling area.“They misbehaved with the staff and circulated a video alleging unavailability of oxygen to defame the hospital,” the doctor said. Verma, who is an advocate, said the allegations were baseless. “I had reached the hospital to help a ward resident, who told me about scarcity of oxygen at the hospital, after he failed to receive a response from the chief medical officer (CMO) and other doctors. Oxygen was arranged with the help of the sub-divisional magistrate, who rushed to the shot,’ Verma, who is a member of the party’s district coordination committee on Covid relief, said in a statement. A case was registered under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, and Indian Penal Code at the Baldev Nagar Police Station. The leader is yet to be arrested.Earlier, the owner of a social media news portal Yashpal ‘Khabri Lal’ had also been booked on the complaint of the civil surgeon, for making videos inside an isolation ward and provoking his viewers against doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congs-ambala-councillor-who-alleged-oxygen-scarcity-at-civil-hospital-booked-101619986618763.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Not a single Chandigarh area untouched by Covid’s second wave||The fast-spreading second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has not spared any sector, village or rehabilitation colony in Chandigarh.In contrast, during the first wave last year, the cases were concentrated in 75% of the city areas, with rehabilitation colonies, particularly Bapu Dham Colony, predominantly affected.According to municipal corporation figures, as of April 30 more than 4,000 houses in the city had active cases. Nearly 73% of these are in sectors and remaining in rehabilitation colonies.Sectors worst affected Notably, almost half of the affected households are located in Sectors 21 to 50.On the other hand, only three areas in colonies/villages – Manimajra, Dhanas and Mauli Jagran – are in the Top 10 areas in terms of number of houses with active cases (see box). Manimajra tops the list with 280 households having more than 450 positive patients, followed by Sector 41 with 145 affected houses and Sector 38 with 141 houses.While in the first wave, the northern sectors remained largely untouched by the pandemic, this time around, the virus has spread to the posh areas as well. In Sectors 1 to 12, 280 houses have over 430 active cases.Absence of curbs to be blamed: ExpertThe lack of lockdown or strict restrictions this year is being seen as one of the reasons for the wider spread of the disease in the city.“Last year, the lockdown was enforced much before the pandemic peaked in September, limiting mobility across different locations of the city. This time around, the restrictions are coming when the infections have already spread widely, allowing the virus to spread to more areas,” said Dr Rajesh Ahuja, former head of the department of community medicine and public health, PGIMER.The new variants of the virus, which are considered to be more infectious, are also to be blamed for the current scenario. “Last year, if one person tested positive, they further infected half or one-third of their family members. But, now, two-thirds or entire family members are testing positive,” said Dr Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/not-a-single-chandigarh-area-untouched-by-covid-s-second-wave-101619986499579.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Tikait among 12 leaders booked for gathering in Ambala||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tiktait, state president Rattan Mann and 10 other union leaders were booked in Ambala after they addressed a ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Mahapanchayat’ in Ambala’s Dhurali village on Saturday. Despite the imposition of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), which prohibits the assembly of four or more people in an area, in Ambala at least 250 people had gathered for the mahapanchayat, without permission, said police, adding when officials ordered the assembly to disperse, they refused to leave. Ambala sadar police station in-charge Suresh Kumar said, “The union did not seek permission to organise a mahapanchayat and also refused to obey public servants’ orders. A case has been registered against them under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection dangerous to life) and 270 ( (malignant act likely to spread infection dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code against them.”Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hamid Akhtar had said that they had been asked to defer the programme on Friday but they refused. On why he was addressing such rallies in this hour of crisis, Tikait said it was not a rally but farmers had gathered for a meeting where he told them how to remain safe from the virus.However, most attendees at the rally were seen flouting social distancing norms. Except for Tikait and the union’s state president Rattan Mann no one was seen wearing a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tikait-among-12-leaders-booked-for-gathering-in-ambala-101619986438628.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cancellations mount: Second Covid wave hits Mohali’s banquet hall owners hard||The second spike in Covid-19 cases has affected the wedding business the most, with owners of banquet halls decrying complete losses and a sea of cancellations during one of their peak seasons.A maximum of only 10 people are allowed to attend weddings, which has taken away all the business from the banquet hall owners in Zirakpur. As per Rajiv Chhabra, owner of AKM Resorts in Zirakpur, the period between April 24 and May 24 every year is usually peak wedding season for resorts, but now they have had to cancel all bookings: “Rather than bring 10 people to a resort, people are cancelling the weddings or opting for hotels in Panchkula or Chandigarh. We have been facing similar hardships since March 2020 and many resorts are shutting down because of shortage of funds.”Parvinder Singh, who runs Nimantran Banquet halls in Dhakoli, said, “Giving refunds to people isn’t easy. We had already paid the money to caterers and decorators, so we had to pay people out of our own pockets. Considering how the situation has worsened, people don’t know how long it will take for things to improve.”Samuel Massey, who runs Sohi Banquets in Zirakpur, added, “The government needs to look out for banquet hall owners. We employed a lot of people who we have had to let go. Some concession in the taxes we pay or in the electricity and water bills will be welcome.”Even though some marriage ceremonies have gone over to the hotels in Chandigarh, the hospitality units are still struggling. President of the Chandigarh Restaurants and Hotels Association, Arvinder Pal Singh, said, “We have had a lot of cancellations as well because of the 6pm lockdown rule. We can host only one marriage party per day, but only up to 50 people are allowed to attend.”Apart from banquet hall owners, the Chandigarh Tent Dealers Society is also reporting losses. Chief adviser Anil Vohra said, “Lockdown means all our bookings get cancelled and have to be refunded. It would be tough doing this again this year and some of the smaller tent houses are likely to shut down if things don’t improve.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cancellations-mount-second-covid-wave-hits-mohali-s-banquet-hall-owners-hard-101619985661003.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Desperate parents in Chandigarh seek school fee waiver||With the second wave of the Covid pandemic extending the economic slowdown, parents of schoolchildren are demanding fee concessions on the lines of the last session.In the absence of any instructions by the administration, schools have been charging annual charges and other dues, along with tuition fees.“My child’s school has announced the waiver of only medical, diary, magazine and ID card charges, which do not amount to much. Schools should waive the annual charges and only levy tuition fees,” said a parent of a student at Mount Carmel School, Sector 47, requesting anonymity.A notice sent out by the school to parents (copy with HT) adds that they won’t charge late fee for the first quarter and even consider waiving fees for parents who had lost their jobs. However, the notice cautioned parents against “anti-school activities or mobilising parents”. School principal Dr Parveena John Singh was unavailable for a comment.Parents of students at KBDAV School, Sector 7, have already held two protests this month seeking waiver of annual charges. Principal Pooja Prakash said, “We had written to the UT education department about this and are awaiting their directions. No parent is being coerced to pay. Our charges are already nominal and only an up to 8% hike, allowed by the Right to Education Act, has been effected.”Officials of the UT education department said they were exploring all options keeping in view the court cases, provisions of the Fee Regulation Act and the pandemic situation.President of the Independent School Association, HS Mamik said, “Some schools are allowing concessions on their own, but not schools can afford to do so.” At Tender Heart School, Sector 33, academic charges for four months have been waived. “Taking the parents’ plight into consideration, we took this decision voluntarily. We will decide on whether to extend this after the summer vacations,” said principal Vikrant Suri. Mamik, who is also the chairman of Vivek High School, Sector 38, said his school had not hiked fees during the current or the previous session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/desperate-parents-in-chandigarh-seek-school-fee-waiver-101619985660032.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||At Ambala Cantt’s Roti Bank, free protein-rich diet for Covid patients||While serving in the National Service Scheme (NSS) during his college days at Karnal’s Dyal Singh College in the late 1980s, young Vinay Mehta was inspired to feed the needy.After shifting to Ambala for employment, he and his friends used to organise open kitchens on Mahashivratri for many years, but found that there were many such organisations doing to the same.Later in 2017, he along with his friends raised a Roti Bank at the old building of the civil hospital in Ambala Cantt and started serving free one-time food and tea. Now, they have a kitchen and a staff of five-six employees who prepare and distribute food in disposable plates.Catering to 150-170 patients Talking about his initiative, Mehta said that as people started contributing, they increased the number of plates and started serving it twice to patients and their attendants. “As per the advice of the doctors, now we are serving a protein-rich light diet including almonds in the morning and meals thrice a day including paneer and fruits to the infected patients. Currently, we are catering to around 150-170 patients, but not their attendants,” said Mehta, who is also a BJP worker.The Roti Bank that is run by 10 permanent members contributing on yearly basis is grabbing attention after state health and home minister Anil Vij on Friday praised the facility in his constituency and appealed to the residents to replicate the model in other districts of Haryana.The minister tweeted: “All social, political, commercial, religious and other organisations in the state are requested to run ‘Roti Bank’ for Covid patients, as is being done at civil hospital, Ambala Cantt.”Professor Vinay Malhotra, a retired principal, said, “They’ve adopted a hygienic and a smooth system to serve food at the doorstep of the patient, which is prepared at a kitchen at the hospital. We occasionally donate to them. Even patients who have had their meal once return after months to donate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-ambala-cantt-s-roti-bank-free-protein-rich-diet-for-covid-patients-101619985598740.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Highest single-day spike of 157 deaths, 7,327 infections in state||A record single-day spike of 157 Covid-19 fatalities and 7,327 new cases pushed Punjab’s death toll due to the disease to 9,317 and infection tally to 3,85,270, according to a medical bulletin issued here on Sunday.The number of active cases rose to 60,108 from 58,229 on Saturday, it said.Of the new fatalities, 18 deaths were recorded in Bathinda, 17 in Ludhiana, 15 in Amritsar, 12 in Sangrur and 11 in Gurdaspur, the bulletin said. Ludhiana recorded a maximum 1,404 cases, followed by 1,045 in Mohali, 725 in Jalandhar, 602 in Patiala and 582 in Bathinda, among fresh cases in the state.A total of 5,244 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 3,15,845, as per bulletin.There are 229 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 7,525 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.809 ventilators provided to districts: CSChief secretary Vini Mahajan on Sunday said the state government has provided 809 more ventilators to districts in the state. Mahajan, who was chairing a high-level meeting to review the Covid situation and vaccination status in the state, directed all the deputy commissioners to install the new ventilators and ensure that not even a single oxygen concentrator and ventilator remain unutilised. She also ordered to impose work from home for private offices so that the chain of Covid transmission could be arrested. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Hussan Lal, said the state would get 3,29,830 doses of Covid vaccine for launching Phase-III of vaccination drive soon. “On an average, 6,532 cases were reported daily last week with overall positivity rate of 11.7%, while the count of daily cases remained 2,896 during the first peak in the state during September last year,” he added. A total of 73,40,768 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Vaccination: Cab service for elderly in Moga Moga: The Moga police have started a cab service for senior citizens to take them to vaccination centres. The cab will also drop them back home after the jab. The district police have formed two teams for the purpose, which will be supervised by DSP, cyber crime Sukhwinder Singh. Those who need cab service can dial 9656896568,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highest-single-day-spike-of-157-deaths-7-327-infections-in-state-101619985478909.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Indiana’s Sikh community honours victims of FedEx mass shooting||WashingtonSikhs in the US state of Indiana have held a memorial service to honour the eight people, including four community members, who were killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx facility last month.Brandon Scott Hole, 19, a former worker at the Indianapolis FedEx facility, killed eight people on April 15 before killing himself. Four of those killed were Sikhs, including three women. The memorial service on Saturday was opened with “ardaas”, a Sikh prayer.“We are so thankful to everyone who came together to attend and help put on this important event,” said Balwinder Singh, an Indianapolis Sikh community leader.“What happened on April 15 is a tragedy that forever altered too many lives, and only by coming together to grieve, honour, and call for action can we move forward,” he said.The event, held at a city stadium, featured city, state and federal representatives, Indianapolis-area interfaith leaders and Sikh community members.“As your governor, I stand with you in support of the Sikh community, with each of the families of the victims, with the hundreds of others who are feeling the impact of this tragedy, and with our law enforcement and first responders who face it daily so most of us don’t have to,” Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb said.“And we stand with this city and the entire community, still reeling from the impact of that terrible day. I’m grateful for each person here today to honour lives so tragically lost, to show support for survivors and to extend a comforting hand to the families and friends who were taken from us far too soon,” he said.Several of Indiana’s congressional representatives sent letters of support that were read aloud at the event.President Joe Biden also wrote a letter of support, IndyStar reported.The letter was read by Erika Moritsugu, deputy assistant to the president and Asian American and Pacific Islander senior liaison. “To the people of Indiana, I share the heartbreak you are experiencing after such senseless violence pierced your community and our nation’s soul once again,” Biden wrote. “They were our friends and neighbours. They were immigrants and fellow Americans, seeking their piece of the American dream.” Komal Chohan, whose grandmother was killed during the shooting, said: “It makes us feel like we’re not alone.” “We don’t know if this was bias-related. It feels good to know that not everybody views us in that manner and not everybody sees us as outsiders,” Chohan said.There are an estimated 8,000-10,000 Sikhs in Indiana. Though Sikhs began settling in the state more than 50 years ago, the first gurdwara was not established until 1999. There are 10 gurdwaras in the state now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indianas-sikh-community-honours-victims-of-fedex-mass-shooting-101619985178662.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran woman cop whose mother was held with heroin dismissed||Police on Sunday dismissed the constable daughter of the former member of Shiromani Akali Dal’s Tarn Taran women wing Jaswinder Kaur, who was arrested by the anti-drug special task force (SFT) with 1.2 kg of heroin on April 21.Gurjinder Kaur, who was posted at the Chohla Sahib police station, was sent to Tarn Taran police line soon after her mother’s arrest. A team of STF, led by an assistant inspector general (AIG), conducted a raid at Jaswinder’s house in Chambal village falling under the Sarhali police station. She was arrested along with four others —Manjit Singh, his sons Jagveer Singh and Gurpreet Singh, and the latter’s wife Mandeep Kaur of Bhail village in Goindwal Sahib sub-division. The police also recovered ₹70,000 drug money.According to the STF, Manjit had brought the heroin from Jaswinder. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against the accused at the STF police station in Phase 4, Mohali.“A few days back, the STF had arrested Jaswinder and recovered 1.2 kg heroin from her possession. She was a former member of the women wing of the Akali Dal. Immediately after Jaswinder’s arrest, Jassi’s daughter Gurjinder Kaur was sent to the lines and a departmental probe was initiated against her. After the probe, she has been dismissed,” said a spokesperson of Tarn Taran police.Gurjinder had been aiding her mother in running the illegal business. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said they have adopted zero tolerance against the drug menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-woman-cop-whose-mother-was-held-with-heroin-dismissed-101619985119901.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘We shall overcome’: Positivity campaign initiated by Chandigarh NGO takes off at schools||Taking inspiration from the anthem of the American Civil Rights Movement, Yuvsatta, an NGO that has been mobilising youth for peace, has taken a step forward to motivate students to fight back against Covid with protocols, while living in the midst of it.Activist Pramod Sharma, who has been mobilising youth for peace, says: “Students have been worst-hit by the crisis as they can’t attend school, play or interact with their peer group. The symbolic online classes have not been enough to channel their energy or provide them support, with death and morbidity all around.”Sharma adds that the campaign targets to motivate the youth to stand together during this national emergency and create awareness to live with it while following protocols. The campaign, which took off on April 28, has already found 12 educational institutions in the city and the region becoming a part of it. These include Government Girls Model School, Sector 18; Government Model Schools in Dhanas and Karsan; DAV Model School , Sector 15-A; KB DAV Model and CL DAV Model Schools, Sector 7; St. Joseph’s, Sector 44, Carmel Convent, Jammu and Chitkara University, Rajpura.A beginning has been made putting up inspirational banners at the institutions. This is to be followed by webinars and distribution of stickers and posters to the youth. A Covid Times Peace Prize has been announced for the five best schools in the city for carrying forward the campaign. The award will include a cash prize and a certificate. “Our aim is to promote the power of positivity among students,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/we-shall-overcome-positivity-campaign-initiated-by-chandigarh-ngo-takes-off-at-schools-101619985118810.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Another illicit liquor manufacturing unit busted in Amritsar, 5 arrested||The Amritsar rural district police have busted another illicit liquor manufacturing unit with the arrest of five persons from Boparai Khurd village falling under the Lopoke police station on Saturday night. This is the ninth such racket busted by the police in Amritsar since February this year under the state government’s “Red Rose Operation”.Police have seized 1,18,400 kg ‘lahan’ (raw material used in making liquor), 390-litre illicit liquor, eight stills, 94 drums (each of 50 litre), four LPG cylinders and 20 tarpaulins during a search operation in the village. Those arrested were identified as Sarwan Singh, Angrez Singh, Sanjay, Avtar Singh and Resham Singh of Boparai Khurd village. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Amritsar (Rural) Dhruv Dahiya said based on specific intelligence inputs, police teams carried out a six-hour-long operation in the area, leading to unearthing of the large-scale illicit liquor manufacturing unit.“Preliminary investigations indicate that the accused had established a semi-mechanised scale of production of illicit liquor, which is based on sourcing of raw materials like jaggery from within the village, and is sustained by extensive illicit distribution chains radiating from outside the village,” he said in a statement. A case under Sections 61, 78 (2), 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered at the Lopoke police station and the process to forfeit the properties of the accused persons, as per the legal provisions, is underway, he said. Earlier, the police had busted such rackets in Chak Mishri Khan, Chapa Ram Singh, Lakhuwal, Khiala Kalan, Kotli Sakka, Jasso Nangal, Jethuwal and Fatehwal villages in which more than 700 tonnes of “lahan” was seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-illicit-liquor-manufacturing-unit-busted-in-amritsar-5-arrested-101619984878952.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pvt hospital in Panchkula now a dedicated Covid care facility||Panchkula district magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Sunday notified Kare Partners Superspecialty Hospital in Sector 2 as a dedicated Covid Hospital. He also inspected the Panchkula civil hospital to check the facilities available for Covid-19 patients.“It is necessary to ensure smooth functioning of healthcare facilities and proper care for Covid patients, including their treatment, food and drinking water,” he said.He said that sub-divisional officer (civil) and Panchkula civil surgeon will hold a regular meeting of the Covid task force and get a report on treatment, food and drinking water.On May 1, the DC had constituted a team to control the spread of Covid-19 in the district. Ahuja directed police to keep a check on hoarding of medicines, injections and oxygen.A control room has been set up by the administration, with 24 hours functional helpline number. The contact number is 0172- 2590000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pvt-hospital-in-panchkula-now-a-dedicated-covid-care-facility-101619984698353.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Prashant Kishor’s bolt from the blue leaves Punjab Cong leaders in suspense||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s principal adviser and political strategist Prashant Kishor got a shot in the arm on Sunday with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal. But the Congress in Punjab is not celebrating his success for two reasons. The Congress, which once ruled West Bengal, failed to open its account there and then Kishor also announced his retirement from election management work. “I do not want to continue what I am doing. I have done enough. Time for me to take a break and do something else in life. I want to quit this space,” he told private news channels in separate interviews on his decision to quit as an election strategist. On being asked by a channel about his appointment in the state, he said: “If you help someone win an election, it is nothing if they offer you principal adviser or adviser’s post. They always like you to be by their side because it suits them. It is for me to decide whether I want to do that or not. I am telling you that I am not doing this work for anybody anymore.” Kishor, or “PK” as he is often called in political circles, was widely expected to draw the Congress’ poll strategy for the 2022 assembly elections. His announcement has come as a bolt from the blue for the Congressmen. While there was no official word from the chief minister or his other advisers, the poll strategist’s decision has left the party leaders in suspense. The sultan of spin, who has scripted several successful election campaigns across the country, had held meetings with the party’s first-MLAs and top officials of the state government after his appointed two months ago to gather feedback on the ground realities, implementation of poll promises and focus areas to draw the strategy for the assembly polls due early next year. “When I met him five weeks ago, PK gave no such indication and was all ears. He took a lot of interest and had everything on his fingertips,” a first-time MLA, who was among those who met Kishor at the chief minister’s residence in Chandigarh and seemed impressed, expressing disappointment over the development. A senior party leader, while being hopeful that he will not back off from his commitment made to the chief minister, did not sound sure. “He has not specified any timeframe for quitting as an election strategist. I think he will stick here, but one never knows,” he said. However, an aide of the chief minister said that since he now occupies an official position in the government as the chief minister’s principal adviser, Kishor is distancing himself from the company. “Under the government rules, any person occupying an official position cannot carry out any business activity,” he said. Kishor, in his interviews to a number of channels following the West Bengal poll results, also said that he would be parting ways with the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the political advocacy group he founded. The poll strategist, who was inducted by Amarinder in the chief minister’s office on March 1, had worked with the Congress in Punjab in the 2017 assembly polls with Amarinder as the state unit chief. He was seen as the brain behind the “Coffee with Captain” and “Punjab da Captain” that had worked well for the party and the CM-face. “PK & his team and their work was absolutely critical to our victory in Punjab!” Amarinder had tweeted after the party’s victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prashant-kishor-s-bolt-from-the-blue-leaves-punjab-cong-leaders-in-suspense-101619984519061.html
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong to launch Covid control room||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday constituted a committee under which party leaders and workers have been mandated to reach out to those in need and facilitate quick assistance in combating coronavirus. A dedicated control room would also be launched at the party office here on Monday by Jakhar and health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. “We are passing through a crisis situation and we all need to help each other,” Jakhar said during a virtual meeting with leaders from across the state. The Punjab Congress chief said: “Our cadres have been directed to help to the needy in this hour of distress,” he said in a statement. Jakhar said All India Youth Congress general secretary Amarpreet Singh Lalli has been appointed as the state coordinator, and Punjab Youth Congress general secretary Karambir Singh Bittu as state co-coordinator who will manage the helpline task from state office at Chandigarh. He said party leader Rahul Gandhi had been forewarning the Modi regime about the impending disaster, and the callous incompetence has pushed the whole country into a grim medical and health emergency. “Had the Centre acted on Rahul Gandhi’s advice, the situation would not have deteriorated like this,” Jakhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cong-to-launch-covid-control-room-101619984338521.html
