04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Free Covid vaccine for all in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday announced that vaccination against Covid-19 will be administered free of cost in city hospitals, including in the 18-44 age category.Announcing the same on Twitter, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah “for the notable decision of providing free vaccine to all including 18+ beneficiaries in Chandigarh”.However, officially there is no word on when Chandigarh will receive doses for the younger age group even when against the order of one lakh doses, the UT will get only 30,000 Covishield jabs in May.“We have ordered one lakh doses and are placing orders for a lakh more, but we have got a confirmation for only 30,000 jabs from the Serum Institute of India. We are requesting them to expedite the delivery,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Officials said that the vaccine doses for the 18-plus age group are expected to get delayed till May 10 even though the inoculation drive has started in the neighbouring cities of Mohali and Panchkula.The UT was unable to kick start the vaccination drive for the 18 and above age group due to the unavailability of doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-covid-vaccine-for-all-in-chandigarh-101620150618719.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Faridabad to have doctor-on-call service for Covid patients||Haryana’s Faridabad district will have a doctor-on-call service within two days, said additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal on Tuesday during a review meeting of the status and arrangements of Covid with Faridabad administration.The ACS asked the district administration to ensure enhanced testing and report submission within a day of testing, setting up of a call centre, providing kits of all essential medicines including oximeter, constantly monitoring oxygen supply, and curbing black marketing of oxygen and essential medicines.Kaushal said action will be taken against those who impede oxygen supply or supply of medicines or indulge in black marketing.He asked the police to ensure implementation of lockdown and take action against violators.He said the rate list for treatment should be affixed outside private hospitals. Each hospital should take the same fees from patients as prescribed. For this, the health department should keep constant watch and issue instructions to private hospitals, he said.He laid emphasis on maximum testing and said those who have symptoms of Covid-19 should get tested immediately and timely test reports should be made available to prevent spread of the virus.Municipal commissioner Garima Mittal has been appointed to carry out the doctor-on-call work and the service will be started for residents of Faridabad within two days so that they can be given consultation via telephone.He instructed health department officials to provide kits of all essential medicines, including oximeters to people in home isolation. The ACS asked doctors to follow up with every patient on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-faridabad-to-have-doctor-on-call-service-for-covid-patients-101620148218534.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||₹50,000 fine if private ambulances overcharge patients in Haryana||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led Haryana government has directed the regional transport authorities (RTAs) to slap “minimum ₹50,000 penalty” on private ambulance drivers or owners if found charging more than the fixed price.As per instructions, advance life support (ALS) ambulance can be hired at the rate of ₹15/km and basic life support (BLS) ambulances cannot charge more than ₹7/km for transporting patients in any kind of emergency, including accidents.The state health department on Monday sent a letter to the transport commissioner informing how private ambulances have been fleecing patients.The health department said that it has come to the notice of higher authorities in state that private ambulance drivers and service providers are “charging exorbitantly higher rates” than what’s prescribed by the department.“This practice is prevalent while transporting patients within as well as outside state,” the letter reads.The health department has directed the transport commissioner to issue necessary instructions to all secretaries of the RTA in this regard.In case private ambulance drivers or owners resort to charging “exorbitant rates”, the RTAs will be authorised to cancel driving license of the ambulance driver.The department has directed that the RTAs can also cancel registration certificate of the ambulance or impound the vehicle and impose a penalty starting from a minimum of ₹50,000 in case of non-compliance of instructions.As per the letter, also marked to all deputy commissioners and civil surgeons, because of this unethical practice, citizens are bearing additional financial burden during the current Covid-induced crisis.The direction to impose heavy penalty on private ambulances found fleecing patients coincides with Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij warning private hospitals of strict action if found overcharging for facilities and other medical assistance from Covid patients in state.“Strict action will be taken if any hospital is found charging more than the fixed rates from Covid patients,” Vij had said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rs-50-000-fine-if-private-ambulances-overcharge-patients-in-haryana-101620147858993.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||15,786 new Covid cases in Haryana, highest single-day surge so far||The Covid-19 claimed 153 more lives in 17 districts of Haryana on Tuesday as the state recorded 15,786 new cases - the highest single-day surge so far-- even as 11,525 people also recovered from the infection, as per the health bulletin.Tuesday’s 64% new cases were confined to 11 NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani, Rohtak and Sonepat.And 36% of the total fresh cases were detected in rest 11 districts of Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Panipat, Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Panchkula.Of the total fatalities, 16 each were in Gurugram and Panipat, 15 in Hisar, 14 in Jind, 13 in Ambala, 12 in Rohtak, 11 in Bhiwani, nine each in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Karnal, six in Panchkula, five in Kaithal, four in Kurukshetra, three each in Palwal and Mahendergarh, one in Nuh Of the new cases, Gurugram logged 4,475 cases, Faridabad 1,580, Sonepat 1,090, Hisar 1,248, Ambala 610, Karnal 547, Panipat 615, Rohtak 281, Rewari 317, Panchkula 584, Kurukshetra 142, Yamunanagar 471, Sirsa 718, Mahendergarh 651, Bhiwani 821, Jhajjar 451, Palwal 161, Fatehabad 347, Kaithal 63, Jind 359, Nuh 203, and Charkhi Dadri 52.In the last 24 hours, 58,404 samples were tested for Covid in state. The recovery rate stood at 79.10% while the positivity rate was 7.17%.The state also vaccinated 67,726 people during the day.MANDATORY TO CARRY ID CARDS DURING LOCKDOWN: VIJHaryana home and health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said that it will be mandatory to carry departmental identity cards or government-issued passes for traffic movement during lockdown in Haryana. Strict action should be taken against those commuting without these, Vij said during a meeting with senior cops. Vij said DCs have been asked to make online passes. He directed them to make roster for grocery stores, pharmacy shops and other essential items in state. All such shops should not be allowed to open every day but on rotation basis. “The rules issued by government should be adhered to. Hotels, gyms, clubs, restaurants, etc should be completely shut,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15786-new-covid-cases-in-haryana-highest-single-day-surge-so-far-101620147500926.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||CRRID founder Rashpal Malhotra dies of Covid||Rashpal Malhotra, 84, the founder of Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), passed away on Tuesday after battling Covid-19 for over a week. He breathed his last at the Fortis Hospital in Mohali. Malhotra is survived by his wife, son and daughter. Condoling the death, Punjab chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh said Malhotra was a distinguished academician, able administrator and a fine human being with qualities of head and heart. “He played a pivotal role in bringing socio-economic development in the northern region. The outstanding services rendered by Malhotra in the rural and industrial development of Punjab would be remembered by one and all,” said the CM. Malhotra, who started the CRRID in 1979 from the garage of a house in Sector 21, Chandigarh, remained its executive chairman and a member of the Board of Governors of Pushpa Gujral Science City and several other prestigious organisations. He was also a senate member of Punjabi University, Patiala, and Panjab University, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/crrid-founder-rashpal-malhotra-dies-of-covid-101620141138021.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab CM seeks uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen from Centre||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sought immediate intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for ensuring uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen to the state.He sought an additional allocation of 50 metric tonne of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from a nearby source and 20 additional tankers (preferably conducive to rail travel) for timely evacuation of the life-saving gas from Bokaro.The CM sent out separate letters to the Prime Minister and the Home Minister as the number of Covid-19 patients on varying levels of oxygen support in the state went up to 10,000.Punjab is among the worst-affected states in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, it had registered 157 deaths and 9,798 new infections.Expressing deep concern over the "imminent loss of lives due to oxygen shortage" across the state, the CM said with mounting caseload, he was unable to increase level 2 and level 3 beds due to oxygen availability constraints.The state was facing the prospect of shortage of oxygen beds, he said in an official statement here.He pointed out that the government of India had expressed its inability to even allow Punjab's local industry to undertake commercial import of LMO from Pakistan through the Wagah-Attari border, which is geographically proximate.Further, despite assurance that “adequate supply would be ensured to us from alternate sources, I regret to point out that this has not happened", said Singh.The total allocation of LMO from outside the state is currently 195 metric tonne, of which 90 metric tonne is from Bokaro in eastern India.The balance 105 metric tonne comes from LMO facilities in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.However, Punjab is not getting its daily allocated quota, said Singh.The existing backlog for Punjab from these LMO facilities is 5.6 metric tonne from Panipat (Haryana), 100 metric tonne from Selaqui, Dehradun (Uttarakhand) and 10 metric tonne from Roorkee, he added.He pointed out that Punjab had now been given to understand by the Centre that there would be likely disruption of LMO supply from Tuesday from Panipat and Barotiwala.The CM said this would cause great stress on the already limited oxygen availability in the state, thus causing a medical emergency, including risk of loss of life for the large number of patients who are in critical condition and on regular oxygen support.The disruption should be avoided, he said, adding that, if necessary, the state must be compensated immediately from a nearby additional source.Referring to the "shortage of tankers", the CM said the state was airlifting two empty tankers daily to Ranchi, with the filled tankers returning by road from Bokaro on a 48-50 hour journey.He said that the state government had already requested the government of India to allocate 20 additional tankers (conducive to rail travel) to allow for regular evacuation of 90 metric tonne LMO from Bokaro on a daily basis, but had been told that only two would be provided, and even those were yet to come.He urged the Prime Minister and the Home Minister to step in immediately to help resolve the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-punjab-cm-seeks-uninterrupted-supply-of-medical-oxygen-from-centre-101620135400081.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||It is harrowing to call Covid victims’ kin: PGIMS nurse||When 24-year-old Sheetal Choudhary joined as a staff nurse at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) four years ago, little did she know that three years down the line she would be single-handedly doing the unenviable job of arranging cremations for those succumbing to Covid through two waves of the pandemic. The energetic Covid warrior has been doing the job everybody shies away from — making the dreaded phone call to family members of the deceased, coordinating with the police, municipal corporation and PGIMS staff, sealing and sending bodies to the cremation ground — for the last year. Till May 1, she had arranged the last rites of at least 700 people claimed by the virus and has not taken a single leave in three months. On Sunday morning, Choudhary received a call from the father of an 11-month-old boy, who died of Covid on Saturday night. The father wanted to see his son’s face for the last time. Choudhary’s eyes brim with tears as she recalls the harrowing phone call. “I suffer a breakdown everyday on seeing these deaths. It was very difficult for me to console the father and grandfather of the 11-month-old child who battled for his life for four days.”Choudhary, the nodal officer for Covid death management at PGIMS, says her morning starts with people begging her to arrange an ambulance so that they can take the body of their loved ones to the crematorium.“I sent 12 bodies to the cremation ground for last rites till Sunday afternoon and 14 on Saturday. Making the phone call to the family of patients and receiving them when they arrive for a final glimpse of their loved ones the next day,, however, is the hardest part of the job. I get at least 400 calls per day, most of which are by the family members of the deceased ringing up to ask when the body will be cremated and how many people are allowed to come,” she says.Choudhary says they use labels so that bodies of patients with the same name do not get mixed up. A team of 8 Class-4 employees seal the bodies.Unidentified body left at PGIMS “We have two ambulances and send bodies to two crematoriums in two shifts every day. Last month, I was only able to return home at 2.30am after making a cremation list for the next morning because over 30 patients had died in a single day. The bodies were lined up and our staff struggled to pack the body. A senior police official’s sister had succumbed to the virus at a private hospital in Gurugram and the staff had left the body at PGIMS without informing us. We struggled to identify the body,” she says.On the challenges faced by the staff, Choudhary says a few Covid patients’ family members had refused to appear for the cremation and asked them to perform the last rites.“Many people would demand that they be allowed to take the body to their native town or village. A few influential would demand that their relative’s body be cremated at the earliest but I have always given bodies as per sequence,” she said.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya Choudhary is doing work, which other employees are refusing to do. “Her job is high risk and she has been doing it for the last year. She is single-handedly doing the work of six-seven staff members,” Dahiya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/it-is-harrowing-to-call-covid-victims-kin-pgims-nurse-101620127698369.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rain triggers flashfloods in Chamba, property damaged||Flashfloods triggered by overnight heavy rain wreaked havoc in the Palyur and Kuned panchayats of Chamba district on Tuesday morning, damaging property. The flashflood struck around 8am and soon Tipra Nullah was in spate. Floodwaters entered houses near the banks of the stream. A cowshed was damaged in Palyur panchayat, while two cars were buried in the debris. Drinking water supply lines were damaged. Also read: JEE Main Exam 2021 for May session postponed: Education MinisterThere were reports of a flashflood in Kuned panchayat of Bharmour sub division in the district, where fields of recently sown potato and maize were washed away. The heavy rain triggered landslides, bringing traffic to a halt on the Chamba-Bharmour highway and on two dozen rural roads. Chamba deputy commissioner DC Rana said there were reports of damage to public and private property, but no loss of life was reported. Revenue authorities have been directed to assess the loss. Affected people have been moved to safer areas. Mandi wettest in state followed by Shimla Panodh in Mandi was the wettest place in the state, recording 47mm of rainfall. Kotkhai and Narkanda in Shimla district recorded 39 and 35 mm of rain, respectively. Palampur recorded 22mm of rain, Mandi 16mm, Kufri 15mm, Dalhousie 6mm and Dharamshala 4mm. The meteorological department has forecast rains in the low hills till May 8, while inclement weather will prevail in the middle and high hills till May 10. Manmohan Singh, the director of the Shimla meteorlogical centre, said a yellow weather warning has been issued for thunderstorm, hailstorm, lightning and winds of up to 30-40 km per hour for low and middle hills from May 5 to 7. Keylong coldest in state at 7 degrees Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest in the state, recording a low of 7 degrees Celsius, while Kalpa in Kinnaur registered a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rain-triggers-flashfloods-in-chamba-property-damaged-101620126197206.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab, Himachal, Uttrakhand get 1st instalment of supplies from abroad||The Central government has begun allocating medical equipment received as assistance from foreign countries with Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand figuring among the beneficiary states in the first batch.In a May 3 letter to different states and UTs, the Centre said Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been allocated oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and pulse oximeters to meet the shortfall of critical medical equipment and supplies to treat Covid-19 patients.In the first instalment, a total of 95 oxygen concentrators have been allocated to Haryana. 35 of these concentrators, out of the 150 donated by Taiwan, will reach a Gurugram warehouse on Tuesday, a top government official said.The other 60 oxygen concentrators marked for Haryana will come from the equipment received from Kuwait. Their delivery date is currently not known.Centre also said that Punjab will get 50 out of the 150 oxygen concentrators donated by Taiwan. Taiwan also donated 500 oxygen cylinders, out of which Himachal has been allocated 185 and Uttrakhand 300.Himachal will also get additional 282 oxygen cylinders donated by Kuwait, as per the letter of Union ministry of health and family welfare.A state official said Haryana has also been allocated 113 Pulse oximeters [received from abroad?], which will be dispatched to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Jhajjar.India has received thousands of tonnes of medical supplies including oxygen generation units, cylinders, concentrators, cryogenic tankers, separators, ventilators, face masks etc., from countries such as the United States, Russia, Germany, France, Italy, Romania, Belgium, Uzbekistan, the United Kingdom, Kuwait, Bahrain, UAE, Thailand, and Taiwan to name a few.The Haryana government officials said they will start allocating the medical equipment to different hospitals in order of priority once they receive it. Shortage of medical oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients has resulted into a big crisis in Haryana hospitals. The Central government had initially allocated 162MT of medical oxygen to the state at the beginning of the crisis last month, which had to be revised quickly to 257 MT last week; however, the state government has now reached out to Centre with the demand for 300 MT of life-saving gas to meet the ever expanding demand.The chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar has been reviewing oxygen availability status with visits to each district hospital after many Covid patients recently died due to its short supply in private hospitals.The state government has also formed district-level teams of officials to monitor and ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen in all hospitals, public or private.Meanwhile, state health minister Anil VIj on Tuesday made it mandatory for all hospitals in the state with 50 or more beds to have their own oxygen generation plant. He said the decision was taken after learning from the Covid-19 experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-punjab-himachal-uttrakhand-get-1st-instalment-of-supplies-from-abroad-101620120796942.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to get 95 oxygen concentrators donated by Taiwan, Kuwait||The Centre has begun allocating to the states and Union Territories (UTs) the much-needed medical equipment India has started receiving from other countries. In a letter sent to states and UTs on Monday, the Centre informed Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand that they have been allocated oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and pulse oximeters. In the first instalment, 95 oxygen concentrators have been allocated to Haryana. Thirty-five oxygen concentrators of the 150 Taiwan has donated will reach the Haryana warehouse at Gurugram on Tuesday, top government officials said. Haryana is yet to get the update about 60 oxygen concentrators it will receive as donation from Kuwait.According to the Centre, Taiwan has donated 150 oxygen concentrators of which 50 have been allocated to Punjab and 35 to Haryana. 500 oxygen cylinders for HimachalTaiwan has also donated 500 oxygen cylinders of which Himachal Pradesh has been allocated 185 and Uttarakhand 300. Himachal Pradesh will also get an additional 282 oxygen cylinders that Kuwait has donated, the letter of from the Union health ministry said. Haryana has also been allocated 113 pulse oximeters that will be despatched to AIIMS, Jhajjar. Haryana government officials said that they will start allocating the medical equipment soon after receiving it as the state has been grappling with the shortage of medical oxygen amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. Haryana seeks increase in oxygen quotaEven as the Centre has increased medical oxygen quota of Haryana to 257 MT, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government has requested to increase this quota to 300MT. The oxygen quota of Haryana was increased from 162MT to 257MT last week. Khattar has been visiting every district to review the oxygen availability status in district hospitals after patients died of short supply of oxygen in private hospitals in Rewari, Hisar and Gurugram recently. The Haryana government has also formed teams of officers in all districts to monitor and ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen in all hospitals, including private ones. State health minister Anil VIj on Tuesday directed that it will be mandatory for all hospitals with 50-bed capacity to have their own oxygen generation plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-get-95-oxygen-concentrators-donated-by-taiwan-kuwait-101620114441356.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh imposes additional Covid restrictions from Tuesday: Check details||The administration on Tuesday announced additional restrictions in Chandigarh for a week as the Union territory fights a surge in cases of coronavirus disease. The measures will come into effect from 5pm on May 4 and will continue till 5am on May 11. In addition to the week-long restrictions, the weekend lockdown, already in place, will also continue.The decisions were taken in a review meeting on Covid-19 on Monday. In the meeting, chaired by the Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore, there was a detailed discussion on the steps taken by the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.Chandigarh on Monday reported 860 fresh Covid-19 cases, in the highest single-day surge since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic. The tally of cases in the city increased to 44,306, with 7,592 active cases. As per official data, seven people succumbed to the disease during the day, bringing the fatality to 496.Here's a list of things that will be allowed or not allowed during the restrictions:1. All government offices and banks will work with 50% staff capacity. All private offices have been asked to ensure their staff work from home as much as possible.2. The ban on cinema halls, gyms, spas, bars, swimming pools and coaching centres will continue.3. All shops selling non-essential items will remain closed.4. Public transport will run with 50% capacity.5. Restaurants, including hotels, cafes, coffee shops and eating places, will be allowed to function only for takeaway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-imposes-additonal-covid-restrictions-from-tuesday-check-details-here-101620105748811.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid response fraught with lapses||Call it laxity, insensitivity, incompetence or short-sightedness, Chandigarh’s fight against the deadly second wave of Covid-19 is fraught with lapses and the administration’s response is failing on the focus points of testing and treatment.In fact, the hospital infrastructure that is being pushed to the extreme is crumbling, able to hold only 850 patients at present, even though the infection number is expected to hit more peaks.At a time when new cases are rising at a rapid pace, hospitals have started making provisions for adding new beds, mostly equipped with ventilators, which are the need of the hour.Deepak, whose 62-year-old mother was admitted at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, was told to arrange for a ventilator when her oxygen level dropped to 60 on Monday evening.“I could not arrange it and she died. I cannot speak a word beyond it,” the Dadumajra resident said.Badnore satisfied with UT’s efforts: AdmnMeanwhile, the UT official statement on Monday said that administrator VP Singh Badnore was satisfied with the efforts made by UT, and directed that more ventilators and oxygen concentrators should be arranged for future needs.UT, however, has been able to mobilise only 126 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, which are clearly not able to accommodate the rush of those requiring intensive care.Painting a rosy picture, the UT official release also stated that the administration had set up 100 beds at the Sector-48 hospital and 21 more oxygen beds were being added. At Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, 155 beds were available, which had now been increased to 200 oxygen beds. At GMSH-16, with the addition of 48 more beds, the total capacity will increase to 248.Former vice-president of the Indian Medical Association Dr RS Bedi said, “We are not prepared on the scale we could have been after we witnessed the first wave. The last eight months, we could have created specialists to run more ICUs efficiently. But we were sleeping during that time.”‘No concrete plan to deal with crisis’Hospitals in the city have said that due to non-availability of a trained workforce, they were unable to expand ICU facilities. But there was no concrete plan on how to deal with the crisis, they have said.While the administration is turning to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for more beds, the institute has said that expanding Covid-19 services would hit routine health-care.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We have created enough infrastructure for Chandigarh residents keeping in mind the requirement. PGIMER should push their capacity as they have enough workforce. Every resource at administration-run hospitals is being utilised but that is not proving to be sufficient.”Our capacity is limited: PGIMER directorPGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said, “Our beds have been increased from 50 to around 360, which are almost full; around 50 patients in the emergency block are yet to be adjusted. There is a limit to our capacity. If it comes to arranging more beds, our non-Covid services will be badly affected.”Meanwhile, issue of test reports from government-run facilities are experiencing considerable delays, with not more than 1,000 samples being processed in a day due to the involvement of private players in the process of sample collection by UT hospitals. Only now, GMCH-32 has placed an order for two new testing machines, while the work at Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory has been pushed.A city-based social activist, RK Garg, said, “A sample of a relative was given on April 29 and the report was delivered on May 3 and the patient had to stand in this summer for more than one hour at the civil hospital in Sector 45. This should be stopped immediately and reports should be delivered on the mobile within 24 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-covid-response-fraught-with-lapses-101620076575239.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Counting of past service: Panjab University teachers seek 3-month extension for document submission||Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has requested the university to extend the time limit for teachers to submit supporting documents related with the processing of their cases for counting of past service.In a letter to the registrar, the teachers’ body said that letters had been issued to some teachers by PU’s establishment branch to submit more documents, supporting their cases, within 15 days.PU has already cleared the cases of 13 teachers for the counting of their past services, after they were cleared by a special panel last year. The counting of past service has remained one of the most important issues at PU in recent years and it was also one of the main agendas during the last PUTA elections.However, as per the recommendations of the panel, the 52 teachers, whose cases are still in the pipeline, have to submit requisite documents to the varsity.“PUTA has been approached by several colleagues that a 15-day period is not sufficient for them to arrange all the documents especially under the prevailing situation. It is therefore requested that an extension of at least three months may be granted to enable them to do the needful,” reads the letter of PUTA submitted to the registrar.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “We are hopeful that the request will be accepted keeping in view the present situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/counting-of-past-service-panjab-university-teachers-seek-3-month-extension-for-document-submission-101620076572995.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC planning complete waste clearance at Dadumajara dump site||Even as the legacy mining project at the city’s oldest garbage dumping site in Dadumajra has got a deadline extension, the municipal corporation (MC) is now planning to start the removal of waste from the rest of the site.The MC will soon float a tender for the work and expects it to be financed through the Swachh Bharat Mission or Atal Mission For Rejuvenation And Urban Transformation (AMRUT). While there is 5 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of legacy waste to be removed, in the next planed phase, the MC plans to remove around one lakh MT of waste dumped on the site over the years.Speaking during the MC general House meet on Wednesday, municipal commissioner KK Yadav said, “We will clear the waste from the waste. For this, a tender will soon be floated. It will be financed through AMRUT or Swachh Bharat Mission funds, which the central governments allots.” The issue came up during the discussion on a new eight-acre sanitary waste site coming up in Dadumajra.It is learnt that the MC is considering the use of plasma technology to clear the waste and the timeline for the entire project can be four to five months.In the election year, the ruling BJP is trying to resolve the nixing issue of garbage dump site, which is a major electoral issue in south Chandigarh. Notably, the current legacy mining site has courted controversy, with major fires breaking out repeatedly at the project site.The legacy mining project which is being carried out at a cost of ₹33 crore, started in December 2019, was to be completed in 18 months. But, only 30% has been completed so far.The project ‘s deadline was revised in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the firm has been directed to complete it by December this year. So far, 1.5 lakh MT of legacy waste has been removed, MC officials claim.On Thursday, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and Yadav visited the garbage processing plant to take stock of the ongoing work, compost plant and progress of the legacy mining project. The mayor appreciated the enhancement of conveyer belts from three to five at the project site to mine the waste. He asked the officials concerned to complete the work within the deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-planning-complete-waste-clearance-at-dadumajara-dump-site-101620076514444.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University governance reforms: Panel proposes no election for faculty deans’ appointment||The sub-committee constituted by the high-level committee, which has been formed to recommend governance reforms at Panjab University in light of the National Education Policy, has proposed that deans of various faculties of PU be appointed by the vice chancellor (V-C) from among the professors on seniority basis by rotation.Currently, they are appointed through election, from among the members of each faculty. The recommendations of the sub-committee were accepted by the high-level committee during its last meeting on April 19.Based on these suggestions, the recommendations of the panel and the comments of the Punjab government, the final report will be prepared by the committee and submitted to the office of the Vice-President of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU.According to the sub-committee’s proposal, there will be no bifurcation of major and minor faculty. It has also been proposed that the arts faculty be named as humanities and social sciences, faculty of languages as faculty of languages, culture and fine arts and faculty of engineering and technology as design, engineering and technology.The 11-member panel of experts was constituted by the chancellor in February, after the University Grants Commission (UGC) in November had informed PU to initiate governance reforms, as per provisions mentioned in the PU Act and regulations.As per a report submitted to the high-level committee, 35 stakeholders sought changes in appointment of faculty of deans and only nine said that the existing system should continue.According to the proposed composition of faculties, upto five people in each faculty will be nominated by the V-C from among the experts in the respective faculties.Punjab govt takes up matterAs nominees of the Punjab government to the high-level committee had sought time to take the views of the state government over the proposed changes, mainly regarding the substitution of ‘registered graduate constituency’ and the nominations by the chancellor of the university in senate, state government officials held a meeting last week.According to sources, the meeting was also attended by a few ex-senators. Sources who attended the meeting said, “During the meeting the constitution of the high-level committee was discussed. The committee has been constituted to look into the feasibility and give recommendations. They are not the final authority. Decisions have to be taken in consultation with the Punjab government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-governance-reforms-panel-proposes-no-election-for-faculty-deans-appointment-101620076513281.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||3BHK flat in Sector 63 goes under hammer for ₹1.05 crore||A three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 fetched ₹1.05 crore against a reserve price of ₹86 lakh in the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) auction that concluded on Monday. Two other residential properties, also three-bedroom flats in Sector 63, went for more than ₹1 crore against a reserve price of ₹86 lakh. This was the first auction held by CHB in one-and-a-half years. Even though CHB could auction only 36 dwelling units out of the 109 built-up freehold properties up for auction, it bettered its previous auction performance. CHB’s last auction in December 2019 had turned out to be a damp squib due to lack of buyer response to its 212 properties, the blame for which was pinned on high reserve prices. The offerings included 64 residential units, of which nine were on leasehold and 55 on freehold. Most of these were located in Sector 63. This time around, the CHB has reduced the reserve price by 10% to make the properties more attractive to buyers. CHB earned ₹29.41 crore from the auction of 36 dwelling units. This was the first phase of the auction.Properties sold in Southern Sectors The CHB invited e-tenders for the sale of 109 built-up dwelling units on free-hold basis. The units were available in Sector-38 (West), Sector-49, Sector-51 and Sector-63. The deadline for submission of e-bids was 2pm, April 30, and the technical bids (first envelop) were opened on April 30 after 3pm. Single bid each was received for 12 dwelling units, two bids each for eight units, three bids each for seven units, four bids each for four dwelling units, six bids each for two dwelling units, eight bids each for two dwelling units and 12 bids for one dwelling unit. Realty sector looking up Even as the city gets battered by the second wave of Covid-19 infections, the CHB getting a positive response for its auction indicates that the real estate sector is showing an upward trend. Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said, “The e-tender was very successful and provided an opportunity to genuine buyers to have a residence in Chandigarh. We were neither expecting so many bids nor such high bids against the reserve prices. It will impact the real estate prices in those particular areas. Out of the 105 bidders, only 36 remained successful bagging the property they had set their eyes on. We will invite bids again for the remaining units.” Kamal Gupta, president, property consultant association, Chandigarh, said, “In the midst of the pandemic, CHB could sell properties at reasonable prices. This suggests the market is still strong. If CHB had rationalised prices and reduced these as per market conditions, the response may have been better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3bhk-flat-in-sector-63-goes-under-hammer-for-rs-1-05-crore-101620076453405.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Extend help to poor before imposing lockdown: AAP to CM||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to make arrangements to meet the domestic needs of people of the state before a possible lockdown and provide financial assistance to the needy and the poor families. In a statement, AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann said the party will extend all possible cooperation to the state government. “In view of the impact of the Covid pandemic, the state government appears to be preparing for a complete lockdown in the state but the question is whether it has found a solution to the problems faced by the people during lockdown,” he said. He said that the businesses of the people will be shut down during the lockdown and the employees of factories and companies as well as construction workers will lose their jobs. “This will make it difficult for the needy and poor to support their families,” he said, demanding that the state government should make arrangements to ensure that no family goes hungry. Demanding financial assistance for labourers and poor, Mann said that just as the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi has provided assistance of ₹5,000 to poor labourers, taxi and auto drivers, the Punjab government should do the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/extend-help-to-poor-before-imposing-lockdown-aap-to-cm-101620073332226.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||300 oxygen cylinders ‘missing’ in Moga district||Nearly 300 oxygen cylinders owned by different suppliers remain untraced in Moga district with the administration suspecting that these have either been hoarded by private dealers for making profits or by people for personal use in case of coronavirus infection. Of a total of 450 oxygen cylinders in the district, the administration has been able to collect only 150. The authorities had directed the suppliers to deposit all the cylinders and centralised the supply of oxygen through a single vendor. Officials said they were also getting oxygen supply from Mandi Gobindgarh-based plants but did not have enough empty cylinders for refilling. They could arrange an extra 0.5 metric tonne (MT) if they get the 300 cylinders, an official said.As of now, the district is getting 2 MT oxygen against the daily consumption of 2.23 MT at government and private hospitals for Covid and non-Covid patients. Moga sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Satwant Singh, who has been tasked with monitoring oxygen supply in the district, said, “We have information that private dealers and individuals have hoarded 300 cylinders. While some have hoarded these cylinders for black marketing, others have done so due to panic in wake of scarcity of medical supplies.”“If we trace these cylinders, we can get maximum supply of oxygen from plants in Mandi Gobindgarh. We may take legal action against hoarding of cylinders. We just want to save lives in this medical emergency,” said SDM. Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “We are regulating the oxygen supply by centralising it through one vendor. The purpose of this is to stop hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and to ensure it is supplied to the patients in need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/300-oxygen-cylinders-missing-in-moga-district-101620072974457.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farm union in Punjab gears up for Delhi march amid second Covid wave||Even as the Punjab government has ordered stringent restrictions in the state in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) is organising meetings in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts to mobilise support for marches to the national capital to intensify their protest against the Centre’s contentious agriculture laws. Two large processions of tractor-trailers are scheduled to leave for Delhi from Beas town of Amritsar district and Harike Pattan village of Tarn Taran district on May 5 and May 20. On Monday, the committee leaders held meetings with farmers of various villages of Amritsar Kathunangal block. “We admit that there is coronavirus, but an exaggerated scare is being created around it. As per the government figures, the death rate of the virus is 1.11% which is very low. The death rate of tuberculosis is 7%,” said Sarwan Pandher, general secretary of KMSC, which has a considerable base in Majha. “The repeal of the three laws is more important for the farmers. These laws are a direct attack on our livelihoods. People may survive the coronavirus but how will the farmers be saved from the three laws. Our fight against the anti-farmer laws will continue as it is a do-or-die battle for us. We will move in thousands to the national capital,” he added.KMSC’s Tarn Taran president Sukhwinder Singh Sabhran on Monday held a meeting of farmers of various villages in Tarn Taran’s Bhikhiwind sub-division. In the meeting, social distancing norms were hardly followed and no one was seen wearing face masks.“We will take more than 500 tractors from Tarn Taran alone on May 20. Where was the coronavirus when huge rallies were organised by the BJP and other political parties in the election-bound states? The administration can lodge FIRs against us but we are not bothered about it,” said Sabhran.Amritsar senior superintendent of police (rural) Dhruv Dahiya said he was not aware of the farmers’ march on May 5. “Nobody will be allowed to flout the rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-union-in-punjab-gears-up-for-delhi-march-amid-second-covid-wave-101620072973520.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Probe into Amritsar hospital deaths delayed as panel yet to record statements of victims’ kin||The inquiry panel looking into the deaths of six patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, due to shortage of medical oxygen at a private hospital in Amritsar on April 24 is yet to conclude its probe despite a 48-hour deadline as it is yet to record to the statements of the victims’ families. The committee comprising deputy director (local bodies) Rajat Oberoi and Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh has been saying that some of the families have not turned up to record their statements. Three of the victims were from Amritsar, two from Gurdaspur and one was from Tarn Taran district. “We had called their families to record their statement but only three families reported to us. We have given last opportunity to the rest of the families to come on Tuesday, or we will conclude our findings without their statements,” said Rajat Oberoi. The management of Neelkanth Hospital had blamed the district administration for the incident, saying they had intimated the officials about the shortage of oxygen a day before the incident. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had directed the Amritsar deputy commissioner to constitute the inquiry panel. The civil surgeon had claimed that the hospital was authorised to admit only level-2 Covid-19 patients but it allowed even critical level-3 patients without informing the health department. Also, the hospital didn’t have any senior doctor on night duty in the intensive care unit (ICU), he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-into-amritsar-hospital-deaths-delayed-as-panel-yet-to-record-statements-of-victims-kin-101620072972082.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||ASI shoots self dead in Moga, SHO booked for abetting suicide||A 52-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) on Monday committed suicide by shooting himself with his service revolver at government quarters of the police post in Moga district’s Lopo village after he was allegedly harassed by the Badhni Kalan station house officer (SHO). A case of abetment of suicide was registered against sub-inspector Karamjeet Singh, the SHO. The ASI, a resident of Jaimal Wala village in the district, was deployed at the police post nearly six month ago. Minutes before ending his life, he called his son and sent him a suicide note over phone. In the note, he alleged that the SHO was pressurising him to demand ₹50,000 from an accused in a 6-year-old case of brawl case on the pretext of reopening the investigation. The ASI refused to accept this but the SHO asked him to either demand it from the accused or pay from his own pocket, it was alleged. “I told the SHO that I do not take bribes. But he used to call me to his office and harass me. Therefore, I am going to kill myself,” the purported suicide letter reads. Talking to mediapersons, the victim’s son said, “The SHO had been harassing my father for the last 10 days. He called me around 6am saying he was going to commit suicide as SHO Karamjeet Singh was demanding ₹50,000 from him. I immediately reached the police post only to find that he was taken to a hospital where he died.”Superintendent of police (headquarters) Gurdeep Singh said, “A case under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Karamjeet on the complaint of the victim’s wife. The accused has not been arrested yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asi-shoots-self-dead-in-moga-sho-booked-for-abetting-suicide-101620072912111.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Death of 66-year-old Covid patient triggers outrage in Ludhiana||High drama took place outside Arora Neuro Hospital near Mall Road as relatives of a 66-year-old woman patient diagnosed with Covid accused the authorities of medical negligence that resulted in the patient’s death. The woman’s son alleged that his mother died due to lack of oxygen. He claimed that the cylinder had run out of oxygen and the attending nurse did not change it due to which, his mother’s saturation level dropped and she died. The deceased is Adesh Rani, whose son Deepak said despite being diagnosed with Covid, but her condition was stable and she even walked to the hospital during her time of admission two days ago. “We were not satisfied with the treatment she was getting at the civil hospital and decided to shift her here. But, the attending nurses stopped the oxygen flow due to which my mother’s saturation level began to fall. I raised an alarm following which it was learnt that no oxygen was left in the cylinder. After a couple of hours, my mother died. She has not died due to the Covid, but medical negligence,” Deepak alleged. Meanwhile, the hospital authorities termed the allegations baseless and said the woman was admitted to the civil hospital initially. They said she was brought to their hospital two days ago and was suffering from acute respiratory failure.A medical expert said that sudden thrombotic complication was witnessed, which resulted in the patient’s death.Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, while expressing grief over the patient’s death, said, “In this particular case, the patient was sick and brought from civil hospital. We had tried our level best, but could not save the patient. Currently, doctors are under tremendous pressure. They need support, not abuses from people. Our sympathies are with the family, but there has been no lapse in the treatment. We are doing so much to accommodate the patient. We have increased the capacity of the hospital, but one thing needs to be understood that the number of staff and doctors is still the same.”Division Number 8 station house officer Jaswinder Singh said the matter was being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/death-of-66-year-old-covid-patient-triggers-outrage-in-ludhiana-101620072014517.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police toil to enforce fresh directives, book 25 for violations||A day after the government issued fresh restrictions and put a cap on the number of passengers travelling in public transport or personal vehicles besides announcing closure of shops dealing with non-essential items, cops toiled hard to enforce the orders. The police have booked as many as 25 people under section of 188 of the IPC and registered 20 FIRs against those violating the directives. The violators included three-wheeler drivers and shopkeepers, who open their business despite restrictions and also the residents found roaming around in streets without masks. The police also stopped commuters at checkpoints and enquired for their reason for stepping out. The cops were found informing people about new restrictions wherein no more than two persons can travel in a car at a time and only one person can ride a two-wheeler.Most of the three-wheelers plying on the city roads were found occupied by more than five passengers at a time. According to the orders of the state government, the occupancy in a public transport has been kept at 50%. As per this, a three-wheeler driver cannot accommodate more than three passengers at a time in his/her vehicle.Three-wheeler drivers, however, rued that if they ferry only two to three passengers, they will suffer losses at the time when they are already finding it difficult to survive. Don’t let customers inside: Eatery owners toldIn Sarabha Nagar main market, the police found some of the eatery and bakery owners were allowing customers to step in for takeaways. The cops warned the eatery owners against letting the people inside. ACP (Civil Lines) Jatinder Singh said they have asked the eatery owners to handover the takeaways to the customers outside the premises.Three held for not wearing masksThe Jagraon City police have arrested three persons — Harkirpal Singh, Abhishek Gautam and Prabhjit Singh — for travelling in a car without wearing masks. A case under section 188 of IPC has been registered against them. The Payal police of Khanna also arrested a driver, Sukhwinder Singh, for ferrying 13 passengers in his SUV. 1,157 empty cylinders sent for Covid patients from locked plantSahnewal police on Monday found 1,157 empty oxygen cylinders at a Giaspura plant during checking. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma ordered to send the empty cylinders to other plants so that these could be used for treatment of Covid patients.The Sahnewal police had reached Aparna Gases in Giaspura in the morning for a checking.Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, Sahnewal station house officer, said the deputy commissioner had ordered to check all gas plants in their respective areas to see if these were supplying oxygen to the industry instead of diverting the supply to tackle the Covid crises. The SHO added that the gas plant was already closed for the past two months over non-supply of raw material.He said the gas plant owner, Vijay Jain, has assured to send the empty cylinders to other plants. As there was no anomaly found, no legal action has been taken against the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-toil-to-enforce-fresh-directives-book-25-for-violations-101620071956300.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims 21 lives in Ludhiana, most fatalities from rural areas||The district touched yet another grim milestone on Monday as 21 deaths were reported due to Covid in just 24 hours. Thirteen of the victims were women, while 80% of them hailed from rural areas. The youngest deceased was a 30-year-old man from Khanna. As many as 1,198 fresh cases were also recorded, which took the district’s Covid count to 58,788. Ludhiana’s death toll now stands at 1,431, while 47,048 people have recovered so far. Currently, there are 8,585 active patients in the district. As many as 109 deaths have been reported in a quick span of six days in Ludhiana with the daily toll crossing the 20-mark twice as on April 30, 20 people had died of the contagion.ADCP Sameer Verma tests positiveAdditional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) (City 3), Sameer Verma also tested positive for Covid on Monday. He has isolated himself at his home. The health department is now tracing his contacts. ADCP Verma is already vaccinated.According to the officer, he experienced mild fever and body ache on Sunday. He underwent a test, which came out positive.Meanwhile, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, who had tested positive for the virus on April 18, has now recovered.Industrialist, philanthropist succumbs to CovidCity-based industrialist, philanthropist and active member of the traffic wing of Sambhav Foundation, Anoop Garg, 45, lost his battle with Covid on Monday. He was admitted to a local hospital and had been suffering from fever since April 12. He had received the first dose of vaccine in March and was waiting for the second jab. His death has come as a shock to social activists and business community. According to Rahul Verma, traffic expert and member of the Sambhav Foundation, Garg was actively highlighting the traffic issues plaguing the city. He was involved in the protest against the delay in the construction of Jagraon Bridge as well. He is survived by two daughters and wife, who is a government schoolteacher.Industrialist appeals to donateLocal industrialist Mridula Jain, chairperson of Shingora Textiles, appealed to the public to generously donate in terms of either cash or jewellery to help the administration in its fight with Covid. “We are daily losing several of our nears and dears due to the infection and lack of medical care, inadequate healthcare infrastructure, non-availability of oxygen/medicines. I appeal to management/committees of all temples and religious institutions to donate or assist in setting up of temporary Level 1 and Level 2 facilities and ensure oxygen supply through cylinders and concentrators, besides helping in arranging free vaccines to all,” she added. Vax crunch hits drive againThe ongoing inoculation drive faced yet another hiccup after the health department yet again ran out of vaccine stock.Facing the crunch, the department has decided that only those who are scheduled to receive the second jab of Covaxin will be inoculated at the registered government sites and dispensaries.Sharing details, district immunisation officer Dr Pankaj Juneja said that the department has run out of Covishield vaccine. While the plans to vaccinate residents above the age of 18 have already been delayed due to shortage of vaccine doses, the administration is also struggling to meet the requirements for residents aged above 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-21-lives-in-ludhiana-most-fatalities-from-rural-areas-101620071952090.html
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||70% doses reserved for people with comorbidities in 18-45 age group in May||With the state getting 3.30 lakh vaccines for 18-45 years category from the Serum Institute of India for May, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered 70% of the doses to be reserved for individuals with comorbidities, and the remaining 30% for high-risk category of employees and workers in this age group. Chairing a virtual review meeting, Amarinder said that within these groups, district-wise allocation has also been prioritised based on population index, mortality and density. The state government had last week ordered 30-lakh doses of Covishield directly from the SII. “Given the severe supply constraints, it has been decided to limit the vaccination for 18-44 age group in this phase to major urban centres,” he said, expressing concern that even for the 45+ age group, the state was in short supply, as a result of which only a few vaccine centres were currently functioning. He said the state expects 2 lakh doses to arrive tomorrow for vaccination of 45+ category. Of the 33,46,500 Covishield doses received so far, a total of 32,91,0450 have already been utilised. The Union ministry of health and family welfare has allocated 6.2 lakh doses, including 4.7 lakh Covishield and 1.5 lakh Covaxin, for the state during the first fortnight of this month for free vaccination of 45+ population. In the 18-44 age group for May, the maximum allocation of 50% has been prioritised for Group A of the most affected districts of SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda and Patiala, according to an official spokesperson. Another 30% has been reserved for the Group B districts of Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, SBS Nagar, Faridkot, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur, while 20% will be utilised in the other districts that have the least cases at present. These decisions have been taken in accordance with the vaccine strategy recommended by the state’s vaccine expert committee. The committee recommended that when further doses are available or as the epidemiologic situation changes, the prioritisation framework may be modified. Obesity, disabilities included  in list of comorbidities Accepting the recommendations of the committee, the chief minister approved expansion of the list of comorbidities to include obesity (BMI>30), disabilities (e.g. spinal cord injury) and multiple co-morbidities determined to increase risk by a treating physician, in addition to those specified by the central government. He pointed out that since individuals with co-morbidities are at highest risk of severe disease and deaths, it was imperative to vaccinate them on priority. For the remaining 30%, the CM said that while the strategic roadmap contains a list of professions at risk, given the limitation of vaccine availability, for the month of May, the top three categories have been chosen. These are government employees, construction workers, teachers and other staff at government and private educational establishments. The committee has also recommended that increased doses be sought in partnership with private sector and other sources for allocation of available doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/70-doses-reserved-for-people-with-comorbities-in-18-45-age-group-in-may-101620065356350.html
