05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cop who kicked vegetable vendor’s basket suspended||Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta suspended station house officer of Phagwara Navdeep Singh on Wednesday after a video showing him kicking the vegetable basket of a street vendor went viral on social media.Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended SHO Phagwara. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences. https://t.co/terAynz6aoIn the video, Navdeep was seen kicking a basket of vegetables set up by a vegetable vendor at a market in Phagwara. The Punjab DGP said that such kind of behaviour was unacceptable and suspended the police officer. “Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended SHO Phagwara. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences,” Punjab DGP said in a tweet.Navdeep’s behaviour was condemned even by Kapurthala’s senior superintendent of police Kanwardeep Kaur who said that such behaviour lends a bad name to the entire police force. “A departmental enquiry has been initiated against him,” Kaur told news agency PTI. The officers of the Kapurthala Police also contributed a small amount from their salaries in order to provide compensation to the vegetable vendor.The Punjab government declared lockdown-like measures until May 15 where it ordered closure of all shops barring those selling essential commodities. Punjab is among the states which has observed a daily rise in the number of cases. The state saw the highest single-day surge in the number of Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday as it reported 173 fatalities. Punjab recorded 7,601 new cases which took its tally to 399,556. The state has 61,935 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cop-who-kicked-vegetable-vendor-s-basket-suspended-101620234681805.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||'A patient is a patient': Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Covid hospitalisations from Delhi, Noida||Apart from treating its own residents who have been infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Haryana is also admitting patients from neighbouring Delhi and Noida, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Wednesday, adding no hospitals have refused to admit patients from outside the state.Addressing a press conference on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state, Khattar said, “Almost 8,556 patients are on oxygen support while 3,828 patients are on ventilators and ICUs. We are treating all patients from Haryana. But in Gurugram, nearly 40% of the Covid patients are from Delhi. In Faridabad, 20% patients are from Delhi and Noida. Other cities in Haryana are also taking in patients from these regions. We will keep on treating patients from Haryana as well as from outside because a patient is a patient. Our hospitals have not refused treatment to anyone from outside the state.”The Haryana government is working towards creating 1,000 more hospital beds across the state, Khattar said. With the help of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), a 500-bed hospital is being made in Panipat as well as Hisar, he added.Also Read| Haryana’s Faridabad to have doctor-on-call service for Covid patientsAs hospitals in the state are reporting a severe shortage of oxygen supplies in view of the recent spike in cases and deaths along with patients coming in from outside, Khattar informed reporters a control room has been set up in Chandigarh to monitor the supply.“We’ve been allotted 70 MT per day of oxygen from Odisha. We have acquired 20 tankers for the transportation of oxygen. We need more tankers,” Khattar said and added the state is also procuring oxygen from the free market.According to news agency PTI, Mansesar and Faridabad are everyday witnessing long queues of people refilling their oxygen cylinders from plants. On the other hand, Haryana health minister Anil Vij claimed on Tuesday that Haryana is only receiving 252 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen against its daily requirement of 300 MT.Also Read| ‘We should prepare’: Centre warns third Covid-19 wave 'inevitable'Haryana on Tuesday saw the highest single day spike in daily Covid disease cases at 15,786, while 153 more people lost their lives, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The caseload is nearing 544,000 including 4,779 deaths, 429,950 recoveries and 108,830 active cases. The state is currently placed under a week-long lockdown from May 3 till May 9 to stem the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-patient-is-a-patient-haryana-cm-on-covid-hospitalisations-from-delhi-noida-101620218591478.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal imposes 10-day ‘corona curfew’||Amid an unprecedented surge in infections across Himachal Pradesh, the state government on Wednesday decided to impose a 10-day ‘coronavirus curfew’ across the hill state.The lockdown-like restrictions will be in place from the midnight of May 6 till May 16. The decision was taken in a Cabinet meeting called to review the coronavirus situation in the state. Announcing the fresh restrictions, Cabinet spokesperson and urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said, “In order to break the virus’ chain, the Cabinet has decided to impose corona curfew across state.” Educational institutions across Himachal Pradesh will remain closed till May 31. The state board has been asked to cancel the Class 10 exams and promote all students to Class 11. Annual exams for Class 12 and colleges will also remain suspended till further orders. All government and private offices will remain closed from May 7 to the midnight of May 16. However, essential services such as health, electricity, telecommunication, water supply and sanitation will not be disrupted.Work will continue at civil, horticultural, agricultural and other project sites. All government and private transport will ply at 50% occupancy and inter-state transport will continue. Industrial establishments will work as per the state government’s guidelines.Apart from instating Covid regulations, the Cabinet also gave its nod to create specialised HP Revenue (State Taxes and Excise) Services in place of the existing posts in the department.It green lighted a jal shakti circle at Dharampur, Mandi, and a jal shakti division at Thanakalan in Kutlehar Vidhan Sabha area of Una district. It also gave its nod to shift the existing staff and infrastructure in jal shakti sub-division 2, Una to Basal for better administrative functioning of the division.The ministers agreed to increase the beds at the regional hospital in Una to 300 and to create 76 posts to ensure better healthcare facilities to the people of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-imposes-10-day-corona-curfew-101620216755645.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hundreds of farmers defy Covid curbs in Amritsar, head for Delhi to protest||Defying the Covid-19 protocol and lockdown in Punjab, hundreds of supporters of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, including women and the elderly, gathered at Beas town in Amritsar district on Wednesday before heading for Delhi’s Singhu border to intensify the agitation against the three farm laws.They left in dozens of tractor-trailers, cars and tempo-travellers from the bridge over the Beas river on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway without any check by the police.Also Read: Centre moves SC against show cause notice of contempt over oxygen supply deficitMore than 30 people were seen huddled together in some trailers.Before embarking on the journey, the supporters gathered to raise slogans against the Centre and a few corporate houses. The protesters are expected to reach the national capital on Thursday.In hotspot, Amritsar district administration evasive Asked why no action was taken against them despite the Covid curbs, deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said he will seek a report from the Amritsar (rural) senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya. “Whatever legal action is there, it will be discussed with the SSP,” he said.Amritsar is one of the Covid-19 hotspot districts of Punjab with more than 5,000 active cases and 1,014 deaths. A total of 674 positive cases were reported from the district on Tuesday.Forced to protest as demands haven’t been met: Farmer leader The KMSC leaders had been holding meetings in villages over the past week to mobilise support for the march.Asked why the organisation was holding a march when the nation was in the grip of the second Covid-19 wave, KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “If any harm comes to farmers due to coronavirus, only the Centre will be responsible. We have been forced to remain on the roads because the Centre is not accepting our demands. We will go home immediately if our demands are met.”He wrote on social media on Tuesday that “the Centre is trying to sabotage our movement. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is helping the Centre indirectly.”Another such march of the KMSC is scheduled to depart from Tarn Taran on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hundreds-of-farmers-defy-covid-curbs-in-amritsar-head-for-delhi-to-protest-101620206602942.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Cheema tests positive||Aam Aadmi Party legislator and leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema, on Wednesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. “I have tested +ve for Covid-19 with mild symptoms. (I’m) following instructions of my doctor while undergoing home isolation. All those who have come in close proximity to me over the last few days are requested to kindly get tested,” he said in a tweet. Also read: Centre moves SC against show cause notice of contempt over oxygen supply deficitPunjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh wished the Dirba legislator a speedy recovery. “Wishing a speedy recovery to leader of the opposition @HarpalCheemaMLA Ji who has tested positive for #Covid19,” Singh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-leader-of-opposition-harpal-cheema-tests-positive-101620200122126.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||6th Punjab pay panel recommendations: 20% salary hike on cards for govt staffers||The 6th Punjab Pay Commission has recommended a two-fold increase in salaries of all employees over the previous pay panel, with increase in minimum pay from ₹6,950 to ₹18,000 per month, with retrospective effect from January 1, 2016. The pay panel headed by retired chief secretary Jai Singh Gill, which submitted its report to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday, has suggested substantial hikes in salary and other major benefits, and also substantial increase in allowances for government employees. The average increment in salaries and pensions of employees is expected to be in the range of 20%, with salaries in for a 2.59 times increase after merger of dearness allowance (DA) over the 5th pay commission recommendations, according to a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office (CMO). The commission has also recommended abolition of all types of special pay and any add-ons in the basic pay by any nomenclature, besides rationalisation of the cabinet sub-committee in 2011 when pay scales were revised upwards following protests against the recommendations of the 5th pay panel. Finance dept to study report within two weeks The report, which was submitted to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday, has been sent to the finance department for detailed study and directions for placing it before the cabinet this month for further action. A senior official said the commission has tried to align basic pay structures with those in the central government. “There is a substantial increase at the initial level. The new scales will be implemented from July 1 as already announced and payment of arrears will have to be phased out,” he said, pegging the expected overall financial implications, including the arrears for the previous five years, at ₹35,000 crore. Though finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal after presenting his budget for financial year 2021-22 had stated that he factored in ₹9,000 crore for the pay and pension hike, there are serious questions about the ability to state to raise resources for bearing such a huge financial implication, particularly amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The state, which has struggling to increase its revenue receipts and been reluctant to take measures for additional resource mobilization, does not have the financial wiggle room. The report has come at a time when the state’s economy is already deeply stressed and the financial situation is precarious with the Covid-19 pandemic hitting the tax and non-tax revenues of the state. The finance department will examine the various implications before submitting the report to the cabinet for further action. The Sixth Punjab Pay Commission, which was constituted by the previous SAD-BJP government on February 3, 2016, and reconstituted by the present administration a year later, took more than five years to submit its recommendations. Gill said the commission has submitted only the part one of its report. “We will now look at promotion schemes, health insurance and representations received from employees’ unions, various categories of employees and even individuals as per the terms of reference set by the state government,” he said, refusing to discuss the recommendations made in the report. Sanjha Mulazam Morcha convener Sukhchain Singh Khehra, who has been leading a protest for the past two years against the delay in pay revision, said they would not comment without studying the report. Fate of 2011 pay revision uncertain “The official statement talks about rationalisation of 2011 revision in pay scales. If they have based the new scales on those implemented from 2006, then many employees won’t gain much. In case the recommended scales are based on revision done in 2011, there will be complications relating to employees whose salaries were not increased at that time and they would seek parity,” he said. The CMO spokesperson said that a significant hike has been recommended in the report in pensions and dearness allowance, while fixed medical allowance and death-cum-retirement gratuity are recommended to be doubled under the scheme suggested by the pay panel. While fixed medical allowance has been recommended to be doubled to ₹1,000/- per month for employees as well as pensioners uniformly, the maximum limit of death-cum-retirement gratuity is proposed to be enhanced from ₹10 lakh to ₹20 lakh. Enhancement in ex-gratia grant rates in the case of death of government employee, as also in case of death in harness directly attributable to the duty performed, is another key recommendation aimed at benefitting government employees. The commission has also suggested doubling of design allowance to engineering staff and kit maintenance allowance to police personnel, with mobile allowance enhancement varying from ₹375 to ₹750. Burden of ₹3,500 crore per annum While implementation of the recommendations relating to pay and pension has been recommended from January 1, 2016, those relating to allowances are recommended from the date of notification by the government. The commission’s recommendations is likely to lead to an additional expenditure of ₹3,500 crore per annum with effect from January 1, 2016, said an official spokesperson. Another recommendation is that the present system of DA on central pattern should continue and dearness allowance be converted into dearness pay each time the index increases by 50%, to be counted for all purposes including retirement benefits. For pensions, the revision suggested by the commission is by the application of a simple factor of 2.59. Further, pension should continue to be paid at the rate of 50% of the last pay drawn, on completion of 25 years of qualifying service, as per the pay panel’s recommendations. Besides recommending a simple, transparent and easy to implement pay matrix for all Punjab government employees, the commission has suggested that old age allowance for pensioners and family pensioners, at the existing intervals of five years from the age of 65 years onwards, should continue on revised pension. It has also recommended commutation of pension to be restored to 40%. Though the existing classification of the categories of cities for HRA is proposed to be retained, with rationalisation in house rent allowance (by a factor of 0.8 of the existing rates and calculated as a percentage of basic pay, the commission has also recommended introduction of several new allowance categories, including higher education allowance in the form of lump sum rate for all employees acquiring higher qualification. Besides Gill, the commission had DS Kalha as member and SS Rajput as member secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6th-punjab-pay-panel-recommendations-20-salary-hike-on-cards-for-govt-staffers-101620158839520.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mandis start winding up wheat procurement ops||Punjab’s food and civil supplies department and the mandi board on Tuesday began the process to wind up the wheat procurement for this season. As per a notice issued by the board, all mandis in six districts — Ludhiana, Sangrur, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ropar and Mohali — will not function from Wednesday, while procurement across the state will come to a complete stop on May 10. So far, 121 lakh tonne wheat has arrived of which 120 lakh tonne has been procured and ₹19,007 crore disbursed among at least 7-lakh farmers. The arrivals are expected to touch 130 lakh tonne against previous season’s (2020) 127 lakh tonne and total disbursals are likely to cross ₹21,000 crore. The state department has already shut temporary mandis set up to spread out the procurement due to coronavirus. Mandis in Moga and Tarn Taran will not accept wheat after May 5, Bathinda after May 6 and Barnala, Mansa, Faridkot, Muktsar, Ferozepur, Nawanshahr, and Jalandhar after May 7 and Kapurthala after May 8. As against the previous season when the wheat procurement lasted for 40-45 days, this time the process took only 35 days as it started after 10 days’ delay on April 10. Due to late harvesting in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Fazilka, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts, the procurement is expected to continue till May 10. Also, the procurement this time was different from all the previous seasons as the Centre asked state procurement agencies to pay farmers through the direct benefit transfer scheme. Though, initially there was opposition from arhtiyas who earlier used to transfer the money into farmers’ accounts, the state government was able to pacify them by offering them a window in the public finance management system (PFMS) to monitor payments made to the farmers. “It was a tough season, as the new payment system was introduced at the last moment and it took us at least a week to streamline it,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, adding that earlier the agencies would deal with 30,000 active arhtiyas but this time they had to directly deal with 10-lakh farmers. LIFTING CONTUNUES TO BE SLOW As against arrival of 121 lakh tonne, only 84 lakh tonne wheat has been lifted so far. The officials of food department attribute the slow lifting of grain to shortage of labour and gunny bags. gfxWheat sheetTotal arrival 121 lakh tonneExpected arrival 130 lakh tonneProcured 120 lakh tonneLifted 84 lakh tonne||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandis-start-winding-up-wheat-procurement-ops-101620158362474.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Deadliest day in HP as Covid claims 48 lives, infects 3,824||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 3,824 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 1,10,945.It was also the deadliest day since the outbreak as 48 people succumbed to the contagion, highest number of fatalities in a single-day since the outbreak. The death count has now reached 1,647. The active cases in the state have climbed to 23,572, while the recoveries have reached 85,671 after 1,992 people recuperated.Kangra’s case tally breaches 20,000 markOf the new cases, 877 were reported in Kangra alone. The case count in the most populous district in Himachal has breached 20,000 mark.Kangra also has the more than 5,000 active cases, highest in the state.The second most populous district Mandi has recorded 802 fresh cases and is followed by Solan with 411 cases. Hamirpur recorded 340 cases, Shimla 323, Sirmaur 270, Una 258, Bilaspur 227, Chamba 158, Kullu 78, Kinnaur 54 and Lahaul-Spiti 26.State has recovery rate of 77% and death case fatality ratio of 1.5%.Highest 15 fatalities occurred in Kangra, 11 in Solan, six in Sirmaur, four each in Hamirpur and Shimla, three in Una, two each in Chamba and Kullu and one in Mandi.Kangra, the worst-hit district in the second wave, is on the top in terms of total case count with 20,447 followed by Shimla with 15,985 cases and Mandi 15,879.Solan’s case tally has reached 14,129, Sirmaur 8,337, Una 7,819, Hamirpur 7,340, Bilaspur 6,396, Kullu 6,144, Chamba 4,912, Lahaul-Spiti 2,001 and Kinnaur 1,856. Six more oxygen plants to come up in Himachal: CMChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said the Centre has sanctioned six pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants for the state. He was addressing a meeting of officers of Kangra through videoconferencing.The plants would come up at civil hospital Palampur; zonal hospital Mandi; civil hospital Rohru; civil hospital Khaneri in Shimla; Dr YS Parmar medical college and hospital in Nahan and regional hospital Solan. He said oxygen production has started in Dharamshala, Mandi and Shimla plants. A spokesperson said there was no shortage of oxygen supply and beds in the hospitals and efforts were being made to enhance the bed capacity and oxygen supply day by day. As of now, 3,346 beds were available in various health institutes of the state. The CM said that makeshift arrangements should be made in Paraur to provide additional 250 beds within next 10 days, which would be gradually increased to about 1,000 beds. Thakur said that private laboratories must be empanelled and requisitioned so that more RT-PCR tests could be conducted. Thakur said the government has also decided to provide incentives to various categories of doctors and paramedical staff on duty in Covid hospitals. He said that fourth and fifth year MBBS students, contractual doctors and junior/senior residents would be provided an incentive of ₹3,000 per month while nursing, GNM third-year students and contractual lab staffers would get ₹1,500 per month till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deadliest-day-in-hp-as-covid-claims-48-lives-infects-3824-101620158299390.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curfew extended in 4 J&K districts as 4,650 fresh cases reported||The J&K government on Tuesday extended curfew in four districts and brought Samba under restrictions. “The corona curfew in Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam and Jammu, which is there till 7am on Thursday, will stand extended till 6 am on Monday, May 10,” directorate of information and public relations said in a Tweet. “In addition, Samba district will also be under corona curfew from 7pm on Wednesday till 7am on Monday,” it said. The latest curbs came at the time when Jammu and Kashmir witnessed the record highest single day spike of 4,650 Covid infections, taking the overall cases to 1, 91,869 in the UT on Tuesday. The UT also recorded 37 fatalities, taking the total death toll to 2,458.Of the 37 deaths in the UT, 25 were reported in Jammu division and 12 in Kashmir. Officials said with 1,311 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 589 in Jammu district, 386 in Budgam, 352 in Baramulla and 240 in Pulwama.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 37,302, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593. Around 1,878 patients have recovered, including 1,247 from Kashmir and 631 from Jammu.As many as 1,52,109 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 79.27%. Meanwhile, Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole on Tuesday visited Reshipora village in Budgam to take stock of ongoing construction work of DRDO’s 500-bed Covid hospital. Pole said that work on the project is to be completed within 35 days and the hospital will have a facility of 125 beds as ICU and rest of the beds will have oxygen supply facility. J&K govt announces incentives for doctors, healthcare workersJammu and Kashmir administration has decided to extend the tenure of retiring doctors till the end of the year and also provide monetary incentives to all healthcare workers directly dealing with coronavirus patients.Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday approved the special financial incentives for Covid-19 warriors of the health and medical education department of J&K.“Although, the services rendered by these Covid warriors cannot be compensated, still the UT government has decided to incentivise their efforts,” Sinha said.Incentives are exclusively for those frontline workers who directly deal with Covid-19 patients. “The decision will benefit more than 17,000 corona warriors, including resident doctors, medical officers, paramedical/nursing staff, drivers and other employees,” a government spokesperson said.The incentive will be ₹10,000 per month for resident doctors, PGs and medical officers; ₹7,000 for nursing and paramedical staff, and ₹5,000 for drivers, sweepers and attendants.“The tenure of these incentives will be initially for a period of three months and will be paid from May 2021 onwards,” the spokesman said.In view of surge in Covid-19 cases and to give a fillip to available medical services at this crucial juncture, Sinha also granted extension up to December 31 in favour of the faculty members, consultants, doctors working in SKIMS, Soura and Bemina; government medical colleges and health department who are going to retire from May to November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/curfew-extended-in-4-j-k-districts-as-4-650-fresh-cases-reported-101620158245340.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination drive reaches a trickle for want of vials||Punjab on Tuesday could inoculate only 15,953 people, which is the lowest count for a day this month, and the vaccination drive is likely to slow down further with Centre asking the states to keep at least 70% of free vaccine doses reserved for the second jab. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Hussan Lal, said the state will get 15-lakh doses from the Centre for the 45-plus category in the first fortnight of this month out of which 70% vials need to be kept for those expecting a second jab. The state received 2 lakh doses of Covishield from the Centre on Tuesday afternoon. In a tweet on Tuesday morning, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh urged the Union health minister to urgently review and enhance Punjab’s allocation taking into account the high incidence of Covid infections. “Our vaccine stocks stand depleted at less than 50,000. Centre’s allocation for May 1-15 is only 6-lakh doses i.e. 40,000 a day,” said Amarinder. Health director Dr GB Singh said state’s demand for the second dose will increase in the next few days and it was very important to vaccinate those who have already got the first shot. Punjab is also likely to get in the third week of May the first instalment of over 3-lakh doses of Covishield from its booking of 30-lakh meant for the 18-plus category. “If our allocation for 45-plus category is not increased, we will have very limited stock left for the first dose. Punjab has 2,610 sites for vaccination,” said the health director. The state has also not booked Covaxine for its 18-plus category despite data showing the vaccine having more efficacy than the Covishield. The decision on not booking Covaxine was taken on the recommendations of state’s experts group on Covid-19 and vaccination, an official said. “Covishield is equally effective. Moreover Covishield is cheaper and its availability is going to increase in the coming days,” said head of Punjab’s experts group and former PGIMER director Dr KK Talwar. Only 1,200 doses left in Amritsar The vaccination drive in Amritsar was badly hit as 22% of centres earmarked for the jabs remained shut on Tuesday. The district is left with only 1,200 Covishield doses and the health department officials say the stock is insufficient to run the drive even for one more day. As per the health department, only 2,907 people could be inoculated in Amritsar district on Tuesday. While many health centres couldn’t operate due to vaccine shortage, some community health centres remained non-operational after the community health officers went on a day’s strike over their long-pending demand of regular job. Till now, the district health department has administered 2,42,196 doses in Amritsar, including healthcare workers, frontline warriors and people above the age of 45. Of these, 55,212 have already taken their second jab. Drive only at 2 of 150 centres in Sangrur The Sangrur district has not received vaccine stock for the past four days, the vaccination drive is being run at only two sites in the district, senior health officials said on Tuesday. Sangrur assistant civil surgeon Dr Jagmohan Singh said stock of vaccines was collected from across the district and frontline workers were being inoculated at Sangrur and Malerkotla centres. “We are administering the second jab. The vaccination drive is going on only at two centres against 150-plus sites earlier,” he added. Many camps suspended in Bathinda, other districts Several vaccination camps were suspended in Bathinda and its adjoining districts on Tuesday for want of vaccine. People in large numbers had gathered at Bathinda Civil Hospital but the authorities did not have sufficient vaccine doses to cater to them all. Civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon said against an average daily requirement of 2,300-2,500 doses, the district had only 1,700 vials. “Several camps were suspended today. Our team has gone to Chandigarh to get fresh stock of vaccine. Further vaccination programme will be decided tomorrow on the basis of availability,” he said. Mansa district had just 300 Covishield vials and the drive slowed down on Tuesday. Against the daily requirement of 1,000 doses, Muktsar had 1,250 vials, said civil surgeon Dr Ranju Singla. (With inputs from Mandeep Kaur Narula in Amritsar, Avtar Singh in Sangrur and Vishal Joshi in Bathinda)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-drive-reaches-a-trickle-for-want-of-vials-101620158244111.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays production warrant against Lawrence Bishnoi||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday stayed production warrant issued by a Faridkot court against gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.The order was passed by the bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill, on the plea of the gangster.Bishnoi had challenged the April 22 order of the trial court, passed in an FIR dated February 18 that pertained to the murder of one Gurlal Singh who was allegedly shot dead by two unidentified persons. The gangster had claimed that he had nothing to do with the case as he had been behind bars since 2015. Bishnoi further alleged that the police of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are all out to eliminate him and had been implicating him in false cases. The HC had ordered that he be brought to Chandigarh from Rajasthan and then be handed over to the Haryana police, but that order had been stayed by Supreme Court on February 2, Bishnoi had told court, adding that the fresh order from the trial court would amount to violation of the apex court’s directions. The HC, while issuing notice of motion for May 17, stayed operation of the order on production warrant of the gangster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-production-warrant-against-lawrence-bishnoi-101620158239375.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt seeks PM help in replenishing state’s dwindling oxygen quota||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sought the immediate intervention of both, the Prime Minister and the Union home minister, to ensure uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen to the state, along with an additional allocation of 50MT liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from a nearby source. The CM sent separate letters to them, as the number of Covid patients on varying levels of oxygen support in the state went up to 10,000. With mounting caseload, the state was unable to increase beds for patients with moderate and severe symptoms due to oxygen availability constraints, he said, expressing concern over the “imminent loss” of lives. He said the central government had expressed its inability to even allow the local industry to undertake commercial import of LMO from Pakistan through the Wagah-Attari border. “Despite assurance about adequate supply from alternate sources, I regret to point out that this has not happened,” he said. Amarinder said the total allocation of LMO from outside the state was currently 195 MT but the state was not getting its daily allocated quota. The existing backlog from these facilities is 5.6 MT from Panipat, 100 MT from Dehradun and 10 MT from Roorkee. Pointing out that Punjab was given to understand by the Centre that there would be likely disruption of LMO supply Tuesday onwards from Panipat and Barotiwala, the CM said this would cause great stress on the limited oxygen availability in the state. The disruption should be avoided, he said, adding that, if necessary, the state must be compensated immediately from a nearby additional source. He further said the state was airlifting two empty tankers daily to Ranchi, with the filled tankers returning by road from Bokaro on a 50-hour journey. The state had requested for 20 additional tankers (conducive to rail travel) to bring LMO from Bokaro, but was told that only two would be provided, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-seeks-pm-help-in-replenishing-state-s-dwindling-oxygen-quota-101620158059317.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s grimmest record yet: 173 deaths, 7,601 cases in a day||Punjab on Tuesday witnessed the deadliest day of the pandemic yet with 173 deaths due to Covid-19. Also, the state also registered highest single-day hike in infections with 7,601 people testing positive in the last 24-hours, government’s media bulletin said. The earlier high for single-day deaths was 157, which the state had registered for two consecutive days on Sunday and Monday. Among the fresh virus-related deaths, Ludhiana and Bathinda registered 20 deaths each, followed by 16 each in Amritsar and Patiala, 12 in SAS Nagar, 10 in Sangrur, eight each in Muktsar and Jalandhar. Maximum 1,347 fresh cases were detected in Ludhiana, followed by 847 in SAS Nagar, 803 in Bathinda, 733 in Jalandhar, 674 in Amritsar, 640 in Patiala, 429 in Muktsar, 284 in Pathankot, 243 in Fazilka, 209 in Sangrur. Mohali with worst positivity rate SAS Nagar (Mohali) on Tuesday registered highest 32.89% positivity rate, followed by 22.58% in Bathinda, 21.11% in Amritsar and 20.33% in Pathankot. A total of 6,115 people were declared recovered from the virus on Tuesday whereas 8,034 patients are on oxygen support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-grimmest-record-yet-173-deaths-7-601-cases-in-a-day-101620157942898.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab promotes 8 IPS officers as ADGPs||Punjab government on Tuesday promoted eight IPS officers of 1995 and 1996 batches as ADGPs and while reshuffling postings of 10 IPSs. As per the notification, while the 1995-batch officers promoted as ADGPs include Kapil Dev, Promod Ban, Mohd Faiyaz Farooqui, Amit Prasad and G Nageswara Rao, officers from 1996-batch include Vibhu Raj, Rajiv Ahir and LK Yadav. The notification says, “Kapil Dev and Rajiv Ahir who are presently serving on Central deputation will be entitled only to the notional benefits and the actual benefits would be admissible as and when they will join the state government.” Two IG rank 1995-batch IPS, Guatam Cheema and Paramraj Umranangal, who were also due to be promoted as ADGPs, could not get the promotion as criminal and department proceedings are pending against them. “In view of the recommendations of the screening committee as they are found unfit for promotion in the rank of ADGP, it was decided to keep their case for empanelment in sealed cover. The case will be opened after the conclusion of the proceedings pending against them,” reads the notification by the home department. After the promotions, the government also ordered transferred and reshuffling of 10 IPS officers. Rohit Chaudhary, who was special DGP, policy and rules, would now be special DGP, Punjab State Human Rights Commission, to fill the vacancy on superannuation of DGP Mohd Mustafa. Ram Singh, ADGP modernnisation, will now also have the additional charge of cyber crimes divisions and state crime records bureau whereas Promod Ban, IGP Ropar Range, will be ADGP, special crimes and economic offences. MF Farooquie, IG PAP Jalandhar, has been posted as ADGP, public grievances division, divesting Gurpreet Deo of this charge and Amit Prasad, IG counter intelligence, will now be ADGP, counter intelligence and OCCU. Vibhu Raj, IG vigilance bureau will now be ADGP, vigilance bureau, whereas LK Yadav will also be ADGP vigilance bureau. Kaustaubh Sharma, IG Jalandhar, will now also hold the additional charge of OCCU, Punjab, and Gurpreet Singh Toor, DIG Faridkot Range will now be DIG Ropar Range in place of Promod Ban, who has been promoted as ADGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-promotes-8-ips-officers-as-adgps-101620157641530.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin restaurateur helped feed needy Londoners during lockdown||As the second wave of Covid continues to cause menace in several parts of the world, a fourth-generation Indian restaurateur recently spoke about how he kept his Covent Garden premises open through the Covid pandemic to help feed thousands of needy Londoners.Instead of welcoming tourists, office workers and regulars to the 75-year-old Punjab Covent Garden restaurant, the team started cooking meals and delivering to thousands needy as well as provided supplies to food banks throughout London, local media reported.Restaurant owner Amrit Maan said: “I made a conscious decision not to close. For us, Covent Garden is a village, it’s a community. I just refuse to have the kitchens closed. It doesn’t make sense. It gives you hope.”When the lockdown started, Maan said he soon decided to use his kitchens for helping the communities in need. The restaurant, which specialises in North Indian cuisine, was founded by his great-grandfather Gurbachan Singh Maan and celebrated its 75th birthday this year.Talking about people who joined the cause as volunteers, Maan said: “There are people out there who are compassionate and courageous. I am dumbstruck by the incredible humanity and care of the volunteers.”He added, “You could sit at home and just shut the curtains and watch TV but I knew I was sitting on a blessed asset our kitchens are industrial kitchens. We have been helping the homeless for three or four years.”He even moved out of his family home to stay at the restaurant to keep his elderly parents safe during the first lockdown. Seven of the 40 staff stayed at the premises to help with the food aid. The team started making wraps for volunteers working with the charity “Under One Sky” to give to homeless people in London.“We were really blessed with the volunteers, they are an army of angels. With lockdown, there was nobody about and so some people were very hungry,” Maan said. Some of those people hadn’t eaten for days. They helped make 100,000 meals, while Maan started helping food banks and they’ve done about 50,000 meals for them. His team delivered urgent supplies to the food banks using their links with suppliers. Maan joined forces with other volunteers feeding the homeless and other needy communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-restaurateur-helped-feed-needy-londoners-during-lockdown-101620157640305.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||71% beds in Himachal Pradesh hospitals occupied, shows data||About 71% beds in the dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) and hospitals in Himachal are occupied and the remaining ones would be filled up soon if the cases continue to spiral, suggest the data obtained from the health department. Two hospitals in Shimla — Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (DDU) — are full to capacity. At Deen Dayal Upadhyay, there are 127 patients against its 90-bed capacity. “Right now, we have adequate stock of oxygen,” said medical superintendent Dr Ravinder Mokhta. Patients in critical care from Rohru, Chopal, Theog, and Rampur are also referred to DDU. “We are trying to accommodate every patient requiring treatment,” said IGMC senior medical superintendent Dr Janakraj Pakhretia. “More beds are being added to the new OPD block. We have also taken over the wards in medicine department,” he added. As per the data, the state has a total capacity of 1,967 beds in DCHCs of which, 1,397 were occupied as of May 4. Himachal has 28 DCHCs and dedicated Covid hospitals of which, IGMC, Shimla; Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda; and Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College in Mandi are tertiary centres. Among the patients admitted in the centres, 1,183 are on oxygen support and 43 on ventilator support. Meanwhile, the situation in the dedicated Covid care centres across the 12 districts is slightly better. Of the total 1,387 beds in these centres, only 286 (20%) are currently occupied. A government spokesperson said more than 90% of the people infected with Covid were in home isolation in the state and there was no need to panic as enough beds and oxygen were available. Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, deputy commissioner of Kangra, which is the worst-hit district, said the situation was bit grim there with 95% beds in Covid facilities occupied. “All 40 ICU beds at RPGMC, Tanda, are occupied and we are trying to add 25 more beds. Also, another 25-bed facility has been created at Rajiv Gandhi Government Ayurvedic College, Paprola,” he added. Twenty-five beds will be added to the facility every day, he said, adding that 40 beds will also be set up at Fortis Hospital on April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/71-beds-in-himachal-pradesh-hospitals-occupied-shows-data-101620157639266.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hate-fuelled black assailant hits Sikh man with hammer in US||A Sikh man was attacked with a hammer by a black assailant who shouted at him “I don’t like you” and “You’re not the same skin” at a hotel in Brooklyn here, prompting a prominent New-York based advocacy group to call on investigators to examine if the assault was a hate crime incident. Sumit Ahluwalia, 32, of Astoria has said his assailant was fuelled by racial hatred, according to a report on New York Daily News website. Ahluwalia said the man, a black, assaulted him on April 26 at his workplace, the Quality Inn in Brownsville. He said the man came into the lobby of the hotel at around 8am and started shouting while the front desk lady asked him if he needed help. Ahluwalia stepped into the lobby to speak with the man and to seek the hotel security guard. At that point, the assailant “started running towards me, very fast, and he put his hand in the pocket — I thought, ‘He’s pulling out a gun’’’, the report said. Pleading with the man, the victim said, “What happened? You’re my brother.” The attacker responded “You’re not the same skin,” Ahluwalia said, adding that the man then “banged on my head with the hammer so hard.” The assailant then screamed, “I don’t like you,” and ran away, according to the report. It said the victim “couldn’t feel what happened with me” and was eventually taken to an emergency room. “I couldn’t sleep. I had a big bump on my head. I could fall — feeling dizziness, and the next morning I went to the doctor,” he said, adding that five days later, he was still feeling anxious and fearful. “I didn’t do anything… I don’t deserve this. I’m a hardworking guy, wake up in the morning 6 a.m. and go home at 7 pm,” he said. Police have released pictures of the suspect, who was still being sought. Advocacy group The Sikh Coalition said its legal team is providing free legal services to Ahluwalia. “We have already been in direct communication with law enforcement and demanded that investigators examine the real possibility that bias was a motive,” it said, adding that anyone with information about the incident should contact the New York Police Department. The incident comes as the US has witnessed a recent wave of anti-Asian hate crimes during this pandemic. Eight people, including four Sikhs, were killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hatefuelled-black-assailant-hits-sikh-man-with-hammer-in-us-101620157399401.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||More Covid fatalities in Majha’s urban belt||Amid the second Covid, the Majha region—comprising four districts Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot—has been witnessing more fatalities in urban areas, according to the health department data from April 30 to May 3.Experts attribute it to congested areas and overcrowded markets in the cities. They also term less testing in rural areas as compared to the urban pockets as another reason behind the gap.Out of 53 deaths reported from April 30 to May 3 in Amritsar district, 47 were from urban areas, mostly Amritsar city. Amritsar, which is the largest and most populous city of the region, has so far reported 998 deaths, which is the highest among other districts of the region. 54% population of the district lives in the urban areas.Amritsar assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh said: “Due to congested areas and markets, mostly in Amritsar city, the positivity and death rate is higher in the urban pockets. There are small houses where large families reside. In many such cases all family members are being tested positive.”Another reason, he said, is that the population in the rural areas show reluctance to get themselves tested. “We have launched a campaign to make the people of the rural areas aware, especially the elderly, to go for a test if they are symptomatic. People above 40 in the rural areas should get themselves tested instead of taking medicines from quacks,” he said. In Gurdaspur, 10 deaths have been reported from April 30 to May 3 of which six are from villages. Of the 13 deaths during the period in Tarn Taran district, six are from urban areas. This despite the fact that 87% population of the district is from the rural area.In Pathankot, 19 deaths were reported in the past four days and most are from urban areas. The district has 53% rural population.Tarn Taran senior medical officer Dr Swaranjit Dhawan said: “Most of the people from the rural areas are not showing their willingness to get tested for Covid. We believe that deaths in the villages are underreported as many of them prefer to get themselves treated from quacks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-covid-fatalities-in-majha-s-urban-belt-101620157219299.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||In south Punjab, 60% Covid cases being reported from villages||In the last two weeks, more coronavirus infection and mortality cases are being reported from villages of southern Punjab districts.The trend has sent the health authorities in a tizzy as the rural segment from south Malwa, particularly Mansa and Bathinda districts, have a strong representation in the ongoing farmer agitation on Delhi borders. Health authorities say around 60% of cases are being reported from villages as there has been a poor response from villagers to the vaccination drive.On Tuesday, Bathinda reported 20 Covid deaths, the highest in a day since the pandemic outbreak last year. Also, the district recorded the highest number of new cases at 806, taking the active cases to 5,376.In-charge of Covid mortality cases in Bathinda Dr Sukhjinder Singh Gill said 11 of the 20 dead were from villages and nine from the city.Doctors say patients coming from villages are found to be suffering from lifestyle comorbidities, including obesity and diabetes, that deteriorates their condition when contracted with coronavirus.“For the last few days, Bathinda district has a daily average of 600 patients and more than half of them are from the rural segments. A majority of village patients contact health department after their medical condition deteriorates,” said district Covid officer Dr Ramandeep Singla.Villages are visiting hospital when they are at the advanced stage of level-2 treatment, or say when they need ventilator support. “This trend is a cause of concern as Bathinda villagers have a frequent movement to and from Delhi borders due to farmers’ agitation,” said Singla.Mansa civil surgeon Dr Sukhwinder Singh said the rural population has been opposing vaccination and even testing. “Medical teams visiting villages for vaccination camps, awareness campaigns or sample collection often face resistance from villagers. We had to take police protection on various occasions. Villagers are not ready to take life-saving jabs and it is contributing a sharp surge in Covid cases from rural areas of the district,” he added.In the last two days, Mansa reported news 381 cases out of which 217 were from the rural belt.Health officials in the region say villagers having Covid symptoms are taking self-medication or medicines prescribed by local medical practitioners.Muktsar chief medical officer Dr Ranju Singla said timely testing can lead to timely treatment. “Villagers have started rushing to hospitals. But in most cases, they come at the later stage when the infection has severely impacted their health,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-south-punjab-60-covid-cases-being-reported-from-villages-101620157099365.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Liquor vends, grocery stores to remain open in Punjab on weekdays||Amid protests by shopkeepers in different parts of the state against its directive to keep shops selling non-essential goods shut to check the spread of Covid-19, the Punjab government on Tuesday amended its order to allow liquor vends and shops selling groceries, fertilisers etc to remain open. However, taverns will remain shut. The home department, in an order, stated that grocery stores, PDS outlets, retail and wholesale liquor vends and shops selling fertilisers, seeds, pesticides, agriculture/horticulture implements, industrial material and hardware items are allowed to open till 5pm except during the weekend curfew. It also said the movement of persons on foot and bicycle for the permissible purposes will be freely allowed. The state government’s decision to keep shops selling non-essential goods has not gone down well with shopkeepers who are protesting in different parts of the state to demand the withdrawal of these restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/liquor-vends-grocery-stores-to-remain-open-in-punjab-on-weekdays-101620156861217.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 2 weeks, 158 cases on, containment restrictions lifted from Dugri||Bringing respite to residents, restrictions were lifted from Dugri Urban Estate Phases 1 and 2, which were declared containment zones two weeks ago amid a spike in cases from the areas, on Tuesday. After lifting restrictions, authorities have setup micro-containment zones in Mohalla 5,8 12 in Dugri Phase- 1 and Blocks E, F and G in Dugri Phase- 2. These are areas from where nearly 400 cases have been reported so far.In the last two weeks, the health department had logged 581 Covid cases from the two containment zones. The decision to convert the populous area into containment zones was taken on April 19 after 65 fresh cases were reported from the two phases. Subsequently, the health department had launched a massive testing drive, in which 9,574 samples were collected, said senior medical officer (SMO) Avinash Jindal. The restrictions had invoked the wrath of many residents who said the whole area had been converted into a garrison, just because a few people had tested positive for Covid . Teachers living in the area had complained that school authorities were pressing them to report for work, despite their area of residence being declared a Covid zone. Businesses in the area also reported significant financial loss.It was not all smooth sailing for the health department officials as well as in some places residents did not open the gates for the testing teams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-weeks-158-cases-on-containment-restrictions-lifted-from-dugri-101620156859962.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Residents scramble to get jab as stocks dry up in Ludhiana||Even as the second wave of coronavirus infections sweeps the district, people hoping to get the jab on Tuesday returned dejected as the vaccine stocks ran dry in the district yet again.Merely 430 people were inoculated across the district against a target of 18,000 a day and average of 12,000-13,000 jabs. While vaccination counters across the city wore a deserted look, the area for reverse- transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing was bustling as cases continue to rise in the district. Some residents, who could not get the jab, lost their cool, saying that at a time when virus cases were peaking, the district did not have enough vaccines. Vinjay Jain of Civil Lines, who was seen standing in queue to get inoculated with his wife, daughter and son who is suffering from Down’s syndrome, said “I was here to get the second jab for myself and first jab for my children. However, I was told that the drive to inoculate those in the 18-44 age bracket had not begun yet. I was told to come in a couple of days but it is not possible for us to visit the centre repeatedly.” “With the virus cases surging, visiting the centre to get the jab is risky in itself,” says Rohit Chabbra of Haibowal. “Several people who wanted to get their RT-PCR test done had converged at the entrance of the centre. I had to make my way through potential Covid patients to reach the vaccination counter, only to be told that the vaccination drive had to be deferred,” said Rohit. One Sanjeev Sharma, who visited the dispensary in Sunet only to find the vaccine out of stock, said he was told that Covaxin will only be given to those here for the second jab and Covishield was out of stock. Residents said Covishield was unavailable in Dugri as well. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said, “We can understand residents’ frustration and it is encouraging that people are coming forward to get themselves vaccinated. However, unfortunately, our stocks have dried up. Hopefully, we will get a batch of stock Covishield on Wednesday, but only those above the age of 45 will be vaccinated.”Health officials said 28,000 vaccines of Covishield are expected to arrive on Wednesday.On May 3, the health department had said that until the vaccine stock was not replenished, vaccines will not be provided to private players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/residents-scramble-to-get-jab-as-stocks-dry-up-in-ludhiana-101620156802599.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||20 succumb to contagion in a day in Ludhiana||The district recorded yet another high of 20 deaths and 1,347 coronavirus infections on Tuesday with a 28-year-old man becoming the youngest person to succumb to the contagion. The district’s Covid tally, which was 50,000 at the beginning of the week crossed the 60,000-mark in seven days, touching 60,135. The death toll climbed to 1,451 while the number of active cases mounted to 10,316.The majority of Covid victims were men while four of the deceased were below the age of 40. Sixteen men — a 75-year-old resident of Prem Vihar, a 72-year-old resident of Jagraon, a 67-year-old resident of Vikas Nagar, a 64-year-old resident of Janta Nagar, a 62-year-old resident of Kailash Nagar, a 66-year-old resident of Chandigarh Road, a 64-year-old resident of Janta Nagar, a 60-year-old resident of Pama village, a 58-year-old resident of Lohara, two 57-year-old residents of Jammu Colony, a 51-year-old resident of Barewal, a 50-year-old resident of Akash Nagar, a 40-year-old resident of Sahnewal, a 33-year-old resident of Doraha and a 28-year-old resident of Mahajan Vihar — were claimed by the virus. A 76-year-old woman of Haibowal Kalan, a 62-year-old woman of Guru Nanak Nagar, a 46-year-old resident of Tajpur Road and a 40-year-old resident of Giaspura also succumbed. As many as 129 deaths have been reported in the last week with the district touching grim milestones on a daily basis. The number of daily deaths has been in double digits since April 24.The rising number of cases has outstretched the hospital infrastructure, making it a struggle to find beds in hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/20-succumb-to-contagion-in-a-day-in-ludhiana-101620156681444.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Virus in villages: Higher Covid toll in rural Punjab rings alarm bells||With the rural areas of the state witnessing four-time higher case fatality rate (CFR) as compared to cities, the state health department has directed the district health authorities to keep a tab on the elderly and patients with co-morbidities in home isolation. A large number of deaths in rural areas are being attributed to the patients getting self-treated at home and not coming to hospitals.According to the orders, medical officers have been asked to prepare a list of the elderly and comorbid patients of their areas and take feedback on their health condition by calling them. “Report any breach of home isolation or refusal to get referred to higher facilities as soon as possible to the SMOs and keep contacts of SHOs of the police stations concerned to involve them for the hospitalisation,” reads the communication sent to medical officers.Former director of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and head of expert group of Punjab government on Covid management Dr KK Talwar said: “We have adopted a new strategy for patients in home isolation with more focus on their surveillance. Reluctance in getting tested and late reporting has been the reasons behind high CFR in rural areas, but with the new system, we are hopeful to bring down,” said Talwar. Second wave deadlier in rural areas The second wave of Covid-19 has proved deadlier in the rural areas as villages have registered 2.8% CFR as compared to 0.7% in urban areas. “Deaths are more in the rural areas this year. The reason behind high CFR is that in the rural population is contributing to 23% of the total caseload in the second wave, whereas 77% of the cases belong to urban segments,” said state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. According to the health department, the CFR in rural areas at the first visit to the health facility is high. 83.92% of patients visited the hospitals when their condition deteriorated, 0.11% with moderate symptoms and only 7% with mild symptoms, the health department data revealed. Villages report 35% of total deaths in Patiala Patiala: In the past two months, rural areas have reported 35% of total Covid deaths in the district. Of the total 268 fatalities between March and May 3, the rural areas of the district saw 94 deaths. Villages have reported 3,453 (21%) positive cases of the total 16,043 infections in the district in the past two months. Civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the number of deaths and cases are increasing in rural areas. “Such trends were not witnessed during first wave of the Covid-19 last year, as the deaths reported in villages then were negligible,” he said.A doctor at a rural dispensary said people living in villages are visiting the health centres at an advanced stage. “Condition of many patients had already deteriorated when they come to us and we have no option but to refer them to Rajindra Hospital,” he said. In the past 24 hours, Government Rajindra Hospital reported 38 deaths, of which 12 were from Patiala district. Of the 12, seven belonged to rural areas.In Sangrur, 97 deaths have been reported from rural areas of the district this year. Of these three patients died in home isolation, according to a data collected by the district health department. Till now, the district has reported 372 deaths due to the virus. Of these 152 were from the villages. UK strain behind surge in Doaba JALANDHAR: In Jalandhar 60% of the total Covid deaths have been reported from rural areas since February. Health officials attribute this to UK strain, which was found in Phillaur and Nurmahal areas, considered a rural belt of the district. Hoshiarpur civil surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said more Covid deaths are being reported from rural areas of the district as people were taking medicines from local practitioners and were reporting late to the hospitals. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar civil surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor said: “We have increased contact tracing of Covid patients. People in rural go for self medication resulting in more fatalities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-in-villages-higher-covid-toll-in-rural-punjab-rings-alarm-bells-101620156679300.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Morning walk allowed in parks during Chandigarh lockdown||A day after weeklong partial lockdown was announced in Chandigarh, the administration on Tuesday allowed people to go out for morning walk in parks, which will remain open from 5am to 9am. The detailed order issued on Tuesday also specifies that street vendors will be allowed to operate till 5pm. While restaurants will remain closed for patrons, takeaway is allowed till 5pm and home delivery till 9pm. The administration on Monday had announced suspension of all non-essential services, including closure of shops selling non-essential items, for a week from 5pm on May 4 till 5am on May 11. Weekend lockdown and other existing restrictions will also continue during this period. While there will be no restriction on interstate movement, those entering Chandigarh without Covid negative report or vaccine certificate will be subjected to random testing. Visitors entering government offices may also be required to produce vaccination certificates or Covid negative reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/morning-walk-allowed-in-parks-during-chandigarh-lockdown-101620154639705.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid scales new height in Chandigarh tricity as 2,211 test +ve||With 2,211 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the tricity hit yet another record, surpassing 2,201 cases registered on April 23.Since crossing the grim milestone of 2,000 daily tally for the first time on April 22, the tricity has recorded 2,000+ cases as many as nine times in 13 days.Meanwhile, 29 people succumbed to the virus, also a record that was first set on April 28. As on Tuesday evening, 19,134 cases remain active across the tricityWith 847 cases and 12 deaths, Mohali district accounted for the bulk of the Tuesday’s Covid-19 tally, followed by 780 cases and 11 casualties in Chandigarh, and 584 cases and six fatalities in Panchkula district. For Panchkula, it was the highest number of cases in a day, while Mohali reported a record 12 deaths for second consecutive day and third time in a week.Just four days into May, the tricity has logged 8,170 cases and 88 deaths, as compared to 43,145 cases and 311 deaths throughout April. Curbs in 54 more areas in Chandigarh After setting records for two consecutive days, the number of cases in Chandigarh saw a dip, but the situation remains grim. Among those dead are a 34-year-old man from Sector 34 and 37-year-old woman from Sector 38.The daily positivity rate rose to 25%, which means of every four people sampled, one had the infection.Amid the rising numbers, the UT administration has declared 54 more micro-containment zones in the city. The areas are spread across Sectors 8, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 45 and 46 besides Ram Darbar, Hallomajra, Behlana, Khuda Lahora and Dhanas. The administration has also stationed two officials of the Chandigarh Housing Board at the INOX oxygen plant in Solan’s Barotiwala to ensure smooth supply of oxygen to government hospitals and private refilling vendors in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, as Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, has exhausted its bed capacity, the administration has directed Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, to accommodate all patients from Chandigarh, irrespective of their zones. Don’t deny admission to critical patients: Mohali DCAmid a steep spike in critical cases and deaths in Mohali, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has asked private hospitals in the district not to refuse hospitalisation to such patients. “L3 patient (those needing ventilator) may be accommodated on L2 beds (with oxygen support) till the next discharge from L3 facility, subject to the approval of patient’s attendant,” said Dayalan, while adding that admission in a lower facility and being under medical supervision may give the patient some chance to recover. With good samaritans coming forward with the offer to set up Covid Care Centres, Dayalan said the facility should have at least 50 beds, and such people can contact the civil surgeon to get the certification for the site. He also authorised hiring of three funeral vans in each subdivision to help the families in distress. Vax for 45+ at 12 sites in Panchkula todayAmid confusion over vaccination sites that has left many senior citizens running helter-skelter in Panchkula, the district administration announced that jabs will be given to the 45+ age group at 12 sites on Wednesday. These sites are Polyclinic, Sector 26; Government Dispensaries, Sector 12A (covaxin) and 21; Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4; Subdivisional Hospital, Kalka; Community Health Centre, Nanakpur; Command Hospital, Chandimandir; and Primary Health Centres in Surajpur, Old Panhckula, Morni, Barwala, and Hangola.The timings are 9am-11am for those in 70+ age group, 11am-12:30pm for 50-69 years, and 12:30pm-2pm for 45-49 years.Meanwhile, those in the age group of 18-44 will be vaccinated at six sites, only after online appointment: Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Government Dispensary, Sector 25; Government Ayurvedic Dispensary, Sector 9; Community Health centre, Raipur Rani; and Primary Health Centres in Pinjore and Kot.The administration also said that it has received 174 calls on the helpline number (0172- 2590000) launched for Covid-19 on May 1. “Most of the callers inquire about delay in test reports, or seek medical advice,” said an official. Even Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta launched a helpline (9041344828) at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 on Tuesday. It will be run by Bharatiya Janata Party Yuva Morcha, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-scales-new-height-in-chandigarh-tricity-as-2-211-test-ve-101620154339195.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||More mini Covid care centres to come up in Chandigarh||Getting a positive response from private associations and non-government organisations, the UT administration on Tuesday permitted two more bodies to set up mini Covid care centres. So far, the administration has allowed five organisations to set up such facilities.Yashpal Garg, the nodal officer for mini Covid care centres, also allotted the Infosys Red Cross Sarai, Sector 12, to Sri Guru Granth Sahib Society to urgently set up a 100-bed Covid care centre with oxygen facility. On Monday, the society had started a 50-bed centre at Bal Bhawan in Sector 23.Meanwhile, the other four organisations—Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti, Competent Foundation and Bharat Vikas Parishad, and Be Sure Buddy Private Limited—will be setting similar centres at Badminton Hall, Government Girls Sr. Secondary School, Sector 8-B; Indira Holiday Home, Sector 24; and Aurobindo School, Sector 27A, respectively.The centres will provide doctors, nursing staff and patient-care attendants, who will be available round the clock. Qualified persons will be designated as managers to run the centres.Garg said, “We have put a new condition that at least 80% of beds have to be oxygenated. We will tie up with a vendor to refill them at the same rates being charged from GMCH-32.”Meanwhile, the municipal corporation (MC) has also decided to offer its community centres to set up mini Covid centres. MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “We have been receiving several requests from people for setting up the centres, so we have decided to open up community centres for the purpose.”Any individual, organisation, NGO, religious organisation, corporate, firm or trust can come forward for setting up a mini Covid care centre for asymptomatic positive patients.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “If the crisis deepens, all three hotels run by CITCO will be converted into Covid hospitals.”“I have been receiving many calls, offering funds for Covid management. My request to donors is to give items like oxygen cylinders, concentrated ventilators, etc, instead,” added Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-mini-covid-care-centres-to-come-up-in-chandigarh-101620154098993.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Summer break in Chandigarh’s government schools from May 10||The UT education department has announced the summer vacation for teachers from May 10 to June 8.May 8 and 9 will also be holidays, so the last working day for the teachers will be May 7. The decision comes after a long wait and is being appreciated by the teachers: in 2020, the educators had to take online classes even during the summer vacation, which they will not have to this year.Principals and heads of schools, however, looking after admissions and preparing the Class-10 results will attend school as per requirement. Teachers who will be deputed on Covid duty by the Chandigarh administration will also have to carry them out.President of UT Cadre of Educational Employees’ Union, Swarn Singh Kamboj, said, “Those teachers who are deputed on Covid duty should be given a few extra days off. The department should also provide some support to those teachers on Covid duty in containment zones in case they fall sick.”Meanwhile, city’s private schools will mostly declare summer vacations as per schedule towards the end of May. They will reopen around the second week of July and a call will be taken regarding offline classes for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/summer-break-in-chandigarh-s-government-schools-from-may-10-101620153919566.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||College, varsity students in Chandigarh advised to vacate hostels||The higher educational institutions of Chandigarh, including Panjab University (PU), have been asked to advise their students to vacate the hostels and return to their homes in the wake of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases.The decision regarding this was taken in a meeting held recently, which was chaired by the education secretary, UT administration, and attended by director higher education (DHE), deputy director of PEC, PU dean students’ welfare (DSW) and various heads of colleges.In this meeting, it was suggested that students with cogent reasons may be allowed to stay on in the hostels. Around 300 students occupy hostels in various colleges in the city. However, many of these college students are in the process of shifting to their hometowns.At PEC, of the 300-odd hostellers, only a few remain on campus at present. Also, over 700 students are residing in PU hostels, of which 650 are research scholars.Record of hostellers to be submitted with DHEThe heads of institutions have been asked to take the decision with respect to each student. They have also been advised to maintain a proper record of all hostellers—their names, class, residential address, Aadhaar number—and submit the information to the DHE or to the additional secretary, technical education, by May 4.Covid-19 testing of staff and students staying in hostels has been advised to the institutions. PU has been advised to coordinate with UT director, health services, regarding the testing. Moreover, the heads have been directed to ensure that Covid appropriate behavior is followed at all times.In fresh guidelines issued by PU on April 30, the varsity advised that only those residents/students who have the most essential work related to research should stay on in the hostels. The students were also asked to seek guidance from their chairpersons/supervisors in this regard. In recent days, a few PU hostellers have been found to be Covid-19 positive.PU DSW (women) Sukhbir Kaur said, “Our advice is that, since the infection is spreading fast, those students who do not have any urgent work should return to their families for their own safety and the safety of the others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/college-varsity-students-in-chandigarh-advised-to-vacate-hostels-101620153799457.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks Chandigarh’s reply on Covid bed occupancy data||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Tuesday has directed the Chandigarh administration to apprise the court by Friday as to why it is not putting out details of bed occupancy in the public domain.During the resumed hearing of a plea initiated by the HC to monitor Covid-19 management by two states and Chandigarh, senior advocate Anupam Gupta had told the court that certain directions were issued by the Union home ministry on Covid-19 management, but it appears that UT has not implemented the same. As per the same, each state had to put out in public domain details of bed occupancy in government/private hospitals, availability of oxygen, drugs, vaccine and vaccination centres, remdesivir and tocilizumab.The court was also told that availability of beds in various government and private hospitals is limited. As a result, some patients have to stay at home. In the eventuality of needing oxygen support, they have to purchase the same from the open market. However, it is not easily available.UT’s senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain had assured the court that in case of any such problem, the SDM of the zone concerned in every sector shall be asked to step in to help the patients who are on oxygen support at home. One dedicated zone-wise phone line shall be allocated and widely publicised by way of broadcast on radio, television and assistance of telephone companies, he had said.The court directed that SDMs be asked to pitch in to monitor the situation and in case there is disobedience of court orders, it would take punitive action.The UT has also told the court that it has added 121 beds to its 692-capacity to deal with Covid and also sought 20 more ventilators from the Centre against the existing strength of 126. Current quota of oxygen to UT is 20 metric tonnes and Centre would be requested to increase it, in case more demand is reported, the court was told.The report given before the HC reveals that in PGIMER Covid facility, there are only 77 patients from Chandigarh. Maximum number patients (104) are from Punjab, 59 from Haryana, 22 from Himachal Pradesh, 20 from Uttar Pradesh, 14 from Delhi and 19 patients from other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-chandigarh-s-reply-on-covid-bed-occupancy-data-101620153619008.html
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vax drive hit at govt centres in Mohali as stock perishes||With no doses of Covid-19 vaccine available on Tuesday, the inoculation drive could not be carried out at the 30 government centres in Mohali district. Every day, around 8,000 people are administered vaccines at these centres.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said that vaccination could not take place as they ran out of doses. “We are hoping to receive more doses by evening or tomorrow morning, and will resume our drive,” she said.Many people turned up at the civil hospital in Phase 6 for the vaccine but had to leave without the jabs.The state government has already deferred the third phase of vaccination for the 18-45 age group, which was slated to begin on May 1. But the jab drive for the 45+ group is still going on at all government centres in the district.Meanwhile, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that the 18+ vaccination drive is expected to start in a couple of days while its registration is on.Max Hospital will begin the jab drive for the said age group from Wednesday.All citizens wanting to get vaccinated are required to register themselves on the CoWIN website (https://www.cowin.gov.in/home) and book their appointments on their desired /available day. The process of verification, billing and vaccination happens on site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-drive-hit-at-govt-centres-in-mohali-as-stock-perishes-101620153498908.html
