06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 177 deaths, 14,840 fresh cases||Haryana on Thursday reported 177 coronavirus-related deaths taking the cumulative toll to 5,137 while 14,840 fresh infections pushed the tally to 5,73,815, according to the health department's daily bulletin.The fresh deaths include 23 from Rohtak, 22 from Hisar, 19 from Fatehabad, 13 from Gurgaon, 11 each from Bhiwani and Jind, 10 from Sirsa and 9 each from Faridabad, Karnal and Kaithal districts, the bulletin said.The districts that reported a big spike in new cases were Gurgaon (3,737), Faridabad (1,537), Sonipat (1,046), Hisar (1,193), Karnal (621), Sirsa (607), Panipat (792) and Mahendragarh (1,083).The number of total active cases in the state is 1,15,842, the bulletin said.The Covid positivity rate on Thursday was 29.92 per cent, which is quite high. The cumulative positivity rate was 7.48 percent, the bulletin said.As many as 4,52,836 patients have so far recovered, it said.The recovery rate is 78.92, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-haryana-records-177-deaths-14-840-fresh-cases-101620320150796.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three drug addicts arrested for murdering Ludhiana teen in snatching attack||Police have solved the April 29 murder of a 17-year-old boy with the arrest of three drug addicts, who had stabbed him to snatch his mobile phone in Giaspura.The accused – Harvinder Singh of Gurmel Nagar, Gurmeet Singh of Jamalpur village and Tej Ram of Mundian Khurd – were arrested near Lohara Canal bridge on Thursday while they were lurking in search of another snatching victim.According to police, on April 29, they had stabbed Amandeep Singh, a student of Class 11 and resident of Giaspura, to snatch his mobile phone while he was returning home from a morning walk with a friend. After fighting for life for two days, the teenager had succumbed to the injuries on May 1, following which a murder case was registered against unidentified accused.“During the probe, we started zeroing in on drug addicts involved in snatchings and thefts, and found that the trio was active in the area. Therefore, police remained on the lookout and arrested the accused on Thursday,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja.A total of four mobile phones, a motorcycle and a sharp edged weapon were recovered from their possession. “All accused are aged between 18 and 20, and are school dropouts. They were under the influence of drugs and desperate for money, so they did not hesitate to stab the boy for a quick buck,” the ADCP said.Harvinder is already facing trial in four cases of theft, assault, trespass and murder. Gurmeet Singh is also booked in two cases, while Tej Ram has one FIR lodged against him. The recovered motorcycle was stolen on the intervening night of April 24 and 25, the police official said.All accused are facing charges of murder since the teenager died on May 1. They will be produced in court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-drug-addicts-arrested-for-murdering-ludhiana-teen-in-snatching-attack-101620321593868.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana adds 1,257 fresh Covid cases, 19 deaths||In no respite from the pandemic, the daily deaths on Thursday remained significantly high for the 10th consecutive day, as another 19 people lost the battle to Covid-19. At 1,257, the number of fresh cases was also over 1,000 for the sixth straight day.Reaching 62,578 within two days of crossing the 60,000 mark, Ludhiana’s caseload now includes 11,022 active cases, a record number since the pandemic started and highest in Punjab. Second on the charts, Jalandhar has 6,614 active cases in comparison.In just six days of May, Ludhiana has logged 7,992 cases and 114 deaths, against April’s tallies of 20,176 and 232, respectively. Worse, May’s figures have already crossed the 7,294 cases and 115 deaths through March. Over 1,800 patients are fighting the virus at isolation wards of various government and private hospitals in Ludhiana, while the majority are recuperating under home isolation.Two people, aged 45, were the youngest to succumb to the virus on Thursday.The male deceased included an 82-year-old from Basant Avenue, a 78-year-old from Tagore Nagar, a 74-year-old from Dholewal, two aged 72 and 65 from Haibowal Kalan, a 72-year-old from Datha village, a 69-year-old from Basant Avenue, two aged 65 from Dugri and Chandigarh Road, a 64-year-old from Guru Angad Dev Colony, a 61-year-old from Dharaur village, a 58-year-old from Kanganwal, a 55-year-old from Mullanpur, a 47-year-old from Sarabha Nagar and a 45-year-old from Guru Ram Dass Colony.The women, who succumbed to the virus, were a 75-year-old from Rahon Road, a 65-year-old from Gill village, a 54-year-old from Phullanwal and a 45-year-old from Haibowal Kalan.The health department on Thursday issued another advisory, urging people to stay indoors for their safety.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Gill Ahluwalia said it was unfortunate that despite state-wide restrictions, people were violating rules and venturing out without masks. She urged residents to stay indoors as far as possible and take precautions to stem the pandemic.Strictest restrictions needed to save lives: AshuAt a virtual meeting with various MPs and MLAs, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said strictest restrictions were needed for a certain time period to save lives.During the meeting, attended by MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu and Dr Amar Singh, and MLAs Amrik Singh Dhillon, Surinder Dawar, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Lakhbir Singh Lakha and Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Ashu said some families had even lost two to three members within a few days, which was disheartening and worrisome.The MPs and MLAs advocated strictest measures as several hospitals ICUs were almost 100% full and the daily positivity rate was rising steadily.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, SSPs Charanjit Singh Sohal and Gursharandeep Singh Grewal and civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill were also in attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-adds-1-257-fresh-covid-cases-19-deaths-101620321413546.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid killing more people in Ludhiana city’s peripheral areas||The deadly second wave of Covid-19 has wiped away more lives in the townships on the outskirts of Ludhiana city if the case fatality ratio (CFR) is any indication. While the city currently has a CFR of 2.2%, indicating two deaths among every 100 cases, the death rate is higher in its peripheral areas, where nearly five out of every 100 infected people have died (4.8%) – far ahead of the state average of 2.4%.The lack of testing is being seen as one of the reasons for the higher fatality rate across the rural and urban blocks of Raikot, Samrala, Jagraon, Khanna and Payal. Despite awareness drives and numerous initiatives, residents here remain averse to getting tested on priority and often reach the hospital only after complications begin to surface, say experts.As of May 5, Ludhiana city has recorded 57,044 Covid cases since the pandemic broke out in March last year and 1,265 people here have died. On the other hand, out of the 4,277 residents testing positive in the peripheral areas, 205 have succumbed to the virus.Khanna leads the toll at 59, followed by Raikot with 48 deaths, while 43 people have died in Jagraon. The number of deaths in Payal and Samrala is 36 and 19, respectively.“We are witnessing the same reluctance for tests among the residents as seen during the first wave of pandemic. Instead of coming out for RT-PCR tests, even symptomatic people are relying on self-medication. Stigma attached to the virus could be one reason for this,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at DMCH and a member of the Covid task force of the state government.“More and more patients are arriving at the hospital only after their condition severely deteriorates. This is not only leading to more casualties, but also fast transmission of the virus,” said Dr Mohan, who, along with deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, recently conducted a survey of the Covid pockets in Galib Kalan, Sidhwan Bet, Jagraon, Macchiwara and Samrala block following high prevalence of cases there.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Gill Ahluwalia said the health department was working on conducting surveys in villages to detect symptomatic patients. “These teams will work in coordination with the village sarpanches, so that patients can be identified and isolated. We also plan to intensify testing and focus on enhancing vaccination in rural areas,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-killing-more-people-in-ludhiana-city-s-peripheral-areas-101620321233744.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab appoints 2 nodal officers to ease tax exemption on Covid relief imports||The Punjab government on Thursday said that two nodal officers have been appointed to facilitate the individuals or organizations in getting tax exemption on any COVID relief imports into the state from abroad.Giving details, a spokesperson of the Punjab government said, "In order to fight the challenge of coronavirus pandemic more effectively and to facilitate the flow of aid from outside India, the Government of India has provided exemption from customs duty and integrated tax on goods for COVID relief imported into the country."He also said that the same concessions could be availed for such imports if they were sent free of cost from outside India and are distributed free within India.The spokespersons added, "For claiming these exemptions anyone could approach the nodal officer appointed by the state government viz. Mr. Kumar Rahul (IAS) contact no. 9876164787, email: mdnrhmpunjab@gmail.com and sha.phse@gmail.com and Mr. Ravneet Singh Khurana (IRS C&IT), contact no. 9560954405, email: gst.audit@punjab.Gov.in""Any person who wants to send goods for COVID relief from outside India for free distribution in India may contact these officers," he said.Pertinently, Punjab Agri Export Corporation Limited (PAGREXCO) has been authorized as the nodal agency for the import of such material in this regard by the state government.Further, any entity in Punjab who wants to import free of cost goods for COVID relief for free distribution in India could apply on the following portal: https://taxation.punjab.gov.in/imports/."Once authorized by the government any individual or organization could import such goods without any tax during these turbulent times. The move has been initiated by the Punjab government to solicit the participation of the general public in the management of resources for fighting the COVID menace on one hand and to provide a single-window for all such clearances in this grave hour of crisis, on the other," said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-appoints-2-nodal-officers-to-ease-tax-exemption-on-covid-relief-imports-101620309278916.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: GADVASU to remain closed till May 13||In the wake of rapid surge of Covid-19 cases, GADVASU’s offices and departments will remain closed from May 7 to 13. While online exams will be conducted as per plan, any offline exams scheduled during this period will be postponed, stated the order issued by vice-chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh.Online classes and emergency services at veterinary clinical departments will continue by involving least required manpower/staff.Students of master’s and PhD programmes will be allowed to visit the campus only with prior permission of the head of department (HOD).Teachers will also need the HOD’s permission before attending office and will not allow any visitors, besides ensuring proper social distancing and sanitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-gadvasu-to-remain-closed-till-may-13-101620303892425.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Four Gurugram youngsters killed as truck rams into car||Four youngsters from Gurugram were killed when a speeding truck rammed into their car while they were returning from a function near Nanda village in Rewari on Wednesday night. Police said Tarun Kumar, 24, Rahul, 25, Rajbir, 26, and Devakar, 27, died on the spot. Their friend Deepak, who was also in the car, received injuries and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Rewari. Also read: Centre’s oxygen allocation ‘arbitrary’, Delhi tells Supreme CourtA police spokesman said that the accident took place when the youngsters were returning to Gurugram from Mahendragarh after attending a pre-wedding function. “A speeding dumper rammed into their car and four of the five occupants died on the spot. The dumper driver fled the spot. Devakar and Tarun were the only children of their parents and studied at Delhi University, while the other two victims were doing private jobs,” the spokesman said. A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the absconding dumper driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-gurugram-youngsters-killed-as-truck-rams-into-car-101620297051911.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||EC defers byelections to Mandi LS, Fatehpur assembly seats||Due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Election Commission has deferred the byelections to the Mandi parliamentary constituency and Fatehpur assembly segment in Himachal Pradesh. The seats had fallen vacant following the death of incumbents Ram Swaroop Sharma and Sujan Singh Pathania in March and February, respectively. Also read: Delhi Police raids hoarders of medical oxygen and medicines in Bihar, Jharkhand“According to the provisions of Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the vacancies are required to be filled, through by-elections within six months from the date of occurrence of vacancy, provided that the remainder of the term in relation to the vacancy is one year or more,” the EC notification said. The authorities, however, reviewed the matter and decided to put off the byelections till the situation improves and conditions are conducive. “A decision will be taken at an appropriate time after getting inputs from the states concerned and assessing the pandemic from the mandated authorities,” it said. The byelections were to be held to fill three vacancies in the parliamentary constituencies of Mandi in Himachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh. Besides, eight assembly constituencies, namely Kalka and Ellenabad in Haryana; Vallabhnagar in Rajasthan; Sindgi in Karnataka; Rajabala and Mawryngkneng (ST) in Meghalaya; Fatehpur in Himachal Pradesh; and Badvel (SC) in Andhra Pradesh, were to go the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ec-defers-byelections-to-mandi-ls-fatehpur-assembly-seats-101620295491979.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||AJL case: Special judge censures senior advocate for personal remarks||A special judge handling money laundering cases at the Panchkula district courts has expressed displeasure over remarks made by senior advocate RS Cheema, stating that he tried to “overawe” the judicial process. Cheema, a criminal lawyer and former advocate general of Punjab, represents Associated Journal Limited (AJL), the publisher of National Herald newspaper, in the illegal plot allotment case that also involves former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Also read: Chaudhary Ajit Singh, former Union minister, dies of Covid-19The proceedings being carried out concern money laundering allegations being probe by the enforcement directorate. The hearings are taking place virtually, and it was on May 3, when the reported incident took place as special judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg was discussing the next date for hearing for filing a supplementary challan. The order states that Cheema pleaded for the next hearing to take place in July in view of Covid surge and his age, and made “uncalled-for personal remarks” against Garg, stating: “Aap is matter mai itna personal interest kyun dikha rahe ho (Why are you taking such personal interest in the case), by fixing such short date in May itself?”‘Attempt to overawe judicial process’According to the order, the judge said that such type of aspersions are “not expected” of a counsel of his stature and such an attempt to “overawe the judicial process” is “not appreciable”. Garg also cited the Supreme Court directions on conducting proceedings in all criminal cases and complaints against former and sitting MPs and MLAs on urgent basis. “The accused and their respective counsels were duty bound to respect the mandate of law and the proceedings conducted in accordance therewith. Needless to say, the undersigned and the court officials were also risking their lives in the wake of the threat of the pandemic to discharge the duties entrusted by law,” the order said.Later, the court adjourned the matter for July 5, but recorded: “This goes without saying that the court highly values the peaceful and cordial relations between the Bench and the Bar. There is no intent to belittle the effort of any party or the learned counsels representing them, but at the same the law casts a duty upon the presiding officer to uphold the majesty of law to further the cause of justice on which our Constitution lays so much emphasis.”The money laundering probe was initiated after the CBI registered a corruption case in 2016 for the alleged offences committed by Hooda when he was the CM in 2005. The Congress leader is accused of illegally allotting a plot to AJL in Panchkula. The CBI court, which is also presided over by the same judge, had recently framed charges against Hooda in the case.When contacted, RS Cheema said he doesn’t want to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ajl-case-special-judge-censures-senior-advocate-for-personal-remarks-101620276890073.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees record 182 Covid-19 deaths; over 8,000 daily cases||Punjab on Wednesday saw another record 182 fatalities from Covid-19, bringing the toll to 9,825, while 8,015 fresh coronavirus infections, the biggest single-day spike, took the tally to 4,07,509, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 61,935 on Tuesday to 63,007 Wednesday.Of the latest fatalities, 21 were reported from Bathinda, 19 each from Ludhiana, Patiala, and Sangrur, 18 from Amritsar, and 10 from Fazilka.On Wednesday, Ludhiana registered the maximum number of cases in the state at 1,186, followed by 1,056 in Mohali, 932 in Amritsar, 838 in Jalandhar, and 696 in Patiala.A total of 6,701 coronavirus patients were discharged during the day after recovering from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 3,34,677, according to the bulletin.There are 240 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 8,457 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 75,10,673 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Meanwhile, UT Chandigarh recorded 817 fresh infections, bringing the tally to 46,793.The death of 14 more persons took the toll to 532, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases was 8,363, according to the bulletin.A total of 610 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 37,898, the bulletin said.A total of 4,23,313 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 3,75,400 tested negative while reports of 74 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh administration rejected the request of opening liquor vends and hardware stores on the pattern of Punjab.The administration on Monday had ordered the closure of shops selling non-essential items starting at 5 pm on May 4 till 5 am on May 11, as part of additional curbs amid spiralling Covid-19 infections,  The Punjab government has allowed the opening of liquor vends and some other shops during the weekdays till 5 pm.The administration on Wednesday decided to show the availability of hospital beds in the city on its website.It also set up a dedicated helpline number for medical oxygen as per the directions of the government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-record-182-covid-19-deaths-over-8-000-daily-cases-101620268204311.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Startup eSaathi funded at Chitkara University’s innovation championship||Chitkara University recently conducted the grand finale of the India Innovation Challenge, one of the largest funding festivals for upcoming startups.The winning start-up, eSaathi, was created by IIT Kharagpur final year students Tushar Singla, Mann Goel, Anuprava and Shubham. The software-based user interface aims to bridge the gap between new smartphone users and apps, which have become an essential part of the post-pandemic lifestyle. The championship which was open to innovators, entrepreneurs, designers, thinkers, students, engineers, scientists, coders, trainers, academicians from any background was launched in October 2020 and received a record 460 applications from a variety of fields including fin-tech, agri-tech, ed-tech, waste management solutions and the health sector. Only 23 start-ups were allowed to ‘pitch and present’ their ideas to a panel of 10. Four startups made it to the finals. The startup eSAATHI provides users with guided audio-visual assistance, which helps them navigate all the apps step-by-step. The software has been designed to integrate itself with the partner companies’ application element ID, thus ensuring a seamless and high-quality guided experience. Once integrated, the user receives guidance to navigate through one’s phone, from unlocking the phone to making the payment or updating information.The ‘India Innovation Championship’ grand finale witnessed the raising of the fund by the start-ups including ‘Pacify Medical Technologies Pvt Ltd’ (SINE – IIT Bombay), ‘3RUrban Solutions India Pvt Ltd’ (Pune based start-up and incubated by Chitkara Innovation Incubator), and,’ This life matters Pvt Ltd’ (the start-up is offering a dairy-free option and is better for vegans and lactose-intolerant). Other notable innovations and start-ups which garnered particular attention from the judges and were adjudged as having the potential to raise funding in the future included start-ups from reputed institutes like the University of Florida, Chitkara Innovation Incubator, and locations like Bengaluru, New Delhi, and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/startup-esaathi-funded-at-chitkara-university-s-innovation-championship-101620246580098.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t take curbs lightly, Punjab likely to hit Covid peak next week, says Dr KK Talwar||Amid the raging second Covid-19 wave that has led to an unprecedented surge in fresh cases and fatalities, the spotlight is back on Punjab’s crumbling health infrastructure that looks grossly inadequate to take care of critically-ill patients. With people scrambling for oxygen and ICU beds and vaccination drive in disarray due to stocks running dry in many districts, Hindustan Times spoke to former PGI director KK Talwar, who heads the government’s expert group on Covid, about the current scenario and the way forward. Q: When are we expecting the state to hit the Covid peak? A: The situation is grim but I won’t say things are going out of hands like we are witnessing in many other states. If we follow this regulatory lockdown strictly for next 7-10 days, we can see the curve flattening. Next week is going to be crucial as the state is likely to hit the peak during this period. Q: There are concerns over increasing deaths in home isolation in villages. Why CFR is more in rural areas this time?A: The only reason behind high CFR is the reluctance for testing and taking Covid restrictions lightly. Initially, our testing rate was very poor in villages. High death rate can be attributed to the fact that the people are coming to the health facilities in the last stage of the infection. The key is to manage the virus in the initial 10 days. We have now changed some home isolation rules. Q: What is this new strategy for home isolation?A: We will be focusing more on home isolation patients and our experts would reach out to them thrice a day. Helplines have also been started at the sub-division level for such patients. We have also decided that in case the patient feels some problem in home isolation, he would be immediately shifted to a nearby health facility. Specials tab will be kept on patients with comorbidities. Q: Do you think continuous movement due to farmer agitation has made things worse in the hinterland? Have experts ever raised concern over such protests? A: I can only say that every gathering is a cause of concern for the spread, be it a farmer agitation, any other religious activity or even a marriage or a dinner party. I can’t comment why this movement has not stopped. That is not my domain. Q: Punjab’s vaccination drive appears to have hit hurdles. Initially people were reluctant and now the delay in supply for 18-plus age category has further affected it. In sharp comparison, our neighbour Haryana is far ahead of us? A: The shift in strategy for the availability of the vaccine by the central government has hit our drive. We expect supplies to get better in the coming days. For 18-plus category, 30 lakh doses are likely to arrive in the second fortnight of this month. Every state has its own share of challenges when such big drives are launched. Q: There have been allegations from different quarters that Punjab failed to tackle the crisis. What have been state’s challenges? A: Let me tell you, Punjab has done much better with the kind of health infrastructure we had a year ago. Our testing has been remarkably high, with focus on tracking the virus. In April, we were testing around 40,000 samples a day, now we are testing 60,000. That is also the reason in an increase in caseload as we are detecting more. And let’s not forget, Punjab is providing treatment to patients from other states also. A chunk of patients are coming to Punjab for treatment. We have been keeping a close eye on mutations and Punjab was the first state to raise alarm over UK variant and give evidence that this variant was affecting young people. Q: There are reports about the exponential rise in patients needing O2 in past few days? Do you apprehend a crisis in the making? A: Oxygen is a key component in Covid management. So, when the caseload goes up, the demand for O2 also increases. The chief Minister has been raising concern over it time and again. Authorities are also trying to get the allotment in best possible short time. At the expert level, we have taken some steps for the best management of the stock available with us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-take-curbs-lightly-punjab-likely-to-hit-covid-peak-next-week-says-dr-kk-talwar-101620246099567.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||NIA court grants bail to 8 accused in comrade Sandhu murder case||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court at Mohali has granted bail to eight accused arrested in connection with the killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee comrade Balwinder Singh Sandhu as charge-sheet was not presented against them within the stipulated 180 days. Sandhu, who was conferred with the bravery award for fighting terrorism in Punjab, was gunned down by two bike-borne men at his home in Bhikhiwind town of Tarn Taran district on October 16, 2020. Seven of the accused—identified as Chand Kumar aka Bhatia (32), Rajbir Singh aka Raja (29), Rakesh Kumar aka (29), Manpreet Singh aka Manni (23), Jobanjeet Singh aka Joban (22), Kirpal Singh (28) and Sunny (23)—were granted bail on Tuesday while the eighth accused, Ravinder Singh alias Gian (26), was given the bail on April 30. The counsel of the accused, Jaspal Singh Manjpur said, “Raja, Kirpal and Gian have other cases pending against them while the other five will be released soon as their surety bonds have been furnished.” Gian, who is an accused in Nabha jailbreak episode, was termed as the key accused in the case by Tarn Taran police. The NIA has also submitted in the court that five of the eight accused—Raja, Manni, Joban, Kirpal and Sunny—“have not been arrayed as accused in the final report under section 173 of the CrPC and closure report has been filed against them”. Manjhpur said, “I had argued in the court that if the closure report was filed why these accused were not released.” All the eight accused, who have got the bail, were arrested by the Punjab Police. In total 23 accused were arrested for Sandhu’s killing. A case under Sections 120B (conspiracy), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 212 (harbouring offender) and 302 (murder) of the IPC and Sections 25 (1B) and 27 of the Arms Act, and Sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) was registered against the accused at Bhikhiwind police station in Tarn Taran. Earlier, Tarn Taran police had got an extension from 90 days to 180 days for filing a charge sheet against the accused. The NIA had taken over the case from Tarn Taran police on January 26. Earlier, on April 27, the NIA had filed a charge sheet against eight other accused, allegedly connected to Pakistan-based proscribed terrorist organisation Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), for killing Sandhu. Gangster Sukhmeet Pal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal was among these eight accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-court-grants-bail-to-8-accused-in-comrade-sandhu-murder-case-101620245739571.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Centre okays museum dedicated to Guru Nanak in Sultanpur Lodhi||The Centre has granted ‘in principle’ approval to Punjab government for setting up a museum named ‘Pind Babe Nanak Da’ at Sultanpur Lodhi. The Punjab government has floated tenders to hire a consultancy firm for the design of the museum. The museum will be a replica of Rai-Bhoi-Di-Talwandi, the village where Guru Nanak Dev was born (now in Pakistan). Former IAS officer, Shiv Dullar Singh Dhillon who is supervising the project, confirmed the development, adding once the design is finalised, the cost and deadline for the project will be evaluated. “We have yet to receive the final bids as the tendering process is still open,” said Dhillon, adding the approval from the Centre came in April. “The sub-divisional magistrate of Sultanpur Lodhi has been directed to start the land acquisition process for the museum,” an official said. Sultanpur Lodhi SDM Charumita said 40 acres were identified in Macchijova and Taraf Hazi villages for acquisition and negotiations with the owners were underway. The Punjab government set up a seven-member committee in August 2020 to finalise a concept note on setting up a ‘Pind Babe Nanak Da’ heritage museum at Sultanpur Lodhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-okays-museum-dedicated-to-guru-nanak-in-sultanpur-lodhi-101620245261086.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Covid fatality rate surpasses national average||With the deadly second wave of the coronavirus pandemic raging across the nation, Himachal Pradesh’s fatality rate has surpassed the national average even as shortage of oxygen cylinders continues to plague the state government. The hill state’s Covid fatality rate has increased to 1.5% against the national average of 1.1%. So far, 1,647 people in the state have died due to complications caused by the virus. Of the total fatalities, 1,057 (64.1%) were male and 590 (35.9%) female. As many as 1,062 victims (64.5%) had comorbidities — 50% (532) had diabetes mellitus, 44.8% (476) had hypertension, 10.7%(113) had chronic kidney disease, 8% (87) had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease — while 585 (35.5%) of the Covid victims were non comorbid. The mean age of deceased people was 63.2%.The state’s recovery rate is also low as compared to the national and global average. At 78.1%, Himachal’s recovery rate is below the national average of 81.9% and global average of 85.4%. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday convened a meeting with the Opposition to discuss the Covid situation in the state. At present, the state is facing a shortage of empty oxygen cylinders and has a limited stock of Remdesivir. Around 2,000 Remdesivir injections are available at the health headquarters in Shimla while only 750 are in stock in different hospitals. All-party meetingThe meeting was attended by leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, senior Congress leader Asha Kumari , Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar and lone Communist Party of India legislator Rakesh Singha. Thakur apprised the opposition of all the steps being taken by the government but admitted the government is yet to receive the oxygen cylinders it had demanded from the Centre. “The state’s current oxygen production capacity is 53 MT, which includes 15 MT state quota from INOX, Solan. Himachal has urged the Union government to increase the state quota to 30 MT,” said Thakur. At present, oxygen cylinders can be replenished at nine places while Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Medical Oxygen Generation Plants have been commissioned at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Shimla; zonal hospital, Dharamshala and Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk, the CM said, adding that an additional six oxygen plants will come up at the civil hospital, Palampur, zonal hospital, Mandi, civil hospitals in Rohru and Khaneri in Shimla district, Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan and regional hospital, Solan. Limited stock of Remdesivir: Oppn “We questioned the government over the availability of Remdesivir injections in the state, the stock is very limited,” senior Congress legislator Asha Kumari, said adding that oxygen from Chamba had to be brought to Mandi for refilling, which was a nine-hour one-way commute. Agnihotri expressed concern over the sharp spike in Covid cases, fatalities and the delay in getting Covid test reports. “People in Shimla are not getting their reports for five to six days. By the time report arrives, the patients’ condition worsens or he transmits the virus,” he said. Senior Congress leader Col (Dr) Dhani Ram Shandil highlighted the need to deploy additional ambulances for transportation of Covid patients. Singha said all critically ill Covid patients should be shifted from home isolation to hospitals and asked the state to augment beds at Tanda Medical College. In the all-party meeting, it was decided that all legislators will donate a month’s salary of towards the chief minister’s Covid fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-covid-fatality-rate-surpasses-national-average-101620244899480.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||State govt’s medical infra upgrade claim falls flat: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday said it was unfortunate that the Congress government has been unable to create ICU facilities in 17 of the 22 government hospitals in the state despite making claims of spending more than ₹1,000 crore on upgrade of medical infrastructure. In a statement, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said media reports had exposed the state government’s claims. He said it was shocking to know that except for five districts of Patiala, Faridkot, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, no government hospital in the state provides level-3 care to critically ill patients. The SAD leader asked the CM to get the ventilators lying unused in the state installed. “Medical staff should be recruited on emergency basis to run the ventilators,” he said. Amarinder failed to manage Covid crisis: BJP Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said the Capt Amarinder Singh government has failed to measure up to the grave situation that has gripped the state. “The CM seems more worried about his chair in the face of loud dissidence in the party than to focus on managing Covid crisis in the state,” Sharma said. The CM has been hiding his failures by blaming the Centre, even as the Union government has provided assistance of more than worth ₹1,000 crore to the state to fight the pandemic, the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-govt-s-medical-infra-upgrade-claim-falls-flat-sad-101620244479429.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Montek panel to study impact of 2nd Covid wave before submitting report to Punjab govt||An expert panel headed by former deputy chairman of Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia, which was to suggest Punjab’s post-Covid revival strategy by March 31, has decided to study the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and its impact on the state before submitting its final report. The panel, which includes leading experts on economy, agriculture and industry, has informed the state government that it would submit the report by June-end. “We are in the middle of a second Covid-19 wave. It will be more useful if we see what is happening and the impact it is having on the state and then submit our report rather than giving a report at this point,” Ahluwalia told HT, expressing concern over the infection spread. Another committee member, who did not want to be named, also endorsed Ahluwalia’s view, stating that the second wave has been more devastating in terms of the virus spread and loss of lives and has also hit various segments of industry before these could fully recover from the setback suffered last year. The 22-member committee, which was set up by the Amarinder Singh government in April last year and submitted its interim report in three months, was to give its final report on December 31, 2020, but was later allowed time till March 31. The state assembly elections are just eight months away.Punjab has been seen a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave, reporting its highest single-day count in infections and fatalities on Tuesday with 7,601 persons testing positive and 173 deaths. In the past one month alone, more than 1.48 lakh fresh cases and 2,562 deaths have been recorded, forcing an alarmed state government to shut down all shops selling non-essential goods, malls, cinema halls, educational institutions, etc till May 15. The “soft lockdown” has started the exodus of migrant workers, particularly those working in unorganised sector, from Ludhiana, Amritsar and major cities even as the industry was limping back to normalcy after the coronavirus-induced curfew and restrictions for months last year. These restrictions would take a toll on hospitality, transport, tourism, real estate and automobile sectors, besides micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), according to industry watchers. The expert panels’ interim report had drawn sharp reactions with regard to the recommendations made on agriculture, which the state government turned down subsequently. The report titled “Medium and Long Term Post-Covid Economic Strategy for Punjab – A Multi-Sectoral Approach to Building Resilience and Recovery” had advocated opening up of agriculture markets beyond state-run mandis where were “restrictive” and had “high license fees”, and other agriculture reforms similar to those incorporated by the central government in the three farms laws that are being opposed by farmers in the state. Besides new rules and amendments related to levy of market fees, commission fees, licensing for agriculture marketing to make the state competitive, the committee had also suggested leasing of agriculture land for a bigger role for private sector and disapproved of the free power policy for its financial and environmental consequences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/montek-panel-to-study-impact-of-2nd-covid-wave-before-submitting-report-to-punjab-govt-101620243939438.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||89% intensive care beds in Punjab’s govt hospitals full||Amid the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 infections in the state, the second wave of the virus has pushed the state’s health care infrastructure near to its saturation point. Covid patients, especially those needing oxygen and ventilator support (Level-3), across the state are scurrying for beds. The state health department has reserved 2,400 intensive care unit (ICU) beds (with or without ventilators), for critical patients in government and private hospitals of the state.”Of the 2,400 beds, 826 ICU beds are in government hospitals, including GMC Amritsar, GMC Patiala and GMC Faridkot, of which 733 (89%) are occupied,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, adding that they are planning to increase the Level-3 beds in the state. The occupancy varies from facility to facility as 92% ICU beds at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, are occupied while Rajindra Hospital in Patiala has overrun its capacity and authorities there were treating critical patients more than the dedicated beds at their disposal. There are 12 ICU beds at the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar, of which only three were available. Sixteen ICU beds at the government hospitals in Ludhiana, in addition to 14 ventilators supplied by the government to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC), all are occupied. 92% occupancy at GMCH Amritsar Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, is the only government-run hospital in the Majha region comprising four districts Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot, offering treatment to critical Covid patients requiring intensive care (Level-3). Of the 250 Level-3 beds reserved for the Covid-19 patients at the facility, 229 (92%) were occupied (till 4 pm on Wednesday) with patients coming from at least 10 districts of Punjab. The hospital has 87 ventilators reserved for Covid-19 patients, of which 40 were occupied. As per the health officials, two ventilators at Gurdaspur government hospital and three at Tarn Taran are lying non-operational due to staff shortage. Amritsar GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh said, “At present, 92% of ICU beds are occupied as the demand for oxygen beds has drastically increased in the recent days amid oxygen shortage. We have proposed to increase 50 more ICU beds in the hospital, keeping in view the rising caseload in the region. Beds can be increased but meeting oxygen requirement is a big task.” In all, Amritsar district has 526 Level-3 beds (government and private) reserved for the Covid-19 patients but people prefer a government facility as private hospitals’ charges are high. Three-fold jump in critical patients at Faridkot hospital in a week At Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, the number of critical patients saw a three-fold jump in the last one week, and now it has 73% of the beds occupied. Of the 272 Level-3 beds, the hospital has 200 critical Covid-19 patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. There were only 65 critical patients undergoing treatment at the hospital till last week, officials said. The hospital has 82 ventilators reserved for the Covid patients. Dr Shilekh Mittal, medical superintendent GGSMCH, said the number of patients has witnessed a sudden increase in the last one week and most of them are critical. “Right now, out of 272 Level-3 beds, 200 are occupied. Even patients from outside the south Malwa region are undergoing treatment at the hospital,” he added. At the recently started 10 bed Level-3 Covid care facility at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 50% beds are occupied. In Bathinda, AIIMS is the only government institute equipped with ventilators. Patiala hospital has overrun its capacity The Government Rajindra Hospital 200 ICU beds and is providing medical assistance to 228 critical Covid patients by making temporary arrangements. Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr HS Rekhi said of total Level-3 beds, 150 are dedicated for Covid patients and all of them are occupied. “All the beds in Covid ICUs are occupied as we are receiving critical patients from other districts and states,” said Dr Rekhi. The Patiala district also has eight Level-3 beds at the military hospital, of which six are occupied. (With inputs from Vishal Joshi in Bathinda, Parteek Mahal in Faridkot, Navrajdeep Singh in Patiala and Mohit Khanna in Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/89-intensive-care-beds-in-punjab-s-govt-hospitals-full-101620243759098.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Police freeze ₹1.64 cr assets of 2 drug smugglers in Tarn Taran||Police on Wednesday froze property worth ₹1.64 crore of two drug smugglers based in Tarn Taran under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.Harpal Singh of Thatha village was arrested in February 2007 in Amritsar and Rashpal Singh of Wan Tara Singh village was nabbed in March 2018. Police had seized 10kg heroin from Harpal while 80,100 intoxicating tablets, 15,300 capsules and 2,000 injections were recovered from Rashpal. The duo was booked under the NDPS Act at the Amritsar B-division and Tarn Taran’s Khalra police stations, respectively.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said: “After receiving order from the competent authority, we have frozen Harpal’s residential house worth ₹23.7 lakh and 34 kanal agriculture land worth ₹65.34 lakh. Similarly, Rashpal’s ₹35 lakh house and four shops in Khalra worth ₹75 lakh have been frozen. We will initiate the process to attach the frozen property,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-freeze-rs-1-64-cr-assets-of-2-drug-smugglers-in-tarn-taran-101620243579091.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet meeting: Capt rules out complete lockdown, announces phased opening of shops||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh again ruled out a complete lockdown in the state and announced phased opening of shops after some of his cabinet colleagues said there was resentment among traders over selective closure of shops amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The CM said restrictions currently in place in Punjab were more stringent than the lockdown conditions in many other states. The CM compared the Punjab restrictions with the curbs in place in Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala, among others, and pointed out that it was not necessary to impose a total lockdown. Chairing a virtual cabinet meeting, Amarinder announced a series of relaxations, including phased opening of shops and various incentives for the housing sector, such as three-month extension in permission period for construction of plots/projects for allotments, whether private or allotted, by the state urban development authorities. Earlier, cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Tripat Bajwa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the shopkeepers, especially in urban areas, were upset about the selective shop shutdown as part of the restrictions imposed in the state. The CM said the objective of the closure had been to prevent crowding but phased opening could be worked out by district administrations. Amarinder also ordered limiting of the number of teachers in government schools to 50%, with the rest taking online classes from home. He directed the state food department to prepare five lakh additional food packets for distribution among Covid patients, besides announcing additional 10kg atta (wheat flour) for 1.41 crore smart ration card beneficiaries. The food aid is in addition to the 1 lakh food kits, containing 10kg of atta, 2kg chana and 2kg sugar already sanctioned for the underprivileged Covid patients. The CM said to meet the urgent needs of the people at the local level, the sarpanches have been authorised to spend up to ₹5,000 per day, subject to a maximum of ₹50,000, out of the panchayat funds for providing emergency relief by way of food and medicines to the poor. All urban local bodies have also been empowered to provide emergency relief, including food and medicines, to the poor and needy from the municipal fund. Taking cognisance of the problems resulting from the restrictions, the CM asked the social welfare department to release social security, pension amounts to ensure that the people do not suffer amid the current crisis. Relief for housing sector, shopkeepers For the housing sector, the CM directed all urban development authorities not to charge non-construction charges, extension fee and licence renewal fee for the period April 1 to July 31. Further, the urban development authorities have been asked to waive the interest to be charged on any delayed instalment, which was otherwise due between April 1 and July 31, provided that it is paid in equated monthly instalments after August 1. Mohali has 25% positivity rate Health secretary Hussan Lal informed the cabinet that 14 districts had positivity over 10% and six over 11%. Mohali tops the list with 25% positivity rate. The situation was grim with 70% of L2 beds (oxygen support) and over 80% L3 (ventilator support) beds in government and private hospitals occupied, the health secretary said, adding that with 10-30 patients needing a ventilator every day, things were not good. The cabinet approved one-time relaxation in the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Rules, 1964, for transfer of 5 acres of panchayat land in Mohali to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the establishment of the National Institute of Virology for North Zone. The Institute has been sanctioned by the central government on a proposal by the Punjab government. The cabinet authorised the Mohali DC to complete formalities for transfer of the land in village Mullanpur Garibdas in Kharar block of Mohali district. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said construction for the institute would start by the end of this year. BoxThrust sector status for O2 production unitsThe cabinet announced thrust sector status for all oxygen product units, while appointing a nodal officer to coordinate with the customs department for quick clearance of foreign aid. The CM said with the way things were going currently, the situation was likely to worsen in the coming days, with nobody knowing how many more waves of Covid would hit the country and the state. The status will apply to oxygen production units with minimum capacity of 700 cylinders per day equivalent to 5 MT, oxygen cylinder manufacturers/fabricators, oxygen concentrator manufacturing units. Oxygen refilling units will not be covered by the special status. With this decision, the units (both old and new) will become eligible for 100% exemption from the change of land use (CLU)/external development charges (EDC), property tax, electricity duty, stamp duty and investment subsidy, by way of reimbursement of GST up to 125% of fixed capital investment made in the land and machinery. The cabinet was apprised that the daily oxygen allocation to Punjab stands at 195 MT and only 140 MT was actually being supplied on a daily basis, with shortage of tankers hampering lifting of oxygen, especially from Bokaro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-meeting-capt-rules-out-complete-lockdown-announces-phased-opening-of-shops-101620243458990.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||State hits new peak, logs 182 deaths, 8,015 cases in a day||Punjab on Wednesday witnessed the deadliest day of the pandemic with 182 deaths due to Covid-19. The state also registered the highest single-day hike in infections with 8,015 people testing positive for the virus, according to the media bulletin released by the state government. The earlier high for single-day deaths was 173, which the state registered on Tuesday. Bathinda registered a maximum of 21 deaths, followed by 19 each in Ludhiana, Sangrur and Patiala, 18 in Amritsar, 17 in Mohali, 10 in Fazilka, nine each in Jalandhar and Muktsar and 6 in Pathankot. Ludhiana topped the chart with 1,186 fresh cases, followed by 1,056 in Mohali, 932 in Amritsar, 838 in Jalandhar, 696 in Patiala, 692 in Bathinda, 361 in Hoshiarpur, 317 in Fazilka, 338 in Mansa, 268 in Muktsar and 248 in Sangrur. Mohali has highest positivity rate Mohali constitutes to show the highest positivity rate of 29.42% in the state. Amritsar is at the second spot with 19.34% positivity rate, followed by Bathinda at 15.61% Rupnagar 15.26% and Fazilka 14.81%. A record 6,701 patients were discharged and 70,069 vaccines dosed were administered on Wednesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-hits-new-peak-logs-182-deaths-8-015-cases-in-a-day-101620243339000.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Govt hospitals run out of ICU beds for Covid patients in Chandigarh||The day when Chandigarh registered a record number of deaths due to the virus, not a single bed with ventilator was available for Covid-19 patients at intensive care units of the four government hospitals in the city.Hit by the second wave, the authorities have been able to earmark only 127 ICU beds for Covid-19, and many of them are occupied by patients from neighbouring states.According to official data available, all ICU beds had been occupied at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research; Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32; Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16; and Dedicated Covid Hospital in Sector 48 (see box). Meanwhile, at the seven private hospitals, only 10 beds (including ICU and oxygen) were available.Suraj Maurya, a relative of a 50-year-old Covid-19 patient who is admitted at GMSH, said doctors told the family in the morning that the patient needs ventilator support, but a bed could not be arranged till late in the evening. “We are trying everywhere, but are receiving the same answer that no bed is available,” said Maurya.Dr GD Puri, head of the Covid-19 management panel at PGIMER, where most of the patients are admitted, said they are trying to ramp up the infrastructure.“We are doing whatever is possible, but too many patients are admitted in the emergency. We are trying to adjust them in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.We are also adding four more ICU beds on Wednesday night and four will be added in addition to 24 high-dependency unit beds on Thursday. All concerned are working round the clock to make them functional,” he said.“This is an unprecedented situation for us. We are pushing for more ventilators. Around 30 are expected to arrive shortly,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER. UT adviser Manoj Parida said all department heads have been asked to see whether non-critical patients are occupying ICU beds. “At the same time, we are trying to increase the bed capacity in our Covid-19 facilities,” he said.Situation as grave in Mohali, PanchkulaThe situation is as alarming in the neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula districts. In Panchkula, all 19 ICU beds with ventilators were occupied on Wednesday evening, while only three of 79 ICU beds with oxygen/BiPAP machine were vacant. Meanwhile, the occupancy of 335 oxygen beds stood at 88%.Of 336 ICU beds at various government and private facilities in Mohali, only two were vacant on Wednesday evening. When it came to oxygen beds, only 19 of 685 were available. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the beds are occupied due to rush from other parts of the region. “We have asked private hospitals not to refuse hospitalisation to critical patients, and provide them with lower-level beds till ICU beds get available,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-hospitals-run-out-of-icu-beds-for-covid-patients-in-chandigarh-101620242860417.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||2,527 +ve, 38 die in record Covid surge in Chandigarh tricity||Breaking all records for the second consecutive day, Covid-19 claimed 38 more lives while 2,527 people tested positive in the tricity on Wednesday.Just five days into May, the tricity has logged 10,697 cases and 137 deaths, as compared to 43,145 cases and 311 deaths throughout April. As on Wednesday evening, 19,661 cases remain active across the tricity, up from 19,134 a day ago.On Wednesday, both Mohali and Panchkula recorded an all-time high of 1,056 and 654 fresh cases, respectively, while 817 cases surfaced in Chandigarh.Mohali and Chandigarh also witnessed the biggest spike in deaths as 17 and 14 people, respectively, succumbed to it, and even Panchkula equalled its previous record of seven fatalities in a day.In Chandigarh, the highest number of cases were reported on May 3, when 890 people tested positive, while the previous record of 13 deaths was registered on April 30. Panchkula had logged its previous all-time high of 584 cases just a day back on May 4, while seven deaths were registered for the first time on April 29.Mohali, which is the worst hit, had logged 12 deaths in a day thrice in a week before the Wednesday surge, while the 1,000 mark in terms of cases was breached for the first time on May 2 with 1,045 cases. Since crossing the grim milestone of 2,000 for the first time on April 22, the tricity has recorded 2,000+ cases as many as 10 times in two weeks, with the previous record of 2,211 set on May 4. Meanwhile, 29 fatalities, the record that now stands broken, were recorded twice, on April 28 and May 4.Case tally goes past 50K in MohaliMohali district crossed the 50,000 mark with a record 1,056 cases on Wednesday. While the number of cases has climbed to 50,988, the death toll has reached 651 with a record 17 fatalities. The fresh cases were spread across the district, with 362 surfacing in Mohali city, 270 in Dhakoli, 128 in Dera Bassi, 125 in Kharar and 84 in Gharuan. Meanwhile, with 1,002 patients recovering from the disease, the number of those cured climbed to 41,636, leaving 8,701 active cases. Teen among 14 dead in ChandigarhA 19-year-old youth was among 14 people who succumbed to the virus in Chandigarh on Wednesday. As many as 10 were below the age of 60. The record number of fatalities took the death toll to 532.With 817 new infections, the number of cases stands at 46,793, of which 8,363 are active. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 22%, suggesting that of every five people sampled, one was found positive. Meanwhile, the number of those recovered has reached 37,898.600+ cases for first time in PanchkulaWith 654 new cases on Wednesday, Panchkula breached all past records. Among those tested positive are five CRPF and 16 ITBP personnel. Mewanwhile, a 35-year-old man from Tipra and 47-year-old woman from Sector 12 were among seven patients who breathed their last. Both had no comorbidities. Of the remaining, three were in their 50s and two in 60s. The death toll has climbed to 234.The district has recorded 23,175 cases so far, of which 20,344 have been cured and 2,597 are active. Amid the rising number of cases, recovery rate has dropped to 87% and fatality rate has gone up to 1.07% while daily positivity rate stands at around 30%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2527-ve-38-die-in-record-covid-surge-in-chandigarh-tricity-101620242499564.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala cops in dock for buying liquor during lockdown||Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hamid Akhtar on Wednesday suspended an inspector-rank officer and terminated the services of a special police officer (SPO) for buying liquor from a shop at Agrasen Chowk during the lockdown.The policemen were seen buying liquor from the store in a video shot by a local on Tuesday, which went viral on social media. They were identified as inspector Satish, in-charge, welfare, and SPO Phool Singh, who was driving the SUV.In the video, Satish could be seen waving the liquor when the video was being shot. The duo started misbehaving before leaving abruptly after some more locals gathered there.The SSP said a department inquiry has also been initiated against the duo and an FIR has been registered against the liquor vendor, Shokeen Wines Company. “We’ve also issued a show-cause notice to the area police post for laxity,” said Akhtar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-cops-in-dock-for-buying-liquor-during-lockdown-101620242260954.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana announces financial assistance for BPL patients in pvt hospitals||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced financial assistance of ₹5,000 per day for below the poverty line (BPL) patients admitted in private hospitals who are on oxygen support or in intensive care unit (ICU). Financial assistance will be given for a maximum of seven days.Khattar has also announced a lump sum amount of ₹5,000 medical assistance for BPL patients in home isolation.Khattar said that private hospitals will also be given an incentive of ₹1,000 per patient per day or a maximum of ₹7,000, for giving admission preference to Covid-19 patients belonging to Haryana.The CM who held a briefing said the rates of beds and other facilities have been fixed for Covid patients undergoing treatment in private hospitals in state.Currently, 42 private hospitals are treating Covid patients. The government has fixed rate of ₹10,000 for isolation beds in NABH and JCI accredited hospitals, ₹15,000 for ICU beds without ventilators, and ₹18,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilators.Similarly, in non-NABH accredited hospitals, the rates have been fixed at ₹8,000 for isolation beds, ₹13,000 for ICU beds without ventilators, and ₹15,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilators, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-announces-financial-assistance-for-bpl-patients-in-pvt-hospitals-101620242259745.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn offers oxygen to patients in home isolation||In order to provide relief to Covid patients under home isolation, Mohali administration has offered provision of oxygen to them after approval of the district civil surgeon. Deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said the patients having recommendation from private hospitals must get it endorsed by the civil surgeon to avail the facility. While commenting upon the oxygen situation in Mohali, Dayalan said the district has sufficient supply as of now. Oxygen is being procured from five sources for Mohali, he added. “On an average, our consumption is 25 to 27 MT daily, which we are at present getting from five sources. We can provide oxygen cylinders to patients under home isolation, but only after endorsement from the civil surgeon. No one will be given oxygen at home without civil surgeon’s approval,” he added. The DC said that Mohali is getting liquid oxygen tankers from Bokaro, Roorkee, Panipat, Linde India in Uttarakhand and Inox Air in HP’s Barotiwala. He added that two companies in Mohali — HiTech and Hindair — are supplying oxygen cylinders to Mohali hospitals whereas some firms in Mandi Gobindgarh have also volunteered. At present, liquid oxygen supply from Bokaro is coming regularly with empty tankers airlifted from here and returning by road, he said. The entire supply and distribution of oxygen is being controlled by the state government and regulated by the district administration, he added. The oxygen management committee, after a survey, has concluded that Mohali requires 26 MT of supply daily to meet the requirements. Meanwhile, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), Punjab, will be setting up an oxygen plant at the government hospital in Phase 6, Mohali. In a meeting of district administration headed by DC Girish Dayalan, the CREDAI team led by its president Jagjit Singh Majha and secretary Arun Jindal extended support by setting up of an oxygen plant which will help in meeting the oxygen shortage in the second wave of pandemic. The CREDAI team is providing financial support to the tune of ₹1 crore in setting up the plant. This plant will be made operational in 15 to 20 days.With only hours of oxygen left, Panchkula turns to Punjab for help
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vax shortage gives Panchkula senior citizens a harrowing time||At the time when the government is encouraging people to get inoculated, it has failed to provide adequate supply of Covid vaccines. The shortage is making many senior citizens in Panchkula run from pillar to post for days to get a shot.With finite number of doses and limited staff, the health department had to reduce the number of centres to four in urban Panchkula. Rajender Arora, 72, and his 66-year-old wife Savita Arora have made three rounds to multiple health centres to get their second dose of vaccine in a week, but have to return empty-handed. “Last month, we got our first dose at the civil dispensary in Sector 20. However, for the last few days, the authorities have stopped administering vaccines at this dispensary. On Tuesday, we left at 7.30am for Sector-12 community centre but despite waiting for an hour, we did not get any token. I then contacted a doctor at the civil hospital, who abruptly cut the call,” Savita said. The couple then visited civil hospital where they were asked to go to the Sector-26 polyclinic. “We were told to come back tomorrow at the polyclinic as well as at Sector 21,” she added. The couple said, “We are old and cannot go from one health centre to another for vaccination. The authorities should make the process convenient for people like us.”They are not the only ones suffering. Ashok Kumar, 65, finally received his second jab after eight weeks of getting the first shot and one week of search. “I had been visiting the dispensary in Sector 20 and there they used to ask me to visit the next day. Then I went to the dispensary of Sector 12 A, where I was told that they don’t keep Covaxin and told me to visit the community centre in the same sector. There too, the vaccine was out of stock,” he added. “Then I called a helpline, which asked me to visit either MDC-4 or polyclinic in Sector 26. I visited both the sites, but did not get the shot,” he said further. Immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan, meanwhile, said, “We have limited stock of vaccines. I am left with only 5,000 doses for 45-plus age group and 13,000 for those between 18 years and 44 years. Hence, I have brought down the number of vaccination centres in the district. In rural areas, the number has been reduced to seven from 10. With limited supply, I cannot run vaccination drives at every health centre.” However, she said that Thursday (May 6) onwards, they would start getting around 6,000 doses every alternate day. She added that detailed information is being shared on social media platforms, including WhatsApp groups of resident welfare associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-shortage-gives-panchkula-senior-citizens-a-harrowing-time-101620242078958.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Centre’s guidelines hit vax drive at private facilities in Chandigarh||At the time when every resource could have been utilised to vaccinate more people, due to new central government’s guidelines, private facilities in the city have not been able to contribute to the process which can also be a factor for declined daily inoculation numbers. According to the arrangement till April 30, the UT administration supplied the vaccines to the private facilities which in turn paid the price of the same to the central government. However, according to the new arrangement, the private facilities have to procure their own stock from the manufacturers. The UT health department took back the remaining stocks from the private facilities on April 30 and May 1.In the last eight days of April, the number of inoculations had crossed the 5,500-mark daily and even reached the highest on April 30 when 6,200 jabs were given. But, in the beginning of May, the number has not crossed even the 5,000-mark with the daily inoculation numbers hovering between 4,200 to 4,800.Though some private hospital chains in Mohali have procured vaccines, the small-scale facilities have not been able to buy it from the manufacturers. In the process, the number of vaccination centres has also reduced to 50 from around 65.“This has resulted in confusion among the beneficiaries. We are not able to administer doses to even those who had booked the spot in our hospitals. There should be some consistency in the policy,” Dr RS Bedi, former vice-president of Indian Medical Association, said.Dr Neeraj Sharma, who ran a vaccination centre at his private hospital, said they tried to purchase the vaccine from the manufacturer, but they have failed to secure the batch so far. “We have been told to wait for three to six months,” he said.UT’s immunisation officer Dr Manjeet Singh said that people should come to government facilities, which are properly managed by the authorities.“We are following the government of India’s guidelines and if the eligible beneficiaries are concerned about the second dose, they should report to any government facility,” he added. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said it does not have a huge impact on the outcome.“There is no large-scale disruption to the drive and even government facilities have all the facilities which are required for this process,” he said. In a drive that started on January 16, 2,22,860 doses have been administered in the health facilities of the city so far. The UT, unlike Mohali and Panchkula, has not been able to start vaccination for the younger age group of 18+ category as it is awaiting vaccines for this group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centres-guidelines-hit-vax-drive-at-private-facilities-in-chandigarh-101620242019414.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||24-year-old Ludhiana woman ends life: Husband booked for dowry death||Police search is on for a man and his mother after his 24-year-old wife hanged herself to death on April 27, purportedly after being harassed for bearing a girl child.The matter came to fore on the complaint of the deceased’s mother, police said.The woman told the police that her daughter got married on November 23, 2019. On February 20 this year, she gave birth to a girl. Thereon, her husband and mother-in-law, who were expecting a boy, started harassing her for bearing a girl child and also to bring dowry. When her daughter narrated this to her, she brought her to Delhi on April 13.On April 27, the mother-son duo took her back to Ludhiana after promising to mend their ways. But, their ill-behaviour resumed on reaching Ludhiana. Succumbing to the harassment, her daughter hanged herself the same day.Assistant sub-inspector Sukhdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 304-B (dowry death) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused at the Tibba police station. The accused were on the run since the woman’s death, but they will be arrested soon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/24yearold-ludhiana-woman-ends-life-husband-booked-for-dowry-death-101620241898717.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three aides of gangster Lehmbar arrested with weapons in Ludhiana||Police arrested three aides of notorious gangster Gurpreet Singh Lehmbar in Jagraon city on Tuesday nightInspector Simarjit Singh, station house officer (SHO), City Jagraon police station, said those arrested had been identified as Gurmanjot Singh, alias Toor, and Gurjot Singh, alias Ramna, of Chakar village, and Parvinder Singh, alias Binder, of Lakha village.A .32-bore pistol, a .315-bore countrymade pistol, bullets and a car were recovered from their possession.“The accused were arrested following secret information that they were lurking in the city to commit crime. They are all facing trials in several cases, including double murder, murder, attempt to murder, robbery, assault and possessing illegal weapons, registered at various police stations of Ludhiana Rural police,” he said, adding that the gang’s kingpin Lehmbar was on the run.The trio was booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. They were produced before a court on Tuesday and sent to five-day police custody.“Important information about the gang’s network is expected from the accused,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-aides-of-gangster-lehmbar-arrested-with-weapons-in-ludhiana-101620241659693.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||181 Covid deaths reported in a day in Haryana||Haryana on Wednesday reported 181 fatalities due to the Covid-19 pandemic, resulting in the death toll mounting to 4,960, according to the health bulletin.In this month alone, 744 people have succumbed to the infection. The death toll has been on the rise almost every day last week.For instance, 153 people had died on April 4, 140 on May 3, 145 on May 2 and 125 on May 1. On Wednesday, Bhiwani was the most affected in terms of fatalities as 18 patients died, followed by 15 in Gurugram, 14 in Hisar, 13 in Karnal, 12 in Fatehabad 12, 11 each in Ambala and Panipat, 10 each in Jhajjar and Kaithal, nine each in Rohtak, Yamunanagar and Sirsa, eight in Faridabad, seven each in Panchkula and Jind, five in Palwal, four in Sonepat, and three in Mahendergarh.It was for the second consecutive day on Wednesday that the new cases’ tally went past 15,000. The state tested 51,453 samples and detected 15,416 new cases on Wednesday, and 15,786 new cases on Tuesday.On Wednesday, Gurugram logged 4,740 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,610, Sonepat 1,171, Hisar 985, Ambala 417, Karnal 767, Panipat 645, Rohtak 332, Rewari 352, Panchkula 654, Kurukshetra 318, Yamunanagar 312, Sirsa 674, Mahendergarh 642, Bhiwani 416, Jhajjar 315, Palwal 161, Fatehabad 311, Kaithal 132, Jind 317, Nuh 107, and Charkhi Dadri 38.Though 10,640 people recovered, the recovery rate came down to 78.82% from Tuesday’s 79.10% and the positivity rate which was 7.17% on Tuesday increased to 7.33%.The state on Wednesday vaccinated 56,103 people and the cumulative number of people vaccinated stood at 40.27 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/181-covid-deaths-reported-in-a-day-in-haryana-101620241425223.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana trader held for black marketing of oxygen cylinders||A 50-year-old shopkeeper was arrested on Tuesday for black marketing of oxygen cylinders. As many as 23 cylinders were recovered from the accused, Somnath, resident of New Abadi Akalgarh. Police said Somnath had a shop in Akalgarh market and supplied oxygen cylinders to hospitals in Sudhar and Raikot.He was arrested following a complaint by a relative of a Covid patient, who had contacted the accused for an oxygen cylinder and was supplied two small cylinders for an elevated price of ₹26,000.“Following the complaint, we conducted a raid and arrested the shopkeeper. The shop had 23 cylinders, including 19 empty ones,” said inspector Jasvir Singh, station house officer, Sudhar police station.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-trader-held-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-cylinders-101620241120993.html
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||45 held for black marketing of oxygen, remdesivir across Haryana||Haryana police have registered 21 first information reports (FIRs) in connection with black marketing of oxygen, oxygen cylinders, and remdesivir injections across Haryana in the past two weeks, leading to the arrest of 45 persons and recovery of 77 oxygen cylinders and 101 vials of remdesivir.According to director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava, taking advantage of the rising demand of medical oxygen, unscrupulous persons and employees of private hospitals are indulging in black marketing of oxygen and remdesivir, which are in high demand for treatment of Covid-19.Since April 23, he said, eight FIRs were registered in connection with black marketing of oxygen and oxygen cylinders in six districts of Haryana, leading to arrest of 12 accused and recovery of 77 oxygen cylinders.Similarly, 33 accused involved in black marketing of remdesivir injections were arrested. He said 13 FIRs were registered against the accused in eight districts and police recovered 101 vials of the drug from them.“Police have collected 1,249 cylinders as a voluntary contribution from factory owners, welding shop owners, gas-balloons sellers and ordinary citizens and handed over to the district administration,” he said, assuring that police are working tirelessly to stop the black-marketing.The DGP appealed to people to inform the police on black marketing of injections and oxygen cylinders on mobile number 7087089947 and toll-free number 1800-180-1314.SUPPLIER OF REMDESIVIR INJECTION HELD
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||19 more dead in Ludhiana, 1,186 test positive for Covid as contagion rages on||Showing no signs of slowing down, the Covid-19 pandemic on Wednesday claimed 19 more lives in the district, which also recorded over 1,000 cases for the fifth consecutive day. The 1,186 cases pushed Ludhiana’s caseload to 61,321 and the active cases to 10,778 – both highest in Punjab. At 1,470, the district is also leading the state’s charts in number of total deaths.May began with an all-time high of 1,600 cases, following which Ludhiana has clocked 6,735 infections in just five days against 20,176 in the entirety of April and 7,294 in March. On the deaths’ front, the contagion has claimed 95 lives in May, compared to 232 in April and 115 in March.Since April 26, the number of daily deaths has been in double digits for 11 straight days, reaching a record high of 21 on May 3.36-year-old among latest victimsThe youngest among Wednesday’s fatalities was a 36-year-old man from Prem Nagar.Apart from him, the men who died were an 88-year-old from Civil Lines, an 83-year-old from Haibowal, a 78-year-old from Kila Raipur, two aged 72 from Khanna and Shivpuri, a 62-year-old from Jaspal Banger village, a 60-year-old, a 58-year-old from Shimlapuri, a 57-year-old from Millar Ganj, a 51-year-old from Dugri and a 45-year-old from Bharthala.The female deceased included a 65-year-old, a 63-year-old from Dugri, two aged 62 from Shivaji Nagar and Shimlapuri, a 60-year-old from Haibowal Kalan, a 50-year-old from Bhamian village and a 44-year-old from Shimlapuri.‘Don’t venture out unnecessarily’ Terming the pandemic situation grim and the health infrastructure severely strained in Ludhiana, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma urged the residents not to ruin the hard work of thousands of healthcare and frontline workers by venturing out unnecessarily.Interacting with residents through the official Facebook page of DPRO, Ludhiana, Sharma said currently, 1,913 beds, including 526 ICU and 1,387 oxygen, were occupied in various hospitals of the district, and the administration was arranging 100 beds at the Jawaddi Community Health Centre and Government School for the Meritorious. He said the administration was also planning to set up more beds in the hostels of Punjab Agricultural University if the pandemic did not ease in the coming days.The deputy commissioner observed that it was really sad that some people were still not observing Covid appropriate behaviour, despite the high risk of transmission.He reiterated that those dealing in medicines and essential items like dairy, vegetables, fruits, poultry, meat, grocery, PDS shops, fertilisers, agriculture machinery, liquor, hardware, industrial material, tools, motor pipes, etc., were permitted to operate till 5pm, except during the weekend curfew (from 6pm on Friday to 5am on Monday).Answering questions regarding the vaccination for bank staff and traders, by considering them frontline workers, he said the administration had earlier allowed them to get vaccinated at camps, but their response was lukewarm and now they will have to wait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19-more-dead-in-ludhiana-1-186-test-positive-for-covid-as-contagion-rages-on-101620239978370.html
