08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wild Buzz: Love for lizards||Positioning water bowls for creatures in scorching summer not only makes for eminent empathy but yields revelatory insights into survival strategies. Worthy of emulation in any home garden, an unexpected interaction between a zoologist’s family and non-venomous garden lizards serves as a beacon of human goodwill and understanding. With a little bit of thoughtful care extended by their human friends, the creatures smartly adapted and triumphed over menacing odds.The reach out between man and the proverbial ‘mini-dragon’ of the gardens evolved at a residential complex in the Thar desert seven km outside the golden city of Jaisalmer. There, the common species of garden lizards (or the much reviled and feared ‘korkirlas’) occupied water bowls put out in native trees by zoology assistant professor Shyam Sunder Meena, when afternoon temperatures soared beyond 48 °C and touched 55 °C. The lizard adaptation astonished Meena. He had no idea lizards would make such good use of the bowls he had placed with the intention to quench the thirst of birds, mammals and insects!“Most creatures turn inactive during peak heat and take shelter under shadows cast by plants or rocks. I return from office in the afternoon, check the bowls and refill them. I discovered that six water bowls were occupied by male lizards for a few hours in the afternoon. They regularly leave their territorial zones and come to the bowls. Under heat duress, the lizards showed a remarkable capacity to equitably share the water opportunity. Under normal conditions, the dominant male is intolerant of the sub-dominant male’s presence but both amicably share the same bowl. The lizards’ primary objective here is to regulate body temperature not to drink water or predate on insects attracted to the water. As the afternoon heat ebbs, male lizards return to contested territories. Some smart female lizards chill outside our kitchen window which lets out the draught from air-conditioners,” Meena told this writer.His children, Vaishnavi, 13, and Khushank, 3, also display compassion, curiosity and love for the lizards. “Khushank is not afraid of lizards. Neither are the lizards as they sense the child means no harm to them. Khushank touches their tails, observes them up close as if they were puppies, and wants to make them his pets. But I told him that they can remain his pets forever in their natural state and he understood,” said Meena.Meena recently tested positive for Covid so Vaishnavi took over the task of keeping the water bowls filled. With a simple camera, Vaishnavi recorded the female lizard digging a hole and laying eggs. With a cell phone, Meena documented courtship rituals and mating as the lizards trust him totally and do not scamper away on his approach. Meena made a video of a frolicking lizard jumping in and out of a bowl enjoying a cooling splash just like skinny kids thronging a village tank! So endearing was the image posted by Meena on social media of cute little Khushank peering at a trusting male lizard — their faith in each other so evident — that it attracted raving comments. A thoughtful one from Dalia Bose: “What a brilliant moment when all comes to a standstill because Truth comes visiting in the form of a child and Nature, both spontaneous, marvellous beings”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wild-buzz-love-for-lizards-101620498071650.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati :Much ado about O2 and OO||We are navigating a season of strange pandemic paradoxes. Paradoxes that seem so ‘pronounced’ that one may even stumble upon some pronunciations. With pandemic’s second season of Mother’s Day here, one can’t help but talk of certain ‘mothers of invention’, driving pandemic’s paradoxes. At a time when India Quarantining can scarce sniff through its nostrils, the world has, ironically, ‘smelt’ another sort of opportunity. At a time when India Gasping can scarce spell “smell” thanks to a national emergency sparked by O2, some smart brains in the West have churned out an ingenious invention replicating a much-missed smell – OO. The paradox of O2 versus OO. This is nothing but India suffering a scarcity of oxygen, on the one hand, and the rest of the #WorkFromHome world, on the other hand, discontented with a deficit of that daily smell – OO (office odour).Of Ooh-la-la odours Trust the world’s leading capitalist economy to hit upon the idea of capitalising on the woes of #wfh by rolling out scented candles that remind of familiar office-place smells and scents, thanks to American enterprise Eau d’ Office (this makes the paradox pretty pronounced, for it tosses up a problem for us pronunciation challenged, like yours truly, who’ve never really got it right when it comes to pronouncing eau de toilette, eau de cologne et al, and now here comes Eau d’ Office!) What’s a typically American gesture of gifting two exiting colleagues farewell candles created from a confluence of workplace odours – Breakfast Leftovers In Edit Suite 1, Sushi Thursday At The Café, After A 6-Hour Workshop etc – may smack of the fabled Marie Antoinette-sque “Let them eat cake” ring for India Inc. For, ironically, it is one invention idea about which India Inc isn’t in a position to wax eloquent. The curious case of Scentless in Seattle. Of O2 and oximeters Another app that’s proving to be a ‘Mother of Invention’ has to do with not OO, but O2. The other day, when a childhood friend called from Punjab, perched near farm houses lush, she did gush. So alarmed was she that we in the country’s Capital were struggling for not only oxygen cylinders, but also with many a related app and all such crap, that she egged me on, “Arre yaar, why this app-shapp, why not just go walk outdoors and get some fresh air!”OMG, the irony of O2! I was hard put to drive home the point, “Oh dear, you’re forgetting, we live in a polluted metropolis driving a double scarcity -- denizens are facing not only a scarcity of O2 inside (anatomically), but also low O2 outdoors (climatically)!“Hence, the oximeter!” This ground reality of ours spelt the other paradox.Whilst half of India Quarantining finds itself affixed to oxygen cylinders, the rest of the nation looks to be appended to that curious contraption called oximeter. When the world is wired to the oximeter, how can our quintessential quirky couple, Lollita and Lamba ji, not smell an opportunity here! Lollita goggles at Lamba ji flitting in and out of rooms in a state of being fully wired to the world -- his ears encased in earphones, mouth caterwauling casualty bulletins to cronies on the cellphone; and hands clipped to the Oximeter for his latest O2 bulletin. Exasperated by his bleat-bleat from the constant cellphone confabulation and by the beep-beep from his curious contraption, Lollita yanks off his earphones with a yell, “Curfew ... curfew!” Lamba ji gawks, alarmed as much as annoyed at being unplugged. “But the city’s already under curfew?” Lollita delivers the diktat, “You’re being placed under room curfew, lest you become an ‘oxy’ moron!” The curious case of For Whom the (Oximeter) Bells Toll!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-much-ado-about-o2-and-oo-101620497109563.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Dear doctor, we are truly beholden||Dear doctor, We are truly beholden to you! For your unswerving steadfastness, for your untiring diehard service, for your professional diligence, for your unimaginable sacrifices, for your unflinching valour, for your undaunted courage, for your unruffled calmness, and for your caring humaneness. We know what you are going through, but we cannot fathom the extent of your angst. We cannot feel the ripples of your sweat. We cannot experience the pangs of heart wrenching pathos, that you do, at the sight of patients who are suffering. We cannot imagine the extent of the pressure that you are tackling upon your brave shoulders, in the face of all odds. Neither will we ever be able to understand the helplessness that you feel at often being let down by your own system. Along with you, this letter addresses the millions of other healthcare professionals, hospital administrators, nurses, ward boys, laboratory technicians, helpers, ambulance drivers, attendants, government officials, security forces et al, as also the zillions of lay volunteers, all of whom are the unsung heroes at the pinnacle of this quest to vanquish the dreaded, unseen, virulent foe. To each one you, we the people of the world, bow and pay gratitude in this hour of crisis. At a time when our nation feels hapless and helpless, you are the ones holding the fort, with fortitude, with dedication, with zeal. We are also aware that several people, out of a sense of despair or out of sheer lack of empathy, disparage you and your ilk at times. They shout at and even abuse you, with tempers soaring high. Lives are at stake, after all. Each individual is testy and his at wits end. And there are those who have let you down, from within your own flanks. Those who cannot handle the unending barrage of crossfire or the relentless surge of numbers, sheer numbers, unmanageable numbers. Those few who are unable to hold the torch high, even while a majority of you do. Then there are some who hoard, even plunder, whether within the system, or from the periphery of it. Yet, and this is more true than anything else, you just keep marching on. Even when your family is in tears, your children are howling, your parents are worried to bits, you simply keep soldiering on. You are human, yet super human, somehow. You wipe away your own tears, you swallow the lump in your throat, you shoo away any thought of weakness or frailty. The enemy continues to loom large and plunder those around you, stretching your forces to the hilt. But you make some inroads into enemy territory. You bounce back with renewed bouts of energy, new strategies, newer methodologies. You battle the odds when the odds are stacked against you. And you battle with great spirit and verve. Your smile seldom takes leave from your countenance, albeit under the ubiquitous mask. You somehow manage to summon from the depths of inner reserves, the wherewithal to remain gung-ho, full of hope and energy. You organise your thoughts and words, to assuage the feelings of those who seek strength and solace from you. You are aware that your every word, your every move, is being watched carefully by those who depend upon you and your calibre. You do not flinch even when all and sundry come armed with theories downloaded from God-knows-where, which are supposed to be superior to your know how and experience. Yet, and in the face of all that the raging contagion may throw at you, you are our bedrock. You are actually living the affirmation that Paramahansa Yogananda, author of the Autobiography of a Yogi, gave to the world: “I will stand unshaken, amidst the crash of breaking worlds!” Or, as missionary activist Joshua Graham said, “I survived because the fire inside me burned brighter than the fire around me…” We know too that this dastardly fire will be doused one day. Till then, we pray with all our might, for every one of you, and feel grateful. For your every act of kindness and fearlessness in this hour of tumult, we will forever be truly beholden to you.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-dear-doctor-we-are-truly-beholden-101620496689656.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Love, hope in the time of Covid||The debut novel of Gurmeet Karyalvi, a well-known and sensitive writer of Punjabi, opens with the harsh April sunshine of 2020 glaring at the board of Divine Light Public School, which seems wilted like the once dancing dahlia flowers in the school’s garden. Like the flowers, the school seems withered without the ringing laughter of children in smart uniforms, who have not stepped into its gates for many days now. While students, whose smiles and frolic would liven up the building, are nowhere to be found, one finds uniformed policemen deployed there: their faces harsher than before, larger than life and expressionless. This is how, Karyalvi, who was born and brought up, in the village of Karyala near Moga in the Malwa region of Punjab, starts the narrative of his novel Oh Ikki Din (Those Twenty-One Days) where a school has been turned into an isolation centre, as is now the case with most schools and colleges of the city. Officialdom now rules these places of learning and hope. The inmates after putting their belongings in appointed spaces are summoned to the school grounds to listen to essential announcements to be made by SDM sahib. As one holds Gurmeet’s novel in one’s hands looking at its beautiful cover with its distant hills and two masked faces, a woman and a man, looking longingly out of windows at a field of flowers, from which rises a menacing hand with gnarled fingers, many thoughts flit through the mind. This book reaches a year after the scene that the writer conjures takes place amid the first wave of the pandemic. Much has happened since and the people of India have travelled from hope to hopelessness during the brutal second wave, which is playing havoc with lives as Indians struggle to breathe. Sincerity of sensitive prose Readers of literature have revisited several books to make sense of these times from Albert Camus’ The Plague, The Diary Of Anne Frank, penned by an adolescent Jew girl in hiding with her family from the Nazi harbingers of death, as well as Gabriel Garcia Marques’ Love in the Times of Cholera. Yet the writer who tells the saga of 21 days in isolation holds his own with the sincerity of his sensitive prose in one of the first contemporary novels in the Punjabi language on the trying times humanity has been placed in the time of Covid, in spite of strides in development made all over the world. Gurmeet carries with him the name of his village Karyalvi, which is a common tradition in India and more so in Punjab where the writer is often known by the name of the village or town that he is born to. Many prominent writers have taken their villages and towns to heights of fame such as Urdu poet Sahir Ludhianvi, famous writer-editor Gurbax Singh Preetlari or this year’s Sahitya Akademi award winner, veteran Gurdev Singh Rupana. This is just to name a few. There have been instances where a person is known by the name of their poem, story or even a column as in the case of Baldev Singh Sadaknama or the one-story wonder Amar Singh ‘Kabarput’ (gravedigger). Perhaps in times to come one may find people referring to Karyalvi as Oh 21 dinan wala! As it is Kayralvi is an established prose writer with six collections of short stories to his credit, two books of prose set in the days of militancy in Punjab and several plays and stories for children besides penning poetry. However, this is the first novel by this sensitive writer who has struggled against class and caste prejudice to reach where he has. He has done the momentous task of not just making a name for himself but has also endeared himself to readers. Khushwant Bargarhi, founder of People’s Fourm publishing house near Faridkot, which distributes books to people at minimal rates each month, says of Gurmeet: “He is a writer of soil and richly conscious of social reality. His ease with language and a mastery over rural Punjabi idiom has always won the hearts of readers. His greatest gift is that he turns despair into hope.” Telling story of the times How did the seeds of this novel, which paints a vivid picture of officialdom at micro-level yet indicative to the macro-level, in which one has thrown the nation into the killing second wave as battles for power are being fought, get sowed in the writer’s mind? Gurmeet replies: “I work in the government’s welfare department and my wife is a staff nurse, so it was a very close encounter with the management of the pandemic and the plight of the people as they struggled in loneliness, locked indoors during this man-made crisis, which prompted me to record the story of the sad seasons that we are passing through. As a writer, it was my discovery of hope in the hearts of many that egged me further and I wrote it out in a month and a half!’ The characters the writer creates are true to life and the stress of the situation where people wait on mattresses placed at a social distance in the classrooms of the Divine Light Public School. True to life is also the narration of squabbles, discrimination, bureaucratic indifference, fear and despondency but in midst of all this blossoms the unsaid love story of Jinder and Amrit and hope that moves from a character named Anand who holds even in the bleakest of times that life will always triumph over death. nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-love-hope-in-the-time-of-covid-101620496210572.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s rural areas hit by Covid totally neglected: Sampat Singh||Former Haryana minister Sampat Singh on Saturday expressed concerns over the second wave of Covid-19 penetrating the rural areas of Haryana.In a statement, he said, “The rural lifestyle is such that the entire population is dependent on each other. Thus, villagers are more prone to rapid infection.”“Most villages in Haryana had been hit by the pandemic and the number of deaths had been mounting steadily. Villages are being neglected completely as doctors and paramedical staff posted in health centres there, have been deputed at hospitals in towns and cities,” said the former minister, who had joined BJP in 2019.Terming management of the pandemic “utterly unsatisfactory and ineffective”, he asked the Centre and the state government to redouble their efforts to meet the challenge posed by the second wave of Covid-19.He said that government should focus on managing the situation and apply all its resources since the situation is extremely critical.“The government had taken the first wave of the pandemic lightly. The health infrastructure was not ramped up and the government stopped consulting health professionals,” he added.“This criminal neglect resulted in the second wave hitting the country. The situation is now out of control and the government seemed helpless and clueless,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-rural-areas-hit-by-covid-totally-neglected-sampat-singh-101620491949264.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Door-to-door campaign in rural Haryana to detect, contain Covid||The Haryana government on Saturday announced to depute around 8,000 multidisciplinary teams to launch a door-to-door Covid-19 screening drive in rural areas amid reports of low testing and underreporting of the infection in the hinterland.The multidisciplinary teams led by trainee doctors and health department officials will have ASHA and anganwadi workers. One team will approximately cover 500 households.As the pandemic is hitting rural areas hard after affecting big cities, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said that apart from door-to-door health screening camps, dharamshalas, government schools, and AYUSH centres will have to be converted into isolation centres to contain the virus spread.“We have to protect rural areas from the virus at any cost. Every officer concerned should ensure that special vigilance is kept on every village and for this a massive Covid screening campaign should be conducted in all villages,” said Khattar during a review meeting.The CM directed that since the virus is spreading fast in rural areas, special screening camps should focus on ‘test, track and treat’ strategy to catch people having Covid symptoms.“Through these camps, the officers concerned should ensure that every member of 60 lakh families residing in Haryana are tested tracked and treated,” Khattar said, adding that every journalist will be given priority during the vaccination drive.CONTROL ROOMTo keep check on the arbitrary charges being levied by ambulance operators and to clamp down black marketing of medicines, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said a control room has been set up in state in which any person can file a complaint.He said that so far, 45 persons have been arrested in this regard.Vij added that these days, cases of arbitrary charges being levied by ambulance operators have become rampant due to which the government is keeping a strict vigil on it.He said that strict action will be taken in cases of black marketing of medicines and overcharging of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doortodoor-campaign-in-rural-haryana-to-detect-contain-covid-101620491771588.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Explain bias in Covid drug distribution: Himachal HC to Centre||The Himachal Pradesh high court has asked the central and state governments to explain the discrimination in the allocation of Covid-19 medicines to the hill state. The court directed the Union health secretary to furnish details about the distribution of Remdesivir, Favipiravir and Tocilizumab and apprise it of reasons why states with a less population and fewer Covid patients were getting more allocation of medicines than Himachal Pradesh. The court directed the state to provide details of the distribution of oxygen for the past two weeks besides its plan to augment the supply. It asked the state to ensure the uploading of real time data on bed availability in each hospital for Covid-19 patients on its web portals besides those of hospitals and also physically display the data outside each hospital daily. Writ petition highlighted lack of oxygen facilities The division bench, comprising justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and justice Chander Bhusan, passed these orders on a writ petition highlighting the issue of the lack of oxygen facilities at Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, and the non-functioning of 25 ventilators that have been given to the college under the HIM Care Scheme. The court directed the state government to publish the names and locations of the testing centres, hospitals, dedicated Covid health care centres in the media bulletin daily. The bulletin should clearly indicate the availability of total beds, vacant ones, beds with ventilators, oxygen cylinders and beds without any oxygen tank/cylinder in each hospital, dedicated Covid health care centres. State to act tough if private hospitals don’t cooperate The court clarified that if private hospitals refuse to cooperate, or are reluctant to provide Covid test and facilities, the state government shall resort to coercive steps as provided under the Disaster Management Act and Essential Services Maintenance Act. It directed that the state should also consider buying additional CT scan machines. The court directed the state to furnish information regarding bed capacity for Covid-19 facilities in government and private hospitals along with the details of the availability of oxygen (high flow or otherwise). The state was asked to give details of steps taken and proposed to augment the availability of oxygen, meeting both the present and projected requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/explain-bias-in-covid-drug-distribution-hc-to-centre-101620476648415.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers defy Covid curbs, take out protest marches in Sangrur, Barnala||Hundreds of farmers took out marches in Barnala and Sangrur districts on Saturday to protest the state government’s decision to impose a weekend lockdown for curbing the spread of coronavirus. Despite the farmer leaders’ appeals to shopkeepers, shops remained closed in both towns. In Barnala, the farmers assembled at the city railway station parking and took out a protest march through the markets, while in Sangrur, supporters of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha gathered near the railway station before marching through the town’s markets. Farmers associated with the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) marched from Sangrur grain market to smaller markets. Also read: 12 states account for over 80% of active coronavirus cases“All farmer and labour unions participated in the protest against lockdown. Though we have been speaking against the lockdown since last year, the people of the state are not in a position to face another lockdown and it should be ended. The government should provide health services and recruit doctors to protect people from Covid-19,” said Balour Singh Channa, the Barnala block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan). Asked about the poor response from shopkeepers, Channa said, “We are trying to motivate shopkeepers and educate them about the anti-people policies of the government.” Stop intimidating traders: Patiala farmers The call by farmers unions to oppose the lockdown failed to evoke any response from traders as shops across Patiala district remained shut on Saturday. The farmers urged traders to open their shops, but they did not relent. Heavy police force was deployed in commercial areas asking people to adhere to Covid restrictions. Jang Singh, a farmer leader, said: “The traders are reluctant to open their shops fearing fines and police cases. We warn the government to stop intimidating shopkeepers,” he said. (With inputs from HTC, Patiala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-defy-covid-curbs-take-out-protest-marches-in-sangrur-barnala-101620472028096.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal sees 55% rise in Covid cases over a week||Himachal Pradesh has seen a 55% rise in new Covid-19 infections over the past week with a total of 1,22,906 positive cases on Friday. The health department data shows the state recorded 23,619 cases in the first week of May as compared to 15,222 cases in the last week of April. In the highest single-day spike, the state recorded 4,190 new infections on Friday. Also read: DCGI gives emergency approval of DRDO-developed anti-Covid oral drugThe spike in infections has also led to rise in fatality. As many as 297 people have died in the past seven days in the state, a 37% increase as compared to 217 Covid fatalities in the last week of April. Friday saw the highest number of 56 deaths in a day. Since the outbreak last March, a total of 1,780 people have died due to coronavirus-related complications. The state has a case fatality ratio of 1.44%, which is higher than the national average of 1.1%. Kangra saw the highest number of 109 deaths in a week, an average of 16 deaths a day. To date, the district has recorded 483 deaths and has a case fatality ratio of 2%. Shimla has registered 347 fatalities since the outbreak and 33 in the past week alone. Mandi’s death count has reached 207 of which 26 occurred in the past seven days. Similarly, Solan’s total count is 144 of which 43 succumbed between May 1 and 7. Kangra, Shimla, Mandi, Solan account for 60% of cases Kangra, the state’s most populous district, accounts for 20% of the total caseload. The four worst-hit districts of Kangra, Shimla, Mandi and Solan share 60% of the cases. The four districts have recorded a cumulative 73,944 cases to date since the outbreak. Kangra recorded 6,568 new cases in a week, 76.5% more than the previous week’s tally of 3,720 infections. Solan recorded 2,649 new infections, Mandi 2,648, and Shimla 2,277. Sirmaur is also emerging as a bigger hotspot and has recorded 2,467 new cases. Sharp increase in infections The active Covid cases have spiralled manifold due to the sharp increase in the infections. In the past week, the active case count rose by 11,088 as compared to 6,179 in the last week of April. Kangra has the highest number of 8,237 active cases, 28% of the total active cases. Solan has 3,709 active cases, Mandi 3,054, Sirmaur 2,923 and Shimla 2,787. A total of 91,573 people have recovered from Covid in the state to date of which 12,263 recuperated during the past week alone. The recovery rate has come down to 74.5% from 78% last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-sees-55-rise-in-covid-cases-over-a-week-101620470408038.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Traders ignore farmers’ call to defy Covid curfew in Bathinda||The protest call by farmer organisations against the Punjab government’s Covid curbs on Saturday failed to evoke any response from traders. Members of the Bathinda market associations said they were not averse to the idea of imposition of stricter rules to break the chain of coronavirus infection. Bathinda is under curfew from 3pm on Friday till 5am on Monday to contain the spike in Covid cases. Also read: Positive Covid report not mandatory for admission in hospitals: Health ministryFarmer organisations asked traders across Punjab to keep their shops open in defiance of the administration’s orders. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal had announced earlier this week that the state government’s decision to impose a lockdown was hurting the financial interest of traders, shopkeepers and workers engaged by them. On Saturday, farmer union activists gathered at various places in the city and adjoining areas, including Goniana. The farmers held protests, but markets remained shut. Unwise to oppose curbs: Beopar Mandal Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal president Amit Kapoor denied any talks with farm union leaders to oppose lockdown. “Coronavirus is spreading at an alarming rate, and it is unwise to oppose the restrictions. Hospitals are flooded with patients and lives are being lost every day across Punjab. It should be the collective duty of all sections of society to contribute to containing the spread of the virus,” Kapoor said. Rajinder Goyal, the chairperson of the Dhobhi Bazaar Market Association, said the weekend curfew was in public interest. “The district administration has allowed opening shops for half the day. We will support it even if the government plans a complete lockdown. Public health should be the priority,” he said. Allow home delivery: Grocers A-Z Traders Kikkar Bazaar Association president Jeevan Kumar said grocers have suggested a complete lockdown but permission for home delivery. “Since social distancing is not possible in most conventional shops, we welcome the lockdown like last year where shopkeepers were allowed to deliver goods at customers’ doorsteps,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traders-ignore-farmers-call-to-defy-covid-curfew-in-bathinda-101620469927997.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of farmers' protest, Punjab CM orders strict enforcement of lockdown curbs||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the state DGP to strictly enforce the weekend lockdown and deal stringently with any violation, ahead of farmers' proposed protest against it.The chief minister authorised the deputy commissioners to impose new and harsher restrictions, as needed, but made it clear that no dilution of the existing curbs will be allowed.On the farmers' unions protest against the lockdown, Amarinder Singh asserted that the Kisan Morcha, a body of 32 farmers unions, cannot dictate terms to the state government.Thirty-two farmer unions from Punjab, which have been agitating against central farm laws, had on Wednesday said they will hold street protests against the coronavirus lockdown on May 8 and urged people to defy the restrictions.Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border protest site near Delhi, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal alleged the government has imposed a lockdown to hide its failure in handling the coronavirus situation and wants to weaken the farmers' movement.“The 32 farmer unions of Punjab have decided to protest against the lockdown on May 8 (in Punjab) where our field workers will come out on streets and ask people to open their shops and not follow the lockdown,” he had said.Like several other states reeling from the Covid surge, Punjab has imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like a weekend lockdown and night curfew till May 15.Amarinder Singh said if any shops are opened in violation of the restrictions, the owners will be prosecuted.The chief minister authorised the DCs to take any decision on opening of non-essential shops or private officers on rotation, after taking the local MLAs and other stakeholders into confidence.However, the DCs cannot impose any restrictions on inter-district movement, he said, underlining the need to allow free flow of people and goods on the highway network of the state.The new curbs, if any, and the opening of shops on rotation will come into effect from Monday, he said.Responding to DGP Dinkar Gupta's remarks that various districts wanted to adopt different models for phased opening of shops, the chief minister said the decision on working out the local systems rests with the DCs.Taking serious note of the spike in cases in the Malwa region of the state, the chief ministers asked Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to examine the possibility of re-employing the volunteers deployed last year and also to get rapid antigen tests done on all residents in the villages.He stressed the need to control the fatality rate, which was 2.1 per cent as of May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-farmers-protest-punjab-cm-orders-strict-enforcement-of-lockdown-curbs-101620432028556.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||SC notice to Punjab govt over Prashant Kishor’s appointment||The Supreme Court has issued notice of motion to Punjab government in connection with a petition challenging the appointment of political strategist Prashant Kishor as principal adviser (cabinet rank) to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta on Thursday directed the matter to be listed after summer vacations while hearing a plea filed by Labh Singh, a retired boxing coach and Satinder Singh, a Chandigarh-based advocate. Capt Amarinder had appointed Kishor as his principal adviser in March this year. The petitioners submitted that appointment of Kishor, who has been assisting different political parties, in the rank and status of a cabinet minister was a clear violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. The petitioner alleged that in Kishor’s appointment, no advertisement was issued, no interviews were conducted and no criteria was adopted. The petitioner said that the article 16(1) of the Constitution provides that there shall be equal opportunity to all citizens in employment or appointment to any office under the state. “Kishor will be enjoying pay, perks and all facilities from the state exchequer. His appointment is contrary to the provisions in the Constitution,” the petitioners added. “Had proper procedure been followed, more qualified and suitable persons could have been available. The appointment has been made in a clandestine and cloistered manner causing loss to millions of aspirants,” the petitioner said. The petitioner said the appointment smacks of mala fide as he was appointed election strategist by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee in 2017. “There is a reasonable apprehension in the mind of petitioners that Kishor has been appointed principal adviser just to make election strategies for the coming elections,” the petition said. In March, the Punjab and Haryana high court had dismissed a similar petition challenging Kishor’s appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-notice-to-punjab-govt-over-prashant-kishor-s-appointment-101620419943094.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Infections spike, positivity rate stagnates in Punjab||Despite an exponential rise in daily Covid-19 cases in Punjab in last few weeks, there is some respite as the state’s average positivity rate for the last week (April 30-May 5) has been static when compared with the previous week (April 25-30). The positivity rate in state for both the weeks remained at 11.7%, reveals the weekly analysis done by the health department. Positivity rate is the percentage of new infections in proportion to the total tests done. According to the analysis, 11 districts — SAS Nagar, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Rupnagar, Sangrur, Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar — witnessed a slight rise in the average weekly positivity rate, and an equal number of districts — Muktsar, Fazilka, Mansa, Faridkot, Moga, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur, Barnala, Taran Taran and Kapurthala — recorded a decline. Between April 30 and May 5, 10 districts registered a positivity rate of more than 10%, while in the preceding week (April 25-April 30), the number of districts in the said category was 12. Fazilka, Ferozepur, Mansa and Barnala districts witnessed the steepest decline in the positivity rate. No respite in SAS Nagar, Ludhiana The health department analysis revealed that SAS Nagar (Mohali) registered an increase of 1% in the average positivity rate, whereas the spike was 1.1% in the worst-hit Ludhiana district. The week that ended on May 6, SAS Nagar’s average positivity rate was found to be 24.9% as compared to 23.9% in the previous week. Ludhiana’s figure increased to 13.1% as compared to 12% in the previous week. Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the state registered a rise in cases but the average positivity rate for both weeks remained unchanged because the testing was also increased. “Our daily testing increased from around 55,000 in the last week of April to 68,000 on May 6. This means we are increasing testing to track the virus in order to curtail its spread,” said the nodal officer. The health department has termed the outcome as the first positive sign that the cases may stabilise in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/infections-spike-positivity-rate-stagnates-in-punjab-101620419823738.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Situation critical in Punjab, Haryana, UT; consider reorientation of O2 supply: HC||The Haryana high court Friday said that situation appears to be critical in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and directed the Centre to consider reorientation of the supply of oxygen from various plants in such a manner that the allocated quantity reaches the respective states before already allotted quota is exhausted to avoid loss of life. The order was passed by the high court after it was apprised by Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda that Punjab requires 300 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen whereas the Centre has allocated to it 227 MT, which is also not reaching the state. “Sufficient number of containers are not allotted to transport the same. Besides, Punjab needs 600 doses of Tocilizumab which is considered as life saving drug in critical cases,” Nanda had told court, adding that there is shortage of vaccinate too, especially in the age group of above 45 years of age. There is a shortfall of 32 lakh of doses. In total, 2.64 crores doses are required in Punjab for the age group of 18 to 45 years. The state has been given liberty to secure the same from two suppliers, Serum Institute, Pune and Bharat Biotech, on payment basis. This demand has also not been met despite the fact that orders have been placed after following due procedure, it had told the high court. Haryana on the other hand said that state is facing extreme shortage of oxygen despite the fact that it has a plant located at Panipat which is manufacturing 260 MT. The state is facing extreme shortage of oxygen despite the fact that it has a plant located at Panipat. Instead of allowing Haryana to get the supply from the plant at Panipat for the facility of transport as well as timely replenishment, it has been allocated far off places like Rourkela and Jamnagar etc. Resultant delay has led to several deaths in Haryana as well,” state’s advocate general, Baldev Raj Mahajan had told court. UT too said that it is now facing difficulty in procuring the required quantity of oxygen and Centre has been requested to increase the quota to 35 MT. Amicus Curaie Rupinder Khosla too had said that there is severe shortfall in supply of oxygen to both the states and UT. “The allocated quantity of oxygen is either not being supplied or has been allotted from very distant places, such as, Rourkela and Jamnagar etc., timeline for which is not conducive. By the time the arrangements are made, the states are virtually left starving of oxygen, resulting in many deaths,” he had submitted. Additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain assured the court that the matter would be considered immediately and appropriate steps shall be taken. However, he had submitted that the allocation of oxygen is being done equitably to all the states in the country. The bench observed that at this stage these states are not seeking enhancement of supply but timely delivery of oxygen allotted to them,well in time. It added that supply be reoriented in a manner that the allocated quantity reaches the respective states before already allotted quota is exhausted to avoid loss of life. “..the availability of oxygen at the earliest is imperative. In absence thereof, many patients experience breathlessness and other complications and resultant fatalities. People in trauma cannot be made to run here and there in hospitals to get oxygen cylinders,” it said adding that Centre needs to be over sensitive and in an overdrive to reach out to patients in need of medical care and assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/situation-critical-in-punjab-haryana-ut-consider-reorientation-of-o2-supply-hc-101620419163023.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Relaxed restrictions: Covid norms violated in Bathinda||A day after the district administration relaxed restrictions on the commercial activities, it was business as usual in the crowded markets of Bathinda city on Friday as residents and shopkeepers blatantly flouted Covid guidelines. Beopar mandal and shopkeeper associations had been opposing the state government’s directive to close all shops of non-essential services till May 15 to control the spread of coronavirus. Bathinda is among six worst-hit districts by the pandemic. With 1,042 new cases on Friday, the highest on a given day since the pandemic outbreak last year, Bathinda has now 6,202 active cases. The district also reported 19 Covid deaths on Friday, taking the number of fatalities to 492.On Thursday, a delegation of the local Congress leaders led by Jaijeet Johal, brother-in-law and head of finance minister Manpreet Badal’s political activities in Bathinda, met the deputy commissioner B Srinivasan. Johal favoured permission for traders dealing in non-essential services to resume their activities. Later, the administration allowed shops selling milk, grocery, fruits and vegetables to open between 6am and 10am. Rest of the shops and trades were allowed to function for five hours from 10am.However, all grocery shops were found open till 2pm and social distancing was not followed. Fruit and vegetable markets on Amrik Singh Road were also overcrowded.Bathinda-based public health activist Dr Vitull K Gupta said: “The administration should withdraw permission to non-essential shops. The administration should adopt stricter measures and act to minimise crowding to curtail infection spread,” he said.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the situation may be reviewed next week after weekend lockdown in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/relaxed-restrictions-covid-norms-violated-in-bathinda-101620418982861.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Curfew in Ludhiana from Monday; stricter curbs in Bathinda, Doaba belt||As Covid-19 cases and deaths continue to spike across the state, the Ludhiana administration on Friday decided to impose a 17-hour daily curfew in the district starting Monday. The decision comes after chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh authorised the deputy commissioners to impose new and harsher restrictions, as needed, to control the raging second wave of pandemic. According to the Ludhiana DC’s order, the curfew will come into effect from 12pm and go on till 5am. A seven-hour relaxation will be allowed from 5am to 12pm during which all shops, including those selling non-essential items, and private offices and establishments, will be allowed to open. To and fro inter-state movement or movement to other districts will be allowed on national and state highways. In Bathinda, authorities have decided to impose a curfew from Friday 3 pm till 5 am on Monday. The district administration also directed the banking sector to remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays. The Kapurthala district administration said curfew will be imposed from 5pm to 5am from May 8 to 15. In Jalandhar, the essential items shop will open between 7am to 3pm during weekdays. The administration has imposed curfew from 6pm to 5 am on weekdays along with weekend curfew. Curfew has been clamped in Hoshiarpur from 6pm to 5am on weekdays while the existing weekend curbs will continue. Milk vendors and shops selling vegetables will open all days between 5am to 9am. In Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, no person will be allowed to enter without a Covid-19 negative report or a vaccination certificate at least two week old. In SBS Nagar, the curfew will remain in force from 6pm to 5am besides weekend curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-curfew-in-ludhiana-from-monday-stricter-curbs-in-bathinda-doaba-belt-101620418924142.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||189 Punjab families who lost kin during farm protests given ₹5-lakh relief||The Punjab government has given ₹5 lakh compensation from the CM’s Relief Fund each to the families of 189 farmers who had died at protest sites during the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s three agri laws. According to BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), over 400 farmers from across the state had died during the protests.In Sangrur, the district authorities received 44 applications and 25 families were given ₹5 lakh each, while eight cases are pending. Eleven applications are in process, said an official.“We received 44 applications and all the cases are being cleared on priority. The applications are cleared after reports from tehsildar, police and agriculture departments come,” said Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir.Nazam Singh, a resident of Bhullar Heri whose father Lahb Singh died at Sangrur railway station, said he received a cheque of ₹3 lakh from Dhuri sub-divisional magistrate and the rest amount is pending. In Majha region comprising Amritsar, Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts, family members of 11 farmers who died protesting against the farm laws, have received the compensation, while seven cases are pending.In Amritsar, seven families had applied for the compensation. “Out of seven, three have been disposed of, while others are in process,” said assistant commissioner (general) Anamjot Kaur. There were six applications in Gudaspur district and all have been cleared. “There were only six such cases in our district and all have been given the compensation,” said Gurdaspur deputy commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq.Tarn Taran district revenue officer Arvinder Pal Singh said, “Out of five applications received so far, two have been disposed of. One application is pending at the state government level while two are pending at SDM’s level.” Pathankot district revenue officer (DRO) Arvind Parkash Verma said they didn’t receive any application for the compensation.However, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC)’s organisational secretary Sukhwinder Singh Sabran said, “In Tarn Taran district alone, nine farmers had died during the agitation. The administration should compensate all of the farmers as promised by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The government had also announced job for the next of victims’ kin. We will continue our struggle for the compensation and government job.” Farmer union leaders say a separate agitation will be launched demanding debt waiver for the farmers.The Bathinda administration provided the relief to 29 families whose family members had died at protest site on the Delhi borders. Secretary of district Red Cross society Sudarshan Kumar said two women had passed away at Tikri and Singhu borders.“Compensation is granted on the basis of information forwarded by the district administration. I do not have information if any claim was rejected by the authorities,” said Kumar.District president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ughrahan) Shingara Singh Mann said all claims forwarded by the union were settled. “But we are not satisfied with the amount of compensation. The BKU will soon launch an agitation, demanding a financial aid of ₹10 lakh,” he added.(With inputs from Anil Sharma in Amritsar and Vishal Joshi in Bathinda)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/189-punjab-families-who-lost-kin-during-farm-protests-given-5-lakh-relief-101620418742719.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Phagwara couple gets vaccination certificates without getting a jab||A Phagwara-based couple received Covid-19 inoculation certificates without getting the actual vaccine dose.Within hours of opening of the CoWIN portal for registration for the 18-plus category, Ram Naresh and his wife Priti, both aged 29, got the slot online at 2.15pm on Thursday and were asked to go to Hoshiarpur’s Shergarh or Sahri village to get the jab between 3pm to 6pm the same day. The couple rushed to Shergarh but were told by villagers that no vaccination drive was on. When they reached Sahri around 4pm, the vaccination centre was closed. They drove to the civil hospital to lodge a complaint with the health officials but before they could do that, they received provisional certificates on their cellphones saying that they had been successfully vaccinated at Sahri village. The QR-based certificates carried the name of the staff that vaccinated them and also mentioned the batch number of the dose.“It came as a shock. We needed the vaccine as a safeguard against coronavirus, not for completing any formality. We knew that we will face issues in getting a second jab so we argued with the authorities to administer us the dose of the same batch, which was mentioned in the certificate. We were asked to come the next day. On Friday, after a lot of dilly dallying, the staff at the civil hospital vaccination centre administered us the first dose,” said Ram Naresh.Civil surgeon Ranjit Singh said that inconvenience was caused due to some technical glitch in the online app. “This is first of its kind complaint, but otherwise, beneficiaries have been coming from far-off places to get vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/phagwara-couple-gets-vaccination-certificates-without-getting-a-jab-101620418502776.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt sets up new SIT to probe 2015 Kotkapura police firing||Acting on the orders of the Punjab and Haryana high Court, the Punjab government on Friday constituted a new three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. The SIT --- headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav, who will be assisted by Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh --- will complete the investigation within six months, the government said. The high court on April 9 had quashed a report by an earlier Punjab Police SIT, headed by IG (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the Kotkapura firing. Police had opened fire at people protesting over the alleged desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Bargari village of Faridkot district. Police had also opened fire at a similar demonstration in Behbal Kalan, also in Faridkot, where two people were killed. A separate probe is underway in that case. The ruling Congress in Punjab has constantly targeted the Shiromani Akali Dal, which was in power then in the state, over the two incidents. The new SIT will investigate the two FIRs registered on October 14, 2015, and August 7, 2018, in connection with the Kotkapura incident. The state home department order said the new SIT would ensure “meticulous compliance” with the directions of the high court stipulating that there would be no interference from any quarter, internal or external, in the investigation. The SIT shall work jointly and all its members would put their signatures on all the proceedings of the investigation and the final report. The SIT would not report to any state executive or police authority regarding the investigation and would report only to the magistrate concerned, it said. The members of SIT have also been directed not to leak any part of the investigation and refrain from interacting with the media on the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-sets-up-new-sit-to-probe-2015-kotkapura-police-firing-101620418442732.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab, 18+ priority groups to get jabs from Monday||The third and the largest phase of vaccination, under which beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group will be given jabs against coronavirus, will begin in Punjab on Monday.Chairing a review meeting, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday asked officials to be ready to vaccinate priority groups in the 18-45 age category from Monday as the state is expected to receive one lakh doses of coronavirus vaccine from the Serum Institute of India (SII) by weekend.The state government has identified construction workers, teachers, government employees and those with co-morbidities as high-risk individuals in the 18-45 age group for priority vaccination. Vaccination of co-morbid categories will be planned by deputy commissioners and only advance registration and slotting of vaccination site will be allowed. The state government had ordered 30 lakh vaccine doses from the SII for the Phase 3 vaccination and the Centre has allocated 3.3 lakh doses to Punjab for May. 1,550 18+ beneficiaries inoculated Over 35 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group have registered in the state on the CoWIN app since April 28 for taking the vaccine shot in the third phase of vaccination, but the drive will start for only co-morbid people, constriction workers, teachers and government employees.The Punjab government had deferred the third phase of the vaccination drive in government vaccination centres, which was scheduled to start from May 1 as was announced by the central government, citing “‘shortage of doses”.Meanwhile, 1,550 people in this age group have already got vaccinated in private hospitals, data available with the health department revealed. “Till now, over 35 lakh beneficiaries have registered for the vaccination in 18+ category but they will have to wait for few more days to get the jabs as the drive will start with the limited vaccine stock. We are expecting second batch of 2 lakh Covishield doses from the SII next week,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19.Vaccine shortage hits drive The state health department says that the erratic supply of vaccine doses from the Centre has hit the inoculation drive in Punjab, resulting in spread of the infection.In last seven days, state could administer the first dose of vaccine to only 1,44,779 beneficiaries (health care workers, frontline warriors and 45+ age group), with average of only 20,683 people per day. During the period, 79,500 people got the second dose of vaccine.“The vaccination shortage has badly hit the drive in Punjab as we are unable to administer jabs to even registered beneficiaries. After receiving 1.5 lakh doses on Thursday, we were left with just 2 lakh doses on Friday morning while the stock was used on Friday’s drive too. Also, 35 lakh people in 18+ category are also waiting for the doses in absence of the stock”, Dr Bhaskar said.(With inputs from Mandeep Narula)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-punjab-18-priority-groups-to-get-jabs-from-monday-101620418142712.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University launches e-library, students welcome move||Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Friday launched e-library services for the registered users of the university.The facility will be provided to registered users of the university campus, all regional centres and faculty of all affiliated colleges. Kumar, in his address, said that faculty, researchers and students of PU can now access thousands of e-journals, e-books and databases from their homes.Jivesh Bansal, university librarian, said, “Through the PU e-library, all the subscribed e-resources will be provided. It aggregates all the library collections, open access resources, multimedia learning content and electronic document repositories under one platform. This facility can be accessed on any device from anywhere.”The platform will also provide a mobile e-library app (for both Android and iOS), which is a multi-format, content delivery app.National Students Union of India (NSUI), PU, in a statement welcomed the university’s move.National Students Union of India (NSUI), PU, in a statement welcomed the university’s move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-launches-e-library-students-welcome-move-101620417903010.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||17 trees uprooted as rains, gusty winds lash Chandigarh||Rain showers of 19mm, accompanied by winds blowing at speeds up to 80 kilometre/hour, resulted in over 17 trees getting uprooted in the city on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.As per data compiled by the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), the trees were uprooted in Sectors 7,8, 19, 22, 23, 24, 38, 27, 30, Industrial Area Phase 2, Manimajra and Dadumajra. No injuries or major loss to property was reported. While Friday remained sunny, there are chances of light rain in the city on Sunday, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. “Another set of Western Disturbances is likely in the coming week, so more spells of rain can be expected. After showers on Sunday, cloudy weather is expected on Monday. The maximum temperature will remain on the lower side during this duration.”Maximum temperature of the city went down from 36.1°C on Thursday to 34.2°C on Friday, while minimum temperature dipped from 22.8°C to 21°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 36°C and 37°C while minimum temperature will remain between 21°C and 22°C. Power supply affected in ZirakpurPower was also disrupted in Zirakpur, late on Thursday evening, and most of the area was plunged into darkness. In some areas, electricity was restored after 12 hours.Khushwinder Singh, executive engineer of Zirakpur, said power was disrupted after some trees fell on electric wires due to gusty winds, but it was restored in most parts by 1am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/17-trees-uprooted-as-rains-gusty-winds-lash-chandigarh-101620417846754.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Deal with farmers anti-lockdown call strictly: Capt to DGP||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday directed director general of police Dinkar Gupta to strictly enforce the weekend lockdown and deal stringently with any violation, ahead of farmers’ proposed protest against it.Chairing a review meeting on Covid situation, Amarinder authorised the deputy commissioners to impose new and harsher restrictions, as needed, within their respective districts, but made it clear that no dilution of the existing curbs would be allowed. He directed the DGP to strictly enforce the weekend lockdown and deal stringently with any violations in view of the Kisan Sangharsh Morcha’s anti-lockdown agitation on Saturday. Asserting that the Kisan Morcha, an amalgamation of 32 kisan unions, cannot dictate terms to the state government, Amarinder warned of strict prosecution in case of violation of any restrictions. He said if any shops are opened in violation of the restrictions, the owners will be prosecuted. Taking serious note of the spike in cases in Malwa region, the CM asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to examine the possibility of re-employing the volunteers deployed last year and also to get rapid antigen tests done on all residents in the villages. He stressed the need to control the CFR, which stood at 2.1% as of May 6. Health Secretary Hussan Lal said the positivity rate in the state had gone up to 13.5% on Thursday, when the state reportedly nearly 9,000 cases. The CM directed the chief secretary to explore utilisation of some component of the state’s World Bank loan for purchase of 10,000 Oxygen concentrators, along with tankers and O2 plants as well as vaccines. He said besides the TATA Group, which was sending 500 oxygen concentrators, 200 concentrators were being sent by the Tata Memorial Hospital too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deal-with-farmers-anti-lockdown-call-strictly-capt-to-dgp-101620417785876.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid death toll crosses 10,000 mark||Punjab’s Covid death toll crossed the 10,000-mark, while 8,367 fresh cases took the tally to 4,24,647, according to a bulletin released by the state government.A maximum of 22 deaths were reported in Barnala, 20 in Ludhiana, 19 in Bathinda 13 in Patiala, 10 in Jalandhar, 9 in Mohali, 8 in Ferozepur, 7 each in Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur. With 165 more fatalities on Friday, the death toll in the state stands at 10,144.Ludhiana tops the list with 1,509 deaths so far, followed by 1,144 in Jalandhar, 1,079 in Amritsar, 871 in Patiala, 771 in Hoshiarpur, 550 in Gurdaspur, 429 in Sangrur. Ludhiana registered the highest number of cases on Friday at 1,465, Bathinda 1,027, Mohali 675, Patiala 692, Amritsar 502, Fazilka and Pathankot 408 each, Muktsar 384, Mansa 316, Sangrur 307, Ferozepur 306 and Hoshiarpur 277. The number of active cases rose to 69,724 from 66,568 on Thursday, the bulletin said. A total of 4,976 coronavirus patients were discharged, taking the number of cured persons to 3,44,779.There are 277 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 8,283 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.As many as 76,42,667 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-covid-death-toll-crosses-10-000-mark-101620417362749.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospitals struggle to put Covid crisis to bed||Tenth worst-affected place in the country with a Covid positivity rate of 26.7%, Chandigarh continued to grapple with shortage of critical care beds for the third straight day on Friday.As many as 91% of the ICU beds available at various government and private health facilities in the city remain occupied, leaving only 13 ventilators available.According to official data, as of Friday evening, no ICU bed was vacant at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16; Dedicated Covid Hospital in Sector 48, and three of the seven private hospitals offering Covid care. Those available at other hospitals are mostly reserved for paediatric, surgical and other critical patients.“As soon as a ventilator bed gets vacant, there are 10 more patients waiting in line. But, every patient is being attended to through alternative measures. No one is being turned away,” said Dr Ajay Singh, assistant professor of anaesthesiology department, who is managing a Covid ICU in PGIMER.To tackle the rising patient load, the hospital has converted some areas in the emergency block into Covid wards. “More beds are being set up wherever oxygen points are available. Not all patients may get the required facilities, but oxygen is being provided in non-ICU areas as well,” said Dr GD Puri, head of the Covid management panel at PGIMER.At GMCH-32, where just one ICU bed is left vacant, director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur said they were working on adding 20 ICU beds, of which six were made available on Friday. Besides, more non-Covid ICUs will be utilised for Covid patients, she said.Dr Sanjeev Palta, nodal officer of ICU management at the hospital, said, “We are constantly monitoring patients to prevent their condition from worsening. If beds run out, alternative arrangements are quickly made.”Worrisome positivity rateOn Friday, the Union health ministry expressed concern over Chandigarh’s high positivity rate, while listing it among 24 states and UTs with a figure higher than 15%. Goa leads the chart at 48%.However, the ministry also observed that the cases were plateauing in the city, with no significant spike in the recent past. “Analysis of the seven-day average shows daily cases have remained on one level in Chandigarh,” a ministry’s representative said at a media briefing. There were 15 other states and UTs with similar trends.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said for the past two weeks, the cases had remained in the 700 to 900 bracket, neither showing a major spike nor drop, which is a positive indication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hospitals-struggle-to-put-covid-crisis-to-bed-101620417243348.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin woman jailed in Singapore for not wearing mask||A 41-year-old Indian-origin woman in Singapore was on Friday sentenced to two weeks’ jail and a fine of 2,000 dollars (around ₹1 lakh) for not wearing a mask while she was outside her residence, according to a media report.Paramjeet Kaur pleaded guilty to one charge each for failing to wear a mask over her nose and mouth and for causing public nuisance, The Straits Times reported. Five other charges were taken into consideration by district judge Ronald Gwee during sentencing.Three of these were for breaching Covid-19 regulations while the other two were for failing to report her change of home address and for refusing to sign her statement at a police station, the report said.Kaur was sentenced to two weeks’ jail and a fine of 2,000 Singapore dollars, it said. The judge backdated Kaur’s jail term to May 5 last year, when she was remanded in the Institute of Mental Health for two weeks.For failing to wear a mask over the nose and mouth, a first-time offender can be jailed for up to six months, or fined up to 10,000 Singaporean dollars or both. Repeat offenders can be jailed for up to a year, or fined up to 20,000 Singaporean dollars or both. Kaur made headlines in May last year after she was caught on video not wearing a mask and engaging in a heated argument with passers-by at Shunfu Mart near Upper Thomson Road. In the video clip, which went viral, she claimed that she was “sovereign”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-woman-jailed-in-singapore-for-not-wearing-mask-101620417063249.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Surjit Baba elected Jaitu municipal president||The election for the office-bearers of Jaitu municipal council was held amid high drama on Friday, with a faction of Congress councillors along with supporters creating ruckus after the name of the president was announced from an ‘envelope’. Congress’ Surjit Singh Baba was elected Jaitu municipal president. Later, one faction of Congress councillors backed by member of parliament Mohammad Sadiq objected to the election process and announced councillor Suman Devi as president. Both the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party councillors came in support of two factions accordingly. During the meeting, name of Surjit Singh Baba was proposed for the post of president, while Suman Devi was nominated as senior vice-president and Jatinder Kamal as vice-president. Sources said all nine Congress councillors first agreed to the proposal in the meeting, but later one faction of Congress councillors led by Suman objected to the election process terming it ‘unconstitutional’ and started protesting outside. MP Sadiq’s son-in-law, Suraj Bhardwaj said that out of the total 17 councillors, Suman had the support of 11. Rejecting the election of Baba, he announced Suman Devi president and Rajni Rani as vice-president. The Congress had won nine out of the 17 seats in the civic body elections held in February.Narinderpal Singh is Faridkot municipal chief Narinderpal Singh was unanimously elected the president of the Faridkot municipal council for a five-year term on Friday. The election was held during the first meeting of the newly elected members of the House, amid a boycott by the SAD councillors. Rupinder Kaur Brar was elected senior vice-president and Harmeet Gandhi as vice-president.The Congress had won 16 out of the 25 seats in the civic body elections held in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/surjit-baba-elected-jaitu-municipal-president-101620416885651.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 Punjab-origin youngsters held in Canada for trying to extort money||Three Punjab-origin youths have been arrested in Canada for allegedly trying to extort money from an 80-year-old in the name of the country’s revenue agency.Taranveer Singh, 19, Ranveer Singh, 19, and Chamanjyot Singh, 21, from Brampton were charged with extortion, conspiracy to commit an indictable offence and possession of property obtained by crime.“On Monday, May 3, the victim received a call from a suspect claiming to be from the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA). The victim was instructed to attend a bank and withdraw USD 10,000 then send the money by courier to a Brampton address,” York Regional Police said in a statement.The victim was told she would be arrested if she did not pay. Police monitored the delivery and when a man arrived to pick up the package of money he was taken into custody.A follow-up investigation found that others were involved and additional arrests were made. All the money was recovered and returned to the woman, police said.The three men arrested are scheduled to appear before the Ontario Court of Justice in Newmarket on June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-punjab-origin-youngsters-held-in-canada-for-trying-to-extort-money-101620416884547.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dry fruits worth crores perish in Amritsar factory fire||A massive fire broke out in a dry fruit packaging factory in Ananad Vihar on Chabhal Road here on Friday wherein items worth crores perished. Nearly 300 labourers were working in the factory when the fire had broken, however no casualty or injury was reported. Eight fire tenders took at least eight hours to douse the blaze that erupted due to a short-circuit. The factory belongs to Amritsar’s famous trader BK Bajaj, who deals in import and export of dry fruits, besides their processing and packaging.“We got information that a fire has broken in the factory. I, along with a heavy police force, reached the spot and started the rescue operation. Our team successfully rescued nearly 300 labourers working in the factory. No casualty or injury was reported in the incident,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP-Central) Parvesh Chopra. He said almost entire factory was reduced to ashes within hours. “We have yet not got any statement from the factory owners about the loss, but it can run into crores. There were many imported machineries in the factory that were gutted,” he added. Member of Parliament (MP) Gurjit Singh Aujla and cabinet minister OP Soni also visited the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dry-fruits-worth-crores-perish-in-amritsar-factory-fire-101620416883610.html
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab, govt medical colleges’ labs flooded with swab samples||With the sudden spike in cases of coronavirus across the state, many major cities are suffering from unprecedented delays in RT-PCR test results as the Covid testing facilities of three government medical colleges (GMCs) at Faridkot, Amritsar and Patiala are overburdened and as a result, there is a big pileup of pending tests. As per the record, testing labs at GMCs are testing around 29,000 RT-PCR samples per day and the results are taking more than three days to be declared. Faridkot epidemiologist Dr Harjot Kaur said the swab samples sent for RT-PCR tests to GGSMCH lab are taking three days to be tested. “The delay in results causes further threat of spread as contact tracing only starts after receiving a positive report. We have raised this issue with Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur. The RT-PCR results should be available within 24 hours so that the isolation and contact tracing process could be started as soon as possible,” she added. Swab sample of patients from nine districts are sent to Faridkot medical college lab RT-PCR testing. While sample load has increased with the surge in cases, GGSMCH lab is having trouble giving RT-PCR test results early as 12 of its staff members, including six lab technicians and a research scientist, have tested positive. Rechecking of positive samples is also another reason for the delay. Dr Rajeev Sharma, GGSMCH principal, said that presently, the medical college lab is giving around 8,000-9,000 RT-PCR results everyday, which is less than the number of samples they are receiving every day right now. “We also retest the positive samples to double-check, so there is no error. Due to this, there is some delay in giving results, but we are catching up on the pendency,” he added. A Jalandhar resident said after being tested positive in a rapid antigen test, she also sent a sample for RT-PCR test. “I was informed that my sample was sent to Faridkot medical college, but even after three days, I have not received the test result report,” she added. Jaskaran Singh from Amritsar said, “My wife and I experienced mild symptoms on May 4, after which we decided to undergo RT-PCR tests. It has been four days since we have given swab samples, but my wife’s test report is still pending, whereas I was tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Despite being symptomatic, we had to wait for four days for the reports and medication.” Dr Lavina, Covid testing lab in-charge of GMC, Amritsar, said, “The labs are overburdened with samples as cases are rapidly increasing in the state. We are testing around 9,000 samples daily while the positivity remains between 10-15%. We are trying to give reports to the people as early as possible.” Dr Rupinder Bakshi, in-charge of GMC, Patiala lab, said, “Since we are experiencing the highest-ever demand for Covid-19 testing due to the second wave of the pandemic, we are trying to do our best to give results on time. Presently, we are testing around 12,000 samples per day and giving results in 24 hours.” Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said, “We are receiving RT-PCR results of the district within 24 hours. But there is a delay in results of samples coming from other districts due to transportation and other reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-punjab-govt-medical-colleges-labs-flooded-with-swab-samples-101620416882549.html
