09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Many citizens under 45 already inoculated in Punjab||Even as the Punjab government will start the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-plus category on Monday, Hindustan Times has found that many citizens under the age of 45 years have already been inoculated owing to loopholes in the registration process. The nationwide drive had started on January 16 for health care workers and was later extended to other frontline workers, senior citizens and people in the age group of 45-59. However, this correspondent has met several people who come in neither of these categories but have been inoculated by the health authorities, apparently under pressure to increase the number of administered doses. A 27-year-old man, who is working as an electrician at a private company in Mohali, got the jab around three weeks ago when a team of doctors allegedly asked all employees of the firm to get vaccinated irrespective of their age. “Nobody asked us about our age, though we did show the Aadhaar card,” he said. A 38-year-old woman, who is working as an executive in a private construction firm in Mohali, was vaccinated along with all her colleagues at another such special camp organised at her office. “We were told that the labour department has asked the entire office to get vaccinated,” she said. Names of such people are not being published to conceal their identity, though HT is in possession of copies of their vaccination certificates for the first dose. Meanwhile, many people also used their contacts to get vaccinated out of turn. A 32-year-old agriculturalist from Jalandhar got inoculated as he “knew someone” at a local private hospital. A 20-year-old college student from Kharar was vaccinated earlier this month, while a 19-year-old girl is set to get the second dose this week. ‘Leading to shortage for intended beneficiaries’On April 3, on receiving reports about people getting jabbed after posing as frontline workers, the Centre had changed the registration criterion on the CoWIN portal, making it mandatory to have the employer’s certificate stating that a person under the age of 45 is on frontline Covid-related duties. However, in Punjab, the practice continued on a large scale even till Saturday, as confirmed by both beneficiaries and officials.While some officials involved in the drive consider there is nothing wrong in it, many attributed this practice to the vaccine shortage for intended beneficiaries. “Our second shot of Covishield is due for the past seven days, but we have been told to wait because of shortage of supply,” a teacher from Kapurthala said. A government doctor involved in the drive in Patiala admitted that because of poor response from targeted beneficiaries in the earlier stages of the drive, other people were given the shots.“One vial contains 10 doses, and in the beginning, there were times when only five to six people turned up at the vaccination centre. Wasn’t it wise to utilise the rest of the doses instead of letting them go waste?” said the doctor, claiming that the footfall at various centres has gone up only in the past 10 days. Dr GB Singh, director, health and family welfare, said: “I won’t categorically deny that a few persons posing as frontline workers managed to get the jab. However, there is no shortage of vaccine for the second shot, as we have reserved 70% of the doses for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/many-citizens-under-45-already-inoculated-in-punjab-101620583335016.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Badals, not Capt govt, ruling Punjab: Sidhu||A day after cornering the Punjab chief minister over the formation of a new special investigation team to probe the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday further sharpened his attack against the government, alleging that there is a “consensus” among legislators that the state is being run by the “Badals” instead of their own party.Referring to the Badals, who led the previous Akali-BJP government in the state, the Amritsar East MLA alleged that the state bureaucracy and police were “acting” as per their “wishes”.“Consensus among MLAs, Badal Sarkar is ruling in lieu of Congress Govt ... Bureaucracy and Police act as per wishes of Badal Family, more often than listening to our MLAs and Party workers. Govt run not for welfare of the People, but for continuing control of Mafia Raj (sic),” alleged Sidhu in a Tweet post on Sunday.The former minister has been critical of his own government ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed a special investigation team (SIT) probe report into the police firing incident, which had taken place in Faridkot district during a protest against the desecration of a religious text and left two men dead. On Saturday, Sidhu had said the government was forced to accept the HC order due to Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s “incompetence”, and claimed that giving six months to the new SIT to compete the probe will further “extend the delay” in delivering justice to the victims.Responding to his unrelenting attack, the Punjab CM had earlier called the Sidhu’s outbursts “total indiscipline”, suggesting that he may be leaving for the Aam Aadmi Party.The Congress had in the run-up to the 2017 assembly polls promised to take strict action against those guilty in the firing case. The new three-member SIT formed on Friday is headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badals-not-capt-govt-ruling-punjab-sidhu-101620568093914.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-sarpanch, two sons and daughter die of Covid in Punjab||Coronavirus claimed the lives of an ex-sarpanch of Takipur village in Punjab’s Sangrur district, his two sons and a daughter within a week. Tarlok Singh, 83, and his sons Harpal Singh, 46, and Jaspal Singh, 54, breathed their last in hospital on May 2, 7 and 8, respectively. Meanwhile, Tarlok’s daughter Sukhjit Kaur succumbed to the virus at her in-laws’ house on May 4.“The ex-sarpanch and his two sons were admitted to hospitals in Patiala after testing positive for Covid-19. They died within a short period,” said Dr Anju Singla, senior medical officer, Longowal government hospital. “We have started random sampling in the village, and will escalate the vaccination drive too.”Situated 30 kilometres from Sangrur town, Takipur village is in shock and panic after hearing about the tragedy. “This news has come as a big shock to all of us,” said village sarpanch Dharminder Singh. “The family is quite well-to-do and owns around 100 acres of land.” While Tarlok’s wife had died a few years ago, Jaspal is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter while Harpal is survived by his wife and two sons. Harpal had permanent residency of Italy, but was staying in India for the past three years, said the sarpanch. Jaspal’s daughter lives in Canada. All other family members who are in the village have tested negative for the virus. “I appeal to the residents not to come out unnecessarily. They should wear masks and avoid assembling at common places of the village,” said the sarpanch.Sangrur district on Sunday reported 12 deaths and 166 new Covid-19 cases. Among those dead is the wife of Sangrur civil hospital’s senior medical officer Dr Baljit Singh, who too has tested positive. Amid an unprecedented surge, the number of active cases stands at 1,861.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exsarpanch-two-sons-and-daughter-die-of-covid-in-punjab-101620566713878.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||6 nitrogen plants in Punjab to converted into oxygen units by May 30||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has identified six nitrogen producing plants in the state which will be converted into oxygen units. Three units are located in Dera Bassi and one each in Barnala, Nangal, and Tonsa and they will relocated to different hospitals in the state by May 30. . “We are working out the modalities with the owners of these privately owned (nitrogen) plants,” said PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg, adding that Prime Minister’s Office is coordinating with the board to make these plants operational at the earliest. Through these units, the state government is targeting daily production of 5MT, enough to fill 500 cylinders of 10-litre capacity. As many as 45 such plants have been identified countrywide for conversion and the Central Pollution Control Board is coordinating to import equipment from Germany. Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) has identified three hospitals in Mohali, one each in Barnala, Nawanshahr and Nangal where these plants will be set up. All these hospitals are privately owned. According to principal secretary industries and commerce, Alok Shekhar, these plants should ideally be ready in two to three weeks. As per the plan, these plants will supply oxygen to the hospitals concerned and also fill cylinders for supply to other hospitals. The state’s daily requirement for oxygen is 280MT. “These plants will add negligible amount of life-saving oxygen, but a beginning has been made. We are also seeking capacity addition from the Centre,” said an officer in PHSC. There are 19 oxygen plants in the state out of which three are in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Faridkot, and remaining 16 of varying capacities in other parts of the state. Oxygen plant a thrust area The Punjab government has declared oxygen production a thrust area as per the business development policy of 2017. “Our government has given approval for including oxygen production a thrust area for the state and we are giving a slew of sops for these units,” said Alok Shekhar. The promoters of these plants will get a waiver in GST, property tax, besides tax exemption in external development charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6-nitrogen-plants-in-punjab-to-converted-into-oxygen-units-by-may-30-101620506350169.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing case: Fix shorter timeframe for probe, says Bajwa||Congress’ Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Friday demanded that the state government should pass an order to fix a shorter timeframe for the newly constituted SIT to probe the Kotkapura firing case. “The Punjab and Haryana High court, on whose directions this SIT has been constituted, gave a timeframe of six months in its order, which means that the investigation should be concluded before that. There is no restriction on the state government to fix a timeframe of less than six months i.e. one month,” Bajwa said in a statement. The senior Congress leader said the new SIT chief and its members should be relieved of their present postings so they can focus on the Kotkapura case. “All these officers are posted in different districts and therefore, an expeditious investigation is not possible. They would also be neglecting their duties pertaining to their present postings. Hence, these officers should be transferred out from their present postings temporarily and be posted at Faridkot only as members of the SIT to expeditiously probe the case,” said Bajwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-case-fix-shorter-timeframe-for-probe-says-bajwa-101620505630490.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Army sets up Covid hospitals in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||In a statement, the Western Command said that apart from contributing 108 doctors, 14 nursing officers and 205 paramedics in various hospitals set up by the DRDO, it is setting up 100-bed Covid hospitals in Chandigarh, Patiala and Faridabad, where patients with mild to moderate symptoms can be treated. The three hospitals are to be inaugurated and opened for public by May 10, as per the statement.In a recent virtual meet with the Chief of Western Command Lt Gen RP Singh, Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh had shared his concerns over the rising infections in major cities of Punjab and sought the Western Command’s assistance to manage the crisis. Following the request of the chief minister of Punjab and other states, the Western Command, which has footprints in Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Delhi, started the process of setting up various Covid-related facilities.As per the Western Command’s statement, its paramedics are being re-oriented towards Covid care. Presently, 33 paramedics are deployed at Government Rajendra Hospital, Patiala, SVBP Hospital at Delhi and another 100 paramedics are to be deployed shortly at various locations. To tide over the shortage of oxygen in the region, a dedicated team of Army electronics and mechanical engineers are working to resuscitate the oxygen plant under Bhakra Beas Management at Nangal, the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-sets-up-one-hospital-each-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-for-covid-treatment-101620505270484.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||No question of sabotaging farmers’ agitation: Capt||Chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday reiterated that no violation of the weekend lockdown or other restrictions would be allowed at any cost, given the current grim situation in the state, and that there was no question of sabotaging the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, which his own government was vehemently opposed to. “There are lives at stake, saving them is our priority. It is the responsibility of every Punjabi to save them,” said the CM while urging BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and BKU (Ekta Dakaounda) leaders to not twist his Friday’s comments on the issue. Amid the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s call to oppose the weekend lockdown, the CM had on Friday asked the DGP to strictly enforce all weekend restrictions and not allow any violation at any cost. Nobody can be allowed to play with the lives of the people, he reiterated on Saturday. “Leaders of the two organisations had misinterpreted my statement and questioned my intentions towards the ongoing farmers’ stir,” said the CM, adding, “How can my government go against the interests of the farmers when it was the first in the country to move the amendment laws in the Vidhan Sabha to annul the draconian laws?” Appealing to the farmers to extend support and cooperation to the state government in its endeavour to combat the Covid crisis, Amarinder said the lives and safety of the people of Punjab were of paramount importance to his government. He added that the state government would continue to stand with the farmers in their fight against the central laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-question-of-sabotaging-farmers-agitation-capt-101620504370050.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder seeks Radha Soami Satsang’s help in fight against Covid||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday sought the support of Radha Soami Satsang Beas in the state’s fight against Covid-19, directing all deputy commissioners to coordinate with authorised representatives of the sect in this regard. In a letter to sect chief Gurinder Singh Dhillon, the CM urged him to make all branches available with the Radha Soami Satsang Beas for the treatment of Covid patients, along with attendants deputed for the purpose. He also requested Dhillon to extend help in the form of medicines and other relief material for Covid-affected persons across the state. While the state government was making efforts to ensure best possible medical care for Covid patients, the constantly spiralling cases warranted unstinted support from religious institutions, NGOs and other such organisations, the CM said. The CM said experts had warned that the next wave would be even more dangerous, which necessitated the collective efforts of all in the battle against coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-seeks-radha-soami-satsang-s-help-in-fight-against-covid-101620504130088.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s daily cases cross 9,000-mark||For the first time since the virus outbreak, the caseload crossed the 9,000-mark in Punjab on Saturday, recording 9,100 fresh cases. With this, the Covid tally has soared to 4,33,689 in the state. The state also reported 171 Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 10,315, according to a bulletin released by the state government. A maximum of 19 deaths were witnessed in Ludhiana followed by 17 each in Muktsar and Bathinda, 13 in Amrtisar, 11 each in Jalandhar and Sangrur, 10 in Mohali and nine in Fazilka. As per the media bulletin, 1,223 fresh cases were detected in Ludhiana, 1,168 in Mohali, 672 in Jalandhar, 620 in Patiala, 610 in Amritsar, 706 in Bathinda, 528 in Fazilka, 462 in Pathankot and 416 in Muktsar. Mohali recorded the highest positivity rate where 28.91% samples were found positive. Other districts with high positivity rate include Rupnagar 24.41%, Mansa 21.50%, Muktsar 20.97%, Fazilka 20.26% and Bathinda 19.87%. So far, the infection has killed 10,315 people in the state, where the number of active cases stands at 71,948.A total of 9,086 persons are on oxygen support and 288 on ventilator support. A total of 77,280 people were administered on Saturday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-daily-cases-cross-9000mark-101620503710118.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||16-year-old girl eloping to Amritsar with cousin rescued at Ludhiana railway station||A 16-year-old Bathinda girl, who was allegedly eloping to Amritsar with her cousin, was rescued at the Ludhiana railway station on Friday evening.The teen and her 21-year-old cousin were intercepted by a team of the Childine helpline deputed at the station, following which the Bathinda police were informed.“Both the girl and the man belong to Bathinda. Presenting themselves as siblings, they approached the Childline team for help in getting tickets for Amritsar. The girl tried to mislead the team saying she was 19 years old,” said Kulwinder Singh Dangon, co-ordinator, Childline, Ludhiana railway station.But, the team was able to verify her real age as 16 and established the man accompanying her was her maternal uncle’s son. Their parents and the police in Bathinda were informed, Dangon added.As the girl was not feeling safe in returning home with her parents, the child welfare committee sent her to the Children’s Home at Dham Talwandi Khurd, while her cousin was handed over to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16yearold-girl-eloping-to-amritsar-with-cousin-rescued-at-ludhiana-railway-station-101620502269927.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn probing ‘excess’ oxygen use by private hospital||The Chandigarh administration has initiated an inquiry against a private Covid hospital for consuming an “abnormal” quantity of oxygen, which is being supplied to it from the centrally-allocated quota of 20 metric tonnes (MT). Officials said on Saturday that an inquiry has been marked against Eden Hospital in Industrial Area, Phase 2, which has been using 400 oxygen cylinders everyday.They added that previously, a private hospital had been found using 400 cylinder per day, while another hospital of around the same capacity was using about 90 cylinders.However, Dr Sanjiv Bansal, the hospital’s owner, denies any foul play and said that oxygen is being utilised according to the needs of patients.“The oxygen consumption is high, as some Covid patients need a very large quantity of it. Some suffer from Happy Hypoxia, in which oxygen saturation drops to 50 or 60, without the patient being aware of it. In such cases, immediate hospitalisation and high quantity of oxygen is needed. Why will our hospital waste such an important resource?,” he added. A UT spokesperson said, “It has been decided that a detailed inquiry will be carried out and action will be taken against the hospital authorities as per the findings of the probe.”Senior doctors say that some reasons for oxygen wastage could be leakage in pipelines and outlets, valves left open and oxygen masks not fitted property over the face of the patients.“The consumption of each private hospital was determined with regard to capacity and beds reserved for Covid patients. Even senior doctors from the government hospitals could not find out the possible reason for such high consumption by the hospital. It seems almost impossible to consume such a quantity, even if all the patients were on ventilators,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-probing-excess-oxygen-use-by-private-hospital-101620502209904.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Firecrackers, arms banned at marriage events in Ludhiana||Issuing a slew of bans on Saturday, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal prohibited bursting of firecrackers and carrying of weapons at marriage events.Agrawal said bursting of crackers on roads disturbed traffic flow and sometimes caused mishaps too. He ordered marriage palace owners to make sure that no guest carried weapons on their premises. If a firing incident is reported, action will also be taken against the marriage palace owner.To avoid disturbance at night, loud music and DJ has been banned between 10pm and 6am. Permission is needed to use loudspeakers during this period, as loud music at night disturbed the elderly and people suffering some illness, as well as animals and birds.Prior approval from the ministry of home affairs is required for using drone cameras 15 days before any event. The police chief has already written to all gazetted officers and station house officers (SHOs) to keep a check on use of drones and book the violators.CCTV cameras, security guardsThe commissioner of police ordered owners of petrol pumps, LPG gas agencies, marriage palaces and money exchange shops to install CCTV cameras on their premises within 30 days, as these establishments can be targeted for robbery.Banks have been directed to depute security guards at ATMs from 8pm to 6am daily and unmanned kiosks will not be allowed to operate.Parking lot contractors and their employees need to maintain a record of visitors and report anyone not coming to pick their vehicle for a week. Agrawal said thieves often used to hide stolen vehicles at parking lots.Ban on sale of tobaccoTo deter spitting in open amid the pandemic, the commissioner of police has banned the sale of tobacco in the city. He said chewed tobacco spat in public places could further spread coronavirus.Open sale of acid prohibitedExtending the ban on the open sale of acid for two months, the top cop directed acid sellers to renew their licences timely and maintain sale records to avoid police action. The traders need to keep a photocopy of the buyer’s identity proof and also ensure acid is not sold to anyone below 18 years of age.Institutions and organisations that use acid for different purposes need to maintain a record and depute nodal officers to check its misuse.Ban on modified auto cartsAgrawal banned modified auto-carts made out of old motorcycles and mopeds, which are used to ferry goods, vegetables, fruits and garbage. He said as such vehicles did not have number plates, it was difficult to trace them in case of mishaps or crimes.Sale and breeding of Thai Mangoor fishThe sale and breeding of Thai Mangoor fish has been banned in all areas falling under the jurisdiction of Ludhiana police commissionerate. As per the order, the fish was harmful for health, but people smuggled it from other countries for meagre financial gains. This fish preyed on its own breed, and also harmed village ponds and animals, it added.Besides, the commissioner of police also extended the ban on begging in the city. All orders will remain in effect for two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firecrackers-arms-banned-at-marriage-events-in-ludhiana-101620501849875.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER and Chandigarh admn fight over oxygen||Amid rising medical oxygen demand and limited supply, a fresh war of words erupted between the Chandigarh administration and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Saturday, leading to intervention by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore late at night.The PGIMER on Saturday said it has received a communication from a private vendor in Dera Bassi that it has been directed by the Chandigarh administration not to supply medical oxygen gas cylinders to the premier institute till further instructions.“As per the information received, this was directed by a team from Chandigarh administration, headed by Mr Yashpal Garg; Mr Jasjit Singh, director of industries; Mr Manjit Singh, nodal officer, Chandigarh; and other senior officials, during their visit to Anesthetic Gases Pvt Ltd, Dera Bassi, on Saturday (sic),” the PGIMER said in a release.The institute added that considering the Covid-19 patient load and the incessantly increasing demand of medical oxygen, this kind of directive can lead to further panic in the already “catastrophic” situation. “Therefore, PGIMER leadership immediately flagged the issue to the higher authorities and expects an immediate resolution to avoid turning the already pressing situation into a crisis,” stated the release.Responding to this, UT adviser Manoj Parida said the administration is already giving 20 MT oxygen to the PGIMER out of “our quota of 40 MT”. “No more oxygen or cylinders can be given without disrupting the functioning of our government and private hospitals assigned to us. The PGIMER has requested the Government of India to enhance their quota from 20MT to 40MT. The UT administration has forwarded and strongly supported this,” he said.The PGIMER administration shot back that it has been designated as a Covid hospital of the UT and is allocated a quota of 20 MT oxygen to meet its requirements.“As on date, we at the PGIMER have already reached the consumption of 20 MT per day in view of the consistent surge in the patient load. Therefore, it may not be possible to increase the COVID bed strength in case the oxygen allocation is not enhanced with immediate effect,” it said.‘Can’t increase beds’Meanwhile, explaining the situation, Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for oxygen supplies in Chandigarh, said the administration has been assigned a total quota of 40 MT oxygen, which includes 20 MT exclusively for the PGIMER. Of the remaining 20 MT quota, 17 MT oxygen is given directly to GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and the dedicated hospital in Sector 48 while 3 MT is given to a private vendor in Dera Bassi to refill oxygen cylinders of all government and private hospitals. “On Saturday, when a team of senior officials visited the plant, despite clear instructions to the vendor that the quota provided is to be used for specific hospitals, it was observed that some cylinders of the PGIMER were also being filled... This was in gross violation of directions of the UT administration,” said Garg, adding that consequently directions were issued to fill PGIMER cylinders only from its quota of 20MT to avoid any disruption of supply to other hospitals.Badnore intervenesMeanwhile, the Punjab government also stopped the supply of oxygen to the PGIMER from a plant in Mandi Gobindgarh.Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson, PGIMER, said the institute used to get around 60 cylinders from the private vendor, but the supply was stopped by the Punjab government “with reasons best known to them”.None from the Punjab government was willing to comment on the issue.Amid the two developments, Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore shared a message on Twitter late at night, stating that hospitals including the PGIMER are being closely monitored. “#PGIMER is lifesaver & premier health institute of Northern India; won’t let down its request; will see there is no O2 shortage (sic),” he said in the message, while also thanking the Haryana government for apparently arranging 3 MT oxygen for the PGIMER.Not the first tussleThe UT administration and PGIMER have been at loggerheads since the beginning of the outbreak. While the administration has demanded that the premier institute should increase its capacity to deal with the situation, the latter wants more beds to be created at other hospitals . The two had a tussle over conducting a sero-survey in the city and conversion of the Infosys Sarai into a Covid hospital as well. The administration had last year formally written to the PGIMER to take steps to convert the Infosys Sarai on its campus into a Covid facility. However, the institute had said that the focus is to cater to patients already admitted at its dedicated Covid wards, which have almost 400 beds. The facility was finally handed over to an NGO to run a Covid Care Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-and-chandigarh-admn-fight-over-oxygen-101620501731462.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Digging for storm drains leaves 700 BSNL connections dead in Ludhiana||Digging for a storm sewerage project at Rani Jhansi Road has left nearly 700 phone and internet connections, including the police emergency helpline, dead.BSNL officials found underground cables in the area damaged after complaints about the police helpline number (112) not working.“We received information about the helpline not working on Saturday morning. On reaching Rani Jhansi Road to inspect the matter, we found the cables uprooted. We immediately diverted the calls to the helpline and started the repair work,” said BSNL SDO Kanwaljit Singh Shanker, adding that all connections should be restored by Sunday evening. “The contractor with the civic body had sought permission to carry out digging along the road for the Smart City project, but was also illegally digging the stretch diagonally, damaging underground cables,” said Shanker.Notably, three such incidents have taken in place in the past one month, with cables also being damaged near Aarti Cinema Chowk and Malhar Road due to civic body projects.MC’s superintending engineer (SE) Rahul Gagneja said SE Ravinder Garg was in-charge of these issues, but the latter was not immediately available despite repeated attempts.Local councillor Narinder Sharma Kala said he had told the contractor to find out why the cables were uprooted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/digging-for-storm-drains-leaves-700-bsnl-connections-dead-in-ludhiana-101620501730387.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kolkata man dies in roof collapse in Punjab’s Kharar||A 35 -year-old man from Kolkata, who was on a visit to his uncle’s house here, died after the mud roof of his house collapsed in Mamupur village of Gharuan, Kharar, on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Varinder Singh.Station house officer of Gharuan, Shamsher Singh, said that the victim and his mother were on a visit to the house of Rashpal Singh, Varinder’s maternal uncle. When the incident took place at around 2.30pm, the other family members were sitting outside the house. The villagers managed to pull the victim out and rushed him to Kharar civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Singh said the body has been kept at civil hospital’s mortuary and Varinder’s other family members will arrive from Kolkata on Monday.Sub-divisional magistrate of Kharar, Himanshu Jain, said the house had a kacha roof which collapsed as it got weak over time. The man died of suffocation after getting trapped under the debris. Noone else was injured. The family has refused to get a postmortem conducted, said Jain.Harmohan Singh Sandhu, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in-charge of Sri Chamkaur Sahib, has demanded better housing for the financially-backward. He alleged that the state government has not released funds under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and sought full compensation for the victim’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kolkata-man-dies-in-roof-collapse-in-punjab-s-kharar-101620501612287.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three held for stabbing 24-yr-old to death in Panchkula||Three men were arrested on Saturday for stabbing a 24-year old man to death during a party at Kharak Mangoli on May 6.The accused are Gaurav and Amit from Kharak Mangoli and Anil from Manimajra. The have been arrested for the murder of Karan, a resident of Kharak Mangoli.The case has been registered based on the complainant of Kajal, 22, the deceased’s wife. She said that her husband had gone out at night and when he did not return, she searched for him and found him at a party in a nearby house .“I saw that while my husband was dancing, he ended up in a scuffle with the accused, who stabbed him to death. When I shouted, they threatened me as well,” she stated in the FIR.Kajal said that she stayed near the body till 4am. She went home in the morning and called her in-laws, who then informed the police.The case has been registered under Sections 148, 149, 302, 506, 188, 269 and 270 of Indian Penal Code and Section 51B of Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-held-for-stabbing-24-yr-old-to-death-in-panchkula-101620501611224.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Street vendor on the run after kidnapping, raping minor girl in Ludhiana||A street vendor allegedly kidnapped a 17-year-old girl from Rod village of Meharban and raped her at the Government Primary School near her house. An FIR was lodged against the accused, identified as Gagan alias Gagu, 22, of Phagwara, on Saturday following a complaint by the father of the girl, who is a Class-9 student.The complainant, a hosiery worker, stated that during the midnight of May 2, they found their daughter missing from her bed and started searching for her. After a while, they found her lying unconscious at the local Government Primary School and rushed her to the hospital. On gaining consciousness, the teenager narrated the incident to her parents on May 7. According to her, on May 2 she heard someone knocking at their door. When she opened it, she found Gagan standing there. He allegedly made her sniff something, following which she fainted. The accused had then taken her to the Government Primary School, where he raped her and fled the spot.ASI Balbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused lived at his aunt’s house in Rod village and sold pickles in the streets. A case under Section 376 ( rape) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused. A hunt is on to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/street-vendor-on-the-run-after-kidnapping-raping-minor-girl-in-ludhiana-101620501610126.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man held for raping 17-year-old step-daughter||A 39-year-old man has been arrested for raping and impregnating his 17-year-old step-daughter.The girl’s five-month pregnancy came to light after the Childline helpline received a call from a Manuke village resident about it. A team reached the village and counselled the girl to lodge a police complaint, but she was reluctant, said Mamta Chaudhary district coordinator of the helpline.As the girl is a minor, Chaudhary herself notified the police, who arrested her step-father on Saturday. “He has been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,” said sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, SHO, Hathur police station.She said the accused was a labourer. He got married to the girl’s mother in 2011 and had a 10-year-old son with her. Following his arrest, the minor girl recorded her statement in court and her custody was handed over to her mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-held-for-raping-17-year-old-stepdaughter-101620501430416.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Contagion claims 19 lives in Ludhiana, 1,223 test positive||Showing no signs of easing, the Covid-19 pandemic claimed 19 more deaths in Ludhiana on Saturday, while 1,223 people also tested positive. The latest casualties, youngest of whom was a 38-year-old man, pushed the district’s toll to 1,528, while the caseload climbed to 65,266.At 11,368, the active cases continued to remain over the 11,000 mark for the third day in a row. Though the recoveries rose to 52,370 (80.24%), the figure trailed behind the national average of 81.9%.Through May so far, the district has logged over 1,000 cases every day, clocking 10,680 infections, and also lost 153 residents to the contagion. The male deceased among Saturday’s fatalities were a 75-year-old from Raikot, a 67-year-old from Macchiwara, a 65-year-old from Mundian Kalan, a 61-year-old from Chhapar, a 59-year-old from Samrala, a 49-year-old from Gurdev Nagar, two aged 48 from Shimlapuri and Jamalpur, and a 38-year-old from Khanna.The women who died were a 73-year-old from Gurdev Nagar, a 65-year-old from Kidwai Nagar, a 62-year-old from Mullanpur, three 60-year-olds from Ekjot Nagar, Punjab Mata Nagar and Anadpuri, a 55-year-old from Miller Ganj, a 50-year-old from Field Ganj, and two aged 53 from Kalgidhar Marg and Tibba.As many as 2,000 beds, including 1,804 at private hospitals, across the district are occupied, leaving the health infrastructure grappling with bed crunch. Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Gill Ahluwalia urged residents to come forward for testing if they noticed any Covid-like symptoms, so that timely treatment could be started and precious lives be saved by reining in the spread of the virus. She also requested people to limit their movement outside and also get vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contagion-claims-19-lives-in-ludhiana-1-223-test-positive-101620501310417.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||From preparing food to delivering medicines, Shimla’s Good Samaritans walk the extra mile||With the number of patients in home isolation rapidly increasing as the second wave of infections sweeps through Himachal Pradesh, Good Samaritans in Shimla, the capital city of the hill state, are walking the extra mile to ensure Covid patients want for nothing, be it home cooked food or medicines.With many areas inaccessible by road in Shimla, it is difficult to reach chemists shops and eateries and as such many people are volunteering to deliver such essentials at patients’ doorstep. Vipin Kalta, 29, a technician at a local clinical labour rotary, besides collecting patients’ blood samples at his routine job also supplies cooked food and delivers medicines to patients.Kalta, whose entire family had been infected in 2020, says, “I go to patients’ homes to collect their blood samples and know from first-hand experience the difficulties they face when suffering from Covid. One my clients told me that he was unable to get cooked food as few restaurants in Shimla provide home delivery, so my wife and I decided to prepare food for Covid patients. I deliver food to nine patients a day.”Katla had also donated his plasma after recovering from the infection.Four days ago, Hotel Himland East proprietor Umesh Akre, 73, started a service to deliver food to Covid patients. “My phone is flooded with requests for homemade food,” says Akre, adding, “The situation is grim.”“On the first day, we delivered food to 40 patients near the Khalini bus stand, Chotta Shimla, and Kanlog. Now, I am receiving calls from far off places requesting food “ says Akre.Though they are facing difficulty delivering food in areas inaccessible by roads, Akre says they have asked youngsters to volunteer to help deliver food.Almighty Blessing, a non-profit organisation that runs langars for patients and attendants at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) is also delivering food to Covid patients with the help of Himanshu Chauhan, a 26-year-old tattoo artist.“We started the home delivery service only a few days ago but are receiving more calls every day. We need more volunteers,” says philanthropist Sarabjeet Singh Bobby of Almighty Blessing. Chauhan walks nearly 7km on foot to deliver food to patients from his residence in Sanjauli to Chaura Maidan “These days there is no work, so I decided to devote myself to social service in this hour of crisis,” says Chauhan, who owns a shop in Sanjauli .There are nearly 1,500 Covid patients in home isolation in Shimla who are registered with the government hospital. However, the numbers are expected to be much higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/from-preparing-food-to-delivering-medicines-shimla-s-good-samaritans-walk-the-extra-mile-101620500589865.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pak-backed narco-terror module busted in Kharar||Acting on disclosures made by arrested gangster Gavi Singh, Punjab Police on Saturday busted a cross-border drug and weapon smuggling racket with the arrest of his five accomplices from a flat in Kharar. Police also recovered 1.25kg heroin, two .32 calibre pistols, a .30 calibre Chinese pistol and 23 live cartridges besides three vehicles, including a Toyota Fortuner, Mahindra Scorpio and Hyundai Verna, during the raid at the flat at Urban Homes-2 in Kharar. A close aide of wanted gangster Jaipal, Gavi Singh, alias Vijay, was arrested in Jharkhand on April 26, in a joint operation of the Organised Crime Control Unit of Punjab Police and the Mohali police. Those arrested on Saturday have been identified as Karanbir Singh, Harmanjit Singh, Gurjaspreet Singh and Rawinder Iqbal Singh of Tarn Taran district besides Samuel, alias Sam, of Ferozepur, a close aide of Gavi who reportedly handled the distribution of heroin smuggled from Pakistan. Dinkar Gupta, director general of police (DGP), Punjab, said that Samuel was staying with Gavi in Jamshedpur and had managed to fly to Delhi just before his arrest.‘Smuggled 500kg heroin, weapons from Pak’The DGP said that during his interrogation, Gavi revealed that he had smuggled over 500kg heroin along with weapons from Pakistan and supplied them to Punjab, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir over the past two-and-a-half years. Gavi is also learnt to have made a large number of financial transactions with individuals and entities based in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan through the Hawala route as well as through import and export companies based in New Delhi. “He also acquired a forged Indian passport from a travel agent and was planning to settle in Portugal,” said the DGP, adding that Gavi’s various bank accounts and properties have been identified and shared with the agencies concerned for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakbacked-narco-terror-module-busted-in-kharar-101620499329814.html
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala court allows NRI couple to adopt minor siblings||In a rare instance, an Ambala court has allowed an NRI couple to adopt minor siblings — their nephew and niece — after the children’s stepmother refused to accept them. The siblings’ paternal uncle who is of Indian origin holds a permanent visa of New Zealand while his wife is a citizen of the country. The minors — a 13-year-old boy and his 11-year-old sister — reportedly get along well with the couple who had come to India in 2019. The separate applications were cleared by the court of Sangeeta Rai Sachdev, additional principal judge (family court) on May 3 and May 5, almost one-and-a-half months after it was moved by the couple in March.As per the orders, the judge, while approving the adoption said it was in the interest of both the children and fresh documents will be prepared by the authorities. The biological father had no objection to the adoption, the order reads.“The man had married another woman almost after six months after the death of his first wife in 2010 and has a 10-year-old boy with his second wife. Apparently, their second mother refused to accept them and the children do not relate to her as their mother. They are being cared by their grandparents, who cannot sustain the burden of this responsibility at this age,” the order read.Sukhvinder Singh Nara, the couple’s counsel said that as per the process, proper verification through Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) and an in-camera consent from the children was taken by the court.“The Ambala court issued the guidelines under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act and Hague Convention On Protection of Children And Cooperation In Inter-country Adoption, to which India and New Zealand are signatories,” Nara said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-court-allows-nri-couple-to-adopt-minor-siblings-101620499089741.html
