10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Can Covid warriors be treated on priority, HC asks Centre, Punjab||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Centre and Punjab government whether there is any policy for giving priority to Covid-19 warriors to get treated for a disease reported during the period of their fight against the pandemic. The high court has acted on a plea by Chanchal Singh, an assistant professor in the department of physiology and biochemistry at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana. The court was told that the petitioner is a Covid-19 warrior, who acquired kidney disease when he was posted for virus testing at Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory, Ludhiana, in November 2020. Suffering from chronic kidney failure, for which the cause is unclear, the petitioner is undergoing dialysis at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, and Max Super Specialty Hospital, Mohali. The court was told that he has been enrolled in the list of kidney transplant patients by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education Research, Chandigarh, and directions be issued to the authorities concerned for getting his transplant done at the earliest under the Deceased Donor Kidney Transplant Scheme. The petitioner has argued that as he is a Covid-19 warrior, he should be given priority over other patients. The Centre, Punjab government and PGIMER have been asked to respond by May 24, whether there are any specific instructions or policies for providing such preferential treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/can-covid-warriors-be-treated-on-priority-hc-asks-centre-punjab-101620670520018.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat procurement nears end, but no clarity on what Centre owes to Punjab||Wheat procurement is nearing its end this Rabi season in Punjab, but the Centre has still not released the cost sheet on what it owes to the state government.A cost sheet is a document that confirms the accruals, such as rural development fund, market fee and labour and transport charges to be paid to the state for procurement. Postponed due to the Covid-19 surge, procurement in the state began on April 10. Against the projections for 130 lakh tonne procurement, the four state agencies — Pungrain, Punsup, warehousing corporation and Markfed — and the Centre’s Food Corporation of India have so far procured at least 129.25 lakh tonne wheat and made ₹22,500 crore payments to the farmers. However, there is no clarity on various taxes the state agencies charge from the buyer of foodgrain, ie, the Centre. The procurement figures are expected to go up further in this week. Sources in the food department said the payment for gunny bags supplied by arhtiyas (commission agents) have been made after the Centre’s clearance as procurement was hit due to their shortage. Payments to contractors stuckThe cost sheet is released by the Centre’s food and public distribution ministry. The same ministry mandated direct benefit transfer (DBT) of minimum support price (MSP) to farmers, which was implemented despite the opposition from arhtiyas. Earlier, these agents were a link between the government and farmers, and the entire payment was routed through them. “Why can’t the ministry release the cost sheet when they have forced the DBT upon us?” said an official of the state food and civil supplies department, who didn’t want to be named. Sources in the department said that all other states engaged in wheat procurement have also reported delay in cost sheet. After opposition by arhtiyas, the Punjab government managed to bring them on board by making minor changes in public finance management system and allowed them to view payments transferred to farmers attached to them. “In the past, the Centre used to release provisional sheet before the start of every procurement season, but this time the season is almost over, but there are no signs of the document. It is very important, as without it, all expenditures made by the state government in transportation of wheat from mandis to godowns and the labour involved will be deemed illegal, halting the disbursal,” said the official.According to another senior official in the department, MSP has been disbursed through the cash credit limit received at the start of the procurement. “But for making other payments, we need clearance from the Centre, and so far payments to the tune of ₹2,000 to be made to transporters and labour contractors are pending,” he said. The Centre has fixed ₹46 per quintal as dami (commission) to be paid to arhtiyas, but in the absence of the cost sheet, even that can’t be transferred into their accounts. RDF, market fee and moreThe Centre has also failed to provide any clarity on the rural development fund (RDF) to the state government. During paddy procurement in the last Kharif season, the Centre provisionally allowed the state to charge 1% RDF, instead of 3%, according to provisions of its Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act.RDF goes to the rural development board led by the chief minister and is used for development in villages.On being asked for a justification for charging 3%, the state has sent all facts and figures to the Centre, explaining the fund’s importance, but so far there is no response, and the issue remains unclear in the current procurement season. The cost sheet will also give clarity on market fee (3%) that goes into the kitty of the mandi board that manages 1,850 mandis for procurement of wheat and paddy in Rabi and Kharif seasons. Principal secretary, food and civil supplies, Punjab, KAP Sinha said he would take up the matter with the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-procurement-nears-end-but-no-clarity-on-what-centre-owes-to-punjab-101620669562857.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Citizens awaiting second dose jittery amid vax shortage in Punjab||Vaccine shortage in Punjab has left many citizens awaiting their second dose jittery, with scores of them complaining about having missed the stipulated deadline already. While the second dose of Covishield is to be taken within four to eight weeks of the first jab, the interval for Covaxin is four to six weeks.However, due to the non-availability of doses, especially of Covaxin, many beneficiaries are unable to book an online slot or are being sent back from government vaccination centres without getting the second jab, according to ground reports from many parts of the state.“More than 200 eligible teachers and staff members of our school were administered Covaxin in March and April, but many are still awaiting their second dose,” says Sukhpreet Kaur, who teaches at a private school in Amritsar. Kaur says she is trying to book a slot for the second dose, which is due for the past two weeks, but no slot for Covaxin is available for the next seven days at any of the hospitals in Amritsar. “I also visited the civil hospital, but to no avail,” she says.In Ludhiana, Kiran Malik, 67, who got her first Covishield dose on April 14, has been unsuccessfully trying to book a slot for the second shot on May 26. “At a time when it is so risky to step out of our houses, how can the authorities expect us to visit the centres and try our luck with on-the-spot registrations,” says her husband, BL Malik. A 73-year-old woman from Amritsar, who is not willing to be named, claims she visited the local civil hospital twice, but failed to get the second Covishield dose that is due for the past three weeks. “I took my first dose in the second week of March. I have visited the civil hospital for my second dose twice, but due to limited stock of vaccines, I didn’t get the jab,” she says, while adding that instead of extending the drive to others, the first preference should be given to beneficiaries eligible for the second dose. Only 1.64 lakh got second dose in past week In the past one week, only 1.64 lakh people have been administered the second dose in Punjab, as compared to 2.44 lakh who got their first shot.In all, around 6 lakh people have completed their vaccination cycle, which is just 18% of the people inoculated with at least one dose. Among these 6 lakh people who have received both the doses, 2.25 lakh are health care and frontline warriors while 3.75 lakh are other citizens in the 45+ age group.Dr Puneet Juneja, district nodal officer, vaccines, Ludhiana, said that due to limited stock, the department is not scheduling online appointments. “We release a list of centres where residents can get vaccinated daily,” he said.Though claiming that many people, especially frontline workers, are willingly skipping the second shot, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, admitted that the second dose of vaccine, especially Covaxin, is being delayed due to limited stock.”The vaccination drive in Punjab picked up the pace in April, after it was opened for all people above 45 years of age. So far, the state health department has administered 2.34 lakh doses of Covaxin, but we have received only 75,000 doses for the second shot, which are insufficient,” he said, while adding that around 15 lakh beneficiaries will get eligible for their second dose, of both the vaccines, in Punjab by May 31. (With inputs from Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/citizens-awaiting-second-dose-jittery-amid-vax-shortage-in-punjab-101620669500697.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid recoveries just a step behind new cases in Haryana in May||The number of people recovering from Covid-19 outpaced the new cases detected in Haryana on Monday, according to the health bulletin.This month till Monday, 4.74 lakh samples were taken across state of which 1.27 lakh samples were detected positive while 1.14 lakh patients recovered from the contagion.On the other hand, during the corresponding first 10 days of last month, 2.75 lakh samples were collected, 21,032 were detected positive and the recovery rate dipped by 2.61%.In the last 10 days, the recovery rate, which was 78.70% on May 1, has risen to 81.07% on Monday.12,718 NEW CASES, 161 FATALITIESOn Monday, Haryana recorded 12,718 new cases against 16,192 patients who recovered from the disease while 161 people lost the battle to the virus.It was for the first time on Monday this month that the state recorded the lowest number of new cases.The state detected the highest 15,786 cases on May 4 and the lowest 12,885 on May 3.In the past 24 hours, 49,703 samples were taken in state.Of the 12,718 fresh cases on Monday, Gurugram recorded the highest 2,749 new cases, Faridabad 1,347, Sonepat 878, Hisar 1,185, Ambala 373, Karnal 567, Panipat 513, Rohtak 336, Rewari 232, Panchkula 367, Kurukshetra 263, Yamunanagar 286, Sirsa 538, Mahendergarh 690, Bhiwani 660, Jhajjar 281, Palwal 377, Fatehabad 373, Kaithal 119, Jind 287, Nuh 138 and Charkhi Dadri 159.The cumulative number of fatalities on Monday rose to 5,766 (1,425 deaths in May) with 161 people succumbing to Covid in state.Total 17 deaths were recorded in Rohtak, 16 each in Hisar, Mahendergarh and Bhiwani, 12 each in Gurugram and Jind, 10 each in Faridabad, Ambala and Panipat, nine each in Yamunanagar and Sirsa, eight in Kaithal, five in Fatehabad, four in Panchkula, three in Kurukshetra, and two each in Sonepat and Palwal.1.28 LAKH PEOPLE VACCINATEDWith the vaccination of over 1.28 lakh people on Monday, the state has given the jab to over 44.88 lakh people. In the past 10 days, 6.59 lakh people were vaccinated in Haryana.There were 1,13,232 active patients in state on Monday. The day’s positivity rate was recorded at 25.30% while the cumulative positivity rate rose to 7.97% and the recovery rate stood at 81.07%.The cumulative tally of patients recovered has risen to over five lakh of over six lakh total positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-recoveries-just-a-step-behind-new-cases-in-haryana-in-may-101620666801815.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 15 districts in Haryana earn ‘critically positive’ tag||Fifteen of 22 Haryana districts have attained sample positivity rate of more than 6% thus getting categorised as districts with critical positivity rate.These districts spread across the northern, southern and north-western parts of Haryana also threw up majority of 1.01 lakh Covid infections reported last week in state.However, the health department statistics show that there was a decrease in the percentage of cases reported last week as compared to the week before.The state had 10,440 more infections last week (May 3-9) as compared to the week before (April 26-May 2). The difference between infections reported between April 19-25 and April 26-May 2 was higher at 23,221 cases.Additional chief secretary (ACS, health), Rajeev Arora said that there has been a decline in the daily positivity rate since April 30.“It was 29.32% on April 30 but has came down to 25.30% now. Gurugram, Karnal, Panchkula and Sonepat have seen a decline in daily positivity rate since April 30,” the ACS said, indicating stabilisation of cases in many districts.FARIDABAD, GURUGRAM LEAD IN INFECTIONSAs per the health department statistics, Faridabad with a positivity rate of 12.58% leads the charts followed by Gurugram (11.67%), Panipat (9.63%), Sonepat (8.71%), Hisar (8.49%), Panchkula (8.46%), Karnal (8.20%), Ambala (7.39%), Fatehabad (7.37%), Mahendergarh (7.15%), Jind (7.03%), Rewari (6.96%), Yamunanagar (6.13%), Sirsa (6.14%) and Kurukshetra (6.02%).Only two districts - Nuh (1.53%) and Charkhi Dadri (1.83%) - have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.Gurugram accounts for about one-third of total active cases in Haryana, followed by Faridabad, Hisar, Panipat, Sonepat, Karnal and Ambala.Statistics show that the overall sample positivity rate of Haryana also jumped to 7.86% last week from 6.89% the week before. The state also saw 1,119 deaths last week due to virus-related illness, the first time since March 2020 so many fatalities took place in a week. The case fatality rate, however, was less than 1%.DEATHS IN RURAL AREAS ON THE RISEStatistics also indicate a steady rise in the number of deaths being reported from rural areas of Haryana.The percentage of deaths reported from rural areas in late February when the surge had just started was about 29.36% of the total deaths.It was 29.63% on March 21, 31.83% on April 25, and 33.52% of the total deaths on May 9.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, while admitting that spread of virus is growing exponentially in the rural areas, announced funds for every gram panchayat to set up isolation wards and buy oximeters, etc to fight the pandemic in villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-15-districts-in-haryana-earn-critically-positive-tag-101620664759366.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to seek more central funds under midday meal scheme||The Punjab government has decided to raise a demand before the Centre for additional funds under the midday meal scheme to feed all students at government and aided schools in the state. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan disclosed this after a meeting of the steering-cum-monitoring committee of the midday meal scheme on Monday. The additional funds, according to the chief secretary, were needed as the state-run schools registered a sizeable increase in enrolment during the current academic session. According to Mahajan, the Centre had provided funds for 14.05 lakh students during 2020-21, while in 2021-22, the provision has been made for feeding 15.83 lakh students. “The number of beneficiary students under the midday meal scheme are presently assessed at 16.91 lakh, which requires additional funds,” she said. Even as schools were shut down amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has been providing either dry ration or cooked meals to students, and about ₹231 crore were directly transferred to the bank accounts of children towards the cooking cost, said the chief secretary.Krishan Kumar, secretary, school education, said the entire budget of ₹350 crore allocated under the scheme had been properly utilised. “The food grain was served among 15.83 lakh students of primary and upper primary classes studying at 19,682 government and aided schools in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-seek-more-central-funds-under-midday-meal-scheme-101620657019112.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cops manhandle Amritsar trader for opening shop during lockdown||A shopkeeper was manhandled by a police team for allegedly violating Covid-19 lockdown rules at Partap Bazaar in Amritsar’s Katra Ahluwalia locality on Monday.After a video of the incident was shared on social media, the police department apologised for it and said it is under investigation. A police team led by inspector Parkash Singh was enforcing the administration’s left-right formula for opening shops in the market when the incident took place. On Monday, the administration had allowed only those shops that are situated on the left side in the market to open. Police said the trader, identified as Raghav, had violated the norms by opening his shop, which is on the right side. They said a meeting was also held with the shopkeepers on Sunday to make them aware of the guidelines.Closed circuit television footage shows two cops standing outside Raghav’s cloth shop. First, they manhandle his worker and then slap him after he comes out with folded hands.“I had opened my shop to file my returns, as it was the last day,” said Raghav, adding that senior police officials have assured him that appropriate action will be taken against the erring cops.Varun Bhatia, another shopkeeper in the market, said: “Raghav was confused over the left-right formula. We are not criminals. If any rule was flouted, action should be taken as per the law. How can police thrash any shopkeeper like this? We are already suffering due to the pandemic.”Assistant commissioner of police (central) Parvesh Chopra confirmed that the incident involves inspector Parkash Singh. “I have myself apologised to the shopkeeper. We are also probing the incident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cops-manhandle-amritsar-trader-for-opening-shop-during-lockdown-101620656298792.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-negative report must for tourists headed for Spiti valley||With the onset of the tourist season, the Lahaul-Spiti district administration has made testing for Covid-19 compulsory for visitors, including labourers, headed for Spiti valley. A testing centre was set up at the inspection hut of the department of hydropower at Hurling, the entry point for Spiti valley, on Sunday in view of the limited medical facilities in the tribal region. Over the past two weeks, 46 Covid cases have been reported in Spiti. Also read: After the second wave, decoding the government’s economic plan“This system has been introduced so that the tracing of people coming from outside is done and the infection does not spread further in villages,” additional district magistrate Gian Sagar said at the valley headquarters in Kaza. The health department is carrying out the test from 8am to 8pm. “Repair and restoration work is carried out in the valley only in summer as it is snow-bound for six months. Labourers from other parts of the state visiting the valley for work will have to bring certificates from their panchayats,” he said. A total of 17 samples were collected in Spiti on Sunday and put through the rapid antigen test. All samples tested negative for coronavirus. The total number of people who tested positive in Spiti is 651 and of them, 611 have recovered so far. At present, the active case count is 37. Block medical officer Tenzin Norbu said that nine patients recovered on Sunday. Meanwhile, fresh restrictions to the contain the pandemic came into force with the government suspending public transport and allowing shops to be open only for three hours. There is no restriction on private vehicles being used for emergencies or people visiting centres for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidnegative-report-must-for-tourists-headed-for-spiti-valley-101620641298171.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||BKU chief Charuni warns of agitation if wheat procurement not resumed||Seeking resumption of procurement in the mandis, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Sunday threatened to launch a stir if their demand was not accepted. He alleged that the even before the completion of the harvesting season, the government agencies had stopped the procurement on April 30 and several farmers from the state failed to sell their produce. “Farmers are telling us that their produce was not procured even after they had got the gate passes as the government stopped procurement without any prior intimation,” he added. He demanded the government to immediately resume the procurement so that all farmers could sell their produce on MSP.“This is another cruelty of the government on the farmers, but we warn the government of another protest if the procurement is not resumed immediately,” he added.The Haryana government had recently announced that said there would be no procurement of wheat in all mandis of the state during the lockdown and no gate passes will be issued. In a statement issued by the government on Thursday, total 83.49 lakh MT of wheat had arrived in 396 mandis of the state during this season and the government agencies had already procured 80.72 lakh MT wheat against the target of 80 lakh MT. Even an amount of ₹12,977 crore was directly deposited in the verified accounts of the farmers, the government claimed.Though the government did not mention whether the procurement will be resumed after the lockdown or not, the arhtiyas alleged that thousands of quintals of unprocured wheat was lying in the mandis since the government agencies stopped the procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bkuchief-charuni-warns-of-agitation-if-wheat-procurement-not-resumed-101620592338816.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Residents of Bhiwani village impose self-lockdown||Residents of Mundhal Khurd in Bhiwani have imposed a self-lockdown till May 13 after the village witnessed a surge in unreported deaths in the last two weeks. The decision was taken after prominent persons, elderly people and youths held a meeting recently and decided to ban the entry of outsiders.To break the chain, the villagers announced that all shops, except those selling medicines, will be opened from 7 am to 10 am till May 13. The medical stores will remain functional round the clock. Sarpanch Vijay Pal, who is leading the village until new panchayat forms, said more than 35 deaths were reported in the village in the last two weeks.“Entire village is suffering from fever, cough and cold. We have written to the DC to start testing in the village. Most of those who succumbed were people who had fever, but remained reluctant to get themselves tested. The health department had cremated bodies of five persons with Covid protocol at village crematorium. Many fatalities were Covid suspected deaths. We have no other option than to impose self-lockdown,” he added.The villagers have also restricted gathering of those playing cards and smoking ‘hookah’ has been banned across the village. “We have been demanding a hospital for a cluster of three villages here, but the government has not paid heeds to our demands. The village has a population of 15,000 and still there is no government hospital here. The primary health centres are at Dhanana and Talu villages, both 10km away from here,” the villagers said.Health department starts testingThe health department on Sunday collected 80 samples, reports of which are awaited. The sampling process will continue for the next couple of days, said officials.Bhiwani DC Rahul Narwal said they have also got information about the deaths at Mundhal Khurd village, but as per their record, only two persons died of Covid there. “The exact number of deaths will be ascertained after the families of the deceased register their deaths. The families will have to register the data within a month. We have started the sampling process and the true picture about the transmission of the virus will be known after the testing report comes out,” he added.Nine cremations in a single day in Rohtak villageNine pyres were burnt at Rohtak’s Madina village crematorium on Saturday. Former Congress’ Meham MLA Anand Singh Dangi, who hails from the same village, said he had visited the houses of these nine persons, who died on Saturday.“Most of them were suffering from fever. Our village has reported more than 42 deaths in the last three weeks. I have requested the administration to provide oxygen beds at the community health centre at Madina, but my pleas were turned down. Seven to eight people have died due to Covid in various private hospitals,” he added.Sarpanch Karambir Foji said villagers are reluctant to get themselves tested and people have fear of Covid. “In the history of our village, we had never witnessed more than 40 deaths in three weeks. We are urging people to appear for testing and vaccination,” he added.Senior medical officer Dr Joginder, who is in charge of the village, said there has been a rise in deaths and the sarpanch can provide actual figures.“Some people had died of Covid too. We would be able to say more about total deaths after registration only. Nine deaths were reported on Saturday. The people are suffering from fever here. More people are coming forward for vaccination than testing. The situation in this village is challengeable as compared to other villages,” he added. In Karnal, 200 MBBS students to offer tele-consultation to patients in isolation With the help of 200 MBBS final-year students, the Karnal district administration has launched a home care and tele-consultation system to provide medical assistance to Covid patients isolated at home. As per the health authorities, the initiative will help to avoid hospitalisation of non-critical patients.Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the MBBS students of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital have been given proper training and they will dial all home-isolated patients to provide them all required information and medical assistant over phone.“Over 92% patients don’t require hospitalisation and MBBS students will talk to all home isolated patients regularly,” he said, adding that if required, they will also advise them when to seek hospital admission. He said that one student will have list of 25 patients and they will track their medical records regularly. As per the information, the district administration was facing shortage of hospital beds and now, all 500 beds with oxygen support and 220 beds in ICUs are already occupied. The district administration has set up 100-bed temporary hospitals in Panchayat Bhawan to accommodate more patients. (With inputs by Neeraj Mohan from Karnal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/residents-of-bhiwani-village-impose-selflockdown-101620592155984.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||13 inmates flee from Rewari Covid jail after cutting grilles of barrack||Thirteen inmates infected with Covid escaped from Rewari jail last night, prison officials said on Sunday.They were lodged in the section designated for Covid patients and fled after cutting grilles of their barracks on Saturday night, Rewari superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said, adding that there was negligence on the part of jail staff.“One of staff member was deployed inside the barrack and another outside, and both of them were sleeping when the incident took place,” Jorwal said.Those who escaped from the jail are Jitender, Ajit, Deepak, Naveen Sharma, Dharmpal, Anuj, Om Parkash, Abhishek, Balwan, Sakti, Ashish, Rajesh and Rinku. Six of them are facing murder charges, three have been booked for rioting and criminal intimidation, one each for murder bid, under Section 34 of the IPC and provisions of the Arms Act and one for theft.A senior jail official said the inmates scaled the prison wall and jumped to the other side. “Nine of these prisoners were booked by Mahendergarh police, mostly in Narnaul, Satnali and Ateli, while cases against four were registered in Rewari. These inmates were sent there after they tested positive for Covid. Most of them came from Nasibpur jail where 284 inmates had contracted the infection,” the official added.The Rewari jail was recently turned into a dedicated centre for inmates testing positive for virus. The under-construction jail is 80% complete and houses a team of medical professionals, including doctors, nurses and others, to monitor the health status of inmates. The SP said, “CIA teams of Rewari and various SHOs have been alerted about the incident. Efforts are on to nab these inmates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13-inmates-flee-from-rewari-covid-jail-after-cutting-grilles-of-barrack-101620592096419.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown till May 17, officials to focus on Covid-19 hot spots||he Haryana government on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown in the state for another week, until May 17, to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, with officials saying they will concentrate on Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat districts, which account for almost half of the total number of Covid-19 infections in the state.As per the directions issued by state government officials, only 11 persons will be allowed to attend gatherings, including weddings and funerals. Wedding functions are only allowed at residences and courts with not more than 20 people, while wedding processions are banned.State health minister Anil Vij on Sunday evening announced the lockdown extension through a tweet, stating that the stringent enforcement will continue.Also read | Covid-19: Metro shut in stricter lockdown across DelhiPreviously, the state government imposed a week-long lockdown in the state from May 3, following a weekend curfew in nine worst-affected districts.Vij, while announcing the extension of the curbs, however, indicated that the nomenclature of the lockdown would be changed and it would now be called a “mahamari alert” or a “Surakshit Haryana”.He also said that a detailed order in this regard will be issued soon.Vij, in his tweet at 8.49pm on Sunday, wrote, “Mahamari Alert / Surakshit Haryana announced from 10 May to 17 May. Stringent measures will be taken to contain spread of Corona in Haryana. Detailed order to be issued soon.”The tweet by Vij, who also holds the charge of home ministry in the state cabinet, also cleared the confusion regarding the extension of the lockdown as it was set to end at 10am on Monday.A senior Gurugram district administration official, when asked about the matter, said that they are still awaiting the order for the extended lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-in-haryana-extended-till-may-17-101620592095460.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination for 18+: Construction workers in Punjab to get jab in 1st phase from Monday||The Punjab government will start administering Covid-19 vaccine to construction workers in the 18-44 age group from Monday. Giving details, state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the department has received the only 1 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine for the 18-44 age group and it has been decided to cover the construction workers in the first phase. The state government has placed an order of 30 lakh doses with the Serum Institute of India. The allocation will be 4.29 lakh doses for the 18–44 age group for May, he said. The minister said the Punjab government had placed an order of 30 lakh doses with the Serum Institute of India and has been told that 4.29 lakh doses for the group will be given in May. Individuals with co-morbidities are at highest risk, hence, 70% of doses have been allocated to this group in the next phase, he said in a statement. The minister said 30% of the doses have been kept for those having greater interaction with the public. Under it, government employees, construction workers, teachers and other staff at government and private educational establishments will be covered in May, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-for-18-construction-workers-in-punjab-to-get-jab-in-1st-phase-from-monday-101620591195542.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mansa admn ropes in quacks to contain virus spread in villages||Amid surge in Covid infections, the Mansa district authorities have started roping in quacks to serve as the first line of defence in the battle against the virus. Quacks are unqualified rural healthcare practitioners who are often consulted by villagers for most ailments.Mansa, predominantly a rural district, has reported 2,766 infections and 24 deaths since May 1. The district has 3,003 active cases of which, around 2,000 are from the rural belt. The authorities say the trend is alarming but the situation is more serious as villagers are not sharing their health conditions. Additional deputy commissioner (development) Amarpreet Kaur Sandhu, who is coordinating Covid management at the district level, said villages have seen a spurt in Covid-related deaths in the last 15 days. “Narinderpur and Nangal are among two villages where several deaths were reported due to suspected Covid infection in the last fortnight. People are reluctant to respond to government medical teams for testing and medication. Since Tuesday, we engaged three quacks of Narinderpur to supply Covid kits to ailing villagers and they have been asked to administer medicines as per the pandemic protocol,” said Sandhu.Mansa is a hotbed of farmer union activities and people from the rural areas of the district have a significant presence at dharna sites on the Delhi border.Sandhu said more quacks will be taken on board in other villages to contain the virus. She, however, clarified that untrained workers are not treating Covid patients.“Scores of people of these two villages are frequently attending dharnas and falling sick. As people are not going for vaccination and testing, we decided to take the assistance of quacks to handle the situation. People in the area traditionally rely upon these unqualified healthcare providers and we have started taking their help to contain infection spread,” said the ADC.Village panchayats have been roped in to provide thermometers to ailing persons and motivating sick villagers to practice home isolation, besides boosting immunity with simple home remedies. Sick patients are also being provided health supplements through quacks and it is being ensured that these untrained resources do not offer un-prescribed medication to the suspected Covid patients, he said. “Against an estimated target of 3 lakh population above 45 years in the district, only 54,000 have come forward for vaccination to date. It is a cause of concern that people are frequently attending protests and Covid guidelines are not being followed,” said Mansa civil surgeon Dr Sukhwinder Singh.He said community leaders should come out to make people understand the gravity of the medical emergency and ask them to follow instructions to break the virus chain.“Fully occupied hospitals and lack of space at cremation grounds reflect the ground reality of infection spread. But unfortunately, a sizeable section of Mansa population continue to underestimate the major threat of Covid infection,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mansa-admn-ropes-in-quacks-to-contain-virus-spread-in-villages-101620590655457.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||6-month timeframe to new SIT too long: Tript Bajwa||Days after Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu questioned the six-month deadline to the new SIT to probe the 2015 Kotkapura firing case, rural development minister in the Capt Amarinder Singh cabinet Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa too expressed his dissatisfaction over the timeframe given to three-member probe team. Talking to media persons in Batala on Sunday, Bajwa said: “Though I welcome the newly constituted SIT, but the timeframe of six months is too long.”He said the new SIT can use the information and evidences collected by the previous SIT for concluding the probe “within a month or two”. Bajwa said, “Once the inquiry is completed and the guilty are identified, the trial of the case should be held in a fast-track court, so that the government can give justice to the aggrieved families and fulfil its biggest poll promise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6month-timeframe-to-new-sit-too-long-tript-bajwa-101620590535331.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: New SIT free to conclude probe before six months, says govt||The Punjab government clarified on Sunday that the six-month timeframe for the new special investigation team (SIT) to conclude the investigation into the Kotkapura firing case was not set by the state government but by Punjab and Haryana high court and the team can complete as probe as early as two months. Reading the HC orders on April 9, the state government spokesperson observed that as per direction, the investigation of these FIRs will be concluded expeditiously, preferably within six months from the date of the constitution of the SIT. “This court direction has been reproduced in the SIT re-constitution notification by the state government, which has been specifically barred from interfering in any manner,” added the spokesperson, further clarifying that as evident from the court directive, the period of six months is an upper limit which has been imposed by the HC, the spokesperson pointed out, adding that the SIT is free to conclude investigation before that. Reacting to criticism of the government on the six-month deadline, the spokesperson said it was clear that the notification, and the intent, of the state government had been misread and misconstrued by certain elements, motivated by vested political interests. The spokesperson further said that the SIT had already conducted its first meeting virtually on May 8, a day after it was constituted, and started the process of investigations by summoning the case file and other relevant records from the Faridkot court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-new-sit-free-to-conclude-probe-before-six-months-says-govt-101620590235470.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moga man arrested for killing sister in Hoshiarpur||Police have solved a blind murder case of a woman with the arrest of her brother and his aide. The bullet-ridden body of Manpreet Kaur of Khadiala Sainian village in Hoshiarpur was found near Sikri bus stand on April 22. Her younger brother Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, of Takhtupura village and his accomplice Iqbal Singh of Daulewal village in Moga have been arrested and the weapon and three SUVs used in the crime have been seized, said police. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said two teams constituted to crack the case traced the accused to Moga and Ferozepur and arrested them.“Harpreet hatched the conspiracy to kill his sister, who had married against the wishes of the family nearly eight years ago and now wanted to reunite with the estranged parents, which was not acceptable to him. Manpreet was living at her in-laws house in Khadiala Sainian even as she had filed for divorce,” the SSP said. “A day before committing the crime, Harpreet and his friend conducted a recee at Khadiala Sainian and the next day, they made a WhatsApp call to Manpreet from a stolen phone and asked her to accompany them in their SUV,” said the SSP, adding that as soon as Manpreet sat on the rear seat, Harpreet strangulated her with a scarf.“When Manpreet got unconscious, Harpreet pulled her out of the SUV near the Sikri bus stand and pumped nine bullets into her from a .32 bore revolver and fled after dumping the body on roadside,” the SSP said. A local court has sent the accused to four-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-man-arrested-for-killing-sister-in-hoshiarpur-101620590116246.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||30% jump in demand in May so far, Punjab on verge of oxygen crisis||With a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks, Punjab is on the verge of an oxygen crisis. The rising trajectory of coronavirus cases has led to a jump of more than 30% in demand of the life-saving resource, depleting its oxygen reserve to an all-time low of 10 to 12 hours during the devastating second wave of the pandemic. The oxygen allocation, which stands at 227 metric tonne (MT), has failed to keep pace with the rising demand despite repeated requests to the central government which has been flooded with similar requests from other states as the number of new infections is also at an all-time high in the country. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who has repeatedly requested the central government to increase its oxygen allocation, on Sunday again urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to increase Punjab’s total oxygen quota to 300 MT in view of the growing caseload of critically ill coronavirus patients. “The oxygen demand has risen by more than 60 MT in the past eight days whereas our allocation has only increased by 10 MT. We have been managing so far by enhancing efficiency and dipping into reserve. If the patient load does not plateau and the increase does not keep pace, we are headed for tough times,” Ajoy Sharma, in-charge of Punjab’s Covid control room, said. Of the total allocation of 227 MT, 195 MT is from other states, including 90 MT from Bokaro, 15 MT from Roorkee, 10 MT from Dehradun, 20 MT from Panipat and 60 MT from Barotiwala and there lies another problem. The state authorities have not been able to lift their entire allocated quota, particularly from Bokaro, for want of tankers of lifting and distribution of oxygen. The state government had on its own arranged 21 tankers for lifting and distribution of oxygen, excluding tankers bound by contractual obligations of the plants from adjacent states that make direct supply to some hospitals, but needed more. A request was made to the central government to supply at least 20 tankers and two were given through Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL). “Against a total requirement of 36 tankers at present, only 20 are available, leaving a shortfall of 16 tankers, particularly needed to lift liquid medical oxygen from Bokaro,” according to officials. They said the state government has also called immediate attention to the need for immediate resolution of logistical issues, tankers and IAF sorties and for lifting the allocated Bokaro stock. “We have increased the number of tankers to Bokaro from two to four, but need more as turnaround time is four days,” said Sharma. The state team, which has requested for at least two sorties daily, held a virtual meeting on Sunday morning with IAF officials to review the situation and is also trying to explore train options. Also, the Centre has been requested to make oxygen allocation to the state from nearby sources and not from far off states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30-jump-in-demand-in-may-so-far-punjab-on-verge-of-oxygen-crisis-101620589935526.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs record 191 Covid deaths, 8,531 cases in a day||Punjab on Sunday reported 191 more Covid-related fatalities, the highest single-day count recorded so far, pushing the death toll to 10,506, while 8,531 new cases took the infection tally to 4,42,125, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases soared from 71,948 on Saturday to 74,343.Twenty-two deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 20 from Amritsar, 18 from Patiala, 17 each from Mohali and Bathinda and 14 from Rupnagar, among fatalities reported in the past 24 hours.Ludhiana registered the maximum number of cases in the state at 1,729 followed by 985 in Mohali, 812 in Bathinda and 691 in Jalandhar, among daily fresh cases.A total of 5,850 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured people to 3,57,276, as per the bulletin.There are 296 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 9,384 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 77,67,351 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-record-191-covid-deaths-8-531-cases-in-a-day-101620589815336.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pam Gosal becomes first Sikh to be elected to Scottish Parliament||Fifty-three-year-old businesswoman Pam Gosal created history by becoming the first Sikh to be elected to the Scottish Parliament. Gosal was elected as a Conservative Member of Scottish Parliament (MSP) via the West of Scotland list. She got 7,455 votes, 14.1% of the absolute votes cast, according to a media report. After joining her office on May 8, Gosal Tweeted: It’s a privilege to be the first female MSP elected to the Scottish Parliament from an Indian background. Thank you to everyone who’s supported me. Can’t wait to get to work for the people of the West of Scotland.”Sikh Sanjog, Scotland’s Sikh woman’s empowerment charity, Tweeted: “Huge congratulations to @Pam_Gosal as the first ever Sikh in @ScotParl. You have made history. Not just for Sikhs but for Sikh women. We are so proud of your achievement and what it means to Sikh women & girls in Scotland & beyond! (sic)” Gosal was born in Glasgow and lived in Scotland most of her life. She joined politics when she contested the 2019 general election for the Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party as a Parliamentary candidate for East Dunbartonshire. She has completed a BA in Consumer Law, MBA and is currently finishing her PhD.She won the 2015 Women Leaders Business Award and the 2018 Public Service Award and is a co-founder and chair of the Scottish Conservative friends of BAME (Black, Asian and minority ethnic), the first umbrella organisation affiliated with the Scottish Conservative Party to reach out to BAME communities in Scotland. She is also the director of Conservative Friends of India Scotland (CFIS). This organisation seeks to build stronger links between the Conservative Party and the British Indian community in Scotland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pam-gosal-becomes-first-sikh-to-be-elected-to-scottish-parliament-101620589515197.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Barnala village teen shot dead by uncle in Canada||A 19-year-old boy hailing from Bhattal village in Barnala district was allegedly shot dead by his uncle in Edmonton, the capital city of the Canadian province of Alberta, on Friday. Harmanjot Singh Bhattal, the only son of his parents, had gone to Canada in December 2018 on a study visa. His father Avtar Singh said the incident took place during a domestic quarrel between Harmanjot’s maternal aunt and her husband. “When Harmanjot intervened, his uncle Gamdoor Singh opened fire killing him on the spot, while his aunt Satvir Kaur was rushed to a hospital. Gamdoor has been arrested,” said Avtar. “We have been shattered. Our relatives are trying to bring his body back home,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barnala-village-teen-shot-dead-by-uncle-in-canada-101620589395409.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||14-year-old girl among 30 dead in Chandigarh tricity as contagion rages on||Continuing its relentless march, the Covid-19 pandemic claimed the lives of 30 people in the tricity, the youngest among them a 14-year-old Panchkula girl, who had no other ailment.Matching its all-time high on May 5, Mohali again logged 17 deaths, while Chandigarh and Panchkula reported 10 and three fatalities, respectively.At 30, Sunday’s tricity toll was second only to the record 38 deaths on May 5, third-highest being 29 deaths each on May 4 and April 28.The tricity also clocked 2,290 new infections, crossing the 2,200 mark for the third straight day.Mohali once again led the daily tally with 918 cases, followed by Chandigarh with 895 and Panchkula with 477 cases. The positivity rate of all three continued to hover over 20%, indicating every one in five people being sampled was testing positive.The tricity had first breached the 2,000 mark on April 22, and since then, has logged over 2,000 cases as many as 14 times in 18 days. The biggest single-day surge was recorded on May 5 with 2,527 cases.In just nine days of May, 19,635 people have tested positive in the tricity and 229 have died, compared to 43,145 cases and 311 deaths through April.12 senior citizens among Mohali’s fatalitiesIn Mohali, the youngest fatality was a 38-year-old man from Kharar. As many as 12 deceased were senior citizens, aged between 65 and 80. Three females, aged 53, 52 and 49, and a 55-year-old man were the other casualties.With this, the district’s toll climbed to 692, highest in the tricity. The fresh cases pushed its total to 54,758, second highest in Punjab after Ludhiana’s 66,995.At 253, majority of Sunday’s cases were from Mohali city, followed by 219 from Dhakoli, 150 from Kharar, 126 from Dera Bassi and 71 from Gharuan, while the rest were scattered around Boothgarh, Kurali and Banur. As per the health bulletin, the recoveries remained 43,374 (79%), as no patient recovered on Sunday, but the active cases rose to 10,692, placed right behind Ludhiana’s highest active cases of 12,047.30-year-old among 10 dead in UTA 30-year-old man from Dhanas was among the latest fatalities in Chandigarh that took its toll to 568.All deceased, including five men, aged 30, 67, 70, 91 and 99, and five women, aged 45, 55, 54, 72 and 90, had comorbidities.With 895 infections, the city’s cumulative cases crossed the 50,000 mark for the first time.Of the total 50,207 cases so far, 8,511 patients are still fighting the virus and 41,128 (82%) have been cured, matching the national average of 82.15%.Panchkula’s total deaths reached 249 on Sunday, that also saw its caseload climbing to 24,930.The 14-year-old deceased was from Parwala, while the others, who lost their lives, were a 40-year old man from Beer Ghaggar and an 81-year old woman from Sector 21.The district has 2,593 active cases and 21,728 people (87%) have successfully beaten the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/14yearold-girl-among-30-dead-in-chandigarh-tricity-as-contagion-rages-on-101620588435666.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Labourers’ exodus sets back GMADA’s water project by two more months||Labourers migrating back home in anticipation of longer lockdown has yet again put off Greater Mohali Area Development Authority’s project to bring additional water supply of 5 million gallons daily (MGD) from Phases 5 and 6 of Kajauli waterworks. Already delayed by 18 months due to the pandemic, the workers’ exodus is expected to set the project back by another two months. The project was initially slated to finish by December 2020, but the deadline was pushed to July 31, 2021, and now again to September this year.This, when Mohali is already facing a daily shortage of 10 MGD water, while the demand-supply difference shoots up to 12 MGD in peak summer. Presently, the city gets 10 MGD water from Kajauli waterworks and an equal volume from 75 tubewells.“Around 50% of our workers have gone back to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh fearing a longer lockdown. We don’t expect them to return soon. Earlier, we had 150 labourers to complete the construction of the water treatment plant at Singhpur, but the number has come down to 70,” said Davinder Singh, chief engineer of GMADA.The plant, which is being set up by a Vadodara-based company at a cost of ₹100 crore, was initially also delayed over whether to ready one for 5 MGD or 20 MGD supply, until GMADA decided to go for the second option..Chandigarh, meanwhile, is already getting its share of additional 35 MGD water under Phases 5 and 6 of Kajauli waterworks, which is located on the Bhakra mainline canal near Morinda in Rupnagar district, and caters to the water requirement of Chandigarh, Mohali and Chandimandir.MC councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi, who had filed a case in the Punjab and Haryana high court regarding the water shortage in Mohali, said, “The project for additional supply is being repeatedly delayed due to lackadaisical attitude of the officials concerned, while the public continues to suffer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/labourers-exodus-sets-back-gmada-s-water-project-by-two-more-months-101620588196974.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University asks students to vacate hostels by May 12||A day after Panjab University (PU) decided to keep all departmental libraries and laboratories closed till May 31, the varsity on Sunday asked the students to vacate hostels by May 12.This was stated in a communication issued by dean students’ welfare (DSW) SK Tomar to hostel wardens. The varsity has already closed all physical facilities/services on campus till May 31.A university official said more than 200 students had already vacated their hostel accommodations and there were around 500 students living on the campus currently.“In the interest of health and safety and to ensure that students residing in hostels are not exposed to the highly infectious virus, it has been advised that they are requested to return to their homes,” reads the communication. Also, a meeting was held on Sunday, regarding this issue at the university.The UT education department has already directed all educational institutions and public libraries in Chandigarh to stay closed till May 31. Last month, in a meeting chaired by the UT education secretary, it was decided that the students who are staying at hostels of PU and colleges be advised to return to their homes.Facilitation committee set upThe varsity has also set up a facilitation committee to help students to return to their homes. The committee includes hostel wardens and some senior teachers of the varsity. The committee will help students to reach railway stations, bus stands and also arrangement of travel passes for travel, if required.All hostel wardens have been told that they ask hostel residents to intimate them about the details of their departure within 24 hours, so that the varsity can seek necessary assistance from the UT administrationA hostel warden said that they are also communicating with students on an individual basis,” he said.A research scholar of the university, on condition of anonymity, said, “The varsity had advised that students who have some urgent work can stay at hostels with the recommendation from the supervisor. Now, all of a sudden, we are being asked to vacate the hostels till May 12. The decision should have taken the decision earlier.”Meanwhile, the Western Command has set up a 100 bed Covid hospital at PU’s international students’ hostel, which will be operational from Monday onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-asks-students-to-vacate-hostels-by-may-12-101620587958002.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Renowned landscapist Hardial Singh Johl passes away at 90||Renowned landscapist and former head of Chandigarh’s landscaping wing Hardial Singh Johl passed away due to health issues at his home here on Sunday. He was 90 years old.Johl is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. He had worked under MS Randhawa, the first chief commissioner of Chandigarh, to create the UT’s landscape. He received his masters degree from Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana (formerly Punjab College of Agriculture) in 1955.Johl started his career as a landscape designer at the famous Mughal Gardens at Pinjore and worked in Chandigarh for over two decades where he revitalised the landscape of the city. He also worked for the Punjab government as head of the landscape circle. His son, Ajaipal Johl, an architect, said, “He landscaped the city of Chandigarh and also designed the Rose Garden. He has a lot of achievements. He was the finest father anyone could have. He taught us how to play golf and everything we are now is because of him.” Johl has also served as landscape advisor to the Punjab Urban Development Authority and developed the urban estates of Mohali, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and Bathinda. His master projects include the Punjabi University campus in Patiala and Silver City in Zirakpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/renowned-landscapist-hardial-singh-johl-passes-away-at-90-101620587955171.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University teachers’ body condemns delay in promotion letters||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has condemned the varsity for the delay in issuing of promotion letters to teachers under Career Advancement Scheme (CAS), whose interviews/screening were conducted earlier this year. The promotion of over 100 teachers has been hanging fire for several months. The teachers’ body in a statement issued on Sunday, said, “The PUTA executive in its meeting on May 7, unanimously condemned the callous and apathetic attitude of the vice-chancellor, for causing an inordinate delay in issuing appointment letters to the teachers under CAS.”The statement comes a day after PUTA wrote to Vice-President of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of the university, seeking his intervention in the matter. They stated that the V-C has approved several matters in the anticipation of the approval of senate and syndicate and has no reason to not issue the orders for issuance of appointment letters to the teachers concerned.The teachers’ body said that the members have decided that the PUTA executive will now meet more frequently. “They also decided to report matters pertaining to the welfare of the university directly to the chancellor from time to time,” they said.They said that if the V-C still fails to address the issue, the members will start a physical protest while adhering to Covid guidelines issued by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-teachers-body-condemns-delay-in-promotion-letters-101620587896903.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Probe marked as SAD claims top posts in MC Kharar amid deferred polls||After the Mohali administration failed to convene elections for president, senior vice-president and vice-president of the Kharar municipal council on May 3 amid Covid curbs, the Shiromani Akali Dal claimed that it had elected its councillors to all three posts the same evening, prompting the sub-divisional magistrate to mark an inquiry into the matter. SAD has elected Jaspreet Kaur as president, Harinder Pal Singh Jolly as senior vice-president and Jasbir Singh Jonny as vice-president. On February 17, the MC elections had resulted in a hung house as Congress bagged 10 of 27 seats, SAD won eight, Aam Aadmi Party one and Independents clinched eight seats. On April 19, violence had broken out during elections for the top posts of the MC after Congress councillors alleged that SAD was luring Independents with money. Some councillors tried to attack the SDM, compelling authorities to postpone the polls to May 3. Kharar constituency SAD in-charge Ranjit Singh Gill said, “We knew that they (the administration) are not going to convene a meeting. Thus, on May 3, we elected our councillors to all three posts around 4.15pm as we had the support of 15 councillors.” “The elections were conducted as per the Punjab Municipal Act. We have sent copies of the election to authorities concerned for notification and should they refuse, we will move court,” he said. As per act, we can conduct elections by appointing one of our councillors as convener. A recording of the meeting has been submitted to the Kharar SDM, Gill added. However, SDM Himanshu Jain said, “Elections on May 3 were postponed in the wake of Covid restrictions. Now, I have received an email regarding the conduct of elections, but I do not know when these elections were held . I have already marked an inquiry and have asked the executive officer of MC to submit a report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-marked-as-sad-claims-top-posts-in-mc-kharar-amid-deferred-polls-101620587715418.html
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vax for 18+: Only construction workers to get jab in Mohali on May 10||Though Punjab is all set to roll out vaccines for its younger population from Monday, in Mohali only registered construction workers between the age of 18 and 44 will be given the jab. So far, only Fortis Hospital and Max Hospital in Mohali have been vaccinating those above the age of 18, as the drive was deferred in government centres amid non-availability of vaccines. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “We will start the vaccination drive at government centres once we get the list of registered construction workers. So far, we have not received the list from any company.” Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said it was likely that the inoculation drive for the 18 to 44 age bracket will start in a couple of days, while its registration is on. Rumour draws 3,000 people to Radha Soami Satsang BeasAfter a false WhatsApp message, claiming that all those above the age of 18 can get vaccinated at Radha Soami Satsang in Sector 76, Mohali, from May 7 to 9, was widely circulated, around 3,000 people gathered outside the establishment on Sunday. Police had a tough time managing the crowd, as the rumour was that around 6,000 people will be vaccinated at the venue, while the management had made arrangements for only 1,000 people in the 45+ age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-18-construction-workers-to-get-jab-in-mohali-today-101620575053803.html
