11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity gets Covid coordination committee||Facing flak for poor tricity coordination in Covid management, Chandigarh, Haryana and Punjab on Tuesday decided to constitute a committee comprising deputy commissioners of UT, Panchkula and Mohali. The committee will meet twice a week online and coordinate on various issues pertaining to Covid-19 management, such as lockdown restrictions, hospitals, supply lines, and vaccinations.The three administrations were forced into action after directions from the Punjab and Haryana high court on setting up a unified command centre for the tricity Covid management.The division bench of justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh, which was hearing a petition related to Covid-19 surge, had last week observed: “In case a joint strategy is drawn up, it may be easier to tackle the present crisis. In case, there is a common platform to deliberate upon the strategies to be adopted, it would be easier to tackle the challenges posed by the pandemic.”On Tuesday, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore called a meeting of chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana.In the meeting, it was also decided that director, health services, of Mohali, Panchkula and Chandigarh will also meet twice a week over video conference to decide uniform and coordinated approach in medical treatment of Covid patients, under the guidance of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).In case of emergencies, anywhere in the tricity, the authorities concerned will provide oxygen, medicines and medical equipment, such as ventilators, to each other to avoid any untoward incident.The UT will also request the high court for a separate quota of 5 metric ton of liquid medical oxygen, exclusively for PGIMER.Missing coordinationEven though the tricity is a de facto single urban complex, the three administrations have struggled to have a uniform policy on Covid management. Varied night curfew timings, lockdown restrictions and failure to assist to each other has plagued the pandemic management. Notably, the three DCs already attend the regular Covid review meeting chaired by the UT administrator, but it has failed to lead to any improvement in coordination.“In the scheme of state government policy formulation, the local DCs have a very limited say. The UT’s attempts at involving higher officials regularly in the tricity coordination have not yielded positive results. This has been the case during the pandemic and also previously in management of other important issues. For instance, in the current scenario, a committee comprising health secretaries of the three governments could have been constituted,” said a senior Chandigarh official, requesting anonymity.Dormant mechanismThe institutionalised interstate coordination mechanism for the tricity has been lying dormant. One such apex body – interstate coordination committee – hasn’t met for the past six years. R Srinivas, town and country planner, ministry of housing and urban affairs, said: “An interstate coordination committee for the three administration was set up by the Centre in 1975. Its last meeting was held in 2016, but since then, it is dormant. The committee comprises of chief secretaries of all three governments, and secretaries from the Union ministries.”Similarly, the apex committee of tricity, comprising the UT administrator and chief secretaries, hasn’t met for more than a year and a half. Most of its previous recommendations, too, largely remain on paper. For instance, a committee under the UT adviser, set up to look into and resolve health and transport issues of the tricity, has not much to show as results.Even the North Zonal Council, headed by the Union home minister, last met around two years ago. The council meetings are attended by state chief ministers along with the UT administrator.Urvashi Gulati, former chief secretary, Haryana, said: “Formal institutions have always been there for coordination between the three governments. Though, in normal times there have been instances when there was lack of urgency, the current circumstances require utmost coordination so that the pandemic’s impact can be minimised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-gets-covid-coordination-committee-101620757408082.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dhuri AAP leader Sandeep Singla among 3 killed in car accident||Sandeep Singla, the Aam Aadmi Party leader from Dhuri, and two of his friends died in a car accident near Khamano in Fatehgarh Sahib district on Monday night. Police said that Singla along with the two men were headed towards Chandigarh but a truck coming in the opposite direction hit the car. Singla’s friends were identified as Manpreet Singh of Bardwal village near Dhuri and Vijay Agnihotri, alias Goldy, of Ludhiana. Also read: Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtSingla is survived by his wife, two minor children and parents. He was actively involved in helping people during the Covid-19 pandemic. Leader of opposition and Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema termed Singla’s death painful and described him as a dedicated AAP volunteer. Harminder Singh, the station house officer at Khamano, said, “Singla and Manpreet died on the spot, while Goldy succumbed to injuries in hospital. A case has been registered against truck driver Rakesh Kumar, who was driving on the wrong side.” The case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhuri-aap-leader-sandeep-singla-among-3-killed-in-car-accident-101620733046645.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||4 test positive at Advanced Cancer Institute in Bathinda||A day after Punjab health minister OP Soni said that cancer treatment is going on smoothly at the Bathinda-based Advanced Cancer Institute, officials reported that four people have tested positive for Covid-19 at ACI.Sharing data of the outpatient department, Soni had on Monday said that 402 patients were registered at the OPD from May 1 to 8 after the Covid care centre was started at the ACI. He assured cancer patients that full care is being taken for their treatment.However, four persons, including three personnel of ACI hospital staff, are among four people who have tested positive since Monday. The ACI authorities were alerted about the infection status of the two staffers, including a laboratory technician, on Tuesday morning. An ambulance driver and a woman patient tested positive on Monday and the woman was admitted to the isolation ward. Also read: Delhi records 12,481 Covid-19 cases, positivity rate drops further to 17.76%Healthcare experts have already cautioned that starting the Covid care facility on the second floor of the ACI could cause the virus to spread at the institute. “Paramedic and technical staff of the ACI are working in the Covid ward. The cancer institute’s laboratory is also being used for examining samples of Covid patients. Since there is an unchecked intermingling of people in the Covid care facility and the cancer hospital, there is a possibility of people at the ACI catching coronavirus infection,” said a doctor at the cancer hospital, requesting anonymity. Despite reservations by the ACI management and health experts about using the institute to treat pandemic patients, the state authorities started a 25-bed level 2 facility with oxygen support on April 30. Sources said the average occupancy of Covid patients remains between 18-22. ACI director Dr Deepak Arora said he would take up the matter with authorities. “We are concerned about the health of our cancer patients. The line of treatment compromises the immunity level of a cancer patient, and they remain vulnerable to any infection,” said Dr Arora. OPD open but surgeries remain suspended The ACI is a constituent of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, and caters to cancer patients from Bathinda and adjoining districts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. Dr Arora said in view of the patients’ needs, the outpatient department (OPD), chemotherapy and radiotherapy services were resumed but surgeries remain suspended indefinitely. The ACI sources said that the state authorities should have taken domain experts on board while turning an exclusive cancer treatment institute into a Covid hospital. Delaying therapy or surgery not an optionThey said that doctors were unable to start the new treatment schedule. A doctor said it would be unfair to conclude normalcy at ACI on the basis of the OPD footfall. “Cancer patients need a specialised treatment, and they hardly have the option to delay therapies or surgery. After resuming the OPD on Friday, we got about 100 patients on Monday, one-third of the patient load in the last few months of the pandemic. It reflects their urgent dependency on experts amid the pandemic but the doctors at ACI are unable to start new treatment, considering their exposure to the high-infection environment,” said another cancer expert at the hospital. The experts say the state authorities should take over any public complex or educational institute in Bathinda and start the level-2 centre where oxygen supply facility is needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-test-positive-at-advanced-cancer-institute-in-bathinda-101620729986704.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||JJP reaches out to villages in Haryana for shot in the arm||Foot soldiers of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the coalition partner of the BJP, will fan out in villages to buttress the Haryana government’s battle against Covid-19 that has sent alarm bells ringing in the hinterland. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday held three meetings with state and national executive members of the JJP followed by another round of talks with district presidents and legislators to discuss ways to allay misconceptions of villagers about Covid-19 testing and vaccination. Also read: Allow more pharma companies to manufacture Covid vaccine: Delhi CM to CentreJJP sources said Chautala enquired from participants if they had taken the vaccine. “Much to his surprise, the response was not encouraging,” a JJP leader said, requesting anonymity. The elderly JJP executive members, who had not taken the vaccine on one pretext or the other, were asked to get inoculated on Tuesday itself before heading to the villages to spread awareness. “Younger members were assigned the duty of accompanying their older counterparts to vaccination centres,” the leader said. It was on the basis of this feedback from the national and state executives of the JJP that Chautala decided to position party leaders in villages to help the already hard-pressed administration. JJP outreach in Hisar, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Jind Each office-bearer was asked to adopt a village and generate awareness among residents. The JJP workers will distribute masks and hand sanitisers besides urging people to get tested and vaccinated. Initially, the focus of the JJP outreach will be in Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Jind districts. Another key task will be to discontinue the practice of groups of men sharing hookah in the villages. The JJP’s move to adopt villages is being seen as an attempt to reach out to Jat-dominated areas and make inroads into villages where JJP leaders, including the deputy CM, are unable to enter due to the boycott call of farmers protesting against the BJP-led Centre’s farm laws. Funds for isolation wards in villages JJP sources say another key outcome of the party’s executive committee meeting was the decision of the state government to release funds for setting up isolation wards in villages. The deputy CM met panchayat department officials and decided on another major step to curb the Covid spread that is growing exponentially in the rural areas. The state government will release funds up to ₹50,000 to all gram panchayats of the state to set up isolation wards with 10 beds, pulse oximeters, steam machines, thermometers and blood pressure monitoring machines. A five-member committee, comprising an auxiliary nurse, nambardar, gram sachiv and two public representatives will run these isolation wards in community centres, chaupals, government schools and anganwadi centres of the villages. The government will allocate ₹30,000 to all villages with a population of less than 10,000 and villages with more than 10,000 residents will get ₹50,000. The government has sent 8,000 teams to villages to increase Covid testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jjp-reaches-out-to-villages-in-haryana-for-shot-in-the-arm-101620725845883.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Covid positivity rate rises by 6% in a week||Himachal Pradesh recorded a Covid-19 positivity rate of 26.3% last week, a jump of more than 6% as compared to the rate from April 26 to May 2. “The districts of Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Sirmour and Solan have recorded a positivity rate of more than 20% between May 3 and 9,” state in-charge of the National Rural Health Mission Dr Nipun Jindal said on Tuesday. Also read: India registers 329,942 new Covid-19 cases, infection tally reaches 22.9 millionThe state has ramped up testing as it conducted 1,02,455 Covid tests last week, while 84,351 tests were done in the preceding week. The case fatality ratio has shown a decline in the past week from 1.38% to 1.17% the week before. Health department spokesman Gopal Berry said that the state-level Covid clinical committee is conducting virtual capacity building sessions for stakeholders. One such session was held on May 8 and 9 for the judicious and appropriate use of remdesivir and oxygen with the focus on the management of patients in home isolation. Experts of the State Institute of Health and Family Welfare organised a webinar on the management of paediatrics and epidemiology diagnosis and infection prevention practices. Bedsides, a panel discussion of experts was held on the treatment to be started and precautions to be taken during home isolation. Efforts on to normalise non-Covid health services The health department is making efforts to provide non-Covid essential services such as maternal, newborn and child-care besides dialysis, tuberculosis treatment, HIV and maintenance of voluntary blood donation. Chief medical officers and medical superintendents have been asked not to delay essential services to any patient for want of a Covid-negative test result. “All health-care providers should follow precautions, observe infection control procedures and get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19,” Berry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-covid-positivity-rate-rises-by-6-in-a-week-101620712705105.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to provide ₹5,000 to each family below poverty line as Covid-19 aid||Haryana Government will provide ₹5,000 to the families below the poverty line (BPL) in the state as their livelihood has been affected during the Covid-19 pandemic, said state home minister Anil Vij on Monday.Speaking to ANI, the minister said, "It has been decided to provide ₹5,000 to the families below the poverty line as their livelihood has been affected due to Covid-19. They are facing a lot of difficulties."He further spoke about the epidemic alert 'Surakshit Haryana' announced in the state for one week, from May 10 to 17 May. He said restrictions added to regulations of the first lockdown and will continue. "Gathering of more than 11 people is prohibited, even at weddings and funerals. No procession is allowed," he added.In order to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, Haryana on Sunday extended lockdown for another week starting from May 10 to May 17, said the state government.Haryana reported 12,718 new Covid-19 cases and 161 deaths in the last 24 hours, said the state health department on Monday. The new fatalities pushed the Covid-19 death toll to 5,766. Meanwhile, the active number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana stands at 1,13,232.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-provide-rs-5-000-to-each-family-below-poverty-line-as-covid-19-aid-101620697522103.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala man, mother booked for wife’s suicide||A man and his mother were booked after his wife allegedly committed suicide at a village in Ambala, the police said on Monday.The victim’s brother, who is from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, told the police that both his sisters were married in the same house, and the elder sister’s husband had called him on Sunday to inform him of her death, citing heart attack, adding that he had performed the cremation before they or the police could reach.“But when we reached there, my younger sister told me that their mother-in-law and the elder sister’s husband had fought with both of them on Saturday for not bringing enough dowry. On Sunday morning, my sister was found hanging and the younger one fainted soon after the incident,” he said in his police statement.Police said a case under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (casing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), 306 (abetment of suicide) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the mother-son duo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-man-mother-booked-for-wife-s-suicide-in-ambala-101620681321606.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No tracing for workplace contacts of PGIMER’s health workers||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has revised its quarantine policy for health-care workers under which no contact tracing will be conducted for workplace contacts, who will continue to perform duties if they do not exhibit any symptoms.The institute is facing an acute workforce crunch with around 450 Covid-19 patients currently being treated, while around 1,000 patients are admitted for other ailments.The institute has already closed the physical out-patient department (OPD) and stopped conducting scheduled surgeries to divert more health workers to emergency and Covid duties.In the last 40 days, around 600 health workers in the institute have been found infected while close to 1,300 have recovered from the infection since the pandemic began.“There will be no risk assessment and contact tracing of workplace contacts of Covid-19 positive health-care workers. All workplace contacts who are asymptomatic will be continuing their duties following all measures, and will be tested only if they develop symptoms. Symptomatic workplace contacts will be tested and will follow isolation guidelines if they test positive ,” the new guidelines state.The health workers have been asked to report immediately to their area administrative in-charge if they develop fever, cough, loss of taste/smell, breathlessness, or any other Covid-related symptom. Administrative in-charge should arrange for testing of symptomatic persons at the earliest, and till the test report arrives, the symptomatic health worker should be refrained from doing any work in the hospital and they can join back if they test negative or can avail medical leave or casual leave/earned leave if they need rest.Quarantine, isolation scenariosHealth-care workers who are household contacts of Covid-19 positive patients will be asked to quarantine for 7 days starting from the last day of exposure. They will be tested on Day 7 if they are asymptomatic or earlier in case they develop symptoms. They will be back on duty after Day 7 with a negative report.Health workers with mild illness will be put under home isolation for 10 days from the day of testing, irrespective of the date of onset of symptoms. They can join back on Day 11 provided they are asymptomatic and afebrile for 24 hours without antipyretics. If the health worker remains symptomatic, they should inform their administrative head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-no-tracing-for-workplace-contacts-of-pgimer-s-health-workers-101620680541513.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge in Chandigarh: 70% convicts at Model Jail to be released on special parole||On the directions of a high-powered committee, around 70% of convicted prisoners are set to be released from the Chandigarh Model Jail on special parole.The meeting was held on the directions of the Supreme Court and was chaired by justice Jaswant Singh, judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court and executive chairman of the State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh.The committee has directed that four categories of prisoners, including those who were at present on parole, be granted a 90-day special parole.Those convicts who have previously availed special parole should be granted a fresh one (as a one-time measure only) on the same set of sureties. Those who had surrendered in time and those convicts who have not availed a parole or a special parole to date, and who have now applied for one, will be eligible.The special parole is not for foreign nationals or those who have violated the special parole conditions and have been re-arrested during the last six months.At present there are 302 convicted prisoners in the jail, of which 225 (roughly 70%) will benefit from the said order. As per the details, 103 convicts have not availed any parole to date while 164 convicts have availed one; 17 are presently on parole.Three convicts were rearrested after parole violation, 25 are lodged with pending cases, bad conduct or restricted under sections, and there are seven foreigners or high-risk prisoners.Meanwhile, there are 625 undertrial prisoners of which roughly 160 are those who have cases for which the maximum prescribed punishment is 7 years or less who will benefit from the fresh orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-in-chandigarh-70-convicts-at-model-jail-to-be-released-on-special-parole-101620679761365.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Admission process at Chandigarh govt schools deferred as two teachers die of Covid||UT director of school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar on Monday suspended all admission-related processes at government schools till May 31. Brar said that the education department will take up the matter of prioritised vaccination for teachers with UT director of health services. The decision comes after two teachers succumbed to Covid in the last three days. Also, government school teachers deputed on Covid duty, have sought that they are allowed to stay at home for some time. Teachers on Covid duty are deputed outside containment zones or government hospitals along with officials of the UT administration. Amit Mittal, who worked as a junior basic training (JBT) teacher at Government Model Senior Secondary School, passed away from Covid on Monday. He was working under the Samagra Shiksha Scheme and had been posted on Covid duty. Three days ago, Anju, a maths teacher at Government Model High School, Sector 46, had lost her life to the virus on Saturday. Swarn Singh Kamboj, president of the UT Cadre of Educational Employees Union, said, “We have been asking authorities for concession to teachers. Those above the age of 45 or with co-morbidities must be excused from Covid duty. They also must be vaccinated on priority.” Savinder Singh, chairman of the Joint Action Committee of Teachers, UT Chandigarh, added, “We met with education department officials on Monday and told them that teachers on Covid duty should be considered frontline workers and be given a benefit of ₹50 lakh ex-gratia in case of any untoward incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/admission-process-at-chandigarh-govt-schools-deferred-as-two-teachers-die-of-covid-101620679222810.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Western Command’s 100-bed hospital at Panjab University now operational||As part of the city’s continued fight against the raging pandemic, the Western Command on Monday dedicated three Covid hospitals, which will function under the Indian Army’s Operation Namaste.Lieutenant General RP Singh, the general officer commanding-in-chief, announced the operationalisation of the Command’s first 100-bed hospital at the international students’ hostel of Panjab University, Sector 25.The hospital will be run in coordination with the UT administration. Administrator VP Singh Badnore was also present on the occasion.The other two hospitals include Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hospital in Faridabad and Rajindra Government Hospital in Patiala, which will be made operational on May 11 and 12, respectively.The hospitals have been set up on a war footing in coordination with the civil administration of the respective states/UT. The hospitals have the capacity to accommodate and treat mild to moderate and symptomatic patients suffering from Covid-19.The army has deployed its own doctors, nursing officers and paramedics for treatment as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research. The civil administration is facilitating essential amenities, service management, uninterrupted oxygen supply, patient admission and discharge and ambulance services at these hospitals.The hospitals will also cater to basic laboratory services, X-ray and pharmacy. The admission in these hospitals will be open to all and coordinated by the chief medical officers of the respective districts. The discharge of patients will be on recommendation of the army medical officer treating them. Patients requiring a higher grade of treatment will be shifted to other hospitals as per the availability of ICU facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/western-command-s-100-bed-hospital-at-panjab-university-now-operational-101620678981953.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Morning walker killed after being hit by pick-up truck in Mohali||A 42-year-old man, out for a morning walk with his wife, was killed after a pick-up truck hit him near Diplast Chowk in Phase 2 on Monday.Police said the deceased, Saurav Goyal, was a resident of Phase 1 and ran a spare parts shop in Phase 9.After the accident, the driver of the Mahindra Pick-up (PB65-AK-8434) rushed Goyal to Cheema Hospital in Phase 4, from where he was taken to the Phase-6 civil hospital and again referred to ESI Hospital in Phase 7, Industrial Area. However, doctors declared him brought dead.The accused driver fled after dropping Goyal at the ESI Hospital. He has been booked. The deceased is survived by his wife and two children, who are studying in Class 7 at a private school in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/morning-walker-killed-after-being-hit-by-pick-up-truck-in-mohali-101620678921225.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Negative Covid report mandatory at Chandigarh airport||Air travellers need to produce a negative Covid test report not older than 72 hours or a vaccination certificate over two weeks old before boarding a flight at the Chandigarh International Airport.Issuing the order, district magistrate Girish Dayalan said the airlines will be responsible for ensuring compliance. Also, all incoming passengers, headed to a destination in Punjab, need to install COVA mobile app before exiting the airport. They also necessarily need to keep their smart phone’s Bluetooth and GPS on. Airlines have been directed to publicise this extensively to ensure this information is available to passengers well before departure. Any violation will invite action as per law. Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) CEO will monitor compliance and report any deviations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/negative-covid-report-mandatory-at-chandigarh-airport-101620678681191.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s Covid cases break yet another record, tricity touches fresh peak||Mohali on Monday reported an all-time high of 1,382 Covid-19 cases, shattering its previous single-day record by 30%.The district’s last peak was reported on May 5, when 1,056 people had tested positive.With this, the tricity also touched a fresh peak of 2,612 infections, up from its last record of 2,527 cases on May 5, even though there was a dip in cases in Chandigarh and Panchkula on Monday.Chandigarh reported 863 cases, 4% lesser than 895 on Sunday, while Panchkula logged 367 cases, 30% lower than 477 a day ago.The daily tricity deaths, though down from 30 to 25, still remained high. Mohali again led the toll with 14 deaths, followed by seven in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula.Over the past two weeks, the tricity has witnessed 20+ deaths as many as 12 times, hitting an all-time high of 38 on May 5.Similarly, the cases have remained over 2,000 on 15 out of the 19 days since April 22 when the figure had first crossed the 2,000 mark.23,096 cases active in tricityThe fresh cases took tricity’s active cases to 23,096, 6% higher than 21,793 on Sunday.Chandigarh’s total cases reached 51,070, of which 8,653 patients are still getting treated at hospitals or in home isolation. A total of 714 persons were cured on Monday, taking the number of recoveries to 41,842 (81%), but still behind the national average of 82.4%. Of the seven fatalities, six were females.In Mohali, the active cases soared to a record 11,758. The cumulative cases stand at 56,140, of which 43,676 patients (78%) have been cured and 706 have died. Panchkula’s caseload is lowest at 25,927. There are 2,685 active cases in the district, while the recoveries are 22.359 (88%) and 253 people have died.Monday’s casualties in the district included an 84-year-old man from Railly, a 66-year-old man from Sector 11, a 60-year-old man from Sector 15 and a 58-year-old woman from Chandimandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-covid-cases-break-yet-another-record-tricity-touches-fresh-peak-101620678441310.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown extended in Chandigarh till May 18||With the Covid-19 pandemic showing no signs of slowing down, the UT administration on Monday extended the partial lockdown by another week. The administration had clamped seven-day partial lockdown on May 4, which was to end at 5am on May 11. But now, it will continue till 5 am on May 18. As such, non-essential shops will continue to remain closed. Night curfew, prohibiting public movement, will be implemented from 6pm to 5am. Day time movement is allowed, but the administration has advised residents to avoid non-essential travel. Also, in line with Haryana’s directions, UT has also curtailed gatherings at marriage functions. While earlier, 50 people were allowed, the number has been capped at 20. Besides, written permission from the deputy commissioner will be needed for the event. Even for funerals, the number has been reduced from 20 to 10, though no separate permission is required. The decisions were taken at the Covid review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The current figures relating to the pandemic, including positivity rate, are dangerous. A 15-day continuous lockdown is what the health experts have suggested. So, we have extended the lockdown by one week. The results should be visible after two weeks are completed.”But, if the situation did not improve, Parida said, the administration will rethink its strategy.Panchkula shut, partial curfew in MohaliIn neighbouring Panchkula, there is a complete lockdown till May 17, during which public movement is allowed only with an e-pass. Only 11 people are allowed at weddings.In Mohali’s urban areas, shops are allowed to open on odd-even basis from 5am to 5pm, following which night curfew will remain in force from 6pm to 5am. But, all shops are allowed to remain open in villages. Weekend lockdown will continue, when only shops selling essentials will remain open. Four-wheelers can ferry only two people from the same house at a time, while only person should ride a two-wheeler.Unified command centre for tricityKeeping in view the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court for setting up a unified command centre for tricity, the administrator will be holding a meeting with the three chief secretaries on Tuesday. “We will be discussing tricity’s Covid management during the chief secretaries’ meeting called by the administrator. Improvement in coordination with regard to the lockdown, accessibility to hospitals, oxygen supply and other measures will be taken up,” said Parida. Badnore also directed top doctors to meet through video conference every day, where senior doctors from PGIMER should guide all concerned regarding new medications and up-to-date protocol for treatment of Covid patients. He also stressed that there should be an audit of each fatality, so to improve medical treatment and rectify lapses, if any.30 areas notified as restricted zonesTwo days after the UT administration declared 33 micro-containment zones, it added 30 more areas to the list on Monday. The affected areas are spread across Sectors 7, 20, 27, 28, 29, 33, 47, 48 (Astha Apartment), Manimajra, Govind Pura, Shanti Nagar, Modern Housing Complex, Mauli Jagran Complex, Mauli Jagran (Sunder Nagar), Behlana, Hallomajra, Kishangarh and Ram Darbar, Phase 2. District magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and sanitation of these areas will continue, and residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-extended-in-chandigarh-till-may-18-101620678083441.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Turmoil in Punjab Cong: 3 ministers seek Sidhu’s scalp after his fresh salvo at Captain||The ruling Congress appears to be in turmoil in Punjab over the sacrilege and police firing cases with former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu again targeting chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday and three cabinet ministers demanding disciplinary action against the “dissident MLA” for his anti-party actions. While the Amritsar East MLA, who has been hitting out at Amarinder on a daily basis, accused the chief minister of “nefarious intentions”, five party leaders, including three cabinet ministers and two senior MPs, met here at jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s official residence and discussed the disenchantment in the party over the botched-up investigation in the politically sensitive case. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and cabinet ministers Charanjit Singh Channi and Gurpreet Singh Kangar were among the party leaders present at the minister’s residence. “There is widespread resentment among the party MLAs who are not sure how they will go and face the people in their constituencies if justice is not delivered in these cases,” Bittu told a private channel said after the meeting, demanding prompt action against the Badals. Bittu assails AmarinderAttacking the CM, Bittu said if he cannot do anything, he should give the home ministry to some other party MLA or member of his cabinet to ensure justice in the matter. “Our fight is not against any individual, but it is a question of our identity and existence. We are trying to pressure our government to get the new SIT to file the challan in the police firing cases in a month and ensure day-to-day hearing,” Bajwa said after the meeting.The chief minister’s camp tried to placate Randhawa, who had offered his resignation at a cabinet meeting two weeks ago over the special investigation fiasco. Randhawa and Channi, who has also been critical of the state government’s handling of the matter, were among half-a-dozen MLAs who met Sidhu and his close associate, Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, in Panchkula last week. The meeting was seen as an attempt by the Captain’s detractors led by Sidhu to bring together the ministers and MLAs upset over the 2015 incident. One of the discontented ministers also called up the SC MLAs for a meeting here on Tuesday. “He asked me to come to Chandigarh to discuss issues related to the community,” said a party legislator who did not want to be named. Taking exception to Sidhu’s continued no-holds barred attacks, the chief minister’s camp has demanded strict disciplinary action against him. Cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Sunder Sham Arora and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said the dissident MLA’s unmitigated onslaught on the CM was an act of gross indiscipline and an attempt to undermine the Congress government. Sidhu’s personal attack on Amarinder was an anti-party act, which called for immediate disciplinary action, they said in a statement. Open rebellion can trigger unrest: Capt camp“The open rebellion is damaging the interests of the Congress at a time when the state assembly elections are less than a year away,” they said. The ministers warned that the failure to take action against Sidhu now could trigger unrest in the party’s state unit, which would be fatal for the party, which has suffered major electoral blows in the recently concluded assembly polls in five states. The ministers appealed to the party’s central leadership to nip this insurgence in the bud. The demand for action came hours after Sidhu accused Amarinder of first attacking the high court and then accepting its orders from the backdoor to deflect people’s attention. “Nefarious intentions are evident. No high court stopped you in four-and-a-half years! When DGP/CPS appointments are set aside, orders are challenged in higher courts. Now, first you attack the high court, then from backdoor accept same orders to deflect people’s attention,” Sidhu posted on Twitter, sharing the video clip of the chief minister’s interview to a private channel in which he called the court order as “totally political” and “one sided”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/turmoil-in-punjab-cong-3-ministers-seek-sidhu-s-scalp-after-his-fresh-salvo-at-captain-101620677182198.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||18+ vaccination drive moves at snail’s pace as J&K awaits stocks||Amid a spike in Covid deaths and at a time when breaking the chain of the lethal virus holds key to tackle the pandemic, the vaccination programme for the 18-45 age group in Jammu and Kashmir has been moving at a snail’s pace. Though, as a part of the nationwide programme, Jammu and Kashmir also kick started the vaccination drive for optics at Srinagar and Jammu, it has not gained the desired momentum since then. A senior health official said, “Doses for the 18-45 age group haven’t arrived in sufficient quantity and as a result, the vaccination drive is moving at a snail’s pace.” The J&K had ordered 1.24 crore doses for the age group but given just 1.5 lakh — 75,000 for Kashmir and as many for Jammu. “Inadequate amount of doses were given to us and hence the vaccination has been slow for this age group. As and when the Centre provides us more stocks, the 18-45 age group will be vaccinated accordingly,” said the official. He, however, informed that the vaccination of people above 45 years of age was going on without any hiccups. The Jammu and Kashmir had ordered 1.24 crore Covid vaccines to cover the entire 18-45 age group. It may be stated here that on April 30, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had stated that the inoculation will not begin on May 1 for the age group as stocks were awaited. However, on May 1, the government all of a sudden came up with a brief statement with some pictures of the youngsters showing them getting the first jab in Jammu and Srinagar. “It was purely an exercise for optics,” said another health official, adding that they didn’t have sufficient stocks with them to inoculate the age group. The government had also requested those falling in the age group not to crowd vaccination centres without booking slots. The government has asked the age-group to register themselves on COWIN App for getting first jab. On Monday, a couple of slots were opened in Jammu and Srinagar. It may be stated here that the L-G Manoj Sinha announced free vaccination to the 18-45 age group as well in Jammu and Kashmir. “Covaxin will be administered to this age group free of cost. It will be by prior registration and prior appointment only,” he had said. A youngster, Shruti, 21, said, “I am trying to get myself registered on the COWIN, but the portal is not being opened. What sort of arrangement this government has made amid this raging pandemic?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18-vaccination-drive-moves-at-snail-s-pace-as-j-k-awaits-stocks-101620676941063.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||56 people succumb to virus, 3,614 more test positive in J&K||As many as 56 people lost their lives to Covid-19 and 3,614 fresh infections were reported in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, taking the overall death toll to 2,782 and total cases to over 2.2 lakh.So far, 500 people have died of the disease this month in the UT, making it the highest monthly death toll since the pandemic began in March last year. In September last year when the first wave had peaked, as many as 478 persons had lost their lives to the virus. Of the 56 deaths in the UT, 39 were reported in Jammu division and 17 in Kashmir. The month of April so far has recorded the highest monthly case tally of 45,123 infections besides 289 deaths this year as against 4,519 cases and 37 deaths in March. Of the new cases, 2,118 are from Kashmir while 1,496 are from Jammu, besides 75 travellers.“Wearing masks below the chin doesn’t serve its purpose, venturing out unnecessarily is affecting the management and containment of virus. The public needs to understand that efforts are being made to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus and there is no need to create panic,” said Dr Khurshid Ahmad Bhat, consultant, endocrinologist at Super Speciality Hospital in Srinagar. “More and more people should come forward to get vaccinated. Besides, repeated testing after an asymptomatic person has recovered is also not required,” he added. Officials said with 701 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 658 in Jammu district, 343 in Budgam, 254 in Kulgam and 187 in Kupwara.The number of active cases has reached 49,951, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.Dr Khurshid cautioned that venturing out unnecessarily will assist the spread of virus. “During the first wave of Covid, there was fear among people and they avoided going out which is why the cases were less. But now people have been moving out freely without fear or concern of getting infected which has resulted in increased number of cases, morbidity and deaths,” he added. Nearly 2,855 patients recovered on Monday, including 1,785 from Kashmir and 1,070 from Jammu.As many as 1,67,813 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 76.08% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.7 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/56-people-succumb-to-virus-3-614-more-test-positive-in-jk-101620676341654.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Congress forms Covid relief work panel, starts helpline||Himachal Pradesh Congress has formed a Covid-19 relief work committee which would be headed by senior leader and former minister GS Bali.The panel will reach out to the needy people besides monitoring pandemic situation in the state, said Bali.He said that the party has also constituted subcommittees across the state which would work under the supervision of the state panel. He said that party has launched a corona helpline number 01892-260038 which would be functional round the clock within two days.“Any person needing any kind of help can call on this number and he or she will be provided assistant at earliest by teams of party volunteers,” he said.Bali also told that the party has also launched three free ambulances in the Kangra-Chamba region.“The ambulance service will be launched in the entire state in coming days,” he said.The former minister said that the party’s objective is not only save people from infection but also spread awareness. He said party would also provide Covid-19 kits to the frontline warriors in the state.“We are also formulating a plan to carry out sanitisation drive across the state. The campaign would start from urban areas and later would be expanded to block level and village level,” he said.Questions absence of health minister The Congress leader further questioned the absence of state health minister Rajiv Saizal during the hour of crisis.“Instead of playing his part in pandemic situation the health minister has disappeared,” he said.He urged the government to take preventive measures to stop black marketing of medicines and medical equipment and ensure that medicines and oximeters are available at a regional cost to the general public.Bali was accompanied by AICC joint secretary Gokul Butail and state youth Congress president Nigam Bhandari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-forms-covid-relief-work-panel-starts-helpline-101620676280469.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP Police go tough on violators||Himachal Pradesh Police have gone tough on people violating Covid-safety protocols as the state underwent a seven-day strict lockdown to curb the coronavirus spread on Monday.The state has recorded 32,136 infections in first nine days of May while 389 people have lost their lives.Since Sunday (May 9), the state police have detected 603 violations of various kinds and collected a cumulative fine amounting to ₹3.8 lakh. Maximum 486 offences were pertaining to people not wearing masks. Highest 81 violations were reported in Kangra where violators were slapped a fine of ₹61,000. BBN police district reported 68 violations and collected the fine of ₹35,500 followed by Mandi, where ₹37,500 fine was realised from 66 violators. Kullu police collected ₹36,000 penalty from 36 offenders and in Shimla, 44 violators were fined ₹32,500.The state police had received permission for 79 marriage functions wherein surprise checks were held at 75 functions and a total of ₹24,000 was collected as fine. Maximum violations in marriage functions were found in Sirmaur, where ₹19,000 was realised from violators. One marriage was being held without permission in Sirmaur and the organisers were slapped a penalty of ₹5,000. Besides, 20 violations were found in market places and a fine of ₹35,500 was collected while 41 fines were that of violation during transport and penalty of ₹39,500 was realised. Penalty of ₹13,500 was also realised for not wearing mask while commuting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-police-go-tough-on-violators-101620676222057.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 govt docs quit job to join pvt hospitals in two weeks||At least three specialist doctors of Punjab health department who were deputed at Covid care wards quit the government service in the past fortnight to join as private healthcare facilities. This has given way to debate within the medical fraternity on the ethical side of such decisions at a time when their services were required more than ever before. Two of the doctors were posted at Bathinda civil hospital and temporarily attached with the Covid care wards keeping in view the increasing number of serious Covid-19 patients. The third doctor belongs to Muktsar district and was posted as a specialist (medicine) at Gidderbaha civil hospital. According to a senior health department official, one specialist doctor of Bathinda civil hospital, who was a Doctor of Medicine (MD), quit the government job and joined a private hospital of his relatives that offers treatment for Covid patients. Having served for two-and-half years in the department, he was serving the probation period, the official said. The second case, a lady doctor, also posted at Bathinda civil hospital, who was also a specialist in medicine, joined a private hospital providing Covid care, disclosed a senior district health functionary. The medico who was posted at Gidderbaha also joined a prominent private hospital providing Covid care. Two of three anesthesia specialists posted in Fatehgarh Sahib, who were also attached with Rajindra Medical College at Patiala, joined work at the health facilities for critical Covid patients after a delay of a week that too after the intervention of the senior officers, it is learnt. Third one is yet to report at the medical college, a senior officer from Patiala said. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Tejwant Dhillon said the doctors cited personal reasons behind the resignations. “We tried to persuade them but they didn’t budge. While one has deposited his one-month salary advance, the lady doctor is yet to clear her dues,” he said. A senior government functionary of the health department, requesting anonymity, said, “Initially it was said that the pressure of dealing with the Covid patients made these doctors to resign but now we have learnt that they have joined private hospitals treating patients infected with the virus.” Meanwhile, the medical fraternity is raising questions over the resignations of the doctors when society needed them the most. Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) association president Dr Gagandeep Singh said, “To be in government service or not is a personal right of a doctor but leaving the job at this hour is something unethical.” President of Punjab Rural Medical Services Association Dr Aslum Parvez said, “If any doctor is under stress due to Covid duties, he or she has so many other ways to address their problems, including getting psychiatric consultations or psychological evaluation. But if a government doctor leaves the job in lure of private practice during the pandemic, a criminal case should be registered against him or her under the Pandemic Act.” Health minister Balbir Sidhu said the department was aware of the stress or the other issues the staff was facing. “But it’s the time to show the human as well as the national character. It’s a fact that private hospitals pay more money to specialists but it’s the time to rise to the occasion. Doctors should lead by example,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-govt-docs-quit-job-to-join-pvt-hospitals-in-two-weeks-101620676162298.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims highest 198 deaths in a day in Punjab||Punjab on Monday witnessed highest ever single-day Covid-related deaths with 198 people losing their lives, besides 8,625 fresh infections. As per the government media bulletin, maximum 30 deaths occurred in Ludhiana, followed by 19 in Bathinda, 11 in Ferozepur, 10 in Amritsar, nine in Hoshiarpur, eight each in Fazilka and Jalandhar, and five in Faridkot. Ludhiana district also recorded maximum fresh infections with 1,470 people found positive for the virus, followed by 1,382 cases in SAS Nagar (Mohali). Other districts which registered the high load of fresh cases include Jalandhar (619), Patiala (676), Amritsar (561), Bathinda (629), Pathankot (396) and Muktsar (401). As many as 9,276 patients are on oxygen beds, while 298 are on ventilator support. SAS Nagar’s positivity rate highestSAS Nagar district registered highest positivity rate of 33.85% on the day, followed by 27.99% in Mansa, 24.21% in Fazilka, 22.07% in Pathankot, 20.51% in Bathinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-highest-198-deaths-in-a-day-in-punjab-101620675803091.html
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Partap Bajwa demands removal of AG Nanda||Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday demanded removal of advocate general Atul Nanda for shirking his duty with regards to the sacrilege cases and to safeguard the image of the Congress in the state. Bajwa said he has been consistently raising the issue of the incompetence of the AG with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and it is essential to remove the albatross from around the government’s neck by showing Nanda the door. “Nanda has continuously been hiring special counsels from New Delhi at high costs to burden the public exchequer. The continued failures in important cases have led to public questioning his competence for the job,” he said in a statement, reiterating his demand for Nanda’s removal. The MP said the son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh, who was killed in the police firing at Behbal Kalan in 2015, has declared that he will not cooperate with the new SIT, especially as the AG failed in his duty to competently argue the case in the high court. He said the fact that families of victims have started speaking out against the AG and have begun to refuse to help the SIT shows the serious lack of faith the citizens have in the AG in this most important fight for justice. “We have reached at a crossroads, both in the state and the party. The AG must be removed if the government wishes to truly rebuild bridges with the public. Anything less would also be breaking the solemn promise of the INC in bringing the perpetrators of these heinous crimes to justice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/partap-bajwa-demands-removal-of-ag-nanda-101620675441284.html
