12-05-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC open 25-bed Covid care centre in Bholath||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday opened its third Covid care facility in Punjab at Bholath town of Kapurthala district. The centre with 25 beds has been attached with Guru Ramdas Medical College and Hospital in Amritsar. Eight doctors and 14 nurses of the hospital have been deputed for providing 24x7 services there. The centre was inaugurated by SGPC president Jagir Kaur and it will provide free basic treatment to Covid-19 patients, besides having the arrangements to shift critical patients to various hospitals in case of emergency. Similar facilities are already operational at Gurdwara Manji Sahib, Alamgir in Ludhiana and Sri Damdama Sahib. Another ward is being set up at Gurdwara Sri Moti Bagh, Patiala, said Kaur. Jagir Kaur said, “The SGPC is also making efforts to procure Pfizer vaccine from the United States and a letter seeking permission for its use in India was sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.” She said an oxygen plant has been set up by the SGPC at Sri Guru Ramdas Medical College, Amritsar, but liquid oxygen is not avaialble. “An appeal has been made to the government of India to find an immediate solution so that the SGPC can keep serving the humanity,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-open-25-bed-covid-care-centre-in-bholath-101620842209856.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||67 arrests in Haryana in 18 days for black marketing of oxygen, remdesivir||The Haryana Police have seized 409 oxygen cylinders and 130 vials of remdesivir injection in the last 18 days and arrested 67 persons across state.As many as 33 FIRs have been registered since April 23 in this connection, director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said on Wednesday, adding that raids were conducted in different districts after receiving inputs of black marketing of medical oxygen and remdesivir on helpline numbers.“As the demand of oxygen and life-saving drug has gone up after surge in Covid-19 cases, people with an intention to make a quick buck have started selling oxygen cylinders and medicines at inflated prices,” he said.“Total 13 FIRs have been registered in connection with black-marketing of oxygen in seven different districts of Haryana and 19 accused were arrested in these cases leading to recovery of 409 oxygen cylinders. Similarly, 48 accused were arrested for involvement in black-marketing of remdesivir vials by lodging 20 FIRs against them in 11 different districts after recovery of 130 vials from their possession,” he added.The DGP urged people to inform police about black-marketing of oxygen and remdesivir on mobile number 7087089947 and toll-free number 1800-180-1314.HOME DELIVERY OF OXYGEN CYLINDERSV Umashankar, principal secretary to CM Manohar Lal Khattar, directed the deputy commissioners (DCs) that home delivery of oxygen cylinder refill to Covid patients in home isolation and patients suffering from other diseases should not remain pending for more than 12 hours.During a review meeting, he directed the DCs to continuously update the data regarding treatment of Covid patients in hospitals on the specified portal.Arrangements should be such that patients, who have been given cylinder once, must be delivered next cylinder on time, he said.“In case of difficulty in refilling oxygen cylinder, inform the headquarters immediately so that arrangements can be made,” he said, asking the DCs to depute doctors to enquire about health of people in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/67-arrests-in-haryana-in-18-days-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-remdesivir-101620838545879.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records more Covid recoveries than new cases three days in a row||Active Covid-19 cases in Haryana have decreased for the third consecutive day on Wednesday with the state witnessing more recoveries from the contagion than fresh cases since Monday, show the health department bulletins.The active case tally which was 1,16, 867 on Sunday came down to 1,07,058 on Wednesday, while the recovery rate on Wednesday improved and stood at 82.67% from 82.05% of the day earlier.The positivity rate on Wednesday was 18.84% while it was 21.46% on Tuesday and 25.30% on Monday.On Wednesday, Haryana recorded 14,264 recoveries against 12,490 new cases. There was a similar trend on Tuesday and Monday as the recoveries were about 4,000 more than the new cases.On Wednesday, at least eight districts recorded more recoveries than fresh cases and the recovery rate of 14 districts was hovering between 80% and 90%.In the past 12 days (till Wednesday), 1,51,176 new cases were detected and 1,44,900 patients recovered.Barring Karnal and Rewari, 165 people succumbed to the contagion in 20 districts of Haryana with the highest of 23 deaths in Rohtak. In Hisar and Bhiwani 16 people each died of Covid, 11 in Jind, 10 in Faridabad and nine in Gurugram.In the last 24 hours, 68,122 samples were taken in state and 12,490 new cases were reported.Gurugram recorded the highest of 2,747 new cases, Faridabad 1,237, Sonepat 710, Hisar 977, Ambala 368, Karnal 660, Panipat 482, Rohtak 450, Rewari 155, Panchkula 593, Kurukshetra 295, Yamunanagar 321, Sirsa 784, Mahendergarh 449, Bhiwani 802, Jhajjar 181, Palwal 189, Fatehabad 301, Kaithal 154, Jind 419, Nuh 63, and Charkhi Dadri 153.Meanwhile, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday reviewed the current situation of Covid in state in a meeting attended by cabinet ministers, the Vidhan Sabha speaker, deputy speaker and administrative secretaries of different departments.REPORTS OF VIRUS SPREAD IN RURAL AREAS IS FALSE: VIJTerming the reports that Covid-19 is spreading in the rural areas of Haryana false, state health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said that at present 62% patients from urban areas and 38% from rural are undergoing treatment at hospitals in state.“So, the information with regard to increase in spread of Covid in villages is wrong,” Vij said during a Covid review meeting with Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.He said that Haryana needed more doses of the vaccine so that the second dose can be administered on time. Vij said the first dose has been given to around 37 lakh people in Haryana and the second dose to eight lakh people.He said that there is a steady decline in Covid cases due to the lockdown imposed in state as the number of new cases has come down from 15,786 on May 4 to 11,637 on May 12.5 MINI-BUS AMBULANCES IN EVERY DISTRICTKhattar on Wednesday flagged-off 10 mini roadways buses converted into ambulances to rush serious patients of Covid-19 to hospitals in Panchkula and Ambala.The state government has converted 110 mini buses of Haryana Roadways into ambulances by replacing passenger seats with beds to take serious patients to hospital.Each district will get five mini-bus ambulances and each ambulance will have four beds, two oxygen cylinders, masks, sanitisers, PPE kits, first aid kits, etc.Also, every district will have one large AC bus that can be utilised as an isolation centre, the spokesperson said.PGIMS RECEIVES 10 OXYGEN CONCENTRATORS IN DONATIONHaryana-origin people residing in Australia have donated 10 oxygen concentrators each having 10 litre capacity to Rohtak’s Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS).In a letter to PGIMS vice-chancellor Dr OP Kalra, Sewa Singh Redhu, founding president of the Association of Haryanvis in Australia, appreciated the work done by PGIMS doctors amid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-more-covid-recoveries-than-new-cases-three-days-in-a-row-101620838427071.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 12,490 fresh Covid-19 cases; caseload nearing 653,000||Chandigarh, May 12 (PTI) Haryana on Wednesday reported 165 fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 6,075, while 12,490 fresh cases pushed the tally to 652,742.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the latest deaths include 23 from Rohtak, 16 each from Hisar and Bhiwani, 11 from Jind, 10 from Faridabad and 9 each from Gurgaon, Sirsa and Charkhi Dadri districts.Among the districts which continued to report a big spike in cases include Gurgaon (2,747), Faridabad (1,237), Hisar (977), Bhiwani (802) and Sirsa (784).The number of total active cases in the state was 1,07,058.The total recoveries so far were 539,609, with over 14,000 patients recuperating during the past 24 hours.   The cumulative positivity rate was 8.16 per cent.The recovery rate was 82.67 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-reports-12-490-fresh-covid-19-cases-caseload-nearing-653000-101620836757587.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Property tax rebate deadline extended till June 30 in Chandigarh||In view of the lockdown till May 18, the municipal corporation has extended the deadline for paying property tax with rebate from May 31 to June 30. The decision was taken during a meeting between mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and MC commissioner KK Yadav on Wednesday. Sharma said for 2021-22, residential taxpayers will get a rebate of 20% and commercial property taxpayers 10% till June 30.Thereafter, a penalty of 25% and 12% interest on dues will be levied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-tax-rebate-deadline-extended-till-june-30-inchandigarh-101620825702694.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||After Amritsar SOS, officials of 3 districts deliver oxygen overnight||Responding swiftly to the oxygen SOS call by two Amritsar-based hospitals, the district authorities of Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur worked through Tuesday night and managed to ensure the timely delivery of five metric tonnes of liquid oxygen to health institutions in Amritsar early on Wednesday. Also read: Centre approves procurement of 1.5 lakh units of DRDO’s ‘Oxycare’ systemOn being informed about the shortage of oxygen at two hospitals, Amritsar additional deputy commissioner Dr Himanshu Aggarwal called up the Hoshiarpur district administration for the supply on the instructions of the oxygen control room in Chandigarh on Tuesday night. The absence of a technical expert who could perform decanting from tank to tanker (reverse operation) posed a challenge in oxygen supply to Amritsar, so senior officials in Chandigarh asked Jalandhar ADC (development) Vishesh Sarangal to find a technical expert. Sarangal along with sub divisional magistrate Dr Jai Inder Singh and District Industries Centre general manager Deep Singh located Rashpal, a technical expert at Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences, Jalandhar, and a team contacted him at his house at 2.45am on Wednesday. He left to perform the crucial exercise at the Hoshiarpur oxygen plant, where he started decanting oxygen from tank to tanker and within an hour the liquid oxygen supply of five metric tonnes was despatched to Amritsar at 4am on Wednesday. Sarangal acknowledged the help from the Jalandhar police commissionerate in locating the address of technical experts and added that Hoshiarpur DC Apneet Raiyait and Showkat Ahmad Parray, the Patiala-based IAS officer in-charge of oxygen monitoring and supply in Punjab, monitored the events and ensured smooth coordination until oxygen was despatched to Amritsar. Six critical patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, had died after the medical oxygen supply dried up at a private hospital in Amritsar on April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-amritsar-sos-officials-of-3-districts-deliver-oxygen-overnight-101620820182117.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana revives Thikhri Pehra to fight Covid in villages||With the Covid-19 pandemic reaching the hinterland, the Haryana government has decided to adopt the traditional practice of community policing, known as Thikhri Pehra in local parlance, to check the spread of the disease. Last year, when coronavirus was spreading fast in towns and cities and started surfacing in villages, the state government put in place the practice of Thikhri Pehra, which proved to be effective in controlling the spread. Also read: Centre approves procurement of 1.5 lakh units of DRDO’s ‘Oxycare’ systemThikhri Pehra is a concept to keep a close vigil on the movement of people in and out of villages and ensuring containment of the virus. An official spokesperson said the government has issued an order to all deputy commissioners that they may issue or enforce necessary orders to start Thikhri Pehra by able-bodied adult male inhabitants of the village. The spokesperson said that the deputy commissioners can issue necessary orders within the next 24 hours and send a report to the principal secretary, general administration department, Vijayendra Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-revives-thikhri-pehra-to-fight-covid-in-villages-101620815971404.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||No black fungus case in HP, steroid use protocol issued||Steroids play a key role in preventing and mitigating the harmful effects of Covid-19 but may cause fungal infections, particularly mucormycosis that is also called black fungus, state health authorities have warned. No case of mucormycosis has been reported in Himachal Pradesh so far. Also read: Foreign aid for Covid-19 swiftly cleared for states, says Centre“Such infections have been seen where steroids are used without indication or are being used in self-medication by home-isolated patients or due to the use of a higher dose for a long period,” state director, National Health Mission, Dr Nipun Jindal said on Wednesday. In this backdrop, the state clinical committee has issued a treatment protocol for the judicious use of steroids in Covid patients. The protocol includes defined doses for Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms and severe symptoms and for home-isolation patients. The committee has recommended that in home-isolated patients, inhaled steroids such as Budesonide may be taken via metered doses inhaler/dry powder inhalers at a dose of 800 mcg twice a day for five days. However, it should be taken only if fever or cough persists after five days of disease. 30 dedicated Covid health centres set up Dr Jindal said a total of 1,40,759 cases of Covid-19 infection have been reported in the state to date. To manage the upsurge of cases in the second wave, efforts have been made to increase treatment facilities in the state. As on May 11, Himachal Pradesh has 30 dedicated Covid health centres. Of them, makeshift hospitals have been set up in Nalagarh (Solan); Palakwah (Una), IGMC (Shimla) and RPGMC (Tanda). Four makeshift hospitals are coming up in Una, Mandi and Kangra districts. He said information regarding bed availability in hospitals has been put in public domain at http://covidcapacity.hp.gov.in. The information provides segregation into standard, oxygen and ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-black-fungus-case-in-hp-steroid-use-protocol-issued-101620814531561.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab minister Inderjit Singh Zira passes away||Former Punjab minister Inderjit Singh Zira, 63, died after a prolonged illness in Chandigarh on Wednesday.His son, Kulbir Singh Zira, who is the Congress MLA from Zira constituency in Ferozepur district, shared the news of Inderjit Singh’s death on social media. Also read: ‘Minister didn’t suggest’: Centre on Maharashtra selectively halting vaccinationHe said the last rites would be held at their native village of Basti Butewali in Ferozepur district at 3pm on Wednesday.An aide of late Akali stalwart Gurcharan Singh Tohra, Inderjit Singh Zira was elected from the Zira assembly constituency in 1992 and 1997. He served as health and jails minister in the Shiromani Akali Dal government. Later, he joined the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punjab-minister-inderjit-singh-zira-passes-away-101620800430501.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Blood donation dips amid Covid lockdown in Himachal||Amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, hospitals in Himachal Pradesh are facing a shortage of blood. Blood donation camps that were slated for the coming weeks have been deferred due to the lockdown and the suspension of public transport to contain the spread of coronavirus. Nine such camps were to be held in Shimla by non-governmental organisations (NGOs), students and welfare groups to meet the requirement of the three main hospitals, namely the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Kamla Nehru Hospital. Also read: 348,421 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4,205 deaths reported in India in 24 hours“As of now, there are 300 units of the blood available with us. It’s enough for a week as the demand has also dropped to 50 units a day with elective surgeries on hold. But we fear that in the coming days, there may be a shortage,” says Sandeep Malhotra, the head of transfusion medicine at IGMC. Camps to be held in rural areas With blood donation camps being cancelled in towns, the NGOs are trying to motivate youngsters from the rural areas to volunteer for the cause. “We are organising a camp at Sairi near Jutogh,” says Ajay Srivastva, the founder of Umang Foundation that collected 800 blood units despite the lockdown last year. Sarabjeet Singh Bobby, the founder of Almighty Blessing, that runs free langars and ambulance services in Shimla, says: “We offer free pick-up and drop facility to people keen on donating blood.” Gap post-vaccination down to 14 days Besides the lockdown, the misconception related to abstaining from blood donation for 28 days post-vaccination is also being seen as a reason for reluctance among donors. Governor Bandaru Dattatreya had earlier notified that a person can’t donate blood till 28 days after vaccination but now he has reduced the period to 14 days. Red Cross appeals to people to donate blood Himachal Pradesh State Red Cross Hospital welfare section chairperson Dr Sadhna Thakur has appealed to people, particularly youngsters, going for the Covid vaccination to come forward for blood donation. “Blood donation before vaccination will help save many precious lives. During the pandemic, vaccination is proving to be effective. The vaccination of youngsters aged between 18 and 44 years will be rolled out soon and stocking blood before it would help in saving lives in future,” she said. Interested blood donors can contact the state Red Cross on phone numbers 0177-2621868 and 2629969.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blood-donation-dips-amid-covid-lockdown-in-himachal-101620799650555.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: HC asks BFUHS to declare results withheld due to litigation||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, to declare result of two MBBS students and facilitate their internship in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The court acted on the plea from these two students, who had told the court that they have completed the entire MBBS course. However, their final-year result has not been declared and therefore, they are unable to do their internship, which is a part of curriculum, as mandated by the Medical Council of India. The students were enrolled into MBBS course in 2015 under physically handicapped category, but subsequently declared ineligible by the varsity. The duo approached the high court against the decision, but lost their appeals before a single judge bench in 2016. Against that order, they had approached division bench and that appeal is still pending while both the students have completed their MBBS course. “Considering the pandemic crises, wherein even the final-year students of MBBS have been attending to the patients in general and particularly infected with Covid-19, we direct the university to declare the result and facilitate the admission of the applicants /appellants in the internship. The same shall be subject to final outcome of the appeals,” the court said, further ordering that matter be listed again within three months of physical resumption of hearings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-hc-asks-bfuhs-to-declare-results-withheld-due-to-litigation-101620765148775.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Relief eludes Covid-infected labourers, Punjab govt extends date to avail benefit||Despite the availability of unspent funds exceeding ₹1,000 crore with the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, the labour department has failed to provide compensation to unprivileged labourers who tested positive for Covid. Not even a single labourer has got such benefit in the state so far.The state government had announced compensation of ₹1,500 to registered labourers and up to ₹3,000 to a family. Ironically, no beneficiary has approached the department to get compensation as they are not aware of the scheme. According to the labour department, there are around 3.76 lakh registered workers in Punjab. In January this year, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had announced this financial aid for unprivileged labourers registered with the board. However, no efforts have been made by the labour department to make beneficiaries aware of the compensation. Initially, the last date of availing compensation was March 31 and later, the department has extended the date up to September 30. The purpose of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to labourers to run their household when they have to be isolated due to Covid-19.A senior official of the department said, “Unfortunately, the beneficiaries, who were supposed to get benefit of the compensation, didn’t know about it. Consequently, they were not applying for it. The department needs to create awareness among labourers to extend the benefits.”The latest report of comptroller and auditor general of India released in March this year revealed that against the available cess collection of ₹1,715.03 crore, the board could utilise only ₹696.2 crore and unspent amount of ₹1.018.7 crore was lying with the board.JP Singh, deputy labour commissioner, said, “We did not receive any application from beneficiaries to avail compensation after testing Covid positive.”Principal secretary of labour department, Vijay Kumar Janjua, said, “No amount of money has been released to labourers as compensation after getting infected with Covid-19. We have extended the date for six more months for beneficiaries so they can avail this benefit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/relief-eludes-covid-infected-labourers-punjab-govt-extends-date-to-avail-benefit-101620764488454.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Set up field hospital in Anandpur Sahib constituency: Tewari to Centre||Lok Sabha member from Anandpur Sahib and former Union minister Manish Tewari has written a letter to the central government and requested for a field hospital to be set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in his constituency besides oxygen plants for civil hospitals in Rupnagar and Nawanshahr. Tewari, in his letters to defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan Singh, said with 1,800 villages, his constituency comprises a large section that comes under the rural belt. He said as DRDO had been setting up field hospitals in different parts of the country under the PM Cares fund, hospitals with capacity of 250 to 1,000 beds be built here too.He said the Punjab government and the district administration would provide the required space for such hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/set-up-field-hospital-in-anandpur-sahib-constituency-tewari-to-centre-101620764428443.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP accuses state govt of snatching farmers’ land for Katra expressway||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday accused the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government of “forcibly snatching” the land of the farmers of Punjab for the construction of Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway under the Bharatmala Project. In a statement, Mann said the state government’s decree to occupy the farmers’ land should be cancelled immediately. “The Amarinder government had issued a notice to forcibly put the amount of the land being acquired for the expressway project in farmers’ accounts. At the same time, the farmers have been warned that if they do not take the government price of the land within 60 days and do not give possession of the land, then the land will be occupied with the help of Punjab Police,” he alleged. The AAP leader said the party was against the decree and would not allow the land to be taken away forcibly as the farmers were opposed to the collector rates. The chief minister was doing this to appease the Modi government, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-accuses-state-govt-of-snatching-farmers-land-for-katra-expressway-101620764008447.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cong battle lines deepen in Punjab amid louder rumblings||Battle lines have been drawn deep in the ruling Congress in Punjab over the sacrilege and police firing cases with the party’s state president Sunil Jakhar throwing in his lot with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and other detractors digging in their heels on Tuesday. While Bajwa continued his anti-Amarinder tirade against the state government’s failure to deliver justice in sacrilege and police firing cases and on the promised action against drug dealers, cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi held a show of strength by organising a meeting of about a dozen SC and BC party MLAs at his residence here to discuss the “pending poll promises”. Channi has been uncharacteristically trying to bring together ministers and MLAs discontented over the state government’s handling of the emotive sacrilege-related issues. His meeting, along with cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and some MLAs, with former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been attacking the chief minister non-stop for several days, last week had signalled the changing political equations in the party. Sidhu raised the issue of justice in the police firing case, stating that people of Punjab demand justice in one voice. “Alas! We are still awaiting justice,” he posted on Twitter. A number of jittery party MLAs have in the past two days warned the state government of consequences of its failure on this count in the assembly polls due early next year. ‘No one needs to worry’ Amid these rumblings of discontent, Jakhar, who was among the first to blame “lack of political supervision” for the legal setback and pressed for accelerated action on this politically sensitive issue, expressed confidence that the new special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the state government would take quick action under Amarinder’s leadership. “No one needs to worry. Things will be all right very soon,” the state unit president assured even as several Congress leaders are increasingly getting worried about the ongoing public spat between the top state leaders of the party. An upset Jakhar had offered to quit his post about two weeks ago over the government’s shoddy handling. His statement, which came a day after three ministers and two MPs got together with one of them publicly hitting out at the CM after the meeting, is being seen as a relief for the chief minister’s camp. The CM and his aides, particularly advocate general Atul Nanda, have been targeted by Sidhu and other detractors, but most of his ministers have maintained silence so far. Only three ministers, including Brahm Mohindra, have come out in his support and sought disciplinary action against Sidhu for “anti-party” actions. In May 2019, seven ministers, including Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Rana Gurmeet Sodhi, had demanded Sidhu’s resignation from the cabinet for accusing the CM of playing a “friendly-match” with the Badal family. SC, BC MLAS seek time from Capt The MLAs, who met at Channi’s residence, have sought time from the chief minister to discuss the promises that were made to SCs and BCs in the 2017 polls and are still to be fulfilled. Besides Channi, others present were cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhary, Raj Kumar Verka, Balwinder Singh Laddi, Joginder Pal, Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Harjot Kamal and Sangat Singh Gilzian. The ministers and MLAs signed a two-line letter sent to the chief minister seeking a meeting. Sushil Kumar Rinku and Kuldeep Vaid did not reach, but gave their consent over the phone, according to two MLAs who attended the meeting. Though most of the MLAs maintained that their meeting was only to discuss the pending promises such as loan waiver for the landless on the pattern of farmers and reservation in Group ‘D’ jobs filled through outsourcing, the sudden meeting for which Channi had made calls on Monday is being seen as “pressure tactics” amidst talk of changes in portfolios of ministers and induction of one minister to fill the slot vacated by Sidhu two years ago. Verka, a known Amarinder loyalist, said that more than 80% promises had been fulfilled, but some were still unfulfilled. “Capt is our leader, and we are with him,” said the Amritsar West MLA even as the chief minister’s camp made continued efforts to reach out to the grumbling MLAs to placate them. Verka had also met Randhawa a day earlier. The MLAs denied that their meeting had anything to do the meetings Sidhu had with some ministers and MLAs. “Though the SIT fiasco is a matter of concern for all of us, there was no discussion on it here,” two MLAs said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-battle-lines-deepen-in-punjab-amid-louder-rumblings-101620763710004.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||With 65 fatalities, J&K grimmest day so far||Jammu and Kashmir clocked a record 65 fatalities on Tuesday, pushing the UT’s toll to 2,847, making it the grimmest day so far. J&K also witnessed 4,352 fresh infections, taking the total cases to 2,24,898.The number of active cases has crossed 50,000 to reach 50,701, officials said. Most of these cases have been detected after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.So far, 565 people have succumbed to the disease this month, making it the highest monthly death toll since the pandemic began in March 2020. In September,when the first wave had peaked, as many as 478 persons had lost their lives to the virus.Of the 65 deaths reported in the UT, 41 were reported in Jammu division and 24 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 2,644 are from Kashmir while 1,708 are from Jammu, besides 84 were travellers. “Covid-appropriate behaviour, exercise, healthy and hygienic diet are multiple lines of defence against the infection, said medical superintendent, Mother and Childcare Hospital Gandhi Nagar, Dr Arun Sharma.“It is not limited to wearing a face mask in public and frequent hand-washing, it also includes sanitisation of objects one comes in contact with and social distancing while in publics space,” he said. Officials said with 846 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 602 in Jammu district, 361 in Baramulla, 322 in Budgam, 282 in Pulwama and 251 in Kathua.Dr Sharma further said that the first line of defence against Covid-19 is intake of nutritious diet which must include all essential nutrients, namely carbohydrates, proteins, vitamins and minerals. He suggested that people should take fiber rich food, brown bread, oats, cereals and sprouts as part of a healthy diet. “One must also drink one litre water per 20 kg body weight, that is to say 3 litres of water for a healthy 60kg person’, he advised. Physical exercise for half an hour daily or walking 15,000 steps must be done to maintain a healthy body with good immune system,” advised Dr Arun Sharma. Around 3,537 patients have recovered of the disease, including 2,262 from Kashmir and 1275 from Jammu.As many as 1,71,350 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 76.19 % against 98% in the first fortnight of February. The officials said that 41,353 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours taking overall tests to 7.73 million. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 95,000 cases and 1,344 deaths. Jammu district has taken over as the one with highest number of 714 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 630 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-65-fatalities-j-k-grimmest-day-so-far-101620763048908.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Virus cases in Srinagar on the decline for 4 days||The last four days have given people and officials in Srinagar, the district worst-affected by the Covid pandemic, a glimmer of hope as the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir has consistently recorded less than 1,000 cases after a record spike in daily infections from May 1 to 7.On the first week of May, Srinagar had seen 7,930 cases (an average 1,130 cases per day) while the district saw a total 3,320 cases between May 8 and 11 (an average 830 cases per day). On May 4, the capital had witnessed the highest 1,311 infections which had plunged to 853 on Saturday, 920 on Sunday and 701 on Monday, the lowest in the past two weeks.Srinagar deputy commissioner Aijaz Asad had tweeted, “701 positive cases in Srinagar (on Monday) is the lowest figure in the last 2 weeks at the same/ higher testing rate. Still not a good data for a good conclusion. The virus is preying on all atoms of the human body. Please adhere to SOPs.”The slight relative decline in Covid cases in Srinagar came after 10 days of a lockdown which was imposed in the worst affected districts of the UT on April 29 and has now been extended to all the 20 districts till May 17.Dr M Salim Khan, head of community medicine and nodal officer Covid at Government Medical College, Srinagar, said that he did not believe that the actual cases were reducing. “The low cases in these three days is due to low testing. Also, there were three official holidays prompting people to stay at home. When few patients approach hospitals only then can we say that cases have reduced,” he said. HT could not get the data on the number of tests conducted in the district during this period. However the number of tests across the UT remained more or less same in the past week, except on Monday, which saw an around 15 % reduction in the number of tests against the average 44,000-45000 tests being conducted per day over the week. Srinagar is J&K’s worst-affected district with 53,800 cases, of which 11,150 are active and 622 fatalities. Jammu comes at a close second with 40,600 cases, of which 7,600 are active and 686 fatalities. The UT will be celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr on Friday, subject to the appearance of the moon, amid the Covid curfew. This will be for the third year in a row that the people of Kashmir will be celebrating Eid under restrictions. The district administration in Srinagar has allowed bakery, vegetable, meat and chicken outlets to operate from 8am to 12pm from Tuesday ahead of the festival. But it has vowed to enforce the restrictions strictly to avoid crowding.“Coronavirus is illiterate, unlettered, visually impaired, hard of hearing (and) unimpassioned. It doesn’t differentiate between festive and non-festive days,” Asad said.The government officials in the district have also been asked to acquire curfew passes. “Movement of government officials shall be facilitated through a pass system from tomorrow. All heads of departments are requested to kindly place requisition for passes immediately,” a spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-cases-in-srinagar-on-the-decline-for-4-days-101620762868314.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran police rope in sarpanches to boost testing, vaccination||As Covid continues to spread its tentacles in villages of Punjab, Tarn Taran police have decided to rope in sarpanches and councillors of nagar panchayats to boost testing and vaccination in the rural areas where people have been showing reluctance to adhere to the health department’s guidelines.The police of the district, 87% population of which lives in rural areas, have also identified 80 villages with 300+ population to start special drives with the help of local administration and health department for vaccinating all those aged above 45 years.According to the Punjab health department, the current case fatality rate in Punjab’s rural areas is 2.7% against less than 1% in urban areas. Out of the total 6,416 positive cases in the district, 4,992 were reported from the rural areas. The district has reported 246 deaths in total.The initiative of the Punjab Police comes after it was brought to the fore that most of the people living in the rural areas of Tarn Taran showed reluctance in complying with the mandatory restrictions of the health department. The health officials in Tarn Taran were also “astonished” to find that “deaths in some villages were being underreported” due to the “Covid conspiracy” agenda on social media and an alleged campaign of the farm leaders refusing to accept the severity of the virus. The farmer leaders in Tarn Taran have been mobilising support for organising a huge procession from Harike Pattan town to the national capital against the three farm laws.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale himself has been holding meetings with 20-25 sarpanches on a daily basis. He has also directed all SPs and DSPs to continue such meetings with all village heads, representatives of panchayati raj and councillors of the nagar panchayats to ensure building of trust for the health department and the government’s efforts to contain the virus.“We are making the sarpanches aware so that they can further ensure proper testing and vaccination in their respective villages. There has been a spread of misinformation about the vaccine on social media. The sarpanches are being told not to believe any misinformation,” said the SSP.A senior medical officer (SMO) said, “Our recently conducted survey showed that people living in rural areas had been preferring quacks instead of approaching hospitals. There have also been reports that many deaths in the district’s villages are being underreported. Police’s action is appreciable, but large scale campaigns are needed to spread the awareness about the severity of Covid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-police-rope-in-sarpanches-to-boost-testing-vaccination-101620762388444.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K to weave a brand for Kashmir silk||To capitalise on its centuries-old association with silk and sericulture, the Jammu and Kashmir administration is planning to promote Kashmir silk under the Union Territory’s overall brand. The plan is part of J&K industries’ initiative to promote a few selected products that are part of the cultural legacy. “Many people don’t know that Kashmir is famous for silk as well. That is why, we are striving to brand silk under the overall brand of Jammu and Kashmir,” said Sajid Nazir, deputy general manager, J&K industries. “Kashmir has been historically into silk production and trade. Since 1890s, silk was produced in an organised manner and exported to the UK. In the second world war, silk fabric for parachutes was exported from Kashmir,” he said, adding, “Given the history and legacy of Kashmir silk, there is imminent spoken potential for this industry to develop.” Tracing the past Kashmir’s association with silk and sericulture has been an old story to the extent that Rajtarangini – the oldest written chronicle of Kashmir – mentions it, besides the accounts in 7th century AD in Xuang Zang’s travelogue. Kashmir’s first silk reeling factory was started at Solina in Srinagar in 1897 under the patronage of British. In 1937, a silk-weaving factory was established at Rajbagh. By 1961-62, the production of silk in the state went to around 98,000 kg. The decline in silk production started in the late 1980s and with the eruption of militancy in 1990s, the silk reeling and weaving factories became obsolete and defunct. “Whatever was left of the factories, the flood of 2014 destroyed everything,” said Nazir. However, the reeling at Solina filatures and weaving at Rajbagh factory was restarted after the floods when new machines were procured owing to a World Bank-funded Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project (JTFRP). “The World Bank is primarily supporting this initiative to help the cocoon rearers. As per the sericulture department, 30,000 families in J&K are producing cocoons,” said Nazir, who coordinates the industries-commerce component of the World Bank project. Not long ago, Jammu and Kashmir had been producing one of the finest silk qualities in the world with high-end varieties like ‘lotus’, ‘iris’, ‘tulip’, and ‘neel’. Nazir said that the approximate annual production of cocoon in J&K is 900 metric tons (MT) or 9 lakh kgs. “Maximum of these cocoons go to West Bengal and Karnataka and a very small portion of cocoons are turned into silk or fabric in Srinagar’s reeling and weaving factories,” said Nazir. He said that now silk reeling and weaving units have also been established in Jammu. Nazir said that last year, cocoons worth ₹5.5 crore were procured from the farmers which produced 23, 000 kg of yarn or 4 lakh metres of silk fabric. “This year, we intend to procure double the quantity worth ₹11 crore, which will be around 130-150 metric tonnes,” he said. “Promoting Kashmir silk as a brand is important for helping the local industry and safeguarding of the livelihood of the farmers, ” Nazir added. “Young people only know that Kashmir is known for handicrafts or horticulture. Silk is also an important part of Kashmir. To encourage this, we want the brand promotion of silk as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-to-weave-a-brand-for-kashmir-silk-101620762328548.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||At 217, Punjab sees highest-ever single-day deaths||Punjab broke its record for highest-ever single-day Covid death toll by reporting 217 fatalities on Tuesday. This is for the first time since the pandemic outbreak that the death toll has crossed the 200-mark in the state. The state also reported 8,668 fresh cases, registering a positivity rate of 15.03%. According to the media bulletin, a maximum of 30 deaths were reported in Ludhiana, followed by 27 in Bathinda, 17 each in Patiala and Amritsar, 13 each in Muktsar and Sangrur, 12 in Fazilka, 10 in Ferozepur, 9 each in Mohali and Gurdaspur, 8 each in Faridkot and Pathankot, 5 in Kapurthala and 4 each in SBS Nagar and Tarn Taran. Ludhiana topped the chart with 1,386 fresh cases, Mohali 1,020, Fazilka 702, Bathinda 682, Patiala 638, and Jalandhar 571. Mansa has highest positivity rate Mansa district registered a maximum of 34.71% positivity rate in the state, followed by 30.81% in Mohali, 29% in Ferozepur, 22.19% Fazilka, 21.35% in Bathinda, 18.25% in Muktsar and 15.54% in Pathankot. A total of 7,324 people were discharged on Tuesday. 9,652 patients are on oxygen support and 324 on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-217-punjab-sees-highest-ever-single-day-deaths-101620761968438.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal promotes 1.16 lakh Class 10 students to next class||After examinations were called off in the wake of the raging coronavirus pandemic, the Himachal Pradesh government promoted Class 10 students affiliated with the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education to the next class on Tuesday. A circular to this effect was issued by director of higher education Amarjeet K Sharma to all deputy directors, principals, headmasters and headmistresses.As many as 1,16,954 students have been promoted to class 11 in the state. Students had taken their first examination, Hindi, on April 13. However, the rest of the exams were cancelled amid a sudden spike in cases.The circular also directed officials concerned to ensure admission of Class 10 students of their schools as well as those in their vicinity to Class 11 on provisional basis. “The deputy director of higher education of the districts concerned will ensure all students are admitted before the last date of admission May 31,” it said.Students will attend classes under the Har Ghar Pathshala programme and will be monitored on a daily basis .The criteria for tabulation of marks for Class 10 class will be prepared and circulated by the board’s Dharamshala office. Meet to tabulate criterion for promotion HPBOSE chairperson Suresh Kumar Soni and secretary Akshey Sood held a virtual meeting with the principals and headmasters of government schools of all 12 district to formulate a criteria to promote Class-10 students.It was agreed that the criteria should be based the performance of students in the first term, second term, pre-board exams and internal assessment. A formula of distribution of certain percentage of marks based on the performance of students will be developed, on the basis of which final evaluation will be done.The board officials will also hold a meeting with the association of private schools to discuss the matter on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-promotes-1-16-lakh-class-10-students-to-next-class-101620761789312.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Over 60% ventilators at Faridkot medical college non-functional||At a time when hospitals are facing shortage of ventilators for Covid patients, 73 of the 119 lifesaving machines at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College (GGSMCH), Faridkot, are not working due to multiple defects or are of “inferior” quality.Most of the defective ventilators were received under the PM Cares Fund, said officials. The hospitals also wrote to the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) urging officials to get the ventilators repaired.A GGSMCH official said that they received 80 ventilators under the PM Cares Fund last year but most of these are defective. “Six ventilators stopped working on Monday following some technical glitch. Of the 73 non-functional ventilators, 71 were received under the PM Cares Fund,” said an official. With only 46 ventilators working, the GGSMCH staring at crisis to provide treatment to critical patients. Presently, 40 patients, including critical Covid patients, are on ventilator support at the Faridkot hospital, which means only six ventilators are left. GGSMCH medical superintendent Dr Shilekh Mittal said due to multiple defects, 73 ventilators are not working. “We have informed the higher authorities and a team of engineers will visit the hospital on Wednesday. We are trying our best to provide treatment to every patient, but if ventilators are not repaired on time, we may face a shortage of lifesaving machines as number of critical patients is on the rise,” he said.BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said they have raised these issues and conveyed that the quality of the ventilators under PM Cares Fund is inferior. “Otherwise also, when they are used for the patients, snag in working appear frequently, so these cannot be subjected to patients till we have a comprehensive repair mechanism,” he said. “Chief secretary in the last video conference has approved the hiring of engineers or technicians for repairing ventilators. We should have a long-term comprehensive maintenance contract with the agency, which has provided these PM Care Fund ventilators,” said Dr Raj Bahadur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-60-ventilators-at-faridkot-medical-college-nonfunctional-101620761668480.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Month on, SIT probing Behbal Kalan incident remains headless||Almost a month after Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh proceeded on voluntary retirement, no one has replaced him to lead the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing case in which two Sikh protestors were killed. Kunwar Vijay was reportedly upset after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the probe reports submitted by the SIT probing the Kotkapura firing case, and ordered the government to form a new probe team. Kunwar Vijay’s voluntary retirement request was accepted with effect from April 15.Acting on the HC orders, the state government constituted the new three-member SIT headed by ADGP (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav to probe the Kotkapura firing case.But the Behbal Kalan case is still under the first SIT formed by the Congress government in 2018. In June 2020, the investigation of the case was entrusted to Kunwar Vijay after a rift between the SIT members. But now after his retirement, the fate of the Behbal Kalan case hangs in the balance.The investigation team is facing an uphill task to defend the chargesheets filled in Behbal Kalan case after HC had quashed reports in the Kotkapura case. Hearing in the Behbal Kalan firing case on pleas of the accused cops, who claim they were falsely implicated, is scheduled for May 13 in the HC. The Faridkot court has fixed the next date of hearing on framing of charges against the accused on May 18. A senior police official said at present three SIT’s are probing 2015 sacrilege and police firing cases. “The SIT led by inspector general SPS Parmar is probing three FIRs related to Bargari sacrilege, while newly constituted SIT led by ADGP LK Yadav is investigating he Kotkapura firing case. But the Behbal Kalan firing case is still with the first SIT and there is confusion on who is leading it as no one has replaced Kunwar Vijay,” the official added. District attorney Rajnish Goyal said only some junior team members appeared for the hearings ever since Kunwar Vijay’s retirement. An SIT member said the probe in the Behbal Kalan case is complete and a six-member team was constituted by Kunwar Vijay on March 15 to assist the prosecution in the court. However, the district attorney said they have not received any communication in this regard. In a letter dated March 15 to DGP Dinkar Gupta, Kunwar Vijay mentioned that one challan is required to be filed in FIR no. 130, which was registered at Bajakhan police station in connection with the Behbal Kalan firing incident on October 21, 2015. He also said a closure report has to be filed in FIR 129 (another case registered by police against protesters in connection with this case on October 14, 2015).Sacrilege SIT yet to get new memberMore than a month after the retirement of IGP Ranbir Singh Khatra, Punjab Police are yet to appoint a new member of the SIT probing 2015 sacrilege cases of Guru Granth Sahib. SIT chairman, IGP (border range), Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, in a letter to the director, bureau of investigation, Arpit Shukla recommended that Jalandhar police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar may be nominated as a member of the SIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/month-on-sit-probing-behbal-kalan-incident-remains-headless-101620761428801.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||No shortage of O2 supply in hospitals: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said an adequate supply of medical oxygen was available at health institutions across the state and more oxygen plants were being setup to augment the supply. Currently, oxygen plants are functional at the zonal hospital, Dharamshala, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) Hospital, Shimla, medical colleges in Chamba, Shimla, Tanda, Ner Chowk, Hamirpur and MMU, Kumharhatti. “The Defence Research And Development Organisation (DRDO) will setup oxygen plants at five more health institutions,” the CM said, adding that the state is producing 75.81MT oxygen per day against the daily consumption of 27.83MT. Thakur said eight industrial units were manufacturing 57.03 MT oxygen per day.There are a total 4,728 Type-D oxygen cylinders and 1,535 Type-B cylinders in the state and the state has urged the Centre to provide 5,000 more Type-D and 3,000 Type-B cylinders to the state, the CM said. The Union ministry has provided 75,000 personal protective kits and 75,000 N-95 masks to the state.“There are around 3,700 beds available in different health institutes across the state and almost half of them are unoccupied. We also have 244 intensive care unit (ICU) and 1,804 oxygenated beds. The bed capacity will be enhanced by 1,100 in makeshift hospitals at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-shortage-of-o2-supply-in-hospitals-jai-ram-101620761188670.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Half of all active cases in Ambala from rural areas||The second wave of Covid-19 in Ambala has spread its footprints to the countryside with more than 50% of the total active cases being reported from the rural areas.On Monday, chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal during an online event said that this time, the virus spread was not confined to urban areas and was hitting rural belts unprecedentedly.As per the data provided by the health department, the district has added nearly 1,392 fresh cases to its tally in the last three days, out of which 747 cases were from the rural areas. The active caseload stood at 3,892 as on Monday.District epidemiologist Dr Sunil Hari said that unlike the first wave, till February this year, the ratio of urban and rural contribution to the active caseload was roughly 63:37. But the data on active cases from the last 15 days painted a grim picture, he added.“As per our weekly analysis done on Monday, the ratio is now 50:50, which shows that the virus has largely entered rural areas in this second wave. Other factors like sex-wise distribution show that males and females are contracting the virus equally unlike earlier,” the doctor said.Out of the seven zones from where the department collects data, five are in rural areas and two are in urban areas. Among the rural areas, the worst-affected is Chourmastpur that caters to almost 3 lakh population in the rural and peri-urban areas of Ambala City.‘Villagers from interiors also reporting symptoms’The senior medical officer at the Chourmastpur community health centre, Dr Ashish, said, “Most of the cases are being reported from peri-urban areas like Durga Nagar, Majri and Jandli, but now villagers from interiors are also reporting symptoms. Those testing positive with mild or moderate symptoms are being home-isolated, but the serious ones have to be referred to the civil hospital.”The district administration also earmarked five more macro containment zones on May 9—Babyal, Boh, Saha, Kala Amb and Adhoya—all villages. Dr Hari is of the opinion that all these areas have a larger population density and hence less awareness of hygiene.“Nearly 487 residents of these villagers were tested door-to-door with rapid antigen tests in two days and 68 were found to be positive. According to this, the positivity rate is roughly 15% that is lower than our current district rate of 17-18%,” he said. Residents ‘scared’ of vaccinationThe sarpanch of Adhoya village in Barara block, Bunty, claimed that the situation in his village was under control, but residents were “scared” of vaccination.“Door-to-door sampling is underway and a few must be infected, but there is no panic as such. However, most of the villagers are still afraid of side-effects after the vaccine. Those who get fever after the shot mistake it for infection and then their peers are afraid to get a shot,” he added.On Tuesday, three out of nine fatalities, including a 24-year-old male on O2 support, were reported from these zones. Officials of the district administration also checked arrangements in a few of them and assured the residents of every facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/half-of-all-active-cases-in-ambala-from-rural-areas-101620760169910.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s non-Covid private hospitals rue inadequate oxygen quota||Around 25 non-Covid private health centres in the city have flagged the issue of inadequate supply of oxygen at a time when more patients are rushing to them for health services.The UT administration on Tuesday fixed the quota of 30 cylinders for the private hospitals with ICU facilities for primarily non-Covid patients, but the hospital administrators have said that it was “grossly inadequate”.The local chapter of the Indian Medical Association had also presented the requirement to the authorities according to the bed occupancy. After the quota was fixed, the local chapter of IMA again wrote to the UT health authorities, asking them to reconsider the decision.Requirement of 100 cylinders in hospitals“There is a requirement of around 100 cylinders in the hospitals catering to non-Covid services. We appeal to the administration to supply us more oxygen,” said Dr V Kappall, the president of IMA Chandigarh.“They (administration) have promised to augment supply as soon as they are in a position to do so. Let’s hope they at least allot 60 cylinders to non-Covid hospitals, who are taking emergencies, refused by the PGIMER, GMCH, GMSH and other Covid centres,”said Dr RS Bedi, owner of a hospital in Sector 33.Dr Neeraj Kumar, who also runs a private hospital, said that several emergency procedures were also conducted at private facilities and since suppliers were overburdened with Covid management, emphasis should be on equal distribution.“We run paediatric ICUs and currently we are running on 3-4 hour supply. It takes around 7-8 hours to refill the cylinders. If the current situation persists, we may have to tell the patients to find some other facility, but we do not want to create panic,” said Dr Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-non-covid-private-hospitals-rue-inadequate-oxygen-quota-101620760108886.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali launches two drive- through vaccine facilities||In a first, the Mohali district administration is launching two drive-through vaccination facilities on Wednesday. While one will become operational at the District Sports Complex near the Sohana gurdwara on Airport Road in Sector 78, the other is at Piccadilia The Theatre Cafe in Mullanpur, New Chandigarh.Subdivisional magistrate Jagdeep Sehgal said the initiative was planned keeping in mind the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and the need to maintain social distancing.Though the administration is organising special vaccination camps at various residential and commercial complexes, maintaining social distancing has remained a challenge. Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, vaccine in-charge in Mohali, said that though the drive is picking the pace, there is fear among people to venture out of their homes amid the second wave. The drive-through facility is only for those aged above 45 years, and registration will be done on the spot. The person has to carry the Aadhaar card or any other identity card. The SDM said the facility will remain open from 10am to 3pm daily. Citizens will have to remain in their vehicle for around 30 minutes after receiving the injection, he said.Even though Mohali has the highest number of active cases in the tricity, it is leading on the vaccination front, with around 10,000 people being jabbed daily. The drive is being carried out at 118 centres in the district, including 104 government sites and 14 private hospitals. According to data available on the Co-WIN app, till May 11, Mohali has administered 3.22 lakh doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-launches-two-drive-through-vaccine-facilities-101620760048180.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fuel rates touch a new high in Chandigarh tricity||After a brief respite from hike in fuel rates, prices of both petrol and diesel have hit a new high across the tricity. The prices remain the highest in Mohali, with petrol available for ₹94.02 per litre and diesel for ₹85.25 per litre. In Panchkula, the prices stand at ₹89.50 and ₹82.74, respectively, and in Chandigarh at ₹88.31 and ₹82.03, respectively.After a steep hike in January and February, the fuel rates had stabilised in March and April amid a marginal drop in global oil prices. However, in the past one week, the prices have started rising again, breaking all records.Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association president Arjan Singh claimed the government had capped the fuel rates during the election season, but now with the results in, restrictions have been removed. “Amid the pandemic, our sales had already dropped by 50%. The steep hike in rates, especially that of diesel, will also hit the common man,” he said.Transporters, too, rued the hike. “It is affecting our profit margins. We urge the government to provide special aid to us so that supply lines can be maintained,” said BL Sharma, general secretary, Chandigarh Transport Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fuel-rates-touch-a-new-high-in-chandigarh-tricity-101620759869741.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||This is war and there’s no time to cry for our losses: PGI Covid panel head||Dr GD Puri, a noted name in the field of anaesthesia, has been at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19 in the region.Head of the department of anaesthesiology and intensive care at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, he also heads the Covid-19 management committee of the premier tertiary care institute. Having closely monitored patients requiring critical care at the institute’s Covid-19 dedicated block, he shares with Hindustan Times what it is like to deal with the unprecedented second wave, when resources run short and tough decisions are to be taken in the nick of time:Q. What are the challenges in dealing with the new virus strains?A. The main issue is the manifold rise in infection numbers and subsequent need for hospitalisation, which has overwhelmed our Covid-19 facility. In the last week of April, there was a tsunami of patients at our Emergency, and our resources got exhausted. Important medications went out of stock, we had to open new wards for patients, and all this sapped out our energy and motivation. We are even seeing young patients from Chandigarh coming with 70% oxygen saturation, as they could not arrange a bed or did not report on time.Q. How is the patient load being managed? What are the criteria for admissions in critical care wards?A. I carry guilt in my heart when I say this, but it is very difficult for us to choose between two patients for giving intensive care. You have to make this decision that if a patient is young and has no comorbidities, they will be shifted to the ICU at the cost of an old person, who let us say has kidney or liver failure. It is not like that we abandon the old patients, but we could have given them more intensive care. We could have pushed a little more. This is sad for us too, but you have to move on. This is war and there is no time to cry for our losses. Q. Are you getting enough oxygen supply for Covid, non-Covid and surgical patients?A. I can tell you with authority that we can increase our critical care beds, but the oxygen supply is limited. There has to be a holistic approach for distributing the resources, and it should be strictly as per the requirements. We are saving every unit of oxygen. Wherever there is a possibility of oxygen wastage, we have plugged it, and new guidelines have been provided to all departments on its judicious use.Q. The fatality rate in the region is going up exponentially? What could be the reasons?A. Since the infection number is increasing, deaths are bound to increase, but there can be other reasons as well. There is a need to ensure uniformity in treatment being given by smaller nursing homes. There is a lot of irrational use of drugs, steroids, and antibiotics, which results in deterioration of condition of such patients and decreases their chance of survival.Q. When is the situation expected to improve?A. From the example of Delhi, we can expect that after four to six weeks of restrictions, the cases plateau and start to decline. So, we can soon expect the outcomes of restrictions imposed in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/this-is-war-and-there-s-no-time-to-cry-for-our-losses-pgi-covid-panel-head-101620758608230.html
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||15,728 more Covid recoveries, 11,637 new cases reported in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday recorded 15,728 more recoveries, 11,637 new cases and 144 fatalities due to Covid-19, as per the health bulletin.The highest of 18 people succumbed to the infection in Rohtak, 16 in Mahendergarh, 13 in Gurugram, 12 in Hisar and 10 in Bhiwani. In the last 24 hours, 64,874 samples were taken and 11,637 fresh cases were detected across state.There are over one lakh active patients till Tuesday. The day’s positivity rate came down to 21.46% from 25.30% on Monday even as the cumulative positivity rate rose to 8.07% from 7.97% a day earlier.The recovery rate kept improving even on Tuesday and rose to 82.05%.Over one lakh people were inoculated during the day increasing the cumulative tally of people vaccinated so far to 45.93 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15728-more-covid-recoveries-11-637-new-cases-reported-in-haryana-101620758010850.html
