14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Form state-level committee to monitor black fungus situation: Selja||Expressing concerns over black fungus cases being detected among patients recovering from Covid-19, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja on Friday alleged that black marketing of medicines used in treatment of the disease has started.“Over 40 cases of black fungal disease have been reported in Haryana in the last few days,” she said in a statement.Selja said it is of serious concern that the Haryana health department does not have district-wise data on how many black fungus patients have been found in state so far.People of Haryana are worried about increase in Covid-19 and black fungus cases, Selja said.Asking the Haryana government to make people aware of black fungus disease, Selja said a state-level committee of doctors should be formed to monitor conditions of all districts, identify patients of black fungus and provide treatment.“The Haryana government should bear cost of treatment and medicines of =patients suffering from black fungus,” she said.Selja said the BJP-JJP government of Haryana is proving to be a failure on every front. “Health services have completely collapsed in state,” she added.The HPCC chief said, “The Covid pandemic is killing people and with it the risk of black fungus disease is also increasing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/form-state-level-committee-to-monitor-black-fungus-situation-selja-101621011481276.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid recovery rate of Haryana rises to 84.4%||Seventeen districts in Haryana registered more recoveries than fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday when 10,608 new cases were detected and 14,577 people recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.It was for the third consecutive day on Friday that the fresh cases came down despite heavy sampling. Since Monday, Haryana has been registering more recoveries than fresh cases.Till Friday evening, 64,912 samples were taken and 10,608 new cases were recorded. On Thursday, 12,286 cases were detected and 65,141 samples were taken.In May, till Friday, about 7.87 lakh samples were taken of which over 1.87 lakh new cases were recorded while over 1.84 lakh people recovered.The recovery rate rose to 84.4% from 83.55% on Thursday and 82.67% on Wednesday. And the active cases came down to 99,007 from over one lakh on Thursday.Gurugram recorded 2,144 new cases, Faridabad 826, Sonepat 748, Hisar 1,146, Ambala 372, Karnal 483, Panipat 351, Rohtak 368, Rewari 176, Panchkula 418, Kurukshetra 259, Yamunanagar 376, Sirsa 484, Mahendergarh 577, Bhiwani 462, Jhajjar 258, Palwal 217, Fatehabad 334, Kaithal 63, Jind 411, Nuh 76 and Charkhi Dadri 59.There were 164 fatalities in state, 15 people succumbed to the contagion in Gurugram, 16 in Rohtak, 12 in Jind and 11 each in Hisar, Panipat and Bhiwani. Ambala recorded 10 fatalities, Karnal and Yamunanagar nine each. The fatality rate of Haryana was 0.95%.The bulletin stated that 50,716 people were inoculated and the cumulative tally of the people vaccinated was 48 lakh.NUMBER OF COVID+ INMATES IN KARNAL JAIL REACHES 159
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Penpa Tsering is president-elect of Tibetan government-in-exile||Penpa Tsering, 53, has been elected sikyong or president of the Dharamshala-based Tibetan government-in-exile, officially called the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA). Tibetan chief election commissioner Wangdu Tsering on Friday declared Penpa Tsering, who is a former speaker of Tibet’s parliament-in-exile, as the winner of the 2021 general election for sikyong (political leader) after he got 34,324 votes in the final round of election that was held on April 11. Also read: Navy to pick 2,000 tonnes of oxygen from UAE, Kuwait and Qatar to battle CovidPenpa Tsering defeated Aukatsang Kelsang Dorjee by 5,417 votes. Dorjee, a former representative of Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, polled 28,907 votes. The first round of the election was held on January 3. Tsering had led the first round by polling 24,488 votes. Dorjee had polled 14,544 votes. There were eight candidates in the fray for the post of sikyong in the first round of which Tsering and Dorjee made it to the second round. Born in the Bylakuppe Refugee Camp in Karnataka in 1967, Tsering attended the Central School for Tibetans at Bylakuppe, topping the merit list in Class 12. He did his graduation from Madras Christian College, Chennai, where he majored in economics. Tsering served as the general secretary for the Tibetan Freedom Movement and the Nigerian-Tibet Friendship Association during his college days and later as executive director at the Tibetan Parliamentary and Research Centre in Delhi from 2001-08. He was elected to the 12th and 13th Tibetan parliament-in-exile and served two terms as speaker from 2008-16. Tsering contested the 2016 sikyong election but lost to the outgoing Lobsang Sangay. He was appointed to the North America Representative of the Dalai Lama in 2016 but removed a year later on charges of dereliction of duty after he levelled allegations of corruption against Sangay. He faced an inquiry, and the matter also reached the Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission. Tsering won the case. The chief election commissioner also declared the results for 45 seats of the members in the 17th parliament-in-exile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/penpa-tsering-is-president-elect-of-tibetan-governmentinexile-101620989278873.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kangra man carries Covid+ mother’s body on shoulders for cremation||A resident of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh was forced to carry the body of his mother, who died of Covid-19, for cremation on his shoulders, after villagers and relatives refused help fearing they might contract the virus. The incident took place at Bhangwar village near Ranital town, 35km from Dharamshala, on Thursday after the photo of Vir Singh, wearing a PPE kit and carrying the body on his shoulder, was widely shared on social media. Also read: Kangra schools told to hold online classes for only two hours a dayThe woman was a former up pradhan (deputy head) of the Bhangwar panchayat. She tested positive earlier this week and was in home isolation. The son carried his mother’s body on his shoulders, while his wife followed him with the cremation material in one hand and held on to their toddler with the other hand as nobody came to help them. When contacted, Bhangwar panchayat pradhan Suram Singh said he was suffering from fever and couldn’t go to Vir Singh’s house. “But I had talked to him to convey that the administration was sending PPE kits for the cremation. However, Vir Singh. refused saying his relatives were bringing the kits. The ASHA worker had also contacted the family,” Suram Singh said. The panchayat pradhan said he contacted tractor-trailer drivers to take the body for cremation, but they refused. “Vir Singh didn’t tell me that his relatives and villagers had also refused to help,” the village head said, adding that some villagers had helped the family by cutting wood for the cremation. Onus also on society: Deputy commissionerDeputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said Vir Singh had taken the body for cremation before administrative help could reach him. “However, here the onus also lies on society. Why did the villagers and relatives, who brought the PPE kits, not help the aggrieved family?” the DC said. “Are we so afraid of the virus? If people don’t help each other in such a crisis, they are already dead,” he said. Prajapati said he has now passed an order that the cremation of people who die of Covid-19, whether in hospital or at home, will be carried out by the administration so that no such incident happens again. He said an administrative officer, either an SDM or a tehsildar or a naib tehsildar, will remain present at the cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kangra-man-carries-covid-mother-s-body-on-shoulders-for-cremation-101620982678441.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||In poll year, Punjab CM declares Malerkotla as state’s 23rd district||As the state heads for elections early next year, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh fulfilled a long-pending demand of announcing Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the state on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr on Friday. Making the announcement virtually from Chandigarh, the chief minister said that a medical college, a degree college, a women’s police station and a smart school would be set up in Malerkotla, Punjab’s only Muslim-dominated town. He announced a sum of ₹6 crore for its urban development. Also read: Centre pins hopes on 5 Covid vaccines apart from Covishield, Covaxin, SputnikState cabinet minister Razia Sultana, who represents Malerkotla in the assembly, said that it was a historic occasion as the chief minister had accepted a long-pending demand of residents. “It’s been a dream come true. This decision will give a major fillip to the overall development of Malerkotla,” she said. “All residents of Malerkotla in general and Muslim brethren in particular will remain indebted to the chief minister for this gift on the auspicious occasion of Eid,” Sultana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-poll-year-punjab-cm-declares-malerkotla-as-state-s-23rd-district-101620976618448.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Getting vaccination certificate an uphill task for many in Panchkula||At a time when finding a slot to get inoculated has become a difficult task, the ordeal for many of those who have taken the shot continues as they have to run from pillar to post to get their vaccination certificates.One such person is Armaan from Chandigarh, who received his first dose of Covid vaccine on May 7 at the urban health centre in Panchkula’s Sector 16. He was told that the certificate will be generated shortly and he will get a message on his mobile phone.Also read: Centre pins hopes on 5 Covid vaccines apart from Covishield, Covaxin, SputnikHowever, he complained that he did not receive any message. “For five days, I visited the vaccination centre to enquire, but I was told that the particular session has expired and they are unable to verify me. I tried reaching the helpline number, but the staff was of no help,” he added. On Thursday, when he again pleaded for a certificate, an hour later he received a message that he had been successfully vaccinated on May 13. “Two of my issues have been resolved: one is that now, I won’t face any problem in getting the second dose and for travel purposes, I can show this certificate. But I had to face a really tough time to get this certificate. It should not have happened like this,” he said.Another such complainant is Ram Swaroop Chauhan from Sector 12 A. He said on March 17, he, along with his wife, had got the first shot, but when they went to a Sector-20 centre for second dose, his wife was denied the jab. “The staff there said there was no data entry in my wife’s name, so they cannot administer her the second shot. What should we do now?” he questioned. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Some portal issue is there, so at times one does not receive a message. Those who have not received their certificates can write to me at dhs.cspk@hry.nic.in. Their issue will be resolved.”Number of vaccination sites reducedFor those above 45 years of age, the number of vaccination sites has been reduced to five in Panchkula district. Also, only second doses of vaccines will be given to this age group.A day before, there were 21 sites of vaccination for people above 45 years. As per the authorities, they are going to focus on slum areas in the next few days.At government dispensary in Sector 12 A, Covaxin will be given, while Covishield will be administered at CHC Raipur Rani, PHC Morni, PHC Hangola and government dispensary in Sector 21.For 18-44 age group, vaccination centres are at government school, main bazaar, Kalka; CHC Raipur Rani, PHC Pinjore, PHC Barwala, PHC Kot, government dispensary in sectors 25 and 7, and government ayurvedic dispensary in Sector 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/getting-vaccination-certificate-an-uphill-task-for-many-in-panchkula-101620969837673.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Barnala admn takes over 125 O2 cylinders in non-medical use||The Barnala district administration has taken possession of 125 oxygen cylinders that were being put to non-medical use in view of the increasing demand for oxygen amid the Covid-19 surge. The administration’s teams, led by Barnala sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Varjeet Walia, recovered the cylinders from manufacturing units, repair shops and other establishments on Thursday. Also read: Singapore extends life-line to India in oxygen crisisTo increase the number of cylinders at the administration’s disposal for medical purpose, the deputy commissioner has directed that oxygen cylinders cannot be used for non-medical purpose. “Since the district does not have any oxygen manufacturing plant at present, the administration is sending trucks carrying empty cylinders to Mandi Gobindgarh for refilling. The refilling takes up to 20 hours after which a batch of cylinders is back. The daily consumption has risen four-fold in the last two weeks,” Walia said. The consumption of oxygen cylinders in the district has risen from 50 to 200 cylinders a day in the past fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barnala-admn-takes-over-125-o2-cylinders-in-non-medical-use-101620969177599.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kangra schools told to hold online classes for only two hours a day||Schools in Kangra district have been asked to conduct online classes for not more than two hours a day and five days a week. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said on Friday that the decision was taken after parents of students had complained that some schools were conducting online classes for long durations, and it was taking a toll on the health of the children. Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know todaySeeking directions to schools to curtail the duration of virtual classes for children, the parents said the screen time was affecting the eyesight and also causing stress. “We have issued directions on the demand by parents,” Prajapati said. Steps to check prices of medicines, equipment The deputy commissioner has issued guidelines to drug controllers in Kangra to ensure the sale of essential medicines and medical equipment at the prescribed prices. He said drug controllers have been asked to submit regular inspection reports. It has been made compulsory to put a rate list at shops selling vegetables and essential food items. The Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) and the food and civil supplies department will ensure enforcement, Prajapati said. Covid testing ramped up in district He said testing has been ramped up in the district and those whose samples have been sent for RT-PCR test shall stay at home till their report turns out negative. The health authorities have been asked to shift vaccination centres from hospitals to nearby schools or community buildings for the convenience of people. For systematic vaccination, the health authorities have been asked to ensure separate rows for the 18-44 age group, 45+ and 60+ at vaccination centres. Vaccination for the 18-44 age group will start on May 17. Rates have been fixed for private funeral vans and ambulances. It will be ₹600 for 10km for small and heavy vehicles. After 10km, the rate will be ₹10 for small vehicles and ₹15 for heavy vehicles. For private ambulances with oxygen and ventilator facility, the rate has been fixed at ₹40 per km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kangra-schools-told-to-hold-online-classes-for-only-two-hours-a-day-101620959576773.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 factory workers killed as vehicle rams into bike in Patiala||Three factory workers were killed after an unidentified vehicle rammed into their motorcycle near Sahauli village in Patiala district on Thursday.The incident took place on the Nabha-Bhadson road when the victims, identified as Sandeep Kumar of Aloharan Khurd village, Yoginder Sahota and Vikramjeet Singh of Nabha, all aged 21, were headed to work at a factory at Madhopur village. Investigating officer Gurbachan Singh said they received information around 10am that three youths lay unconscious and were bleeding profusely. “The three had died on the spot. The driver of the vehicle that hit their bike managed to flee from the spot,” he said. Yoginder’s parents said he started working at the factory just three days ago.A case against unidentified driver was registered under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-factory-workers-killed-as-vehicle-rams-into-bike-in-patiala-101620937252699.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar develops smokeless cremation cart requiring less wood as pandemic rages||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, in collaboration with Cheema Boilers, a Mohali-based firm engaged in manufacturing of combustion systems, has developed an eco-friendly technology that involves smokeless cremation of bodies on a cart at high temperatures with 100 percent sterilisation keeping in view of the rise in coronavirus mortalities in Punjab and elsewhere. Prof Harpreet Singh, dean, ICSR&II (IIT Ropar), said, “Usually the wood costs about ₹2,500 for disposing a body. Therefore, the poor end up disposing partially burnt bodies, or even whole corpses in rivers. Also, a typical Hindu cremation in which a body is put on a three-foot high open air pyre can consume more than 400 kg wood to reduce the body to ashes. Now, this can be done with the help of this eco-friendly cremation cart.”The technology is based on Wick Stove, in which the wick when lighted glows yellow and is converted into smokeless blue flames after installing the combustion air system over the wicks.The cart has wheels and can be transported anywhere without much effort. It has stainless steel trays on both sides for an easy removal of ash. The cart is equipped with combustion air for primary and secondary hot air system. Also, it works on temperature above 1000°C that ensures complete sterilisation. Cheema Boilers managing director Harjinder Singh Cheema said, “We are providing the simplest and cheapest way of cremation, which can be performed with half of the wood required and can reduce the carbon footprint by half. This technology can also be used on LPG using domestic gas cylinders. But changing the mindset of people is an uphill task.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iit-ropar-develops-smokeless-cremation-cart-requiring-less-wood-as-pandemic-rages-101620936592973.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Firm on demand for prompt action in sacrilege cases, says Randhawa||Cooperation and jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Thursday that he was firm on his demand for prompt action against the culprits in sacrilege cases but would not politicise this issue. Randhawa, whose meetings with former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and some other ministers and MPs critical of the state government’s handling of the Kotkapura police firing case have become a talking point, said that his stand on the sacrilege issue and those named in drug cases was known to everyone. “I want them punished,” he told reporters outside cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhary’s official residence. Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh was also present. Asked about the purpose of his meeting with Chaudhary, Randhawa said they were discussing the elections of cooperative sugar mill in Gurdaspur. “There was no political discussion,” he said before attending the meeting of the state cabinet. Chaudhary also said there was no political motive behind the meeting. Randhawa’s meeting with Chaudhary had aroused curiosity in political circles as she was the only cabinet minister to attend a meeting of Congress’ SC and OBC MLAs called by technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi at his residence on Tuesday to discuss the delay in the implementation of promises made to the community in 2017. The dozen-odd Dalit and OBC ministers and MLAs have sought time from the chief minister for a meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firm-on-demand-for-prompt-action-in-sacrilege-cases-says-randhawa-101620936472838.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Conmen posing as Kishor aides dupe Cong MLAs promising tickets, 2 held||Members of a gang posing as aides of Prashant Kishor, principal adviser to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, allegedly duped Congress MLAs and other political leaders in Punjab of lakhs of rupees by promising them tickets of the ruling party in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. Two of the accused were arrested from a hotel near Jalandhar, police said. A case under sections 420, 379, 473 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Dehlon police station in Ludhiana against the accused identified as Ranchit Kumar, alias Raja, Gaurav Sharma and Rakesh Paseen, all residents of Amritsar. The police have also recovered a Mahindra Scorpio with a fake number plate (PB02 ZK 3540). The police suspect the vehicle is stolen. The duped leaders and MLAs are from Ludhiana, Mansa, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Amritsar and other districts of Punjab. The case came to the fore when some MLAs reported the matter to the CM who ordered Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal to nab the accused. A Congress leader, seeking anonymity, said the accused sought money from and assured him of victory in the elections.Police commissioner Agrawal said investigation is on and they are likely to get more leads in the case.Amarinder had appointed Kishor as his principal advisor ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/conmen-posing-as-kishor-aides-dupe-cong-mlas-promising-tickets-2-held-101620936414376.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab has no dedicated wards for children infected with virus||No dedicated wards or facilities are in place for children suffering from the coronavirus in Punjab amid a surge in cases of infection and the fact that experts have warned of a threat of attack on adolescents and younger population during the third wave of the pandemic. Even as paediatricians and epidemiologists have sought exclusive wards for children, senior health department officials claim that they are managing the situation for now and arrangements for separate facilities will be made as and when required.Experts say as the virus has mutated and chances of its further mutation cannot be ruled out, it can affect children in the coming days. “Early preparedness is the need of the hour to prevent Covid-19 mortality in children and for that dedicated level-2 and level-3 facilities should be identified in government and private health care centres,” said a senior doctor. Dr Harshinder Kaur, an associate professor at Government Medical College, Patiala, said, “We have four children in our Covid-19 ward. The virus is attacking children, including newborns. We would need for paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) and neo-natal ICU. But we are not well-equipped to handle such cases.” “We should make arrangements in advance as schools and colleges will reopen. We have not learnt any lesson from the first wave of the pandemic. A neonate and an adult need different levels of oxygen but it is not possible in the same set-up,” she added. Dr Pyare Lal Garg, former registrar, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, said the government should make adequate arrangements in advance to handle the situation. “There is a large young population in Punjab. It is the need of the hour to make arrangements for the second and third wave,” added Garg.Sangrur civil surgeon Dr Anjana Gupta said children are being kept in home isolation when they are found positive. “If needed, we isolate them under the supervision of paediatricians,” she added. Barnala civil surgeon Dr Harinderjit Singh Garg said there is no separate facility for children suffering from the virus in Barnala. “Children will be isolated in the same wards where other Covid patients are getting treatment.”Director (health and family welfare, Punjab) Dr GB Singh said, “We will earmark beds for children if the need arises. But at present, they will be cured in the same isolation centres. We will see if the third wave attacks children,” he added.In Sangrur district alone, 76 children in the 0-10 age group and 342 youngsters aged between 15 and 20 have been tested positive so far this year. Also, a 15-year-old hailing from Barnala district succumbed to the virus at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, last month, health department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-has-no-dedicated-wards-for-children-infected-with-virus-101620936413076.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity sees decline in Covid cases for second straight day||The tricity on Thursday registered a decline in Covid-19 infections for the second day in a row with 2,042 new cases.On Wednesday, with 2,082 cases, the tricity’s daily tally had dropped below 2,200 after four days – during which it had also recorded its highest single-day surge with 2,612 cases on May 10.While Chandigarh and Panchkula contributed to Thursday’s decline with 760 and 291 cases, respectively, Mohali’s cases rose to 991 from Wednesday’s 713. Chandigarh and Panchkula had logged 776 and 593 cases, respectively, the day before.The daily deaths, too, dropped from Wednesday’s 29 to 23, but remained above 20 for the seventh straight day.Chandigarh reported the highest deaths at 10, followed by eight in Mohali and five in Panchkula. On Wednesday, Chandigarh had equalled its all-time high of 14 on May 5 and Panchkula had set a new record with eight deaths.Mohali’s case and death tallies have climbed to 58,863 and 730, respectively, both highest in the tricity.The active cases, at 12,203, are also on the top, while the recovery rate at 80% with 45,930 recoveries is the lowest.Chandigarh’s total has reached 53,393 cases and 609 deaths. As many as 8,441 patients are still recuperating at hospitals or in home isolation. With 837 patients getting discharged, the number of recoveries has reached 44,343 (81%).At 88%, Panchkula has the highest recovery rate in the tricity after 23,593 recoveries, and is also ahead of the national average of 83.3%. At 15%, its positivity rate – proportion of samples testing positive – is the lowest in the tricity, while the figure is hovering over 20% in Chandigarh and Mohali.Panchkula’s cumulative cases stand at 26,653, of which 2,788 are still active. The latest fatalities took the toll to 272. The youngest among them was a 34-year old man from Raipur Rani. The other deceased included two women, aged 42 and 67, from Vasudevpura and Sector 19, and a 75-year-old man from Sector 9 and a 41-year old man from Kalka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-sees-decline-in-covid-cases-for-second-straight-day-101620936352784.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||7,000 slots for 18+ snapped up in an hour in Chandigarh||As the UT administration threw open vaccination time slots for the 18-44 age group on Thursday afternoon, it took only an hour for all 7,000 slots to get booked.The appointment booking on the CoWin portal started around 2.55pm, with only a couple of the seven centres for this age group made available for bookings till May 22.As more centres became accessible through the next hour, all 7,000 slots were gone by 4pm.Vaccinations for this age bracket will begin at seven centres in Chandigarh from 9am on Friday. Online appointment is mandatory.Officials said 1,000 slots per day were opened on Thursday and from 10am on Friday, more will be made available for May 23 onwards. They said so far, for an estimated population of around 3,55,000 in this age group, only 33,000 doses had been received.“More slots will be opened once more supply is received from the manufacturers,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Panchkula was the first in the tricity to roll out third phase of the vaccination drive on May 2, while Mohali launched it only for construction workers on May 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7000-slots-for-18-snapped-up-in-an-hour-in-chandigarh-101620936173110.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||New Punjab Prison Rules to focus on safe, secure custody of inmates||The Punjab cabinet on Thursday gave its nod to Punjab Prison Rules, 2021, under the Prison Act 1894, thus superseding the archaic and outdated jails manual. The cabinet noted that the provisions of the Punjab Jail Manual, 1996, had become archaic with the passage of time and there was imminent need to update it in the changed scenario of modernisation, prison computerisation and latest laws. The virtual meeting was chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the Punjab Jail Manual, 1996, primarily focused more on safe and secure custody of prisoners. The newly drafted Punjab Prison Rules, 2021, lay emphasis not only on safe and secure custody of prisoners but also on other aspects, such as welfare, corrections and aftercare, which have emerged as equally important in modern times. “In order to ensure effective surveillance, safe custody and prevention of escapes, new security parameters have been introduced in the new rules. For lodging of high risk prisoners such as gangsters, drug offenders, terrorists, radicals, etc, ‘prisons within prisons’ - high security enclosures/zones – have been created,” the spokesperson said. The infrastructural requirements of these enclosures have been defined. These shall be equipped with wireless sets, alarm system, dedicated power back up, hand-held and doorframe metal detectors, video-conferencing facilities, closed-circuit TV cameras, X-ray baggage machines, body scanners, and any other modern electronic security devices. A multi-tier security grid has also been placed for better monitoring on the high security zones, according to an official release. For reducing recidivism, ensuring successful rehabilitation and social reintegration of released convict prisoners, a framework for aftercare assistance has been incorporated in the new rules. This will cover many aspects, such as assistance in employment/entrepreneurship, medical treatment, marriage, renting a house, etc. Similarly, various other provisions incorporating use of technology for a more efficient and effective prison administration have been added. On the hardware side, provisions for use of modern security equipment and surveillance gadgets have been made, including artificial intelligence enabled CCTVs, motion sensors, mobile jammers, siren/alarm system, body scanners, X-ray baggage scanners, touch screen kiosks for inmate details, etc. On the software side, provisions for deployment of Prison Management Information System, trial through video conferencing, e-wallet, e-office, e-procurement, Integrated Criminal Justice System (ICJS), etc. have been made. A new provision for a grievance redressal system in every prison, which will provide every inmate the legitimate opportunity to voice his/her grievances, has been incorporated in the new rules. Under this system, compliant boxes shall be installed at different locations in the prison. A provision for electronic communication such as video conferencing has been made so that the inmates can hold face to face interviews with family/friends or legal counsel, according to the spokesperson. The cabinet also gave post-facto approval for the procurement of hospital material and consumables worth ₹152.56 crore by the departments of health and family welfare, medical education and research and police for effective management of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-punjab-prison-rules-to-focus-on-safe-secure-custody-of-inmates-101620935933053.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||PU moves high court seeking stay on judgment over senate polls||Panjab University (PU) has approached the high court challenging the judgment which had in March asked the varsity to hold polls within two months. The appeal was taken up by the bench of Justice Ritu Bahri on Thursday wherein appearing for the varsity additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain told the court that on April 16, poll schedule was announced for April 26. Thereafter, this notification was revised and election was rescheduled for May 19. However, Punjab government had put in place restrictions due to Covid-19 situation in which there was a strict provision that not more than 20 people be allowed in any event. A total of 3,75,500 voters are there which are spread across six states and keeping in view the present situation, it is not possible to hold the election, the court was told. Appearing for respondents, senior advocate RS Cheema, too, did not dispute the facts presented by the varsity on Covid situation. The court adjourned the matter till July 8 stating that situation would be reassessed on the adjourned date. It was on March 23 that the high court had criticised the role of PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and a single judge bench had directed the university to hold senate polls within two months. The high court order came on the plea of seven former senators, who had moved court on December 22, seeking directions to hold governing body polls. The term of the senate, the apex governing body of PU, had ended on October 31, 2020. Elections were to take place in August 2020, but varsity deferred it citing Covid-19 as the reason for the same. The single judge bench had observed that provisions on governance have been “thrown off to the winds” and university was being run as a “one-man show”. PU in this appeal says the March 23 judgment was not only contrary to facts but also contrary to three division bench judgments of high court wherein decisions on various steps taken in view of pandemic were upheld by the court in the matters of admissions and others. The court was also told that the directions are untenable because the varsity is bound to follow restrictions/prohibitions imposed by the respective states during the pandemic. There is no evidence in entire writ petition as to how a particular person has been unduly benefitted or prejudiced by the varsity decision of deferring polls, the university says, further stating that findings against the vice-chancellor that he appeared to have acted on political considerations are unwarranted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-moves-high-court-seeking-stay-on-judgment-over-senate-polls-101620935812621.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||This forgotten 200-year-old Mohali village is still awaiting 21st century life||No approach road, dispensary or public transport and just a primary school depict the sorry state of affairs at Bhikandi village in Mohali’s Majri block.Even though the Right to Education Act mandates provision of a primary school (up to Class 5) within a village’s 1km area and an upper primary school (up to Class 8) within 3km, children at Bhikandi are forced to travel 8km for classes beyond Class 5.The nearest senior secondary school is 12km away, due to which girls are often made to drop out after Class 10 and even boys don’t pursue education beyond Class 12.Home to nearly 700 people, the ramshackle village never got an approach road, also limiting its transport avenues.“Our village is over 200 years old, but even in the 21st century, it’s devoid of an approach road, dispensary, transport and high or senior secondary school. Even pursuing agriculture is a pain, as the fields and houses get flooded during monsoon every year,” said village sarpanch Pal Singh.“The villagers did see a ray of hope when member of Parliament Manish Tewari visited us in 2019 and assured all basic amenities, but nothing has changed even two years down the line,” he added.For even the smallest of ailments, villagers are forced to travel huge distances. “There is no medical facility either in the village or in the nearby areas. When my wife got a fever, I had to take her on my bicycle to the nearest hospital,” said Kashmira Singh, a villager.None of Kashmira’s three daughters studied after Class 10, while his only son also struggled to clear Class 12. Now, his daughters stay home and his son takes up menial jobs.“We have met so many officials for the village’s development, but the government has done nothing to ensure the villagers live fulfilling lives. There’s not even a part-time veterinary doctor to look after our cattle,” said Nirmal Singh, another villager.When contacted, Kharar sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain said he will seek a report from the district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) and also visit the village. “The report will help kick-start work on ensuring basic amenities in the village,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/this-forgotten-200-year-old-mohali-village-is-still-awaiting-21st-century-life-101620935696861.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board’s 79 built-up flats up for grabs||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will start sale of its 79 built-up residential units on freehold basis through e-tender from 10am on May 17. The deadline of e-bid submission on www.etenders.chd.nic.in is 6pm on May 31, following which bids will open on June 1. On offer are 1, 2, 3 bedroom, medium-income group and economically weaker section (EWS) flats. Their reserve price ranges between ₹23.44 lakh for EWS flats and ₹86.24 lakh for three-bedroom flats (see box). In the first phase of the auction in the first week of May, CHB had received 105 bids for 36 of the 109 properties up for sale. A three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 had fetched the board ₹1.05 crore against a reserve price of ₹86 lakh. Two similar properties in the sector also went for more than ₹1 crore. In all, CHB had earned ₹29.41 crore from the auction. As per conditions, successful bidders are required to deposit 25% of the bid amount within five working days. However, six highest bidders could not meet the deadline and hence their earnest money of ₹2 lakh each was forfeited. These six dwelling units have been included in the second phase of the auction, which is open to all citizens of India as well as NRIs and PIOs above 18 years of age. Persons already having any property (residential or commercial) can also participate in the e-tender.E-bid requirementsThe e-bid must be above the reserve price and the bidders can revise their e-bids, any number of times, till closure of bid submission. The properties will be allotted to the highest bidder.The dwelling units can be further sold, alienated, transferred, etc., after the execution of Conveyance Deed with CHB, as per law and the board’s transfer policies applicable to freehold properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-s-79-built-up-flats-up-for-grabs-101620935695445.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP accuses central, Punjab govts of playing politics over ventilators||Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and state kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan on Thursday accused the central and state governments of playing politics on the “faulty ventilators” purchased through PM Cares Fund. In a statement, Sandhwan alleged that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and medical education minister O P Soni were responsible for the deaths due to non-availability of ventilators and other health services in the state. The AAP MLA said he had he had taken up the matter regarding the poor quality ventilators with the state government on September 8, 2020, and again in a high-level meeting held on March 5, 2021, at Baba Farid Medical College in which medical education minister OP Soni along with secretaries, MLAs and deputy commissioners were present. During the meeting when discussion was held on 14 ventilators kept in the medical college, it was informed that these ventilators were not working properly and not being used,” he said. Sandhwan said he had raised the issue of ventilators from time to time, but the state government did not resolve the problem. The government was now saying that it would get them repaired, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-accuses-central-punjab-govts-of-playing-politics-over-ventilators-101620935692600.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jabs for 18+: Punjab to launch vaccination for kin of health workers from Friday||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced the launch of 18-44 age group vaccination for families of healthcare workers in government and private sectors as well as those suffering from co-morbidities from Friday. Directing judicious use of the limited available stocks of vaccine, the CM also directed the health department to initiate the process of vaccinating co-morbid prisoners in this age group. Reviewing the Covid situation and the vaccination status at a virtual meeting of his cabinet, Amarinder asked the health department to kick-start the vaccination programme for these priority groups from identified school and other buildings to prevent further spread of the pandemic to avoid crowding at government hospitals. Briefing the cabinet, Dr Gagandeep Kang, a special invitee to the expert group, said with preliminary data showing vaccines working better against the coronavirus than expected, including against the mutant B.1.617 variety, a targeted response to the vaccination programme was needed. She suggested more extensive use of Covishield, given its affordability and availability, and the fact that it offers high efficacy even with a single dose, while the second dose can be extended up to 12 weeks. Dr Kang suggested that the Government of India should be requested to include obesity in the list of comorbidities for vaccination priority. HUNGER HELPLINE ANNOUNCED Poor and underprivileged Covid patients can call up Hunger Helpline numbers 181 and 112 from Friday for delivery of free cooked meals at their doorstep through the Punjab Police department. The CM announced the humanitarian initiative at the cabinet meeting, declaring that “we will not let anyone sleep hungry in Punjab”. “Such patients can call on these numbers any time of the day or night, and will be provided cooked food at their homes by the police department, through Covid kitchens and delivery boys,” according to an official spokesperson. The department is tying up with such kitchens and delivery agents for this purpose, DGP Dinkar Gupta said. As part of the facility, which will become operational from 10am from Friday, poor Covid patients living anywhere in Punjab and lacking access to food can DIAL 181 or 112 at any time of day or night, on 24/7 basis, for delivery of cooked meals at their doorstep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jabs-for-18-punjab-to-launch-vaccination-for-kin-of-health-workers-from-friday-101620935457747.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||At 29°C, Chandigarh records coldest May day in eight years||The 1mm rain and gusty winds on Thursday brought the day temperature down to 29°C, 10 degrees below normal, making it the coldest May day since 2013.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), it was only in May 2013 last that a lower day temperature of 27.6°C was recorded. The maximum temperature in May so far had remained over 30°C, even shooting up to 37.4°C on May 9, while April 28 with a temperature of 41°C was the hottest April day in the past four years.The minimum temperature also decreased from 22.6°C to 21.4°C, one notch below normal.Hereon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cloudy weather over the weekend with low chances of rain.“Western disturbances are still active and will bring along clouds, but rain is unlikely. Therefore, the day temperature will start to rise from Friday onwards,” said an IMD official.Over the next three days, the maximum temperature may go up to 36°C and minimum temperature will hover around 23°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-29-c-chandigarh-records-coldest-may-day-in-eight-years-101620935456546.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to join COVAX facility for sourcing vaccines at best price||The Punjab government on Thursday decided to join the COVAX facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines at the best price, claiming to be the first state in the country to take the strategic initiative. The decision was taken during the cabinet meeting, which also approved the purchase of Covaxin for industrial workers, for whose vaccination, the industry has expressed willingness to pay. The state government has ordered only Covishield vaccine so far for the 18-44 age group, but with this decision, decks have been cleared to place orders for Covaxin too, according to an official spokesperson. Reviewing the vaccination status and availability in the state, the cabinet said it was necessary to source vaccine globally. Since the COVAX facility offers the best prices, the state should make an attempt to join the same for procuring vaccines from the international markets, it decided. The suggestion for joining the COVAX was given to the cabinet by Dr Gagandeep Kang, who heads the Punjab Expert Group on Vaccination. COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access, abbreviated as COVAX, is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines directed by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, and the World Health Organization. Already, about a dozen states, including Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi have decided to issue or floated global tenders for procurement of Covid vaccines. In a brief presentation, health secretary Hussan Lal informed the cabinet that of the 30 lakh Covishield doses ordered by the state government, Serum Institute of India (SII) had so far confirmed 4.29 lakh, of which 1 lakh doses had been received. He said that for the 45+ age group, the last tranche of 1.63 lakh doses of Covishield was received on May 9, taking the total to 42,48,560. As many as 3,45,000 doses were given to the armed forces, while the total vaccination utilisation stood at 39,03,560, he added. For Covaxin in the 45+ category, the last tranche of vaccine was of 75,000 doses (May 6), taking the total received to 4,09,080.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-join-covax-facility-for-sourcing-vaccines-at-best-price-101620935273169.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||18+ vax: Come May 17, Himachal slots to be visible on CoWIN||With vaccination of the 18-44 age bracket starting in Himachal Pradesh on May 17, session sites and available slots will be visible for scheduling on the CoWIN portal from May 15, National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said on Thursday.Vaccination for the 18-44 age group will only be done on Monday and Thursday at dedicated sites. The sessions will be visible in the CoWIN portal two days before to each scheduled session. Initially, vaccination sessions will be held on May 17, 20, 24, 27 and 31.The state has received 1,07,620 doses of Covishield vaccine from Serum Institute of India, Pune. Beneficiaries can register themselves and schedule their appointment for vaccination on the CoWIN portal, he said, adding that no beneficiary will be entertained on the vaccination site without an appointment. Registration and scheduling of the vaccination centre and time can also be done through Arogya Setu app.Bank staff, teachers on Covid duty added to priority groups Bank employees, teachers on Covid duty, HRTC drivers and conductors have been included in the priority age group for vaccination. Fuel-pump operators, public distribution system depot holders, chemists, Lok Mitra Kendra staff, employees in Child Care Institutions and workers of the pharma Industry have also been added to the group.Beneficiaries in the priority groups must get themselves certified from the department concerned for vaccination, he said. State failed to take scientists’ warning seriously: CPIM The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPIM) on Thursday asked the state government to make adequate preparations to combat the virus. “Scientists had forewarned that the new variant was a super spreader. It seems the government and its agencies underestimated and undermined the forewarning and instead adopted the ‘wait and watch’ approach, said CPI(M) state secretary Onkar Shad. “Preliminary analysis of the virus’ behaviour and its socio -economic impact on Himachal indicates that despite the virulent strain, the density of population in the state creates conditions ,in which spread of the virus can be kept under control,” he said. On the state’s high Covid fatality rate, Shad said factors such as delay in medical treatment, the government’s failure to trace and test the infected, an unscientific outlook, fear of being stigmatised, failure to provide uninterrupted supply of oxygen, shortage of staff and scarcity of life saving drugs were responsible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18-vax-come-may-17-himachal-slots-to-be-visible-on-cowin-101620935153670.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nitika Bhalla elected Moga mayor||First-time Congress councillor Nitika Bhalla, 35, was on Thursday elected as mayor of the Moga municipal corporation. Nitika is a graduate and used to teach children at a private school for the past 10 years before being elected as a councillor from ward number 5.Parveen Kumar Sharma and Ashok Dhamija were chosen as senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor, respectively.The elections for Moga MC were held on February 14 and the results were announced on February 18. Of the 50 seats, Congress had won 20 and later 10 independent candidates also joined the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nitika-bhalla-elected-moga-mayor-101620935152743.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Harpal Cheema demands special Punjab assembly session||Leader of opposition and AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema on Thursday demanded a special session of the state assembly at the earliest to discuss the plan to deal with the second Covid-19 wave.In a statement, Cheema appealed to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to increase the annual budget for health services to 25% so that situation can be dealt with in a proper manner. “Despite Punjab being a rich and important state, the health facilities are in a very bad condition,” he said, expressing concern of the high mortality rate.The AAP leader said that though the state government had stopped students from coming to schools due to the coronavirus pandemic, teachers were being made to come to school which was extremely unfair. “All teachers should be stopped from coming to the school and orders should be given to them teach from their homes through the online mode,” he demanded, blaming the flawed strategy of the state government for the deteriorating situation.He said the government hospitals were facing shortage of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff as well as life-saving equipment, oxygen gas and medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-harpal-cheema-demands-special-punjab-assembly-session-101620935032776.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||To check misuse of oxygen, Chandigarh begins auditing hospitals||As the demand for oxygen in the city goes up and reports of misuse of medical oxygen pour in, the UT administration has started audits of all private hospitals being provided oxygen from Chandigarh’s quota.The action comes after UT officials discovered that some private facilities were consuming excess quantity of oxygen, with one private hospital reportedly using as many as 400 cylinders per day.Senior doctors from government hospitals had observed that it was almost impossible to consume such a quantity even if all the patients were on ventilators. For managing medical oxygen supply in the UT, they said the consumption of each private hospital will be examined with regard to its capacity and beds reserved for Covid patients.The central government has fixed Chandigarh’s daily quota of medical oxygen at 20 metric tonnes (MT), to be utilised for Government Medical College and Hospital at Sector 32, Government Multi-Speciality Hospital at Sector 16 and the Covid hospital at Sector 48. Private healthcare institutions are also being catered to from this quota. The private facilities are mostly dependent on medical oxygen through cylinders. These are also used in ambulances and while shifting the patients from one ward to another. The nodal officer for oxygen in Chandigarh, Yashpal Garg, in the orders issued for the oxygen audit, said, “Considering acute shortage of oxygen, the distribution of oxygen cylinders has been rationalised and a daily quota has been fixed for each of the private hospitals.”Accordingly, private hospitals have to share information regarding the number of beds and oxygen cylinders procured by them from approved private vendors.Garg has directed the hospitals to provide the information for the period between April 1 and May 5 within three days.Further, a PCS officer, Jagjit Singh, has been assigned the charge to coordinate with the hospitals regarding availability of beds and oxygen supply.The administration has also decided that a team of senior doctors from GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 will visit private and government hospitals to educate and sensitise them on optimum utilisation of oxygen. Garg said a team led by Jagjit Singh on Wednesday had visited Landmark Hospital, Mukat Hospital and Healing Hospital. On Thursday, the team visited the City/Apollo Hospital, Kare Partners Hospital and Santokh Hospital. On May 14, the team is scheduled to visit the Eden Hospital. Next week, the team will also visit the mini Covid care centres and government hospitals, said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/to-check-misuse-of-oxygen-chandigarh-begins-auditing-hospitals-101620934912619.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 184 more Covid deaths, 8,494 new cases||Punjab on Thursday reported 184 more Covid-related fatalities taking the death toll to 11,297. The infection tally in the state reached 4,75,949 with 8,494 people testing positive for the virus, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government. Ludhiana and Sangrur districts alone reported 48 deaths. The state also registered the highest single-day recoveries with 8,237 people being discharged from hospitals, taking the number of those cured to 3,84,702. The number of active cases dropped from 79,963 on Wednesday to 79,950. Twenty-five deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 23 from Sangrur, 17 from Patiala, 15 from Muktsar, 12 from Bathinda and 10 each from Amritsar, Fazilka and Jalandhar. Ludhiana, which continues to register the maximum number of cases in the state, reported 1,335 infections, followed by 991 in Mohali, 877 in Bathinda and 577 in Jalandhar, among daily fresh cases. There are 429 critical Covid patients who are on ventilator support while 9,619 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 80,01,745 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. The state’s positivity rate on Thursday was 12.85%. Mohali with 24.65% of positivity rate topped the list, followed by 22.21% in Mansa, 21.09% in Bathinda, 16.85% in Faridkot, 16.13% in Kapurthala and 14.60% and 14.16% in Ferozepur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-184-more-covid-deaths-8-494-new-cases-101620934852656.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||All ICU beds occupied in Faridkot medical college||While 85 ventilators are non-functional at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, all level-3 beds (for critical patients) are occupied. With the 450-bed isolation facility, the GGSMCH is providing care to critical Covid patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. As per official bed occupancy list, all the 272 level-3 Intensive care unit (ICU) beds, including 52 ICU beds with ventilators are occupied. Of the 176 total level-2 beds, 104 are occupied. On Thursday, Faridkot reported four Covid deaths and 273 new cases, taking the active cases to over 1,793 in the district.Of 88 ventilators received under the PM Cares Fund and five through AvGa, 90 lifesaving machines were found non-functional at Faridkot hospital on Thursday. Only five lifesaving machines were rectified on Thursday by an engineer of a private company entrusted with repairing work. Dr Shilekh Mittal, medical superintendent, GGSMCH, said that due to the spike in Covid cases, they are treating maximum level-3 patients. “Right now, all the ventilators are occupied but engineers are working to repair the ones. We are facing shortage of level-3 beds as we are receiving critical patients from nine districts,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-icu-beds-occupied-in-faridkot-medical-college-101620934732802.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shamlat land illegal occupation: Govt losing ₹20 cr yearly as 9,500 acres encroached in Doaba, Majha, says report||The government seems to have turned a blind eye towards illegal occupation of 9,500 acres of shamlat land (village common land) in eight districts of Doaba and Majha regions, which fall under the Jalandhar division. In Punjab, there is around 1.70 lakh acres of shamlat land. The Doaba region has four districts of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, while Majha has Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts. HT accessed a report compiled by collector, panchayat lands, and divisional deputy director of Jalandhar division, Jagwinderjit Singh Sandhu, which says around 9,500 acres of shamlat land worth ₹2,000 crore is under encroachment with the “connivance” of rural and panchayat development department officials. The report underlines a loss of at least ₹20 crore per annum to the exchequer vis a vis if the government had leased it out as per rules. The report was submitted to additional chief secretary of the department Seema Jain in March this year. Among the eight districts, highest 4,000 acres were encroached in Kapurthala, 1,426 acres in Jalandhar, 1,044 in Amritsar, 926 in Gurdaspur, 701 in Hoshiarpur, 646 in Tarn Taran, 534 in Shaheed Bhagat Singh and 137 in Pathankot districts. On May 12, Sandhu wrote to district development and panchayat officers of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur, highlighting that around 1,800 acres of common land in their respective districts was under encroachment due to the connivance of department officials. He also directed that in case the encroached land is not auctioned this year or case not filed for removal of encroachment in the collector court, panchayat officers’ responsibility will be fixed. “You are directed to vacate the encroached shamlat land and any delay will be taken as serious lapse,” says the letter. Rural development and panchayat department, director, Manpreet Singh Chattwal, said, “We have directed all our field officers to vacate the encroached panchayat land. We have removed encroachments from panchayat land in almost every block of the state. We have been doing mapping of the panchayat land across the state and will build a consolidated database of the common land.” Additional chief secretary Seema Jain said she has formed a committee under the divisional deputy director of the department, Jalandhar, to examine encroachments and prepare a report within two months. “We will take action on the basis of the report after the approval of rural development minister,” she said, adding the committee will also keep the Punjab and Haryana high court order in mind as per which no eviction can take place till June 30. Rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the department vacated a large number of encroachments which led to hike in the revenue of the department. Bikkar Singh, general secretary of Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, said a lobby of politicians, officials and influential people didn’t want encroachments removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shamlat-land-illegal-occupation-govt-losing-20-cr-yearly-as-9-500-acres-encroached-in-doaba-majha-says-report-101620934493810.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||508 oxygen cylinders seized from Ambala factory||The district administration seized 305 filled and 203 empty commercial oxygen cylinders from a factory in Mandour village of Ambala on Wednesday night, the police said.Nodal officer for O2 supply in homes, Gauri Midha, said the unit that manufactures heavy equipment for construction of railway overbridges were using O2 for industrial purposes.On taking legal action against the owners, Midha said, “The cylinders were seized and will be used to supply oxygen for infected patients. We’ve submitted a report to the deputy commissioner and he will take a call on any possible legal action.”As per a government order, such cylinders will only be used for medical services till further notice. Last week, 33 such empty cylinders were seized from a small industrial unit in the Cantt area, but no legal action was taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/508-oxygen-cylinders-seized-from-ambala-factory-101620934492749.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu’s oxygen infrastructure to be audited, augmented||Amid spiraling coronavirus fatalities across the Jammu region, the Jammu and Kashmir government has said that it will augment the oxygen generation infrastructure in the division. Apart from the recently commissioned oxygen generation plants, many units are already being installed at different hospitals across Jammu province, an official said, adding that amid the increased demand and augmented capacities, authorities have started a comprehensive audit of oxygen requirement, supplies and availability. 15K LPM plants for GMCH Jammu Secretary tribal affairs and Covid in-charge of containment efforts in Jammu province, Dr Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said the government has sanctioned 15,000 LPM capacity oxygen generation plants for Government Medical College, Jammu, and its associated hospitals against which 6,100 LPM capacity plants have been commissioned in the last two weeks and a letter of intent (LOI) has been issued for 2,500 LPM capacity plants while efforts are on to procure units of other capacities as well. In Samba, Rajouri and Reasi, oxygen generation plants of 1200 LPM, 3000 LPM and 1200 LPM capacities have been approved against which an installation of 1,000 LPM each had been commissioned last week. In Doda, installation of an 750 LPM plant is underway and additional capacity of 2250LPM will be augmented. In Kishtwar, a letter of intent has been issued for 1,500 LPM capacity whereas in Ramban, installation of 1,000 LPM plant has been initiated and a letter of intent issued for another 500 LPM plant. A 2,250 LPM oxygen generation plant has been installed in Kathua while a letter of intent has been issued for installation of two oxygen plants at Poonch and Mandi of 2,200 LPM and 2,00 LPM, respectively. In Udhampur, a 1,000 LPM plant is under installation and letter of intent has been issued for another 2,000 LPM. Chief engineer MED Naresh Khajuria along with technical team are making efforts to ensure timely commission of oxygen generation plants. Dr Choudhary said the oxygen audit will help to peg the requirement at maximum bed capacity of hospitals, corresponding oxygen supply needed, availability of oxygen generation plants, oxygen cylinders and concentrators. The oxygen war room working under supervision of Jammu director industries and commerce, Jammu, Anu Malhotra is operating round-the-clock to ensure minimising turn around of cylinder refill and rushing the supplies to hospitals with equal focus on hospitals in far flung areas. 800 more O2 supported beds added in Jammu The government has added nearly 800 more oxygen supported beds in Jammu in a week to augment the existing bed capacity, as a part of ongoing capacity building of hospitals in wake of rising cases of Covid-19 reported over the last month. Meanwhile, bed capacity in two major private hospitals has been increased by 60 beds. There are now 3,283 oxygen supported beds in Jammu. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha 6 had set a target of bed capacity enhancement of 1,325 beds, of which 800 has been achieved in a week. As many as 148 beds have been added to Government Medical College, 34 to GMC Kathua, 80 to GMC Doda, 30 to GMC Rajouri, 438 to hospitals managed by the directorate of health services, 30 to ASCOMS Sidhra, 30 to Narayana hospital Katra. Ventilators lying unused in rural areas being sent back to GMCH Jammu Ventilators given to Jammu and Kashmir under the PM CARES Fund, which have been gathering dust in rural hospitals, will now be brought to Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu for optimum utilisation. Balvinder Singh, a social activist said J&K had received around 400 ventilators under PM CARES Fund and most of them were sent to community health centres, primary health centres and sub district hospitals despite knowing that these institutions do not have the required infrastructure to install these ventilators and make them functional. To run ventilators 24x7 electricity, interrupted oxygen supply, trained technicians and at least two anaesthetists are required. The managing director of Jammu and Kashmir Medical Supplies Corporation Dr Yashpal Sharma has now issued instructions to the health directors to send such unused ventilators from peripheral institutions in rural areas to the government medical college and hospital in Jammu. Since Wednesday around 35 ventilators from rural areas have been sent to GMCH Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammus-oxygen-infrastructure-to-be-audited-augmented-101620934372705.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Of 4,500 inmates in J&K jails, 23 have tested positive||JAMMUAmid the raging coronavirus pandemic, Jammu and Kashmir has 4,572 inmates lodged in 13 jails, of which 23 have tested positive for the virus. Outgoing DG (prisons)VK Singh said, “Among them 21 are in Kathua district jail, one in Central Jail, Kotbhalwal and one in District Jail Jammu. Necessary medical care is being provided to them.” “At present, 635 inmates are lodged in Central Jail, Srinagar, which includes 27 female inmates. There are no Covid positive cases in the prison,” he said, directing the staff to ensure strict adherence to standard operating procedures to prevent spread of Covid. Singh said, “At present, 219 inmates are under quarantine in prisons across J&K as new prisoners undergo mandatory Covid testing and quarantine for 14 days.” Last year, after a high-powered panel was formed by the Supreme Court to depopulate prisons in view the pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir prison authorities had released 20 inmates on special parole. “The parole continues. It was extended for eight weeks and we are into seventh and eighth week,” said Singh. DIG Prisons Sultan Lone said, “We have 22 asymptomatic and one symptomatic Covid inmates.” Inoculation to start soon “Initially, there was confusion over inoculating prisoners across India because Aadhaar Cards are mandatory to get the jab. However, the Centre intervened and now they can be inoculated without them. We have written to the state immunisation officer Dr Saleem-ur-Rehman. They will not be taken anywhere and will be inoculated in the prisons,” said Lone. Rehman said though the prisons are overcrowded, all possible measures have been initiated in view of the pandemic. In the Hiranagar sub-jail, which is holding centre for illegal Rohingya immigrants, all 221 inmates have tested negative. Release political prisoners: CPI (M) CPI (M) leader Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami on Tuesday said that Kashmiri political prisoners lodged in various jails within and outside the Valley must be released as unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases across the country has put their lives in congested jails at risk. Supreme Court recently directed the high-powered committees to consider release of new prisoners by adopting the guidelines of the National Legal Services Authority to decongest jails. Hundreds of Kashmiri prisoners, including some teenagers are languishing in jails within and outside J&K for years now. Health conditions of some Kashmiri prisoners, lodged in Tihar and other jails outside the Valley, have deteriorated in recent times and if they are not released it could prove fatal for them due to rising virus cases. Some of them are aged and suffer from multiple ailments. In the absence of proper medical assistance, these prisoners feel helpless and are in distress. It would be prudent to release all prisoners, at least on parole, keeping in view the alarming situation due to Covid-19. There are also prisoners who have minor offences against them and whose detention order has been quashed multiple times by the courts. The Government has failed to prove charges against several people arrested under the Public Safety Act (PSA) and other such laws. They should be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/of-4-500-inmates-in-j-k-jails-23-have-tested-positive-101620933713210.html
