15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Governance reforms: Punjab wants governor to be PU chancellor||The Punjab government has finally sent its comments to the Panjab University reforms committee, in which it has recommended that the governor of Punjab be made the chancellor of the university instead of the vice-president of India. Director of public instruction (DPI) Paramjit Singh, who is a member of the committee representing Punjab, has written to the chairperson of the committee, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, vice-chancellor RP Tiwari asking that the governor be restored as chancellor of the university.The government has also asked the university’s senate to consider the recommendations. The subcommittee is of the view that four senate members should be elected from among registered post graduate fellows. Of the four, three may be from Punjab, and one from Chandigarh. It has also recommended that 18 members of the senate be nominated by the chancellor from among academicians, of which nine should be in consultation with the government of Punjab. Singh has asked that these recommendations be incorporated in the main body of the final report and not as an annexure.These comments were supposed to be sent to the chairperson of the committee by April 26. However, the DPI had said that the government was busy with Covid management of the state. The 11-member panel of experts was constituted by the chancellor in February to recommend governance reforms in light of the New Education Policy after the University Grants Commission in November 2020 asked the varsity to initiate governance reforms as per provisions of the PU Act and Regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/governance-reforms-punjab-wants-governor-to-be-pu-chancellor-101621100704679.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus a notified disease in Haryana: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Saturday said that black fungus has been declared a notified disease in state.The black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, is caused by a fungus called mucor.Vij said if a patient is diagnosed with black fungus in any government or private hospital, it will have to be reported to the chief medical officer of the district so that steps can be taken to contain the disease.He said senior doctors of PGIMS, Rohtak will conduct video conferencing with all doctors who are treating Covid in state and will inform them about treatment of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-a-notified-disease-in-haryana-vij-101621098185617.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||500-bed hospitals come up in Haryana’s Panipat, Hisar||In an effort to ramp up medical infrastructure, the Haryana government has set up two 500-bed temporary Covid hospitals in Panipat and Hisar.Two more hospitals - a 100-bed field hospital and a 300-bed Covid care centre - have been set up in Gurugram. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will inaugurate these hospitals on May 16.An official spokesperson said the temporary Covid hospital established at Bal Jatan village near the Indian Oil refinery in Panipat has been named Guru Tegh Bahadur Sanjivani Covid Hospital.Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Haryana health minister Anil Vij will be present at the inauguration of the hospital.A team of 25 doctors and 150 paramedical staff have been appointed for functioning of Sanjivani Hospital.The spokesperson said roads have been built to connect the hospital blocks. Five mini-bus ambulances of Haryana Roadways and two ambulances from the refinery will support the movement of patients to the Covid hospital. Five ambulances from the police department will also give support for this hospital.The spokesperson said the hospital in Hisar is named Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjivani Hospital. Oxygen supply in this hospital will be supplied from the plant of Jindal Steel Industries. A supply of 8 MT oxygen per day has been arranged.The 100-bed Covid Field Hospital at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Gurugram has been set up by Vedanta. It has 20 ICUs and 80 oxygen beds. Vedanta will provide all necessary medical equipment for treatment of Covid patients.Apart from this, a 300-bed Covid care centre has been set up in Sector 67, Gurugram in collaboration with real estate developer M3M, CII, Air Force and Doctors for You.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/500bed-hospitals-come-up-in-haryana-s-panipat-hisar-101621097887737.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 9,676 new Covid cases, 144 deaths||Haryana recorded 9,676 new Covid-19 cases and 144 deaths on Saturday.As per the medical bulletin, 12,593 patients recovered on Saturday and the number of active cases stood at 95,946.Gurugram with 27,985 active cases accounted for about one-third of the total active cases followed by Faridabad (8,666), Hisar (8,263), Panipat (5,481), Sirsa (5,109) and Karnal (4,895).The daily sample positivity rate came down to 15.76% and the cumulative positivity rate was 8.36%. The recovery rate improved to 85.04%, the bulletin said. There are 1,759 critically ill patients, including 597 on ventilator support.Among the dead, 18 persons were from Gurugram, 16 from Hisar, 13 from Jind, 10 from Rohtak, nine each from Faridabad and Ambala, eight from Bhiwani, seven each from Karnal, Yamunanagar and Rewari, six from Charkhi Dadri, five each from Kurukshetra and Panipat, four from Fatehabad, three each from Sirsa, Panchkula, Mahendergarh, Palwal and Sonepat, two each from Jhajjar and Nuh and one from Kaithal.NUMBER OF INFECTED INMATES IN KARNAL JAIL RISES TO 223
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Police’s bike squad delivers meals to Covid patients||After a steep increase in the number of coronavirus infections in the district, the police have tied up with a local NGO to deliver cooked meals to patients in home isolation who are unable to arrange for food. A police control room (PCR) motorcycle team has been delivering food to needy patients and has already catered to at least 20 patients. The move comes after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta issued directions to launch Covid canteens in all districts.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, law and order) Ashwani Kapoor is the nodal officer for the initiative in Ludhiana. Kapoor along with four assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) — ACP traffic Gurdev Singh, ACP crime-1 Mandeep Singh, ACP crime-2 Surinder Mohan and ACP command centre Naveen Kumar are ensuring that only those in genuine need are availing the service. Covid patients can call on the helpline numbers 181 and 112 to seek the police’s help in getting cooked food delivered. Personnel in the PCR will collect the address and contact details of the caller and share it with teams, who will verify the details of the caller and check their Covid report.Patients who have availed of the service once need not call every day. “After receiving the first call, we will provide two meals (lunch and dinner) a day to the patient until he or she is under isolation,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/polices-bike-squad-delivers-meals-to-covid-patients-101621094343933.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Chandigarh’s pretty chicks||A definitive indicator of habitat acceptance by a wild creature is that the species is able to breed and rear its offspring to maturity. So it is with the grey partridge (francolin), an iconic bird of the North-west Indian countryside facing a rapid decline in numbers in its stronghold habitats, but one that has adapted and settled down in the heart of Chandigarh. It can be encountered in parks in pairs or small coveys or perched on boundary walls like a common dove or babbler. At the sprawling and verdant complex of the Government College for Girls, Sector 11, birder and conservationist Vikas Salil Sharma has photo-documented the successful breeding of partridges, a species whose reproductive season is currently underway.Zoologist and author Dr Rajive Kalsi has undertaken extensive field research and conducted radio collar studies on the breeding ecology and conservation status of partridges. He explains why this bird has been able to breed successfully in an urban habitat. “Chandigarh sports mature trees which partridges use to roost at night and be safe from ground predators. The city is landscaped with shrubs, hedges and bushes and these not only provide cover to partridges but are the habitat for insects, which partridge chicks feed exclusively on. The city has abundant ‘deemak’, which chicks relish. The grey partridge, as compared to the black partridge, is a bolder species and ventures into new areas to find suitable habitat. Hence, the grey partridge adaptability to diverse habitats. Hunting and trapping is of relatively low incidence in the city. Finally, the application of pesticides is lesser in the city as compared to the partridge’s traditional habitats spanning the agriculture-jungle-scrubland mosaic. Pesticides constitute the main factor for partridge decline in the countryside,” Dr Kalsi told this writer. Beauty at our feetThe soil from where these violet flowers bloom is riddled with pebbles and is stone-dry. Hugging the ground in humility, the blooms smile at the clear sky even though they lie bang in the centre of a winding cattle track that leads over the Mirzapur check dam’s embankment to the waters below. The cattle’s heavy hooves have somehow missed these flowers attended by fabulously fiendish, upright thorns, festive yellow berries and greenish, deeply-lobed leaves that resemble a human palm with more than five, awkwardly jutting and stubby fingers. This lovely shrub inhabiting the arid terrain of the Shivalik foothills goes by the intriguing common English names of dwarf wild brinjal, Jacquin’s nightshade, prickly brinjal, prickly nightshade, Thai eggplant, thorny nightshade and yellow-berried nightshade. In Punjabi, it is known as kandiali, chhoti mauhari or unt katara and in Hindi as kantkari. It is recognised in the scientific world by the botanical nomenclature of Solanum virginianum.Despite its seemingly unobtrusive life at the mercy of the various clumsy feet of men and big beasts that may trod and trample over it at the peril of inviting a thorny jab, derivatives of this shrub are an important ingredient in the preparation of the ayruvedic dashmool formulation used in the treatment of cough, asthma and chest complaints. Pastes derived from the shrub find application in traditional and folklore medicines, too. As a research study pointed out while underscoring the pharma potential of Solanum virginianum: “Herbal medicines are of growing interest because of their cost effective and eco-friendly attributes.”So, the next time when out for a nature ramble in the Shivaliks, pay attention to the beauty and utility of these self-effacing shrubs that lie at your feet and smile up at you amid the perennial adversity of existence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-chandigarh-s-pretty-chicks-101621091530284.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Not just women rights, men’s lives matter too!||“Tell me, do wives frequently harass their husbands or is the incidence directly proportional to the number of years of marriage?” an unmarried friend asked me recently. I told her that it was indeed true in several cases. “Oh! this is completely new to me. I have heard of husbands harassing their wives and not vice versa,” she said, with a hearty laugh. As she fished for more information, I asked her to read the newspapers attentively every day. Many advertisements and movies show domestic violence against women, little realising that it is a two-way street. Incidentally, Aamir Khan’s TV show, Satyamev Jayate, had also observed that men do not suffer from marital hostility. Several years ago, a woman was conferred a socio-cultural award because she had the guts to incriminate her husband and in-laws in her marital home when she found that her husband was earning less than her! How did it matter who earned more when the money one earns is for mutual comfort? Legal terrorism : Guilty until proven innocent Around two decades ago, men became acutely aware of this legal terrorism by wives. False claims of dowry harassment leading to psychological abuse and incarceration of husbands became the norm. Once in custody, which is non-bailable, husbands generally lose their jobs. Who will reach out to such men in misery? A person is supposed to be innocent until proven guilty, but here a person is held guilty until proven innocent! Consequently, men have become gynophobic and have begun viewing the institution of marriage as a snare. This has put the institution in danger and has resulted in a reduced wedding rate in the country. As most men marry after becoming financially stable, the likelihood of losing their wealth and property due to false implications, has discouraged many a man from committing to a partner. Domestic violence against men is increasing in leaps and bounds and the novel-coronavirus lockdown has added to incidents of violence against the ‘stronger sex’. Most cases of domestic violence against men go unreported as they feel too humiliated to report abuse and fear false accusations against them in reprisal. Men activists have been asking for laws that are gender neutral and not women-centric because anti-dowry laws are often being misused to extort husbands and to harass them. Reversing trend in domestic violence These laws are responsible for the high rate of suicide among married men who are tortured by their wives and their relatives. A recent survey showed that around 65,000 married men had died by suicide against 28,000 married women. This certainly shows that the trend of domestic abuse is reversing. If a married woman commits suicide within seven years of marriage, her husband and his family are taken into police custody, whereas hardly any action is taken when a man ends his life due to the torture by his wife and in-laws. We must definitely empower women but not at the expense of men. After all, their lives matter too! (The writer is a former PGIMER professor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/not-just-women-rights-men-s-lives-matter-too-101621091044452.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Bar or bench - a tough balancing act amid Covid||The Punjab and Haryana high court and all courts subordinate to it in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, suspended their normal functioning in the third week of March 2020. The HC has been hearing a limited number of matters through video-conferencing mode. Things began to look up when the Centre and state governments began to open up all sectors of the economy. However, courts failed to keep pace with the sectors that were opening up. The limited listing of matters has adversely affected the livelihood of thousands of advocates and their associates. Since September 2020, the advocates have been demanding that steps be taken to normalise courts’ functioning in a phased manner. However, the demand hardly evoked a favourable response, which led to passing of a resolution dated February 1, demanding the transfer of the chief justice and boycotting his court until then. A middle path was struck where the court administration agreed to open courts for physical hearing in a phased manner and also agreed to make all courts functional through video-conferencing mode. The listing of fresh matters increased to approximately 1,000 cases per day, bringing respite to advocates and litigants. As the Covid curve steepened in April, the HC administration yet again started restricting the listing of cases from April 23. Only around 117 matters were listed for hearing on May 10 before 13 benches of the HC. Even anticipatory bails and other matters concerning life and liberty of citizens are not being listed. The bar association tried to prevail upon the HC administration to open up listing and hearing through video conferencing, but to no avail . Consequently, on May 7, the executive committee of the bar association decided to revive the resolution seeking transfer of the chief justice. The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana was prompt to intervene and issued a letter highlighting the surge in virus cases and also delved on the safety of advocates, judges, judicial officers, and court staff. The bar council went ahead to stay the May 7 resolution . It is a matter of debate as to under what provision of law the bar council stayed the resolution passed by a bar association, which is an independent body registered under the Society Registration Act. During the last year, advocates’ income has drastically decreased. Unable to bear the cost of living in the tricity, many were forced to leave for their home towns and villages. Those who have stayed behind are struggling to make ends meet. An overwhelming majority of advocates, to borrow a phrase, have to virtually dig the well every day to drink water. The Bar Council has also not taken any tangible steps to alleviate the sufferings of the advocates in the last year. Experts are now predicting a third wave of infections, so Covid is here for the long haul. The Bar Council must also clarify its plans for advocates in case courts continue to work in a restricted manner for the rest the year. With listing of cases curtailed to such an extent, the high court administration should consider rescheduled the summer vacations to an earlier date along the lines of the Supreme Court and Allahabad HC. This will allow the HC to work through June. The former Chief Justice of India SA Bobde had once remarked, “The Bar is the mother of the bench. After all most judges commence their careers at the bar and then join the judiciary. All of us, I like to think, are co-parceners of an undivided family.” The chief justice of the HC is the karta of this undivided family and it is hoped that he will take into consideration the extreme hardship faced by a large number of family members and will perform a balancing act to address concerns of the bar and the bench. ( The writer is a practising advocate in Punjab and Haryana high court. Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-bar-or-bench-a-tough-balancing-act-amid-covid-101621090504763.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: What post-vax world looks like for kids||“Vaccines are magic.” The words of our microbiology professor in the ‘honeymoon phase’ of medical college resonate with me all the more now that I am a paediatrician. While the world was grappling with the novel coronavirus, scientists over the world were busy launching a defence of their own: vaccines. Much has already been said, heard and read about them, which can be summarised in three words – get your jab! For the time being, the vaccine will protect parents while the kids patiently wait for their turn. This divide prompts the question: What is the world going to look like for kids? The rules do not change for children. India is still at war with the virus, and a third wave, which is also likely to target children, looms large. Statistics reveal that 0.5-2% of paediatric cases were seen during the first wave, which has now increased to an alarming 8-10%. The reason for the virulence of the new strain among children is that the previous strain was known to attach itself to the ACE 2 receptor and multiply, which was not seen in paediatric cases due its low expression rates in kids. Thus, children mostly remained unscathed during the first wave of the pandemic. The B 1.617 strain has undergone mutations, which allow it to surpass antibodies and weaken immune defences. All age groups from newborns to teens have been testing positive for the virus. The second wave is expected to peak in mid-May and last for another four to six weeks. The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has thus issued some guidelines on how to keep kids healthy during this grim time. What can parents do? In these difficult times, parents have a lot on their plate be it work from home, household chores or home-schooling. However, they can take a slew of steps to create a friendly environment at home by “being creative and searching for safe alternatives,” says epidemiologist Dr Yvones of Stanford. The alternatives include: •Visual Socialising : Going for online play dates, hobby classes, doing crafts or even watching a movie together once a week. •Outdoor activities: Kids may wear a mask and play outside with their friends in groups of two to three, which could include playing ball, lemon race and relay races. Infrequent play dates with the same family or friend who is also practising everyday preventive measures poses medium risk. •Birthday parties: Set up zoom calls, plan a movie night , fancy dress in the family, face painting or set up a bowling alley at home. What kids should do? The best way to teach children is to set an example. Since the virus is literally in our hands we must teach and re-teach the importance of: •Washing hands : With an alcohol-based soap for 20 seconds •Mask up: Children over five years require to wear a mask outside . They can wear a cloth mask but make sure it is washed before each use. Children less than two years should not wear a mask as they may suffocate. A surgical mask should be worn by children above five years in high-density areas or around Covid positive cases in their household. The mask should snugly fit and cover the nose. •Sanitisation: Sanitising hands before going for and after coming from grocery runs, playing outside and meeting people should be practised. Though the CDC does not recommend that children go out to grocery stores or to their friends’ houses. How to boost your child’s immunity? A well-rounded diet, good sleep and three basic supplements will do the trick: •Vitamin C : Co-factor to many metalloproteins, collagen formation and a powerful antioxidant, it is used in the defence mechanism of our bodies and is widely known to delay the progression of cold. •Vitamin D : Breast-fed children tend to have vitamin-D deficiency. It is imperative to treat the underlying deficiency as it may lead to increased inflammation and increased risk of pneumonia. •Zinc: Deficiency leads to stunted linear growth and impairs immune response towards infections. •Vaccination: Due to the pandemic, parents have not vaccinated their children against other diseases, which also influences and affects immunity. According to the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) guidelines, there is no contraindication of vaccination during the pandemic. Children in containment zones who have missed vaccines can have multiple vaccines in one sitting and using the minimum permitted interval between two doses of the same inactivated vaccine can be practised to complete the schedule in the shortest possible time. The light at the end of tunnel is vaccination for our kids. Pfizer has already formulated a vaccine for kids between 12-15 years of age, which will be produced by the end of this year or early 2022.We must understand that we do not live in a zero-risk world and need to evaluate our risks prudently before letting our guard down since our children do not live in bubbles anymore. ( The writer is a senior resident at the Mohali civil hospital. Views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-what-post-vax-world-looks-like-for-kids-101621090144337.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Complainant held for bank robbery of ₹45 lakh in Jalalabad||The deputy manager of Kotak Mahindra’s Jalalabad branch, Gurpartap Singh, has been arrested along with his friend, Paramjit Singh, for robbing the bank of ₹45 lakh on May 12. Gurpartap, who was the complainant in the case, and Paramjit were arrested by the Fazilka police on Friday evening for staging the robbery, while their accomplice, Gurpreet Singh, is absconding. Also read: Cases of post-Covid mucormycosis are increasing, says AIIMS chiefPolice recovered the cash and a licensed weapon from Paramjit, a resident of Prabhat Singh Wala near Jalalabad in Fazilka district. In his complaint, Gurpartap had claimed that two unidentified motorcycle-borne thieves robbed him and his subordinate Luvpreet Singh at gunpoint on May 12. He had said that the robbers targeted their car and threw chilli powder in their eyes before fleeing with a trunk containing the cash when they were taking it from the Muktsar branch to the bank’s Jalalabad branch. Forensic experts find shots were fired at parked car Forensic experts, however, raised doubts during investigation. Ferozepur range deputy inspector general of police (DIG) HS Mann said on Saturday that contrary to Gurpartap’s claim, it was found that the bullets were shot at the car when it was parked. “The complainant stated that they had to stop the car after the accused shot at the tyres. But forensic examination showed the bullets were shot at the rim of a parked car. This was the clinching evidence followed by technical and human intelligence inputs that helped our team crack the case,” the DIG said. He said Luvpreet has not been given a clean chit and more arrests are likely to be made in the case. Mann said Paramjit and Gurpreet were previously involved in drug peddling in Fazilka and Amritsar districts, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/complainant-held-for-bank-robbery-of-rs-45-lakh-in-jalalabad-101621078743846.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana government fudging Covid-19 figures, alleges Congress||Haryana Congress unit chief Kumari Selja on Saturday attacked the BJP-led government in the state, alleging that it is hiding figures of Covid-19 infected and fatalities.She also said black marketing of medicines, which are required for treatment of coronavirus patients, and oxygen cylinders have "broken all records"."The spread of the coronavirus is increasing rapidly in the state. Instead of preventing it, the government has been making false statements and claims. The figures of those infected and deaths are being hidden," the Congress leader said. There is a huge shortage of doctors and health workers in hospitals, and the situation in government health facilities in the state is that relatives have to look after their ailing themselves, Selja claimed. "People are not getting treatment. For the last several days, the situation in rural areas has become worse," she told an online press conference.Selja said that medicines required for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and oxygen are being black-marketed in the state. "This time, black marketing has broken all records. Patients in the state are neither getting oxygen on time nor beds. There is a huge lack of ventilators and the government is sitting blindfolded," she added.Selja said that the Covid-19 cases in Haryana are continuously increasing, but the vaccination campaign is going on at a "very slow" pace.The positivity rate is 45% in three districts and more than 40% in one district of the state, the Congress leader claimed.She said at the same time, the positivity rate in 11 districts is more than 30%. Besides this, it is more than 25% in four districts and more than 10% in three districts, Selja added.On average, around 60,000 tests are being done daily in the state which is only around 2,000 on a population of 10 lakh, she said.The party's state unit chief also said that at this time, Haryana is getting only 258 metric tonnes of oxygen. The central government should at least double the oxygen quota of the state, she added. The government should increase the number of RT-PCR tests and speed up the pace of testing, Selja suggested. Permanent place of testing should be made in villages, she said.Selja said that Covid-19 hospitals with bed facilities of 500 to 1,000 should be built in each district with the help of the army.Covid-19 patients should get free medicines and treatment, and besides this, everyone should get a vaccine at no cost, Selja said adding that the Haryana government should bear this expenditure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-government-fudging-covid-19-figures-alleges-congress-101621076657458.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||40% of total Covid-19 deaths in Punjab reported in the last 44 days||Around 40 per cent of the total Covid-19-related fatalities in Punjab took place in the last forty-four days, indicating the severity of the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic. Punjab had reported a total of 6,868 deaths due to the infection as on March 31. The death toll rose to 11,477 as on May 14, showing 4,609 more people succumbing to the disease since April 1 this year, the state Health Department's data revealed. The health officials had earlier pointed out that the delay in approaching hospitals for treatment by patients with severe symptoms and comorbidities were the main reasons behind fatalities. Punjab witnessed a record 217 deaths because of the contagion in a single day on May 11. The state has been seeing more than 100 fatalities daily for the past several days. Ludhiana is one of the worst-affected districts in Punjab as it has registered 538 deaths between April 1 and May 14, 2021, as per the data. Besides, Amritsar reported 515 more deaths due to the contagion between April 1 and May 14. During the same period, Patiala saw 396 deaths, Bathinda 349, Mohali 307 and Jalandhar 301, as per the data. The case fatality rate in rural areas is 2.6 per cent as against 0.8 per cent in urban areas, officials said. Apart from this, Punjab has added 2,44,250 fresh cases of infection in the last 44 days. The state had a total of 2,39,734 cases as on March 31. It went up to 4,83,984 between April 1 and May 14, as per the Health Department data. Ludhiana, Mohali, Bathinda, Patiala, Jalandhar and some other districts have witnessed a sharp rise in infections. Punjab's positive rate on Friday stood at around 11 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/40-of-total-covid-19-deaths-in-punjab-reported-in-the-last-44-days-101621074744344.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Union minister RL Bhatia dies of Covid-19 in Amritsar||Former Union minister of state for external affairs RL Bhatia died after testing positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Amritsar on Friday night. He was 99. Bhatia, who also served as the governor of Kerala from 2004-08, is survived by a son and a daughter, both based in Amritsar. Also read: India adds 326,098 new Covid cases, 3,890 more deaths; tally over 24.37 millionAmritsar West Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka said that Bhatia was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the local Fortis Escorts Hospital and died around 11.30pm on Friday. The cremation will be held around 11.30am on Saturday. Bhatia was first elected as member of Parliament from Amritsar in 1972. He was re-elected in 1980, 1985, 1992, 1996 and 1999. He served as a member of the executive committee of the Congress parliamentary party from 1975-77 and was the chairman of the committee of petitions in the Lok Sabha in 1983. He was the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee from 1982-84 and AICC general secretary in 1991. He was also a member of the select committee constituted in 1992 for the amendment of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exunion-minister-rl-bhatia-dies-of-covid-19-in-amritsar-101621054803028.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-BDPO, sarpanch booked for embezzling ₹37 lakh in SBS Nagar||A former block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) and an ex-sarpanch of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar’s Sheikhupur village were booked on Friday for alleged embezzlement of development funds to the tune of ₹37 lakh. The accused are former Aur block BDPO Ashok Kumar, who is now retired, and Sharda Devi, the ex-village head. The case was registered against the two on the complaint of the rural and panchayat development department after a probe was conducted by a superintendent of police (SP)-rank official into the alleged embezzlement of funds. The two were indicted in the probe. The funds were siphoned off from ₹84. 31 lakh the village had received under various schemes. The ex-sarpanch and Ashok Kumar, who was then a panchayat secretary, didn’t match ₹37 lakh in the account books. A police official said while Kumar didn’t join the probe, the former sarpanch failed to show any document proving her innocence. The case was registered under section 420 (punishment for cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at the Mukandpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exbdpo-sarpanch-booked-for-embezzling-rs-37-lakh-in-sbs-nagar-101621024740915.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Conmen posing as Kishor, aides duped Cong MLAs, others of ₹5 crore by promising tickets||The swindlers posing as poll strategist Prashant Kishor, principal adviser to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, and his aides duped Congress MLAs and other political leaders of at least ₹5 crore by promising them tickets in the upcoming state assembly elections, police said. Also, they are members of Shiv Sena (Suryavanshi), a Shiv Sena (Thackeray) splinter group. Two of the accused, Rakesh Kumar Bhasin, 48 and Rajat Kumar Raja, 26, were arrested by the Ludhiana police from a hotel near Jalandhar on Thursday. Their accomplice and gang kingpin Gaurav Sharma is on the run. However, the police did not reveal the names of the leaders who gave then money. Rakesh Bhasin, who enjoys security provided by the Punjab government following threats from extremists, is all India president of the Shiv Sena (Suryavanshi) and Rajat Kumar is secretary of the organisation. Four gunmen have been attached with Bhasin. The accused duped two leaders in Sangrur, a former MLA in Batala, and a former mayor in Jalandhar. They also tried to defraud a Ludhiana MLA, it is learnt. Ludhiana joint commissioner of police (rural) Sachin Gupta said the accused have no links with Kishor. He added that Rakesh used to pose as an MLA from Rajasthan, Bihar or Haryana, while Rajat acted as his personal assistant. Since Rakesh had security, people would easily get fooled. Rakesh and Rajat used to approach political leaders, MLAs, former MLAs and other ticket aspirants of different political parties. Then would make them talk to Gaurav Sharma who would impersonate as Kishor. They also duped people in Rajasthan, Bihar and Haryana too, the official claimed. “Gaurav Sharma also has connections with international smugglers who push drugs into India,” he said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that Gaurav has been involved in frauds, cybercrime and drug peddling in the past four years and is already five criminal cases. The other accused joined him a year ago, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/conmen-posing-as-kishor-aides-duped-cong-mlas-others-of-rs-5-crore-by-promising-tickets-101621024680948.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pandemic in Punjab turns grimmer in May||The number of coronavirus causalities in the first 13 days of this month in Punjab has already crossed the cumulative figure of April, an analysis of the state health department’s data reveals. In April, 2,154 people succumbed to the infection, but the state’s death toll was 2,275 from May 1 to 13. The maximum 217 deaths were witnessed on Wednesday (May 12) due to the contagious disease. Ludhiana is the worst-hit district in Punjab with 288 deaths this month so far, followed by Bathinda, Amritsar and Patiala at 233, 206 and 191 fatalities, respectively. Also, Sangrur, Muktsar and Fazilka districts saw 183, 127 and 117 fatalities, respectively due to the infection. 30% deaths this month in four Malwa districts The four districts in the Malwa region — Sangrur, Bathinda, Muktsar and Fazilka —registered 670 deaths this month, nearly 30% of the state’s total deaths. In the past one week, the number of fresh cases in these districts witnessed an unusual spike while registering a positivity rate as high as 20%. All these districts, considered as a hub of the ongoing farm agitation, are predominantly rural. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the health department was working on the data to ascertain if the rural areas have witnessed surge in the recent days. “As far as overall deaths are concerned, the case fatality rate (CFR) in urban areas of Punjab has increased in the past few days. While the rural-urban death ratio was 55:45 earlier, it was 48:52 till few days ago,” he said.The government data shows the state’s overall CFR at 2.4%. “There is surge in deaths but the number of fresh cases has also gone up. Therefore, the CFR is almost the same as it was two weeks ago,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pandemic-in-punjab-turns-grimmer-in-may-101621024260944.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||2nd wave further delays construction of BSF barracks at Attari border||The second Covid wave has further delayed the construction of barracks for the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel at the Attari-Wagah border as the construction company concerned has been struggling to get enough labourers due to the restrictions imposed.The ₹33-crore project is aimed to strengthen the security of the integrated check post (ICP), which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, and the joint check post (JCP) that is famous for Beating the Retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah border.Earlier, the project was to be completed by March 31, 2021. However, its deadline was extended till April 30. Officials of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI), which is overseeing the project, said due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions, the project has missed its deadline.“Ninety percent of the construction work has been completed. Only the interior works are pending. Indian Railway Construction Limited (IRCON), which is responsible for the construction works, had sought a three-month extension citing shortage of labourers. Now, the project will be completed by August 31,” said LPAI’s ICP manager Sukhdev Singh.He said once constructed, the project will be handed over to the BSF. Most of the migrant labourers have gone back to their native towns fearing lockdown, he added.For now, the troops manning the ICP and the JCP have been accommodated at the BSF’s Khasa headquarter, which is around 20km from the border. A BSF official said, “It takes around 25-30 minutes to reach the border from Khasa. We will be able to guard the border 24x7 once the residential buildings are constructed.”The project — comprising one four-storey and one two-storey building — has already missed three deadlines. The construction of the barracks was started in December 2018.The flats in the four-storey building will be for jawans, while BSF officials will reside in flats in the double-storey building, said a LPAI official. A dormitory is also being built for women personnel of the BSF.The projectTotal cost: ₹33 croreNew deadline: August 2021Total facilities: 370 flats: a 4-storey and 2-storey buildingDorm for women personnel: 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2nd-wave-further-delays-construction-of-bsf-barracks-at-attari-border-101621022700851.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nearly 3,000 prisoners set to be released from Punjab jails amid Covid’s 2nd wave||The Punjab government is all set to release nearly 3,000 prisoners lodged in various jails as the second Covid wave continues to ravage the state.The decision was taken during the meeting of the high-powered committee convened by Punjab Legal Services Authority chairperson Justice Ajay Tiwari, along with members principal secretary (jails) DK Tiwari and ADGP (prisons) PK Sinha.So far, 24,000 people have been imprisoned in the state’s 24 jails which have the capacity to house only 23,500 inmates. The process to decongest prisons across the state — some of them are immensely overcrowded — will start from Monday.The Supreme Court had directed the states to examine releasing inmates, convicted or facing trial in non-serious charges, from jails either on regular bail or on parole to prevent overcrowding and spread of Covid in prisons during the current surge.“During the committee’s meeting that was held on the direction of the apex court, it was decided to release around 3,000 prisoners. The process to release them will begin in a day or two,” said Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.He said most of these prisoners were those who were released last year during the first Covid wave. In March 2020, the state had planned to release around 6,000 prisoners. “These prisoners will be brought back to the jails once the Covid situation improves,” he said.Sources said convicted prisoners will be released on parole and undertrials on interim bail for 90 days. Prisoners sentenced up to seven years with maximum two undertrial cases (both on bail), and further should have availed last parole peacefully, will be considered for release on parole.A senior jails official said, “We will also release the inmates with comorbidities, besides those who are above 65 years. Those convicted or charged under murder, rape, snatching, acid attack, POCSO Act, UAPA, Explosives Act and foreign nationals will not be considered for release. Such prisoners can avail their regular parole.”He said, “So far, we have recorded 3,000 positive cases and six deaths among the inmates. We have also vaccinated 35% of the total inmates and 85% of the staff in the jails.” The superintendents of jails concerned have been empowered to process the cases of parole in order to expedite the release. Amritsar jail superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill said they have decided to release 150 to 200 prisoners — whose lists are being prepared. The high-security Amritsar Central Jail has been overcrowded with 3,200 inmates. The jail, however, has the capacity to house 2,200 inmates.Randhawa said, “We have asked the police department to conduct Covid tests of all the accused being arrested. Our jails receive only those accused who test negative for the virus. Those who test positive are sent to the quarantine jails until their next tests’ reports come negative. After testing negative, these accused are sent to the isolation cells of the various jails for another 14 days before being shifted to general wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nearly-3-000-prisoners-set-to-be-released-from-punjab-jails-amid-covid-s-2nd-wave-101621021861084.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six tocilizumab vials go missing from Patiala’s Rajindra hospital||Six tocilizumab vials went missing from the isolation ward of Covid care centre at government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, police said on Friday. An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons after the hospital authorities filed a written complaint with the senior superintendent of police (SSP). A single vial of the medicine costs around ₹34,000 and is provided to hospitals at government price only. These injections are administered to critical Covid patients, mainly on ventilator support. “An internal committee has been set up to investigate the matter,” said Surabhi Malik, in-charge of Covid-19 care facility of the hospital. She added that it was a serious issue and must be probed thoroughly. It may be mentioned here that the isolation wards of the hospital are under tight surveillance of CCTV cameras. Even cops have been deployed outside the wards to restrict entry of outsiders. When asked about the role of hospital staffers in the theft, Malik said it was too early to come to a conclusion as the matter was under investigation. This incident took place early this week, but came to the light only after police registered an FIR under section 380 (theft) of the IPC on Thursday evening. “There is already severe shortage of these injections in the market. The hospitals procured remdevisir and tocilizumab on demand from health department. Moreover, the price of a single tocilizumab injection in black market is pegged between ₹80,000 and ₹1 lakh,” said a senior doctor.Meanwhile, medical college principal Dr Rajan Singla said a three-member committee of senior professors has been constituted to investigate the matter so that responsibility could be fixed.Civil Lines SHO Gurpreet Singh said they were scanning footage from the CCTV cameras installed at the hospital.“Other technical and physical evidences are also being looked into to identify the accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-tocilizumab-vials-go-missing-from-patiala-s-rajindra-hospital-101621021803241.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt asks villagers to restrict entry of Covid positive people||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday urged people to restrict their movement in villages to only those persons who are free of the virus amid Covid spike in rural areas of the state.Addressing the people of the state in a live Facebook telecast, the CM called for strict measures in the rural areas over the next two months, which he described as extremely crucial.“Now, the rural areas are seeing a surge in cases, so we need to be very careful,” he said, urging villagers to conduct ‘thikri pheras’ to keep outsiders away.“Don’t allow (unwell) people to enter (villages). Ask them to bring a (COVID-negative) certificate from the doctor,” he said.Exhorting people to “save your mohallas and villages to save yourself, your families and Punjab”, the CM asked them not to delay going to hospitals on time. “We have teams of doctors everywhere, approach them if you feel unwell,” he urged them, stressing that delay in going for treatment was leading to people ending up in critical category. While occupancy of L2 beds is 50%, at the L3 level (critical), around 90% of the beds are currently occupied, and the state government is in the process of adding another 2,000, he said, attributing this to people not going for treatment in time.Amarinder reiterated his plea to the people to go to the doctor at the first sign of symptoms. “Let the doctor decide the course of treatment, don’t get into diagnosis and medication yourself,” he appealed to them. I fail to understand why we are harming the interests of the state and your families in this manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-asks-villagers-to-restrict-entry-of-covid-positive-people-101621021680813.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s deadliest day yet with 67 fatalities||Friday turned out to be the deadliest day for Himachal Pradesh as 67 patients succumbed to the coronavirus infection, the highest single-day deaths since the outbreak in March 2020, catapulting the hill state’s death toll to 2,185. With 32 deaths, Kangra, the most populous district, clocked the highest fatalities. The virus claimed 10 lives in Hamirpur, six in Una, seven in Mandi, four each in Shimla and Solan, three in Kullu and one in Chamba. The small state had earlier reported the highest deaths in day on May 12 when 66 people had succumbed to the infection. The state also recorded 3,044 fresh infections, taking the state’s case count to 1,53,717. Of the new cases, 724 were reported in Kangra, 343 in Bilaspur, 313 in Solan, 299 each in Mandi and Sirmaur, 265 in Una, 264 in Hamirpur, 249 in Chamba, 180 in Shimla, 62 in Kullu, 27 in Kinnaur and 19 in Lahaul-Spiti.Recoveries reached 1,11878 after 3,362 people recuperated while there are 39,623 active cases in state.Kangra is the worst hit district with 32,730 cases followed by Mandi (21,213) and Shimla (19,959). The most populous district accounts for 21% of the total disease burden of the state and also has highest 12,258 active cases. So far, Solan has logged 18,473 cases, Sirmaur 11,886, Hamirpur 10,794, Una 10,016, Bilaspur 9,569, Chamba 7,382, Kullu 7,123, Lahaul-Spiti 2,298 and Kinnaur 2,274.Month-old infant dies of Covid at IGMC
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of polls, Amarinder declares Malerkotla as Punjab’s 23rd district||As the state heads for elections early next year, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh fulfilled a long-pending demand of announcing Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the state on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr on Friday. Making the announcement virtually from Chandigarh, the chief minister said a medical college, a degree college, a women’s police station and a smart school would be set up in Malerkotla, Punjab’s only Muslim-dominated town. Malerkotla, which is around 35km from the Sangrur district headquarters, a district status was a pre-poll promise by the Congress.The CM said initially the sub-divisions of Malerkotla and Ahmedgarh, as well as the sub-tehsil of Amargarh, would be included in the new district. The process of bringing villages under the jurisdiction of Malerkotla district would begin later, after the census, he added.Amarinder directed Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir to find a suitable building to immediately start the functioning of the district administration office. The deputy commissioner for the newly carved out district would be appointed soon, he said.“A government medical college in the name of Nawab Sher Mohammed Khan, who raised his voice against the inhuman act of torture and bricking alive the younger Sahibzadas, would soon be set up at a cost of ₹500 crore. The state government had already allotted 25 acres of land on Raikot Road to enable the local boys and girls to pursue medical education. The first instalment of ₹50 crore for the purpose had already been sanctioned,” the CM added.Amarinder also announced the establishment of a government college for girls, a women police station, to be exclusively managed by women, and a new bus stand to be constructed at a cost of ₹10 crore and ₹6 crore under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP) for the new district. Local MLA and transport minister Razia Sultana said that it was a historic occasion as the CM had accepted a long-pending demand of residents and it will also benefit the party in the upcoming polls. Seven screens were installed in the town for live telecast of the events from Chandigarh and Malerkotla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-polls-amarinder-declares-malerkotla-as-punjab-s-23rd-district-101621021501153.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rising Covid infection among pregnant women sparks concern||The second Covid wave is impacting pregnant women in the state adversely and this has sent alarm bells ringing in the medical fraternity. In the recent weeks, hundreds of women in their late 20s and 30s across the state have tested positive with over a dozen of them succumbing to the virus. Cases are only rising and doctors fear that such fatalities may further increase. According to doctors, two such deaths have been reported in the last two days alone when pregnant women in their 30s, one from Patiala and another from Ludhiana, died after being infected with the virus. “Such severe complications in pregnant women were totally unheard of during the first wave. Doctors are witnessing a challenge attending to Covid positive pregnant women, whose number have increased substantially over the last few weeks. There is already a high positivity rate in the state and the number of pregnant women testing positive have increased proportionately,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, and a member of the panel of doctors of the Dr KK Talwar committee to manage Covid-19 in Punjab. “Out of every 100 pregnant women who test positive, 10 to 15 % of them now need advanced tertiary care. This percentage was barely 2% in the previous wave,” said a gynaecologist working in a state-run hospital, while requesting anonymity. Faced with this major challenge, the doctors have devised a strategy to treat the Covid positive pregnant women. “Saving both the mother and child is a highly challenging task faced by doctors in cases with severe complications. The mother’s safety is always on our priority and in severe cases, where saturation is falling very low, wherever we find that a woman is in an advanced state of pregnancy, our effort is to save both by facilitating a premature delivery,” added Dr Mohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rising-covid-infection-among-pregnant-women-sparks-concern-101621021320683.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Experts divided as Srinagar’s daily cases hold steady for a week||With the daily average cases in Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, hovering around 800 for a week, it appears that the infections in the district have plateaued out. However, experts remain divided. The district, which is the worst-hit in the UT with 10,687 active infections, had witnessed a record breaking spurt in daily infections in May, with the daily cases going as high as 1,311 on May 4. However, after May 8, the daily cases have mostly been below 1,000 with an average 775 cases per day. There has been an imperceptible change in the daily infections since May 11, with the district recording 846 cases on May 11, 863 on May 12, and 872 on May 13. Srinagar clocked 115 deaths from May 1 to 13, of the total 685 fatalities in the UT. Kashmir Doctors’ Association president Dr MY Tak said the declining numbers are a sign that Srinagar is hitting a plateau. “The figures in the coming days will tell whether we have hit a plateau. However, we are hopeful as the cases have started declining. Cases in Delhi and UP had plateaued out a week back, we are achieving it now,” Tak said. On whether the lockdown had been instrumental in bringing down the infections, Tak said the impact of the restrictions will manifest in around 10 days. J&K has registered the highest cases and fatalities in the first 13 days of May, with 57,680 cases and 685 deaths, of which at least 13,000 have been reported from Srinagar. Aabid Maqbool, president, Resident Doctors’ Association, Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), Srinagar, said that it was premature to say that the cases in Srinagar had stabilised.“There may be many factors at play for the apparent phenomenon. We are not sure if the tests are the same or have decreased. The lockdown restrictions have been enforced strictly and many people may not be getting themselves tested. It is a dynamic situation and it is premature to say we have hit a plateau,” he said. Cautioning people against becoming lax, deputy commissioner Srinagar Ajaz Asad said, “371 Positive Cases in Srinagar today is the lowest in last 20 days. Still not a good data for good conclusion. Pl remember, the Virus loves to troll. Loves to ambush.”Srinagar is J&K’s worst-affected district with overall 56,416 cases (till May 13) and 651 fatalities. Jammu comes at a close second with 42,442 cases, of which 7,589 are active and 758 fatalities. Jammu’s deaths surpassed Srinagar’s this month with the unusually high 280 fatalities in May. “Srinagar’s population density is more and the movement of people is more. In fact cases and mortality in Srinagar was also more. Srinagar will tell us about how Covid is going to unfold in other places of J&K,” the DAK president Dr Tak said.The administration has tightened the restrictions in the capital city after Eid and has installed roadblocks in many parts of the city to stop private transport from plying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/experts-divided-as-srinagar-s-daily-cases-hold-steady-for-a-week-101621021203788.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||5 children among 6 drown in Ludhiana village pond, four were siblings||Five children aged between 4 and 10, including four siblings, and a 22-year-old male rescuer drowned in a pond at Manngarh village of Koomkalan in Ludhiana district on Friday afternoon. The victims have been identified as Sonu (4), Chhoti (6), Aarti (8),Laxmi (1o), Mohammad Kaleem (10), and Rahul (22), all victims belong to the families of labourers. Sonu, Chhoti, Aarti and Laxmi were siblings. According to the villagers, the children were playing near the pond when one of them reportedly slipped into the pond and the rest jumped in for rescue and perished. A passerby, Rahul Kumar, entered the pond to save the children, but he too drowned. Later, villagers informed the police. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, Rural) Sachin Gupta said a police team reached the spot and took divers’ help. All the six bodies were fished out after two hours, he said. The JCP said the bodies were found on the deeper side of the pond and they were stuck on the pond bed. The bodies were sent to the civil hospital for postmortem. Kokila, the mother of four siblings, passed out seeing the bodies of her children. The victims’ father, Sanjay Kumar, a factory worker, said they used to deter the children from going near the pond. Farzana, the mother of Mohammad Kaleem, her son left the house in new clothes and took ₹10 from her as Eidi for buying chips. He had promised to come back in a few minutes, said the mother. Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced an ex gratia of ₹50,000 each to the families of the six victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-children-among-6-drown-in-ludhiana-village-pond-four-were-siblings-101621021202635.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Single-day Covid recoveries surpass new cases as 8,446 recuperate in Punjab||For the first time in the past one-and-a-half-month, Punjab’s single-day recoveries surpassed the number of new infections on Friday, with 8,446 people having recuperated from Covid, even as the total caseload reached 4,83,984 with 8,068 fresh cases, according to a media bulletin released by the health department.The state’s positivity rate also dropped to 11.29%, the lowest in the past seven days with Punjab conducting 71,470 tests, the highest in a day. The number of active cases in the state dropped to 79,359 from 79,950 on Thursday.The state reported 180 more fatalities, pushing the death toll to 11,477. A maximum of 23 deaths were witnessed in Amritsar, 19 in Ludhiana and 18 in Bathinda. Ludhiana topped the chart with 1,320 fresh cases, followed by 988 in Bathinda, 661 in Mohali, 570 in Patiala, 551 in Jalandhar, 486 in Pathankot, 451 in Fazilka, 408 in Amritsar, 403 in Muktsar, 358 in Hohiarpur, 258 in Gurdaspur, 258 in Mansa, 236 in Sangrur, 229 in Ferozepur, 176 in Farikdot, 167 in Ropar, 166 in Kapurthala, 135 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 112 in SBS Nagar, 70 in Moga, 53 in Barnala and 12 in Tarn Taran. Bathinda registered maximum positivity rate of 21.60%, followed by 18.38% in Pathankot, 17.9% in Mohali and 16.11% in Muktsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singleday-covid-recoveries-surpass-new-cases-as-8-446-recuperate-in-punjab-101621021020859.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Immigration offences: Two Punjab-origin men detained in Scotland, released after protest||Two Indians detained by British Border Force officials on suspicion of immigration offences in the Scottish city of Glasgow have been released after residents swarmed the street for eight hours to block their van from leaving, according to media reports.The two were released on bail pending further investigation.Hundreds of residents had surrounded the Border Agency van in the Pollokshields area of Glasgow to try to prevent immigration officers from removing the men. One person lay underneath the van, The Independent reported.The protesters chanted “Leave our neighbours, let them go” and “Cops go home” being heard as a ring of police stood around the van, local Scottish newspapers said.Officers said they were freeing the men for the safety of everyone involved following a stand-off in Glasgow.The protest prompted Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon to accuse the home office of creating “a dangerous and unacceptable situation”.Announcing the men’s release, Police Scotland said in a statement: “In order to protect the safety, public health and wellbeing of all people involved in the detention and subsequent protest in Kenmure Street, Pollokshields, chief superintendent Mark Sutherland has, following a suitable risk assessment, taken the operational decision to release the men detained by UK Immigration Enforcement back into their community meantime.” One of the men, Lakhvir Singh, 34, said: “I’ve been astonished and overwhelmed by the support I’ve received from the people of Glasgow. At 9.30am, immigration enforcement carried out a raid and we were taken to security in the van. There were only five or six people at the time but word spread and then there were crowds of hundreds. We are so grateful for the support,” he was quoted by The Independent newspaper as saying.Scotland’s justice secretary, Humza Yousaf, asked to speak to UK home secretary Priti Patel about the events.The Sikhs in Scotland group said in a statement that it was “deeply concerned” and urged the home office to “abandon forced removals and to adopt an immigration policy based on human rights, compassion and dignity”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/immigration-offences-two-punjab-origin-men-detained-in-scotland-released-after-protest-101621020840944.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid on downward trajectory in Chandigarh tricity||The number of new Covid-19 cases in the tricity dropped to 1,729 on Friday, lowest since the grim milestone of 2,000 was breached for the first time on April 22. The daily figures have been dropping consistently after peaking at 2,612 on May 10. At 20, the tricity also recorded the lowest fatality figures in the past eight days. The all-time high was recorded on May 5 with 38 deaths. The number of active cases is also on the downward trajectory, falling by 7.6% in a day from Thursday’s 23,432 to 21,630 on Friday.While seeing the trend as a “ray of hope”, experts say it will have to be observed for a few more days before confirming whether the “worst is over” in the pandemic’s second wave.On Friday, Mohali district reported 661 cases and 10 deaths, followed by 650 cases and eight casualties in Chandigarh and 418 cases and two fatalities in Panchkula. With the number of patients being cured and discharged remaining higher than the daily case load for the past few days, the number of active cases has dropped to 8,158 from the peak of 8,653 on May 10 in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, with eight people, including two in their late 30s, succumbing to the virus, the death toll has reached 617. Of 54,043 people tested so far, 45,268 have recovered in the UT.In Mohali, a record 1,942 patients were discharged on Friday, which brought down the number of active cases to 10,914 from 12,203.The district has reported 59,524 cases so far, of which 47,870 have been cured and 740 patients have died. In Panchkula, both fatalities concerned two men in their late 30s, which took the toll to 274.The infection tally has reached 27,071, of which 24,249 patients have recovered and 2,548 are still undergoing treatment.Curbs should continue to sustain trend, say experts“There is a ray of hope with the current trajectory of cases, as the seven-day average of cases as well as the number of active cases are seeing a declining trend,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the PGIMER’s school of public health and community medicine department, while adding that there is a need for constant enforcement of the lockdown and safety measures, which have “possibly resulted in stabilising the situation”. “The decrease in daily numbers may be due to the restriction measures being taken by the tricity authorities,” concurred Dr PVM Lakshmi, an epidemiologist at the same department. However, Dr Lakshmi said a consistent trend for over a week will present a better picture about which direction the pandemic is leading to. “Even in terms of positive cases among health workers at the PGIMER, we have seen a marginal dip, which is a good sign. Tracing, testing, and treatment can make this trend sustain,” she said, adding that lockdown helps in restricting the number of contacts of an infected person. Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, said the cases were expected to plateau and there has been no decline in testing as such.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh, said: “Our efforts will be directed towards maintaining the current trend, but people should take all precautions. Even if the restrictions are eased, residents should avoid venturing out for non-essential works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-on-downward-trajectory-in-chandigarh-tricity-101621020061614.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, Chandigarh’s crematoria facing wood shortage||With an unprecedented number of cremations taking place in the city during the current wave of Covid-19, cremation ground operators are beginning to see a shortage of wood. According to them, each funeral pyre requires about 3-4 tonnes of wood.The caretaker of Industrial Area cremation ground, Deen Dyal Tripathi, said, “The number of cremations taking place here, both Covid and non-Covid, have gone up and though we require 60 tonnes of wood daily, these days it is hard to get. Each cremation takes up around 3-4 tonnes of wood.”While the average number of monthly cremations in 2019 was 15-20, these days as many are being performed daily. Moreover, the price of wood has doubled, said Tripathi, adding that there is a shortage of supply from the contractors, partly because of wood being diverted to other cities in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, besides unavailability of labourers.A similar situation has gripped Sector 25 and Manimajra cremation grounds. Ashwani Kumar, caretaker of Manimajra crematorium, said, “During the first Covid wave, every day we would get three to four trucks full of wood, but now supply has reduced even as the demand is high. The municipal corporation fixes the rates, but procurement is done by the crematorium staff from contractors in Punjab, Yamunanagar and Uttar Pradesh.”“We had a backup of around 3,000 tonnes of wood at the cremation centre before April, however, now about half of it is left. It will last us till the end of the month, but if the situation does not improve, an acute shortage is expected in June,” said an official from the Sector 25 cremation ground.Residents complain of overcharging Amid the ongoing Covid crisis, some residents have raised complaints of overcharging at the city’s crematoria.A resident who had paid for a cremation on April 26 at the Industrial Area crematorium said he was charged ₹6,000.However, caretaker Tripathi refuted the allegations saying, “The cost of wood is fixed at ₹3,500 here. Other expenses like ‘samgiri’ and donation to the pandit must have been included in the total amount.”MC leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla has also submitted a complaint regarding this to the civic body. The MC will now bear the cost of cremation for poor Covid victims.Even though wood used for traditional cremation in Sector 25 is priced at ₹3,000, the LPG crematorium next to the cremation ground charges only ₹30. However, according to the officials here, people still prefer the traditional way.“The low cost is not bringing more bodies to our crematorium. Most people who use our facilities come from affluent families and choose it because it causes less pollution. Mostly Sikh families use our facilities, and Hindu families prefer the traditional method of cremation,” they said.While last year there was a shortage of lockers at the city’s crematoria, this problem has been resolved this year, according to Ashwani Kumar. “Last year, due to movement restrictions, people were unable to collect the mortal remains on time, which led to the lockers running out of space,” he said, adding that now people have been told to collect the remains within one day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-chandigarh-s-crematoria-facing-wood-shortage-101621019701423.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Local ID not needed to get hospitalised in Chandigarh||Complying with the Supreme Court’s order, the Chandigarh health department has ordered that no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in the UT over the lack of local residence or identity proof.Chandigarh sees an influx of patients from neighbouring states, including Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, and with the overwhelming Covid-19 situation, a larger ingress, majorly for critical care services, is being witnessed.At one point, the UT administration had denied sharing the bed occupancy details of the hospitals with officials citing reasons of “patients rushing to the city for better medical services”. However, after directions of Punjab and Haryana high court, the administration started to put out the data.Last year, the hospitals under the UT administration had restricted normal childbirth services for women living outside the city jurisdiction as a measure to check the spread of Covid-19.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had stated in a press conference in April that the majority of beds had been occupied by people from outside Chandigarh, posing a challenge for the administration to ramp up the medical facilities.Even UT adviser Manoj Parida, had last month appealed to Chandigarh residents not to “choke” the city’s health infrastructure by “inviting friends and relatives from outside”.In a May 12 order, the UT director of health services ordered that no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in the Chandigarh in absence of local residence or identity proof.Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has asked all department heads to comply with the Supreme Court directions.The apex court had earlier ordered that the central government shall, within two weeks, formulate a national policy on admissions to hospitals which shall be followed by all state governments and till then, no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in any state or UT for lack of local residential proof of that state/UT or even in the absence of any identity proof.UT health officials, requesting anonymity, said though there were no strict instructions on denying treatment to patients from outside, the verbal directions would discourage admissions and that beds should be reserved for local residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/local-id-not-needed-to-get-hospitalised-in-chandigarh-101621019592625.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||929 get jabbed in Chandigarh on Day 1 of drive for 18-44 age group||As the Chandigarh health authorities kicked off the inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group on Friday, around 93% beneficiaries turned up to receive their first jab of Covid-19 vaccine.Out of the 1,000 people who booked the slots for the day, only 71 missed their shots.UT health services director Dr Amandeep Kang said, “The vaccination drive received a good response from residents and only pre-booked appointment-based vaccinations took place. There were 1,000 slots and 929 people got vaccinated, with 71 missing their appointments due to personal reasons. No on-the-spot walk-ins were allowed. Proper social distancing was ensured at the vaccination centres.”Seven centres that were designated as vaccination centres witnessed long queues with people lining up from 9am to receive the jab.Phulkit Arora, a 34-year-old IT professional who received the first dose at Government Multispeciality Hospital, Sector 16, said it was a seamless experience. “I was excited to take the shot and was the first one to get it here. The staff guided me well about the precautions I was supposed to take,” he said.Gap of 84 days must till second shot In line with the Centre’s guidelines, the mandatory gap between the first and second vaccine doses has been extended to 84 days, said Dr Amandeep Kang. She added that the Co-Win will not accept bookings for the second shot before 84 days.As the administration threw open vaccination time slots for the 18-44 age group on Thursday afternoon, it took only an hour for all 7,000 slots till May 22 to get booked.There is no facility for walk-in registration, and the beneficiaries will have to book the slot and obtain the time and place of vaccine through the Co-WIN portal.Private hospitals are to get the vaccines directly from manufacturers. For example, the Serum Institute of India has allocated 12,000 doses of Covishield to Chaitanya Hospital in Sector 44 for May.They may also start the vaccination drive on payment basis immediately after the actual receipt of vaccines. They are already registered on the Co-WIN portal and will be able to offer the slots after they receive the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/929-get-jabbed-in-chandigarh-on-day-1-of-drive-for-18-44-age-group-101621019521471.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vijay Zade is the new Chandigarh finance secretary||Vijay Namdeorao Zade, a 2002-batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer of the Punjab cadre, will be the new finance secretary in the Chandigarh administration. He will have a three-year tenure.The central government has taken nearly a year to approve his appointment. The tenure of the last incumbent, Ajoy Kumar Sinha, had ended on August 31 last year. Ahead of that, the Punjab government had forwarded a panel of three names to the Chandigarh administration. The latter sent it to the Union home ministry in June last year, with Zade as the first choice. The other two officers were Kumar Rahul (2000 batch) and Arun Sekhri (2014 batch). The post is reserved for a Punjab-cadre IAS officer, and is the third important in the UT administration, after the adviser and home secretary. In addition to the finance department, some other important departments under the officer are engineering, urban planning and estate.Meanwhile, the administration is still awaiting the Centre’s decision on the extension requested for the home secretary and municipal commissioner, confirmed UT adviser Manoj Parida. The three-year deputation of Arun Kumar Gupta, a Haryana-cadre IAS officer of 1992 batch, and MC chief KK Yadav, a Punjab-cadre IAS officer of 2003 batch, ends this month. The administration had requested a three-month extension to their term in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vijay-zade-is-the-new-chandigarh-finance-secretary-101621019460515.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, get O2 cylinders in Chandigarh through e-permit||The UT administration on Friday said that Covid-19 patients who have been prescribed oxygen support at home will now be able to get oxygen cylinders through online e-permit.Yashpal Garg, the nodal officer for oxygen supplies in UT, said an application for e-permit can be submitted on the Chandigarh administration’s website http://chandigarh.gov.in/health_covid19.html from 11am on May 15. He said a doctor’s prescription and any address proof of Chandigarh is to be uploaded at the time of submitting the application. “Once the application is approved, it will be valid for two days and the applicant will receive an intimation. Though e-permit may be downloaded from the website, a hard copy is not required and the cylinder (maximum two) may be obtained even on the basis of the approved application number,” he said, and added that cylinders would be provided by M/s Super Agencies, 40-MW Industrial Area-I, Chandigarh. The firm can be contacted through phone at 9888035000 or email at superchandigarh@gmail.com.The consumer will have to pay ₹295 plus 12% GST for a ‘D’ type cylinder and ₹175 plus 12% GST for each ‘A & B’ type cylinder. For a new cylinder, the consumer has to deposit a security amount of ₹25,000, which would be refunded after deduction of rent at ₹100 per day.When asked why the security amount was so high, Garg said the private vendor was of the view that if the security amount was lower, no one would return the cylinder and it could be sold illegally in the market at higher prices.“We are just starting this facility, we will definitely rationalise it. I don’t want to delay the process. It may give relief to at least some persons. For rest of the patients, we will find out some solution. We need to take all, including the private vendor,along,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-get-o2-cylinders-in-chandigarh-through-epermit-101621018500559.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Model gaushala to come up on GADVASU campus in Ludhiana||The Punjab government has sanctioned a project to set up a model gaushala at the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) campus. The project will be carried out a cost of ₹1.7 crore.Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of the university, said that there are nearly 1.6 lakh stray cattle in Punjab and 50.22 lakh across the country.“Stray cattle is one of the major reasons for road accidents and damage to crops and forest plantations. Some people let loose the cows after their productive life is over. Moreover, stray animals are usually malnourished and wounded, and thus suffer themselves,” said Singh.SPS Ghuman, dean, college of veterinary sciences, said that the aim of this gaushala will be to manage the stray cattle on a self-reliant basis on scientific lines, with available inexpensive techniques involving low-cost comfortable housing, feeding and healthcare facilities. JPS Gill, director research, GADVASU, said that demonstrating low-cost management and feeding systems of stray animal management will help the dairy farming industry of the state and society at large.The team comprising of RS Grewal, director, livestock farms; ST Singh, Puneet Malhotra and Ravi Kant will initiate the work on this project immediately. The model gaushala will be a demonstration unit, depicting scientific cattle management with economic rearing and zero-waste production, that can be replicated at gram panchayat / taluka levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/model-gaushala-to-come-up-on-gadvasu-campus-in-ludhiana-101621017542441.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two new 110-bed Covid facilities made operational in Ludhiana||Two Covid care facilities in Hambran Road and Mundian, each with a capacity of 110 level-1 and level-2 beds, were inaugurated on Friday. The facilities were established with support from the Radha Soami Satsang Beas and inaugurated by Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, MLA Sanjay Talwar, councillor Mamta Ashu and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.Speaking to mediapersons at the Covid care centre on Hambran Road, Bittu said that each facility has 110 beds (55 each for men and women). He thanked the Radha Soami Satsang Beas for supporting the Punjab government and district administration in the fight against Covid. He said that these facilities will be beneficial in augmenting the health infrastructure in Ludhiana.At the centre adjoining Fortis Hospital, Mundian, MLA Sanjay Talwar said that these centres have been set up to combat the second Covid wave. He said that they have oxygen beds for level-I and level-II patients. Sharma said that there is no shortage of oxygen or beds with oxygen supply in the district. He urged the residents to get themselves tested in case they have any flu-like or Covid symptoms. He also thanked the Ludhiana industry for contributing 835 cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-new-110-bed-covid-facilities-made-operational-in-ludhiana-101621017483500.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees slight dip in Covid deaths, cases||The number of Covid-19 deaths in the district climbed to 1,683 on Friday with 19 people succumbing to the virus.However, it was after a gap of five days that the daily deaths dropped below 20. Also, there was a 3% drop in daily cases, as 1,320 people tested positive against 1,355 on Thursday.Ludhiana had last reported 19 deaths on May 8, since when the number had been rapidly climbing, even hitting the all-time high of 30 twice, on May 10 and 11. The youngest among Friday’s casualties, that included 10 men and nine women, was a 35-year-old man from Gahour. The oldest to die were two septuagenarians, both aged 75 and residents of Sunder Nagar and Basant Avenue.Those aged between 50 and 70 continued to be the worst affected, as 12 of the 19 deceased were in this age group, while the remaining four were in their 40s.The latest cases pushed the active cases to 73,741, of which 12,586 patients are still under treatment. As many as 57 patients are on ventilator support at various health facilities. The district has a recovery rate of 80.6% with 59,453 patients successfully beating the virus, though the proportion is behind the national average of 83.5%.In just 14 days of May, the district has logged 19,155 Covid cases, compared to 20,176 through April, while the deaths, at 307, have already crossed April’s toll of 231.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-slight-dip-in-covid-deaths-cases-101621017361886.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shots fired, cars vandalised in scuffle between two groups at Ludhiana||Shots were fired and three cars were vandalised during a fight between two groups of men near DAV Public School in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar on Thursday night. Onlookers informed the police, who reached the spot and identified the men of one group as Harmanjot Singh of Rishi Nagar, Raman Bhatia of Haibowal, Eklavya Joshi, Nalin Saluja and Kapish of Raman Enclave, Varun Verma of Rishi Nagar and Sukhwinder Singh of Kochla, Sangrur, while Ravneet Singh of Police Colony and Kanu Adiya and their eight unidentified accomplices were in the other group.ASI Santokh Singh, who is investigating the case, said after they received information about a scuffle near DAV School, they reached the spot and found some men injured, with sticks and bats lying around and three cars of local residents vandalised. On questioning them, Harmanjot claimed that Ravneet had called them to the spot following an argument earlier in the evening. When he reached there with his friends, Ravneet and his accomplices attacked them. Kanu also opened fire in the air, however they escaped unhurt.The ASI said the men left the spot for medical examination, saying they will reach the police station in the morning for their statement, but no one turned up on Friday. As such, a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against all accused.He added that as per their verification, two of the men were sons of an assistant sub-inspector and a retired superintendent of police.Inspector Paramdeep Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sarabha Nagar police station, said the accused had been booked for hooliganism and vandalism, and will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shots-fired-cars-vandalised-in-scuffle-between-two-groups-at-ludhiana-101621017301847.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Factory owner kills 48-year-old wife to usurp her properties||Son, daughter and daughter-in-law also booked for aiding the accused in strangling his wife to death at their Atam Nagar houseEyeing her properties, a factory owner, along with his son, daughter and daughter-in-law, allegedly strangled his wife to death at their Atam Nagar house in Model Town on Friday morning. According to police, the victim, Aarti Arora, 48, was the whole-time director of the family’s factory, Arora Alloys, located in Phase 7, Focal Point.Through her career she had amassed considerable real estate holdings, which her husband, Harmesh Arora, who is the factory’s managing director, had been trying to usurp. Apart from this, he had also been accusing her of infidelity.Harmesh, 50, has been arrested, while his son Lovish Arora, 26, daughter Ritika Arora, 20, and daughter-in-law Lovisha Arora are absconding. Another son of the victim is settled abroad. Passes off murder as suicideAccording to police, after killing Aarti, to avoid being caught, Harmesh took the body to a private hospital in Model Town, claiming she had hanged herself. Meanwhile, neighbours alerted Aarti’s brother Rajan Kundra, who lives in Karnail Singh Nagar. When Kundra rushed to the hospital, he was aghast to find his sister dead and immediately alerted the police.Ligature marks present on neck: Cops“Kundra informed the police around 9.30am, following which a team reached the victim’s house and the hospital. There were ligature marks on her neck, which indicated that she was strangled using a wire, while strewn around articles inside the house showed she had put up a fight,” said inspector Inderjit Singh, station house officer (SHO), Model Town police station.In his statement to the police, Kundra alleged that his brother-in-law had been harassing his sister to grab the properties she had raised through her personal efforts. In his greed, he had also turned his son, daughter and daughter-in-law against Aarti. The SHO said following the complaint by the victim’s brother, they had booked the four accused under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. “The body has been sent for autopsy, and things will get clearer once the other accused are nabbed,” he added.Apart from managing his alloy business, Harmesh is also the president of the management committee of Chintapurni Mandir and trustee of Shri Govind Gaudham, which handles one of the largest cow shelters in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-factory-owner-kills-48-year-old-wife-to-usurp-her-properties-101621017300745.html
