16-05-2021||Chandigarh||139 more fatalities, 9,115 virus cases in Haryana||Haryana on Sunday reported 139 Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 6,685, while 9,115 new cases pushed the infection count to 6,94,427.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the new deaths include 16 from Hisar, 12 each from Gurgaon and Jind, 10 from Rohtak and nine from Ambala district.Among the districts which reported a big spike in daily cases include Gurgaon (1,864), Faridabad (702), Hisar (713) and Sonipat (520), it said.The total active cases currently stands at 90,066 while the overall recoveries so far stands at 5,97,676.The positivity rate is 8.41%, while the recovery rate is 86.07%, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/139-more-fatalities-9-115-virus-cases-in-haryana-101621184947846.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown till May 24||To contain the upsurge of cases in the state, the Haryana government on Sunday yet again extended the lockdown till May 24. A week-long lockdown had been first imposed in the state on May 3. It was extended for another week on May 10 with stricter restrictions such as capping gatherings to 11 put in place. The lockdown was to end on May 17 at 5am but it has been extended for another week. In a single-page order chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said the decision to extend the lockdown had been taken after duly considering the fact that the number of Covid positive cases are still high in the state.”Announcing the decision, health and home minister Anil Vij tweeted, “Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana extended from May 17 to May 24. Stringent measures will be taken to implement the alert.”Ever since the lockdown was clamped there has been a marked improvement in the overall situation with fresh cases and active cases coming down and recovery outnumbering the new cases.The recent surge had overwhelmed hospitals with demand for medical oxygen also increasing manifold. The government has maintained that it is doing its best to tackle the present situation.The government has also stepped-up efforts to check the spread of the virus in rural areas with many villages seeing a surge in infections. During the lockdown, the government had urged residents to stay indoors. However, several categories of people, including those tasked with the maintenance of law and order, emergency and municipal services and the government machinery engaged in anti-Covid duties, have been exempted from the lockdown restrictions.To curb the virus’ spread, the state government had recently put several other restrictions in place including the imposition of restrictions orders under Section 144 of the CrPC and daily night curfew.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the number of covid cases were coming down in the state and that it was unanimously decided that the lockdown with the same terms and conditions should be extended for one more week. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-may-24-101621184408632.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar inaugurates 500-bedded Covid centres in Panipat, Hisar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated two 500-bedded Covid centres — Guru Teg Bahadur Sanjeevani Hospital in Bal Jatan village near Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery and Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjeevani Covid Hospital in Hisar — on SundaySet up in around 20 days at a cost of around ₹28 crore with the help of the DRDO and the PWD department, the hospital in Panipat will have around 325 staff members, including doctors, paramedics. The hospital in Hisar was set up by the Haryana State Road and Bridge Development Corporation (HSRBDC) in 18 days at a cost of around ₹28.79 crore in the school building owned by the Jindal family. The hospital became functional two days before the May 18 deadline. The newly setup hospital will have 30 medical officers and MBBS interns, 43 pharmacists, 16 regular doctors, 27 staff nurses, 48 intern staff nurses. The hospital has been divided into four blocks and all the 500 beds are equipped with oxygen supply. The oxygen will be supplied from the Jindal steel unit.Speaking at Panipat, the CM said, “The second wave has reached its peak five times faster than the first wave. With the setting up of two hospitals in Hisar and Panipat, the strength of hospital beds in the state has reached 19,500.” On the black fungus disease, he said,”Sixty cases have been reported in the state and four centres have been set up to treat the fungal disease one each in Hisar, Rohtak, Karnal and Gurugram.”Haryana health minister Anil Vij said the state government was in touch with the Centre for increasing Haryana’s quota of oxygen supply. “We will require more oxygen to increase the strength of oxygen beds,” he said. Union Minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan said around 13,000MT of liquid medical oxygen was being imported from countries such as Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). “The Panipat refinery has increased its oxygen generation capacity to 280 MT. The centre has also imported 200 cryogenic tankers. Free Covid jabs will be provided to all residents of Bal Jattan village and officials of IOC’s Panipat refinery,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-inaugurates-500-bedded-covid-centres-in-panipat-hisar-101621183987977.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amid rising virus cases, Bhiwani villagers set up their own isolation centre||Amid increasing coronavirus cases and deaths in rural areas across the state, residents of Mandholi Kalan village, nearly 60 km from the district headquarters in Bhiwani, have set up an isolation centre in a private school’s building. The state government had announced that it will be releasing ₹50,000 per gram panchayat to set up isolation centres in villages but the residents of Mandholi village started their own isolation centre. Almost every family in the village, which has approximately 6,000 people, has been touched by the virus. The health department had collected samples of 60 people, of which eight were found positive in rapid tests. Mandeep Chaudhary, a postgraduate, who runs a coaching centre, said they had established a10-bedded isolation centre at KCM School this week.“We have four oxygen cylinders and five doctors are available for online consultation free of cost. We have equipment such as oximeters, thermometers, steam machines and blood pressure monitoring machines. Thirty-eight patients are admitted at the centre, which was set up with the help of donations,” he said. Chaudhary, who had started an ambulance service in the village in January, has purchased two more ambulances amid the second wave.“If patients’ condition worsens, they are taken to hospitals in Bhiwani or Hisar. The poor are ferried free of cost and well-to-do patients are also only charged for fuel. Our team has been delivering oxygen cylinders and medicines to patients’ door step. Only refilling charges are taken,” he said.The director of the private school, Jaibir Boora, said, “Most students in our school are from Mandholi Kalan and other neighbouring villages. Thus, in this hour of crisis, we offered our building as an isolation centre so that lives can be saved. School authorities in collaboration with the village youth are planning to increase the number of beds.” Chotu, a resident of the village said his mother was admitted to the isolation centre after her oxygen saturation levels dropped. “Now, my mother is fine and her saturation level is 97. This centre is very helpful for patients whose lungs are affected. If oxygen is provided to such patients, they can be shifted to hospitals,” he said.Devender Sheoran, a resident of Sidhanwa village, who had supplied 14 oxygen cylinders to those in need free of cost said they too were planning on setting up an isolation centre in their village on their own.” “ We have identified a school building and the isolation centre will be started in the next three to four days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-rising-virus-cases-bhiwani-villagers-set-up-their-own-isolation-centre-101621183688654.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM slams Yogi Adityanath over his Malerkotla tweet||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday slammed Yogi Adityanath over his inflammatory tweet on the declaration of Malerkotla as the 23rd district of Punjab, terming it as an attempt to incite communal hatred in the peaceful state as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) divisive policies.An official press release stated that contrasting the communal harmony in Punjab with the divisiveness being promoted by the Yogi Adiyanath government in Uttar Pradesh, Amarinder Singh asked the former to stay out of his state's affairs, which are in much better shape than those in UP under the divisive and destructive BJP government, which has been actively promoting communal discord in the state for the past over four years."What does he (Yogi Adityanath) know of Punjab's ethos or the history of Malerkotla, whose relationship with Sikhism and its Gurus was known to every Punjabi? And what does he understand of the Indian Constitution, which is being brazenly trampled every day by his own government in UP?" asked the Chief Minister, in a strong reaction to his UP counterpart's tweet, describing Malerkotla's new status as a "sign of the divisive policies of the Congress."Mocking the UP chief minister's comment, Amarinder Singh said that given Yogi Adityanath government's and BJP's track record of spreading communal hate, such a remark was utterly ridiculous, apart from being totally unwarranted and uncalled for. The whole world knows of the communally divisive policies of the BJP, and particularly the Yogi Adityanath government in UP, said the Chief Minister. Pointing to the spate of changes in names of various UP cities, including Mughal Sarai to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar, Allahabad as Prayagraj, and Faizabad as Ayodhya, he dubbed it an attempt by the Yogi government to rewrite history, which the peace-loving people of India will never condone.Citing media reports, the CM recalled that UP was the first state in the country to approve `love jihad' laws, and Yogi Adiyanath's open hatred for Taj Mahal (which he sees as a legacy of the Mughals) has been the subject matter of criticism in the international press. In fact, the UP chief minister is reportedly the founder of Hindu Yuva Vahini, an organisation that was responsible for starting cow vigilantism, which led to lynching of Muslims in his own state, the Punjab Chief Minister further pointed out.It was obvious that the tweet of the UP government head on Malerkotla was nothing but a provocative gesture aimed at creating conflict among the communities living in perfect harmony in Punjab, said the Chief Minister. He termed it a conspiracy on the part of the BJP to spread disharmony in Punjab ahead of the Assembly elections, which are just months away. "But the UP chief minister seems to have forgotten that his own state is also going to the polls at the same time, and if the recent Panchayat poll results are any indication, the BJP is in for a complete and shocking rout," he quipped.Yogi Adityanath should focus his energies on saving his own state, where the Covid situation is spirally out of control, with bodies of the victims of the pandemic being found dumped in rivers, thus depriving them of even the dignity of a decent cremation/burial, said Amarinder Singh."A chief minister who cannot protect even the basic human rights of his state's people and allows them to be treated with such shocking disrespect has no moral right to continue in office, leave alone comment on the functioning of another state government," declared the Punjab Chief Minister in a press note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-slams-yogi-adityanath-over-his-malerkotla-tweet-101621127859305.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Drug smugglers shoot two ASIs dead in Punjab’s Jagraon||Car-borne drug smugglers shot dead two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) and injured another in the new grain market in Jagraon, about 45 km from here, on Saturday. The accused also opened fire on a group of youths, who tried to record the incident on their phones, while fleeing the spot. The youngsters, however, escaped unhurt. Jagron DSP Jatinderjit Singh said ASI Bhagwan Singh died on the spot while critically injured ASI Dalwinder Singh succumbed on the way to hospital. Both were posted in the state’s crime investigation agency (CIA) in Jagraon. Ludhiana rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sohal said the assailants have been captured in the CCTVs installed in the area. An alert has been sounded and special teams have been formed to nab the accused. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has condemned the attack. “Unfortunate fatal attack on two of our brave CIA policemen in Jagraon. Intensive manhunt is on and the culprits would be nabbed soon. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and we will ensure that they are taken care of in every possible way,” the CM tweeted. According to the SSP, the police received a tip-off about a drug deal at the new grain market. “A team reached the spot around 6.30 pm and saw the accused shifting drug packets from a truck to their car. The police asked them to surrender but the accused opened fire. In the shootout, two ASIs were killed, and another cop Rajwinder Singh suffered injuries,” he added. The police suspect that the accused have fled towards Moga, said the SSP. Later, police managed to recover the truck that was spotted during the deal at the grain market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-smugglers-shoot-two-asis-dead-in-punjab-s-jagraon-101621108986623.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Few takers for Covid-19 test in rural Gurdaspur||Despite the coronavirus pandemic continuing to spread rapidly across the countryside, testing of villagers is proving to be a Herculean task for the health department in Gurdaspur district 71 per cent population of which resides in rural areas. Health department organised a Covid-19 testing camp at Hemrajpur village, 10 km from the district headquarters, on Friday and only five people turned up. The village has two panchayats and a population of over 2,200. This happened despite personal requests by both the sarpanches and announcements from the gurdwara loudspeaker. Among the five people who got tested included the two sarpanches. According to the health department officials, the situation is similar in other villages of the district. “The camp was organised on the direction of Gurdaspur sub-divisional magistrate (SDM). Only three people turned up for testing,” said Kuldeep Singh, one of the two sarpanches of the village. Describing the reason behind the hesitancy among the villagers, Kuldeep said, “There is a misconception that if anyone is found to be positive, he or she will be shifted to hospital. Many of them believe the misguided propaganda on social media. It is despite our assurance that a separate hall has been spared in the village for treatment of the Covid-19 patients.” He said so far no one has died in his village due to the coronavirus. Gurdaspur civil surgeon Harbhajan Raj said, “It’s the same story everywhere. Our teams have been visiting various villages, but people are not showing up for the test. Lately, a vaccination team had visited a brick kiln in a village, but, after seeing the health team, all the workers fled from the spot.” On Friday, 11 people died due to the coronavirus in Gurdaspur district. Among the 11 fatalities, 8 were from rural areas. The district has recorded overall 600 deaths and 18,287 positive cases. Punjab Health Systems Corporation’s chairman Amardeep Singh Cheema said they were roping in elected representatives of the panchayats and urban local bodies to motivate people for testing and vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/few-takers-for-covid-19-test-in-rural-gurdaspur-101621108745594.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC Bar withdraws resolution on boycott of CJ court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) has withdrawn its May 7 resolution boycotting chief justice RS Jha’s court.In a statement on Saturday, the Bar body said that differences have been “ironed out” in a meeting between the chief justice (CJ) and Bar body members. The Bar association has also withdrawn its appeal from Bar Council of India (BCI) against the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana’s (BCPH) decision to stay the resolution on the boycott, the Bar body said.It was on Friday last that PHHCBA had decided to boycott hearings before the chief justice and sought his transfer, a decision stayed by BCPH, a statutory body, within hours. Subsequently, PHHCBA had also moved BCI against the Bar Council decision, but got no relief. The BCI had said that it was not the “right time” for any agitation and more than livelihood the issue at hand is of safety.HC Bar had passed a resolution announcing boycott claiming that even urgent nature cases were not being taken up by the high court and accused the chief justice of non-cooperation. Their main contention was that out of 46 courts only 11 are functioning and cases were being listed with prior permission from the bench — called mentioning, due to which only a handful of cases are being listed. Subsequently, the high court administration had also allowed direct listing of petitions in some categories of cases. In February too, the Bar association had decided to boycott his court.Restore Nanda’s membership, says BCIIn another development, the BCI has asked the Bar association to restore the membership of Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda observing that “(he) has always played an exemplary and appreciable role”. His membership was revoked by the Bar association in a resolution in February for allegedly working against the interests of the lawyers. The decision was later stayed by the state Bar council.The BCI said that differences and dissatisfaction are bound to occur in every institution, but the matter should be reported to the state Bar council concerned, which will pitch in to resolve the matter. The February resolution of HC Bar had “no leg to stand on”, said the BCI adding, “The Bar association should desist from taking such reckless and irresponsible decisions.”The PHHCBA is a body of lawyers with around 4,000 members, who mainly practice in the high court. BCPH is a statutory body with over one lakh members in both the states and Chandigarh. The council regulates entry of lawyers into the legal profession including those practising in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-hc-bar-withdraws-resolution-on-boycott-of-cj-court-101621108513118.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to seek more oxygen from Centre, abroad||To bridge the gap between rising demand and supply of medical oxygen in the state, the Punjab government would seek additional oxygen tankers from the Centre.Besides, Punjab has also expedited the process of procuring on its own more oxygen tankers from different parts of the country and abroad.This was disclosed by chief secretary Vini Mahajan after chairing a high-level meeting to review the availability, need and distribution of medical oxygen in the state besides taking stock of the ongoing initiatives to check further spread of Covid-19 in the state, here on Saturday.Briefing the present status of the supply chain, principal secretary (transport) K Siva Prasad said efforts have been intensified to bring oxygen tankers from Belgium and Australia. “Hopefully, the supply of oxygen tankers from abroad will reach Punjab soon,” he added.Rahul Tiwari, who is supervising the oxygen control room, said Punjab’s first oxygen express train left for Bokaro in Jharkhand on Saturday morning to pick up its 80 metric tonnes (MT) quota of oxygen, which would further strengthen the stock of life-saving medical supplies in the state. He said the services of Markfed were being availed to speed up the process of oxygen procurement and ensure there was no shortage of the life-saving gas in the state.Principal secretary, water supply and sanitation, Jaspreet Talwar, while sharing the district-wise information of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants, said a total of 44 PSA plants would be set up in Punjab at a cost of ₹4.71 crore for which several NGOs and big companies have come forward to help the Punjab government in this endeavour.Regarding the status of oxygen concentrators in the state, the chief secretary was informed that Punjab has around 1,060 concentrators at present, which were being distributed in the districts as per the requirement, while more concentrators would be available soon and would be sent to the districts as per the need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-seek-more-oxygen-from-centre-abroad-101621108511728.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man carries 11-year-old daughter’s body for cremation, video goes viral||A video of a man walking up to the crematorium in Jalandhar with the body of his 11-year-old daughter on his shoulder is making rounds of the social media, a week after the incident. There are conflicting versions on whether or not the girl was infected with Covid as the family says the hospital told them that she was positive while the administration claims otherwise. Eleven-year-old Sonu died at Government Medical College, Amritsar, on May 9 and the video that appeared on Saturday is of May 10. Dalip Kumar, a migrant labourer from Odisha who lives in Ramnagar area of Jalandhar, told the media that his daughter developed fever around two months ago. Initially, he took her to a quack and when her condition didn’t improve, Dalip took her to Jalandhar civil hospital, from where she was referred to GMC, Amritsar. Dalip said they returned to Jalandhar from Amritsar on May 9 night and were verbally informed by the Amritsar hospital staff that Sonu was positive for coronavirus. On May 10, when Dalip informed his neighbours about the death of his daughter and sought help for her cremation, they refused to give a shoulder to the body up to the crematorium. Dalip then carried the body up to the crematorium on his shoulder, his son walking beside. Dalip said his neighbours did reach the crematorium but kept a distance throughout. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said as per the inquiry conducted by the sub-divisional magistrate, the cause of the girl’s death was not Covid-19 as she was tested negative for the virus. “The girl was admitted to Jalandhar civil hospital from where she was referred to GMC Amritsar. An ambulance dropped the patient at Amritsar. After her death, an ambulance dropped the body at Jalandhar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-carries-11-year-old-daughter-s-body-for-cremation-video-goes-viral-101621108510778.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dalit activist Bant Singh battling Covid at his home in Punjab village||The Dalit singer-activist, who bravely took on caste oppression of agricultural labourers and fought for justice when his minor daughter was raped in 2002 by two upper-caste men, leading to their conviction, is now battling Covid-19 in his village Burj Jhabbar, some 20km from Mansa.Bant Singh is popularly referred to as the Singing Torso for he had to pay a heavy price for taking on the landlords and lost his arms and legs in 2006 when Jat youths of the village beat him up to a pulp and left him to die in the fields. Defying death, he went onto become a symbol of Dalit resistance in the country singing songs of protest even after his arms and legs were amputated.The man whose biography is being made into a movie is currently in the clutches of Covid infection. His daughter Hardeep Kaur said, “He had been getting fever for the past month, but we thought it was just a seasonal infection because it is believed there is no Covid in the villages.”However, he tested positive on May 6, but no follow-up was taken, leading to loss of appetite, continuing fever, cough, and health deterioration. At the intervention of some media persons, health workers of nearby Aklia village visited his home and provided him with a medicine kit.Talking on the phone to HT amid bouts of cough, he said, “I have fought much else in life and will fight off Covid too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalit-activist-bant-singh-battling-covid-at-his-home-in-punjab-village-101621108444994.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||VB detects ‘shady deals’ involving Navjot Sidhu, wife, aides||At a time when former Punjab local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has been strenuously slamming chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on a variety of issues, the Punjab Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau has fast-tracked its investigation into some ‘shady deals’ involving the Sidhu couple and their close associates. The agency comes under the direct control of the chief minister.The focus of the vigilance bureau (VB) is on some controversial decisions taken during the tenure of Sidhu as local bodies minister when Sidhu’s wife and former MLA Navjot Kaur, Sidhu’s close friend and his OSD Bunny Sandhu, Navjot Kaur’s personal assistant Gaurav Vasudeva and clerk Rajiv Kumar allegedly colluded to favour certain firms. Even as these leads are not new with the VB as the agency was already zeroing in on them ever since Sidhu resigned from the Amarinder cabinet on July 14, 2019, after he was stripped off the local bodies portfolio and allotted power department. However, the agency learnt to have given a fresh push to probe the cases. The timing of the VB probe is being questioned as Sidhu is hitting out at the chief minister almost daily through social media on different issues. At least seven ministers from Amarinder cabinet have already sought action against Sidhu for his outbursts. As per officials privy to the probe, earlier the focus of the probe was limited to certain “deals” done during Sidhu’s tenure as minister in Zirakpur and Nayagaon, but now more instances have been identified where financial favours were allegedly given by the Sidhus to their near and dear ones. On Saturday, Amritsar SSP (VB) Parampal Singh met his superiors in Chandigarh and submitted a detailed report on some “murky deals”. The SSP during his probe had found more than five shady deals, a senior VB official involved in the probe said. The findings involve allotment of a booth for peanuts to Navjit Kaur (wife of Navjot Kaur’s PA Gaurav Vasudeva), discrepancies in allotment of advertisement tenders to a company owned by Vasudeva and flooring tender given again to yet another firm owned by Vasudeva. ‘Navjot Kaur paid ₹1 cr to Zirakpur’s realtor’ According to findings of the bureau accessed by Hindustan Times, the VB probe has established Navjot Kaur paid ₹1 crore to a Zirakpur-based realtor Gagandeep Singh alias Prince. Two payments were made to Prince by her through two SBI cheques for ₹50 lakh each on March 12, 2019, one cheque in Gagandeep’s name and another in his company’s, found the VB probe. “Prince has told the VB that Navjot Kaur wanted to buy a house and payments were made in advance. However, no such written document about the purchase or any booking was found during the probe. It appears that the sum was collected to float a company,” a top VB functionary said. “Gagandeep, in connivance with Vasudeva and Rajiv Kumar (a clerk in health department who is an associate of Navjot Kaur since her tenure as parliamentary secretary), got approved the site plan without depositing the required fee and plan,” the probe found. The probe found that they got G-8 receipts through Zirakpur executive officer Manbir Singh Gill by submitting cheques, which were never sent to the bank for collection and the site plan was approved. The VB probe in this case found that ₹4 crore was pending against Gagandeep’s firm, still he was given all clearances. “Gagandeep in his statement to VB has said that he used to pay Rajiv Kumar ₹25,000 for approval to each residential plan and ₹50,000 for each commercial plan. Kumar collected ₹3,42,500 from Gagandeep,” the probe found. The VB officials claim when Sidhu was the minister, Navjot Kaur had visited Gagandeep’s office in Zirakpur where the latter had also called senior officials to show his proximity to her. The VB has also done analysis of call details and found 100 calls made by Rajiv Kumar to various Zirakpur MC officials, Gagandeep, Bunny and Vasudeva and Navjot Kaur during the period when these files were approved. ‘Bunny managed mega projects as OSD to Sidhu’ The VB probe claims that Bunny Sandhu allegedly was instrumental in getting CLU files cleared after striking deals with the contractors and builders. “In one such case, Punjab and Haryana High Court had passed an order that the areas of the Nada and Karoran villages be included in the MC limit of Nayagaon. The Nayagaon MC challenged the decision in the Supreme Court and the high court decision was stayed. Bunny influenced then Nayagaon MC executive officer to get a resolution passed in the House to withdraw the petition from the Supreme Court,” claims the VB. The agency claims Bunny was active on behalf of the minister in connivance with WWICS director Davinder Singh Sandhu for developing a big chunk of land in Nadda and Karoran villages. Since the VB hasn’t registered any FIR even after claiming such gross irregularities, the conduct of the agency is under cloud. Navjot Sidhu, his wife and Bunny couldn’t be contacted for a comment despite repeated attempts. Navjot Kaur did not reply to text messages either. After reports about the probe, Sidhu tagged chief minister a tweet, saying: ‘Most Welcome…Please do your best @Captain_Amarinder’.“If Sidhus have done wrong why state government waited for two years. I am amazed to see that the vigilance has not carried a single probe into sand, transport and other deals done during Badals’ rule but is so quick on Sidhus,” said Jalandhar Cantt Congress MLA Pargat Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vb-detects-shady-deals-involving-navjot-sidhu-wife-aides-101621108266215.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ union to observe May 26 as black day marking 6 months of protest||Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Saturday announced that it will observe May 26 as “black day”, marking six months of their protest at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s three farm laws.In a virtual press conference, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal appealed to people to raise black flags at their houses, vehicles and shops on May 26 to protest against the contentious farm legislations.“On May 26, we will complete six months of this protest and it also happens to mark seven years since PM Modi formed the government. We will observe it as black day,” Rajewal said.The government has not heard the farmers demands to repeal the three farm laws and “with increasing prices of fertilisers, diesel and petrol, the farming business is not possible”, the farmer leader said. Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November 2020 demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government, which has held multiple rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-union-to-observe-may-26-as-black-day-marking-6-months-of-protest-101621108204957.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||PUDA’s housing project: Over 1,000 trees axed in Faridkot, residents fume||Over a 1,000 full-grown trees over 135 acres at a defunct sugar mill in Faridkot have been axed to clear the land for developing a housing project of the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA), leaving the residents fuming.The Aam Aadmi Party and area residents protested against the axing of the trees on Saturday. A major part of the process has been completed amid lockdown.The cooperative sugar mill was set up in Faridkot in 1988 over nearly 50 acres. A total 135 acres were acquired for the mill, and farmers of Faridkot, Moga, Ferozepur and Muktsar districts used to bring sugarcane to the facility. After it turned into a loss-making unit, the mill was closed in 2006.On June 11, 2014, the state cabinet headed by the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had put its stamp on the closure of the sugar mill. A contract was granted to a Ferozepur-based company cutting 2,057 trees.Bikramjit Singh Shergill, additional chief administrator, Bathinda Development Authority (BDA), said the land of sugar mill at Faridkot has been transferred to PUDA under the state government policy of optimum utilisation of the lands. “This area will be developed accordingly once we get the possession. The clearing of the land is being done by the department of cooperation after taking all the necessary approvals,” he added. Bhogpur sugar mill general manager Arun Kumar Arora said: “The department of cooperation has started the work of clearing the land after which it will be handed over to PUDA and all the machinery of Faridkot sugar mill will be shifted to Bhogpur. We have taken all the necessary approvals from forest department for the cutting of trees,” he added.AAP MLA from Kotkapura Kultar Singh Sandhwan along with supporters reached the spot and protested against the axing of the trees. He said that the government had sold trees for just ₹67 lakh. “This naturally developed mini-jungle is home to many species, including peacock, so this process must be stopped. At these desperate times, the state government is destroying natural source of oxygen. We will start an agitation if cutting of tree did not stop by the government,” he said. After strong protest by residents and leaders of political parties, deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia ordered to stop the cutting of trees. “I have directed the police to investigate the matter and stop the cutting of trees for now. I have called meeting of the officials concerned to probe the matter,” he added.Members of a non-governmental organisation, Naroa Punjab Manch, have written to National Green Tribunal and Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh demanding to stop cutting of fully grown trees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pudas-housing-project-over-1-000-trees-axed-in-faridkot-residents-fume-101621107965128.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Former Akal Takht jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti dead||Former Akal Takht jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti died of a heat attack in Amritsar on Saturday night. He was 80. According to a spokesperson of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Vedanti was admitted to Guru Ram Das Hospital in Amritsar at around 8pm where he breathed his last. Vedanti, who served as jathedar of the highest temporal seat of Sikhs from 2000 to 2008, was well-versed in Gurbani grammar. He also served for a long time as the head granthi of the Golden Temple. During his tenure Vedanti had taken several landmark decisions. In 2003, the former jathedar had approved the Nanakshahi calendar, prepared by Canada-based Sikh scholar Pal Singh Purewal. He had also declared Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale a martyr 19 years after Operation Bluestar. He was also the first jathedar who declared to commemorate the death anniversaries of the Sikh militants. Soon after becoming the jathedar, Vedanti had revoked the decision of his predecessor Giani Pooran Singh to excommunicate Jagir Kaur (the then president of the SGPC). He also remained in the thick of controversy over his reported tough stand against the Dera Sacha Sauda, offering support to militants and his opposition to political interference in the SGPC affairs. Citing “political pressure” and “bad health”, Vedanti had quit his post in August 2008. Later, he himself made it public that he was ousted forcibly when he inadvertently praised former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh. In her condolence message, SGPC chief Jagir Kaur said Vedanti was a great leader of the Panth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-akal-takht-jathedar-giani-joginder-singh-vedanti-dead-101621107905026.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||State reports 217 Covid deaths, 6,867 new cases||Punjab on Saturday registered another dip in positive cases with 6,867 fresh infections as against 8,068 on Friday. The state reported 217 more coronavirus fatalities, taking the death toll to 11,693.So far, 4,90,755 people have been infected with the virus. It is for the second consecutive day that the single-day recoveries (8,125) surpassed the number of new infections (6,867). The state’s positivity rate also dropped from 11.29% on Friday to 9.48%. Twenty-six deaths were reported from Amritsar, 24 from Bathinda, 20 from Fazilka, 19 from Patiala and 18 from Ludhiana in the past 24 hours, the bulletin said.Ludhiana reported the maximum 1,132 cases, followed by 573 in Jalandhar, 536 in Patiala, 535 in Mohali and 515 in Bathinda. Meanwhile, 8,125 people recovered from the infection in the state. The number of active cases also dropped from 79,359 on Friday to 77,789, the bulletin said. The state’s positivity rate also dropped from 11.29 per cent on Friday to 9.48 per cent. With 8,125 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 4,01,273, the bulletin said.There are 429 critical patients on ventilator while 9,902 are on oxygen support, it said. A total of 81,40,404 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.Over 40% deaths in 45 daysOver 40% of the total Covid-19-related fatalities in Punjab took place in the last 45 days, indicating the severity of the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic.Punjab had reported a total of 6,868 deaths due to the infection as on March 31. The death toll rose to 11,693 as on May 15, showing 4,826 more people succumbing to the disease since April 1 this year, the state health department’s data revealed.The health officials had earlier pointed out that the delay in approaching hospitals for treatment by patients with severe symptoms and comorbidities were the main reasons behind fatalities.Ludhiana is one of the worst-affected districts in Punjab as it has registered 538 deaths between April 1 and May 14, 2021, as per the data.The case fatality rate in rural areas is 2.6% as against 0.8% in urban areas, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-reports-217-covid-deaths-6-867-new-cases-101621107725092.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder slams Yogi’s ‘inflammatory’ tweet over making Malerkotla as dist||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday slammed his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath over his “inflammatory” tweet on the declaration of Malerkotla as the 23rd district of Punjab, terming it an attempt to incite communal hatred in the peaceful state as a part of the BJP’s divisive policies.In a Tweet in Hindi on Saturday, Adityanath said: “Any differentiation in the name of any religion or creed is opposed to the basic principles of the Constitution. At this time, formation of Malerkotla (as a district) is an example of divisive policy of the Congress.”The UP chief minister’s tweet came a day after Amarinder announced the only Muslim majority town in Punjab to be the state’s 23rd district on the occasion of Eid.Contrasting the communal harmony in Punjab with the “divisiveness” being promoted by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, Amarinnder asked the former to stay out of his state’s affairs as they are in much better shape than those in UP. “What does he (Yogi Adityanath) know of Punjab’s ethos or the history of Malerkotla, whose relationship with Sikhism and its Gurus was known to every Punjabi? And what does he understand of the Constitution, which is being brazenly trampled every day by his own government in UP?” asked Amarinder. Mocking the UP chief minister’s comment, Amarinder said given the Yogi Adityanath government and the BJP’s track record of spreading “communal hate”, such a remark was utterly ridiculous, apart from being totally unwarranted and uncalled for. The whole world knows of the communally divisive policies of the BJP, and particularly the Yogi Adityanath government in UP, said Amarinder.Pointing to the “spate of changes in names” of various UP cities, including Mughal Sarai to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar, Allahabad as Prayagraj and Faizabad as Ayodhya, he dubbed it an “attempt by the Yogi government to rewrite history”, which the peace-loving people of India will never condone.Citing media reports, Amarinder recalled that UP was the first state in the country to approve “love jihad” laws, and Yogi Adityanath’s open hatred for Taj Mahal (which he sees as a legacy of the Mughals) has been the subject matter of criticism in international press.In fact, the UP chief minister is reportedly the founder of Hindu Yuva Vahini, an organisation that was responsible for starting cow vigilantism, which led to lynching of Muslims in his own state, the Punjab CM said. Meanwhile, Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Deol also opposed carving out of Malerkotla district out of Sangrur. “With this announcement, the government has made Sangrur a small district. This is against Constitution. India is a secular country and to divide the society for political benefit is not right,” said Deol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-slams-yogi-s-inflammatory-tweet-over-making-malerkotla-as-dist-101621107606388.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine shortage: Punjab’s pvt hospitals in talks with makers to procure doses||Amid shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the government sector, private hospitals in Punjab are trying to procure jabs from manufactures to boost the inoculation drive. The move comes after the new vaccination policy of the central government, which came into effect on May 1, allowing states and the private hospitals to directly procure 50% of India-made vaccines from the makers. According to the Punjab health department, at least eight private hospitals across the state have already approached manufacturers, including the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, to place purchase orders for Covishield and Covaxin vaccines.At present, only two private hospitals chains in Punjab — Max Super Specialty Hospital, and Fortis Hospital, both in Mohali — have procured vaccines and are administering it to beneficiaries, including people in the age group of 18-44 years, who are yet to get jabs at government facilities. Though the government has started vaccination in this age group, it is initially administering doses to kin of industrial and health workers. Of the 30 lakh Covishield vaccines ordered by the Punjab government for the 18-44 age group, the state has so far received only 1 lakh doses.“Many private hospitals in Punjab have shown their interest in joining the government in the inoculation drive. Eight private hospitals have already started talks with the vaccine manufacturers and they will soon place the order. Due to vaccine shortage, private hospitals may get the vaccine stock a bit late,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, adding that due to non-availability of vaccine in private hospitals, the state’s vaccination drive has been hampered amid the second wave of pandemic.Dr Bhaskar further said: “Though the vaccine in private hospitals is paid as compared to free inoculation in government centres, people are coming forward to avail the facility. In the past week, private hospitals (Max hospital and Fortis hospital) have administered the first dose to 4,512 beneficiaries and second dose to 371 beneficiaries and the numbers will improve with more private hospitals joining the drive.” Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan has also urged people to book vaccination appointments at the two private hospitals. “Max and Fortis hospitals have procured vaccines and have begun vaccinating 18-44 age group beneficiaries. Max is charging ₹900 for Covishield and Fortis ₹1,250 for Covaxin (per dose). Please register on CoWin Portal to book a slot at these hospitals,” she tweeted.“Since the manufacturers are unable to supply vaccines demanded by the state governments in large quantities, not many private hospitals are trying to procure the stock. The eight private hospitals, which are trying to buy vaccines, have not got any confirmation from the companies yet. Also, placing a purchase order requires a huge investment and not many people will agree to take a single dose at such a high price. More private hospitals will make efforts to procure vaccines once easily available,” said the director of an Amritsar-based private hospital.“Some 15 private hospitals are willing to join the drive but due to vaccine shortage, not many of them tried to place orders as of now. Our association is also trying to buy vaccines to join the government’s efforts in containing the Covid-19 spread,” said president, Indian Medical Association, Punjab, Dr KD Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccine-shortage-punjab-s-pvt-hospitals-in-talks-with-makers-to-procure-doses-101621107425392.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to conduct oxygen audit at govt hospitals too||The UT administration will now carry out oxygen audits at government hospitals and mini Covid centres in the city too. In view of the rising demand for oxygen and reports of misuse, the administration had earlier started the audit at all private hospitals being provided oxygen from Chandigarh’s centrally allocated quota of 20 metric tons (MT). This quota is also being utilised to cater to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32; Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16; and the dedicated Covid hospital in Sector 48. Yashpal Garg, UT nodal officer for oxygen supplies, said: “We have now decided to include government hospitals and mini-Covid centres under the ambit of audit, so that there is no wastage of oxygen. Our team will visit them and collate information.” Garg chaired a meeting on Saturday to discuss proper oxygen usage and ways to avoid fatalities caused by its insufficient supply. It was decided that while increasing hospital beds, especially in ICUs, oxygen supply and maintenance of its pressure need to be taken into account carefully. The officials said that there should be proper system for deicing vaporisers and bypasses will have to be provided, so that they can be used alternatively to avoid any untoward incident, due to possible choking. Staff deployed on oxygen supply related duty should be provided gasman kits immediately. All oxygen points must be checked by technicians to ensure there is no leakage and are properly closed after use.The team will visit the three government hospitals over the next few days to educate and sensitise the staff about optimum utilisation of oxygen and avoiding wastage. The team also presented its observation regarding oxygen management at the government hospitals. For example, at GMCH, apart from the oxygen generated by the recently-installed pressure swing absorption (PSA) plant, the daily consumption of liquid oxygen is more than 10 MT per day. Presently, there are 130 D-type cylinders and more are being shifted from the Sector-48 hospital, which will increase the number to around 200. In case of delay in supply of liquid oxygen, the manifold along with PSA plant, may be sufficient for about eight hours. Similarly, at the Sector-48 hospital, in case of delay, there is sufficient oxygen for about 24 hours, and at GMSH, it is sufficient for eight hours.Meanwhile, till 7pm on Saturday, 12 online applications were received from residents seeking access to medical oxygen at their homes. Of these, 11 were approved. The lone application that was rejected did not have a doctor’s prescription.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-conduct-oxygen-audit-at-govt-hospitals-too-101621105624962.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ten days on, no ICU bed still available in Punjab’s Mohali||It’s been 10 days and all intensive care unit (ICU) beds remain occupied across all hospitals in Mohali, forcing patients to move to other districts. The district has been hit hard by the pandemic’s second wave, which has claimed more than 150 lives in just a fortnight this month, while around 14,000 people have tested positive for it.There are 395 ICU beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients at various private hospitals in Mohali district, while there is none at any of the government facilities. While all are occupied for the past 10 days, even oxygen beds are nearing saturation, with just 79 available, according to the data released on Saturday evening.There are around 30 big private hospitals in the district, which has emerged as a medical tourism hub, but all are finding it difficult to meet the surge as patients are pouring in from other parts of the region as well.Meanwhile, the civil hospital in Phase 6, which is the government’s lone Covid facility in the district and was upgraded from 60 to 120 oxygen beds — is treating as many as 135 patients, with even two patients occupying one bed, it is learnt.Civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said: “The second wave is witnessing more complications among patients, with a large proportion needing critical care or oxygen support. We are left with no bed for such patients in any government hospital, and they are being referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala or PGIMER in Chandigarh.”Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “We have already told private hospitals that they should not deny admission to any patient requiring critical care and accommodated them on oxygen beds till the next discharge from the ICU, subject to the approval of the patient’s kin.”The district administration has also directed subdivisional magistrates and doctors posted at subdivisional level to redress issues faced in Covid management. The DC has approved mortuary fridges at subdivisional hospitals Covid deaths occurring late at night besides allowing hiring of three funeral vans each to facilitate families of patients in the time of distress.Chandigarh to get 20 more ventilatorsHospitals in Chandigarh and Panchkula are also struggling, with only 15 and seven ventilators available, respectively, on Saturday evening.In Chandigarh, there are 178 beds with ventilators, of which 146 are at government facilities, including the PGIMER, and 32 at private hospitals. In some respite, the Centre allocated 20 more ventilators to Chandigarh on Saturday. UT adviser Manoj Parida said it would help the city tremendously in treating critical patients and save lives. Meanwhile, only 288 oxygen beds of the total 1,324 were available in the city.In the neighbouring Panchkula district, 315 of 349 oxygen beds were occupied and 113 of 120 ICU beds were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ten-days-on-no-icu-bed-atill-available-in-punjab-s-mohali-101621105565661.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||1,405 test Covid+ in Chandigarh tricity, 46% drop in 5 days||Continuing with the downward trend, the number of Covid-19 cases reported in the tricity on Saturday plunged to 1,405 from 1,729 the previous day.The daily case tally has been on a consistent decline since peaking at 2,612 on May 10, a drop of 46% in five days.Even the number of deaths dropped below 20 for the first time in a week, as 19 people succumbed to the virus.With more people being discharged than those testing positive, the active case load, too, has fallen by 12% over two days, and stands at 20,500.Chandigarh recorded 660 cases on Saturday, followed by 535 in Mohali and 210 in Panchkula. Both Chandigarh and Mohali reported eight deaths, while three people died in Panchkula.In Chandigarh, those dead included two women and a man in their 30s. The toll has reached 625. Of 54,703 people tested positive so far, 46,231 have recovered, including 963 discharged on Saturday, and 7,847 are still to be cured.In Mohali district, 1,336 patients were discharged, taking the total to 49,202 and bringing the active case load down to 10,109. However, the total number of cases crossed yet another grim milestone, reaching 60,059 on Saturday. As many as 748 people have died so far.In Panchkula district, a 32-year-old Kalka woman who had no other underlying medical condition was among the three dead. Though the number of cases saw a drop to 210, it could be attributed to a drop in number of tests. Only 1,200 tests were conducted on Saturday, while around 2,000 are done on other days.As many as 27,281 have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 24,460 have recovered, 277 have died and 2,544 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1405-test-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-46-drop-in-5-days-101621105506947.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration plans to ease lockdown restrictions||The Chandigarh administration is planning some relaxations in the lockdown currently in force in the city. It has been more than two weeks since the administration imposed the lockdown to break the chain of Covid-19 infection. With cases rising sharply in the past month and a half, the authorities had first imposed a night curfew, followed by a weekend curfew and then a weeklong curfew, which was further extended.For now, the daytime restrictions imposed from 5pm on May 4 are to continue till 5am on May 18. The administration is expected to take a fresh call during the review meeting on May 17.Even though the number of cases being reported daily is on a decline, the weekly positivity rate is still very high at around 25% and has not seen any significant dip since the lockdown was first imposed. “We will study the effectiveness of the lockdown as well as the necessity to continue with it. If the lockdown is not completely withdrawn, we will consider allowing opening of non-essential shops for a couple of days. The other option is to allow the odd-even formula for opening shops,” said a senior UT official, wishing to remain anonymous.The final decision on relaxations and lockdown will be taken in the review meeting to be chaired by the UT administrator on Monday, said the official, adding that the withdrawal of the weekend restrictions and night curfew will not be up for discussion as yet. The administration has come under mounting pressure from the business community, who want it to allow reopening of non-essential shops. Trader associations, such as Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, have made a number of representations, seeking some relaxations in the lockdown. Their contention is that the lockdown is leading to a loss of livelihood.Centre wants strict curbs to continueMeanwhile, the central government has advised states and UTs with over 10% positivity rate to continue with “stringent containments” even if they are witnessing a declining trend in the pandemic.According to weekly data shared by the health ministry, Chandigarh’s positivity rate is the ninth worst among states and UTs and has dropped down just slightly from 26.7% (May 1-7) to 25.7% (May 8-14).At a press briefing on Saturday, joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that there are 24 states and UTs with over 15% positivity rate and only three under 5%.Stating that stringent containment is the key to manage spread of infection, Agarwal said: “According to the Government of India, wherever there is over 10% positivity rate, there is an urgent need to work on intensive action and local containment. A comprehensive approach is needed.”Agarwal said that even in states where a decline or plateau trend is noticed, their containment activities should continue as it is, so that cases decline further and this trend continues. 28 more micro-containment zones declaredMeanwhile, the Chandigarh administration on Saturday declared 28 micro-containment zones in the city. District magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas will continue and frequent sanitisation will be conducted. Residents have been advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. The affected areas are spread across Sectors 19, 20, 29, 33, 37, 41, 44, 45, 46, 48, 51 and 63, besides Dadumajra Colony, Maloya, Daria, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran and Manimajra.The administration had announced curbs in 30 areas on Thursday and 23 areas on Friday, taking the total to 81 in three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administration-plans-to-ease-lockdown-restrictions-101621104786220.html
16-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police foil man’s bid to courier 10kg cocaine to Australia||In their biggest narcotic seizure ever, the Chandigarh Police on Thursday recovered 10.24kg cocaine from a 36-year-old Chennai man, who was preparing to courier it to Australia.The cocaine, packed in two cartons of crockery boxes, was discovered by the employees at Excel Worldwide Courier Agency in Industrial Area, Phase 2, who further alerted the police.After the accused, Ashfaq Rahman, reached the courier company with the parcel request, the firm’s employees sought his identification card. But, he presented an ID bearing the name “Amanjeet”, which made them suspicious and they summoned the police.As cops arrived at the scene and asked Rahman to open the sealed boxes, he panicked and fled, but was apprehended at the police beatbox near the courier company’s office.“Inside each crockery box were seven wooden trays, which were sealed with plywood. The trays were making a hollow sound, so these were opened and cocaine wrapped in plastic packaging was found,” said UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal.Investigators said Rahman had been staying at the Satsang Bhawan in Sector 26 for about a week. He had confessed to collecting the consignment from the Chandigarh Railway Station during this period. He had also come to the city a month ago to conduct a recce to execute the plan.However, police officials privy to the matter said, it was likely that Rahman was only a carrier. A Class 10 dropout, Rahman had claimed that he was paid ₹1 lakh to ship the contraband through crockery boxes.Police have contacted their counterparts in Chennai to look into his criminal history. The accused has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Sector 31 police station. He will be presented in court on Friday, when police will seek his remand to investigate the involvement of other people in what they suspect could be a drug racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-foil-man-s-bid-to-courier-10kg-cocaine-to-australia-101620934792842.html
