17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases witness a dip in Haryana||Haryana saw a dip in coronavirus cases last week (May 10-16) registering about 22,400 lesser cases than the week before.As per the health department data, the state recorded 78,530 cases last week as compared to the 1,01,009 cases the week before (May 3-9), thus raising hopes of virus curve starting to bend.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said though fresh cases and active cases have started decreasing, they would still like to wait for another week to conclude that the state is finally over the peak.“Gurugram and Faridabad that once contributed 40-50% cases at one point of time have seen a drastic reduction in cases,” the ACS said. The number of active cases which crossed one-lakh mark two weeks back has come down to about 83,000, Arora added.16 DISTRICTS HAVE CRITICAL POSITIVITY RATEWith Bhiwani entering the critical category with a sample positivity rate of 6.73%, the number of districts with critical positivity rate is now 16. Charkhi Dadri which had a desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for the past many months has also exited the desirable category, now having a sample positivity rate of 2.36%.Among the critically positive districts, Faridabad has the highest positivity rate of 12.65%, closely followed by Gurugram (12.18%), Panipat (10.43%), Hisar (9.53%), Sonepat (9.21%), Panchkula (8.85%), Karnal (8.55%), Mahendergarh (8.35%), Fatehabad (8.26%), Jind (7.85%), Ambala (7.68%), Rewari (7.22%), Sirsa (7.21%), Yamunanagar (6.88%) and Kurukshetra (6.26%).Only Nuh district with a sample positivity rate of 1.74% has a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.The overall positivity rate of the state increased to 8.41% last week even as the daily positivity rate was coming down.The state also registered 1,080 Covid-related deaths last week, for the second time in last two weeks that more than 1,000 fatalities took place in a week. The case fatality rate, however, was 0.96%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-witness-a-dip-in-haryana-101621272493327.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid fatality rate rises to 0.97% in Haryana||Every district in Haryana recorded fatalities and 144 people succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday. The fatality rate rose to 0.97% from 0.87% on May 1.In May, 2,583 people have died of the virus in state. The cumulative death toll rose to 6,799 on Monday from 4,341 on May 1.According to the health bulletin, 7,488 fresh cases were detected in state in the last 24 hours, when 49,934 samples were collected. The number of samples collected on Monday is low in comparison to last week when on an average, Haryana was taking over 60,000 samples.As many as 14,279 people recovered from the virus on Monday increasing the tally to 6,11,955 and pushing the recovery rate to 87.18%.The positivity rate of the state was 14.94% on Monday, while the cumulative positivity rate was 8.45%.Of the 144 fatalities on Monday, Gurugram recorded 13 deaths, Ambala 10, Panchkula nine, Panipat eight, seven each in Faridabad, Hisar and Karnal, six each in Rewari, Bhiwani and Jind, five in Rohtak and Jhajjar, four each in Sonepat and Sirsa, three each in Fatehabad and Kaithal, two each in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Mahendergarh, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri, and one in Palwal.Among the district with heavy fresh cases were Gurugram 1,176, Hisar 830, Faridabad 506, Sonepat 430, Mahendergarh 469 and Bhiwani 446.While the active cases in state came down to 83,161 on Monday, 57,284 people were among the total 49.53 lakh people vaccinated in state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-fatality-rate-rises-to-0-97-in-haryana-101621272371244.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar meets Amit Shah to update him on Hisar clash||Less than a day after the agitating farmers clashed with police in Hisar, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and apprised him about the latest updates of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.Khattar’s meeting with Shah assumes significance as it took place in the shadow of blame game between the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government and the Opposition over police action against farmers. Police used force to stop farmers from marching towards and disrupting the inauguration of Covid hospital in Hisar by CM Khattar.In the lathi-charge, farmers received injuries and as per police, at least 20 police personnel were injured when farmers pelted stones.On Sunday, referring to the protesting farmers as “miscreants”, police had said that their intention was to “commit violence on a large scale”, a charge farmers have denied.After emerging from the meeting that took place at the residence of Shah, Khattar said that he briefed Shah about the Hisar incident and steps taken by the Haryana government to deal with the second wave of Covid-19 spreading in rural areas.He discussed with Shah the present Covid situation in Haryana and the arrangements being made to combat the virus spread. Khattar said he apprised Shah about the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Khattar said the state government will act with the agitating farmers as per directions given by the Centre.Responding to a query regarding the Hisar incident, the CM said the incident was discussed in detail with Shah, who agreed that it was inappropriate to oppose the hospital inauguration.“The central leadership was apprised of the talks held between both parties and police on Sunday. The protesters have assured that they will not hold such kind of protests in future,” Khattar said.Regarding black fungus cases, he said the state government is importing the required medicine to treat the disease and after this, distribution of the medicine will be planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-meets-amit-shah-to-update-him-on-hisar-clash-101621272312394.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Injured Haryana cops get aid, farmers back at protest site||A day after 20 policemen, including a DSP and five women cops, were injured while preventing farmers from marching towards the venue where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to inaugurate a Covid hospital in Hisar, Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava announced ₹5,000 each for the treatment of the police personnel. “I appreciate the patience and bravery displayed by police personnel in confronting the unruly mob and saving the newly inaugurated Sanjeevni Covid Hospital at Hisar from damage. Each of the injured police personnel will be given ₹5,000 for their diet and medical needs,” the DGP tweeted. Also read: Bleeding, clotting from AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine minuscule in India: ReportA spokesman for the Hisar police said that only two of the 20 injured police personnel are hospitalised as the rest have been discharged after treatment. “All of them are stable,” he said. A committee of 11 farm leaders met Hisar district officials at the IG’s office on Sunday evening and assured the administration that the farmers will not break the law in future. A total of 85 farmers were released after the meeting and no FIR was registered against them, the spokesman said. However, soon after their released, the farmers gathered at Ramayana toll plaza to protest against the Centre’s farm laws. Women and children also joined them despite the ban on gatherings during the Covid-19 pandemic. Ministers back police action, Oppn condemn lathicharge Many ministers in the BJP-JJP government condemned the violence and backed the police action. Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said on Twitter, “Thank God, four new hospitals have been inaugurated to defeat Covid. Our brave police personnel received injuries while protecting the hospitals. Their efforts will not go in vain.” State education minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar said, “I thank chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for inaugurating the 500-bed hospital at Hisar and appreciate the cops ,who despite getting injured protected the hospital.” Opposition leaders of the Congress and the INLD criticised the police action with former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda saying, “The farmers are fighting the virus and the government’s apathy. The government should accept the farmers’ demands after holding talks with them instead of resorting to lathicharge and provoking them.” INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala said the Haryana chief minister acted like a coward in Hisar. “It’s time to impose President’s rule in the state by taking charge from the BJP-JJP government. Our party stands in solidarity with farmers,” he said. Farmers warned of miscreants joining stir BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni thanked the farmers for blocking all national and state highways in protest against the Hisar incident. “I appeal to farmers to continue the protest peacefully and be aware of miscreants who have been trying to defame the agitation. We have identified two people who used aggressive language in Hisar on Sunday to provoke farmers for a confrontation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/injured-haryana-cops-get-aid-farmers-back-at-protest-site-101621249390495.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Expressing solidarity with Palestine is not a crime: Mehbooba||A day after police admitted to having arrested 20 persons in Kashmir, including a graffiti designer, for protesting against Israel and supporting Palestine, former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said that expressing solidarity with Palestine is not a crime.She also condemned the arrest of two sons of senior separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai who was arrested under PSA last year and had contracted Covid while in jail and died at a Jammu hospital earlier this month. “People all over the world are protesting against the atrocities committed by Israel on Palestine. But in Kashmir, it’s a punishable offence where an artist is booked under PSA & a preacher is arrested simply for expressing solidarity with Palestinians,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.“PSA is GOI’s go to method for every problem. Latest example being Ashraf Sehrai’s sons who lost their father in custody due to inadequate medical care & have been arrested under PSA. In rest of India dead are being ill treated but in Kashmir its the living who are made to suffer,” she said in another tweet.Meanwhile, Peoples’ Conference chairman Sajjad Lone, reacting on arrest of Sehrai’s two sons, said the government should bring this “Rambo Culture” to an end.” A police spokesperson wrote on their official handle that Sehrai’s two sons had been arrested for “raising anti-national slogans during Sehrai’s funeral”, but not booked under PSA. “J&K Police are keeping a close watch on elements attempting to leverage the unfortunate situation in Palestine to disturb the peace and order in Kashmir. We are a professional force and are sensitive to public anguish. But J&K police have a legal responsibility to ensure law and order. It, however, wouldn’t allow cynical encashment of the public anger to trigger violence, lawlessness and disorder on Kashmir streets,” said the police spokesperson.Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar said that they won’t allow protests in the Valley in the larger interest of general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expressing-solidarity-with-palestine-is-not-a-crime-mehbooba-101621195988866.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination centres run out of doses in Kashmir||Two weeks after J&K’s Lt Governor Manoj Sinha announced that 1.2 crore doses of vaccine have been ordered, the vaccination centres in the Valley are running dry as government has failed to arrange vaccines.The numbers provided by the J&K government also reflect that very few doses are being administered in the UT since last one week. Even the people, who are due for the second jab, complain that they are unable to find vaccination centres where they can go for inoculation.On Saturday, just 607 people received vaccines in 10 districts of Kashmir, while in seven districts, including Srinagar, not a single person got vaccinated. In Jammu’s 10 districts, 15,268 people were vaccinated, data shows. Similarly on May 14, 208 were jabbed in 10 Kashmir districts, while in Srinagar and five other districts, not a single person got the shot. In Jammu, 15,790 had received jabs.A day earlier, on Thursday, not a single vaccine was administered in 10 districts of Kashmir, while in as many districts of Jammu, 4,893 were inoculated. So far, as per the official figures, 28,04,543 people have received the shots in the entire J&K and most of these were administered a month ago when everyday, around 50,000 people used to get vaccines. However, due to the non-availability of vaccines, most of the vaccination centres are closed or the officials ask people to wait till the vaccines are available. “It’s an irony that now, stock of vaccines has dried up. Most of the centres are shut and government is asking people to get vaccinated. They don’t tell us where to send the people,” said a senior doctor at Government Medical College in Srinagar.On April 29, L-G Sinha, while chairing a meeting with office-bearers and volunteers of Indian Red Cross Society, had said that people of J&K need not panic as the government is equipped to deal with the emerging situation and 1.2 crore doses have been ordered for vaccination of 18-45 age group. Meanwhile, People’s Conference led by Sajjad Lone on Sunday said that government of Jammu and Kashmir should float global tenders to end vaccine paucity in the UT and termed the scarcity of doses in the Valley “extremely worrying”.Former legislator and party’s general secretary Imran Reza Ansari in a statement issued here highlighted how health centres across the Valley were battling the shortage of vaccines and that many sites, as per the reports, have been closed due to the unavailability of vaccines. “There is a wave of mounting anger and frustration due to tardy vaccination roll-out in J&K with some high-risk groups crying out for protection. The vaccine is the only bulwark available against the current calamity and denying the public such a facility amid the present peak is deplorable and inexplicable,” Ansari said.He said if reports were to be believed, there were mere 208 jabs administered to the people in Kashmir in the last 24 hours while in Jammu, the number is 20,000 in the last 48 hours. “We care for the people of all regions as much as we care for ourselves, but prioritising one region and ignoring the other amid the deadly pandemic is regrettable. We demand an absolute uniformity in the supply of the vaccines in Jammu and Kashmir. Precious human lives are getting consumed and the shortage of vaccines is only making things worse,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-centres-run-out-of-doses-in-kashmir-101621195931008.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Five Kashmir oxygen generation units diverted to Jammu||As Jammu division has witnessed a surge in Covid-related deaths in the past three weeks, five oxygen plants meant for Kashmir hospitals have been diverted to Jammu.Though Kashmir division is witnessing more coronavirus cases, the death toll for the past two weeks is less than that of Jammu’s. However, experts warn that diverting medical assets from one place to another could be a riskier proposition. The Valley has recorded 63% of the UT’s overall cases in the first half of May. Of the 64,300 cases from May 1 to 15, 40,900 are reported in Kashmir and 23,400 in Jammu. However, of 808 deaths, 520 have taken place in Jammu division. Officials in the mechanical engineering department, the authority responsible to acquire these plants, said Kashmir and Jammu divisions were allotted ₹125 crore each to acquire 37 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen units for each division by March 31. Officials in Kashmir were able to acquire some of the units amid the surging coronavirus cases, while the supply order in Jammu got delayed till May 7 owing to failure of the commencement of the contract with their supplier, they added.They said that despite the need of oxygen plants in Kashmir, three of the Valley’s 1,000 litres-per-minute (LPM) units have already been shifted to Jammu, while two more will be given to the division after they arrive here from Germany. “Of the 37 oxygen plants required for Kashmir, we have so far acquired 20 units, but could only install 17 here as three were installed in Jammu,” said an official who didn’t wish to be named. Nine PSA oxygen units are arriving — eight from Kashmir quota and one from Jammu quota — within a day or two. While seven will be air lifted, two are following the normal transportation procedures. “Although Jammu people are in urgent need of these plants right now, we too desperately need all of these 37 plants to save lives here,” he added. Of the five units, which have been diverted, two were meant for Srinagar’s Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital and Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Hospital, while one was for Anantnag and two for Baramulla. Sources said it was decided to now fill up the deficit in the Valley by internally diverting oxygen plants of those districts which are not burdened by caseload.“Oxygen plants meant for Shopian and Bandipora districts will be now installed at two of the above places,” he said.Mechanical engineering department’s chief engineer Abdul Rashid Dar admitted that they have shifted a few plants to Jammu. “Only two plants of 1000 LPM capacity have been diverted. Their contract had failed. We had secured our contract on time, so we are placing orders for six plants from here for Jammu for now,” he added. He said that of the 37 PSA oxygen generation units ordered for Kashmir, 34 were from Germany while three were to be acquired from an American company.“We have already acquired 20 and seven more are being airlifted,” he said.“When all these oxygen plants will be set up, we will be sufficient in gaseous oxygen as we can’t rely on liquid medical oxygen owing to our road blockades for months during winter,” he added.The chief engineer said they will be replacing the plants which were shifted to Jammu back to the Valley after 45 days. Bodh Raj, executive engineer of mechanical hospital and central heating at Jammu division, said they have already installed 14 oxygen plants in various hospitals of Jammu.“Kashmir managed to get them before us, so the authorities thought about distributing the oxygen plants. Lives have to be saved. Every hour matters,” Raj said.He said the orders for other plants in Jammu have also been placed and they will arrive soon. Two more plants from Kashmir will most probably go to other district hospitals,” he added.He said that the daily oxygen requirement at Jammu GMC was 21 tonnes and it was sufficiently being supplied there. He said that no patient had died of the oxygen shortage in Jammu division.Doctors Association Kashmir president and influenza expert Nisar ul Haasan said that Jammu and Kashmir are part of the same region, but “siphoning off” the infrastructure of one place for another was unacceptable.“Without going into regional factors, we need to see scientifically where the need is more. And obviously, areas with more cases take priority. Diverting our infrastructure is a cause of concern. We don’t know how the virus will behave. We need more oxygen, more ventilators and more ICU beds because we can’t get them at the time of emergency,” he added. He said that the hospitals in Kashmir are full to capacity and those needing oxygen at home are being aided by NGOs. “We need to keep things ready for any eventuality and shifting the life-saving gadgetry is unacceptable,” Haasan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-kashmir-oxygen-generation-units-diverted-to-jammu-101621195929969.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar, aides booked for killing 2 ASIs in Jagraon||Notorious gangster Jaipal Bhullar and three of his accomplices were booked on Sunday for shooting two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) of the crime investigation agency (CIA) dead in Jagraon town of Ludhiana district a day before. The aides of Bhullar, who belongs to Ferozepur district, are Balwinder Singh, alias Babbi of Mahalla Khurd village of Moga, Jaspreet Singh of Kharar in Mohali and Darshan Singh of Sahauli village of Ludhiana. The police said the suspects are likely to have links with some terror groups. The accused also took the service pistol of ASI Bhagwan Singh and mobile phone of ASI Dalwinderjit Singh along. It is learnt.Teams were formed on Sunday to arrest of the accused whose posters were released. Shoes, clothes and other belongings of the assailants were found in a truck abandoned by them. Jagraon deputy commissioner of police (DSP) Jatinderjit Singh said truck is owned by Gurpreet Singh of Bholeke village of Moga.Gurpreet told the police that he had bought the truck in partnership with Baljinder Singh, alias Babbi who later bought it from him.The Hyundai car used by the assailants in the crime has a fake number plate. They had robbed the vehicle at Dehlon in Ludhiana a few days ago, the police said.A case under Sections 302, 307, 397, 353, 186, 34 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act was registered at Jagraon (city) police station on the statement of home guards jawan Rajwinder Singh who escaped unhurt in the incident despite the gangsters opened fire on him also.Bhullar is wanted by the police’s organised crime control unit (OCCU) in a 30kg gold heist case.Home guards jawan Rajwinder Singh said ASI Bhagwan Singh identified Bhullar who was sitting in the truck and challenged him to surrender. On this, the gangster opened fire on the ASI with the bullet hitting his neck, he added. The ASI died on the spot. Also, Bhullar’s accomplices fired at ASI Dalwinderjit who succumbed to the injuries on the way to hospital, he said.Cop’s body crematedThe mortal remains of ASI Bhagwan Singh were consigned to flames on Sunday. The funeral was attended by hundreds of people.Director general of police (railways) Sanjeev Kumar Kalra, inspector general of police (Ludhiana range) Naunihal Singh, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and SSP Charanjit Singh laid wreath on the body. The body of ASI Dalwinderjit was sent to his ancestral village in Tarn Taran district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-jaipal-bhullar-aides-booked-for-killing-2-asis-in-jagraon-101621195928688.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Political misuse of vigilance bureau must stop, says Randhawa||A day after reports of a vigilance investigation into the alleged deals of close associates of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and his wife Navjot Kaur, Punjab jails and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday questioned the political misuse of the vigilance bureau by successive governments in the state.The cabinet minister said the misuse of vigilance bureau by the state governments for targeting or intimidating opponents should stop. This has been happening since 1977 when then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal got a case registered against Congress leaders, including Zail Singh, but nothing came out of it and then Capt (Amarinder Singh) and Badal also registered cases against each other during their respective governments, he told a private television channel, disapproving of the practice.Randhawa, who had offered to quit the cabinet last month over the botched-up probe by the special investigation team (SIT) into the Kotkapura police firing, stated that Sidhu had met Amarinder twice after which the latter said he offered to take him back into the cabinet. “If there was any inquiry against him (Sidhu), the CM should have said he cannot make him (Sidhu) a minister,” he said.As Sidhu has been targeting the chief minister on social media daily over his handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases among other issues, the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau has fast-tracked its probe against the close associates of the Sidhu couple.Amid the Sidhu-Amarinder spat, Randhawa’s statement has come as much-needed support to the Amritsar (east) MLA at a time when seven other cabinet ministers have demanded his suspension from Congress for anti-party activities.Confirming his meeting with Sidhu and some other MLAs in Panchkula more than a week ago, Randhawa said the former minister told him that he would not quit Congress. “There have been meetings to save the Congress, which is on the back foot, since the high court order in the 2015 police firing case,” he said, denying any differences with the chief minister at the same time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-misuse-of-vigilance-bureau-must-stop-says-randhawa-101621195868982.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||300 test positive post-vaccination in Punjab in a fortnight, no one hospitalised||Nearly 300 people, who had got their first or both doses of vaccine, were tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab in the last 15 days, with the state health department claiming that none of them needed to be hospitalised.State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said most of these people had only mild or moderate symptoms and that vaccine was quite effective in preventing hospitalisation or fatalities. “Earlier, we were not collecting data on the number of fully or partially vaccinated people being tested positive for Covid-19. But after the government’s direction, the health department started keeping tabs on such cases. The severity of infection was quite low in these people even as majority of them had received the first shot only,” he said. Dr Bhaskar added, “Punjab is administering vaccine on thousands of people daily and 300 people testing positive is not a big number. But we are still keeping a close watch on them.”So far, the state health department has inoculated 34 lakh eligible beneficiaries of which 6.7 lakh have received the second dose. HT talked to an 85-year-old Jalandhar-based woman who was found infected after getting both doses. She said, “Despite suffering from hypertension and age-related ailments, I did not develop any severe infection.”Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, medical superintendent Dr KD Singh, a microbiologist, said, “Since vaccines boost immunity, antibodies are develop in people after inoculation and help them to fight the deadly virus. Covid-19 is spreading through air and it attacks the lungs and other organs after entering the nose. People are not developing major lungs infection after testing positive for Covid-19 even if vaccinated with a single dose.”70 re-infection cases Seventy persons, who had tested positive for Covid-19 across the state last year but had recovered, have caught the infection again. “Low severity of the disease was found in them. Many did not develop antibodies even after recovery and can again catch the virus. The health department is monitoring their health conditions,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/300-test-positive-post-vaccination-in-punjab-in-a-fortnight-no-one-hospitalised-101621195571749.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||5 villages in Punjab’s Mansa district sealed in a week amid spurt in infections, deaths||The district authorities in Mansa have sealed five villages in the past one week amid an increase in coronavirus infections and deaths. On Saturday, Joga village the district’s Bhikhi block was sealed for the next 10 days. The village with a population of about 11,000 has witnessed 10 Covid-19 deaths and 96 active cases since May 1. Nangal Kalan, Khiala Kalan, Akkanwali, Phapphre Bhai Ke villages of the district have also been declared containment zone since May 10. One urban pocket each in the towns of Mansa and Budladha have also been declared containment zones in the past week.Joga is among several villages from where the majority of adult rural population is participating in the ongoing farmers’ agitation at the Delhi borders. It is for the first time that villages in Mansa have been declared containment zone after the second wave of pandemic hit the state. An area is declared a containment zone after more than 15 cases of virus infections are detected there. “House-to-house screening has begun. Healthcare teams are trying to convince villagers to follow Covid guidelines. We were able to vaccinate nearly 500 residents and a section is hesitant to take jabs,” said Dr Hardeep Sharma, senior medical officer of Khiala Kalan public health centre.Khiala Kalan, which has 34 active cases, has reported two Covid-deaths in the last two weeks. On Sunday, two residents from the Khiala Kalan block, including a 27-year-old man, succumbed to the virus. As many 92 residents from the block were tested positive on Sunday.With four deaths and 298 cases reported on Sunday, the number of active cases in the district reached 3,299. Since May 1, the district reported 5,164 new cases of infection and witnessed 52 Covid deaths. Deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal said police are strictly enforcing the containment protocol and unwanted movement of people has been barred to contain infection spread. “Most villagers were visiting dharna sites at very regular intervals. As they are falling sick in considerable numbers, villagers are reluctant to reveal details of their travel and places they visited. Ideally, they should have isolated themselves for five days after visiting the venue of a large gathering,” said a district official.Mansa civil surgeon Dr Sukhwinder Singh said a section of people were falsely claiming that 5G radiation emitted from mobile phone towers is causing the second wave of Covid and people should refrain from such misinformation,” he said.On May 14, Haryana president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who has been mobilising farmers of Punjab and other states to join the dharna sites at the Delhi border, claimed in a Facebook video that deaths caused by 5G network were being attributed to the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-villages-in-punjab-s-mansa-district-sealed-in-a-week-amid-spurt-in-infections-deaths-101621195569491.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Malerkotla as new district: Som Parkash differs with Yogi, Punjab BJP leaders, hails Capt||Toeing a different line from his party leaders, Hoshiarpur BJP MP and Union minister Som Parkash on Sunday hailed chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for naming Malerkotla as Punjab 23rd district and demanded that the same status be accorded to Phagwara too. Amarinder’s Eid (May 14) announcement had drawn a sharp reaction from UP CM Yogi Adityanath and BJP general secretary and Punjab leader Tarun Chugh, who described the decision divisive and communal. Reacting to the criticism, Amarinder had slammed Adityanath, terming it an attempt to incite “communal hatred”. “I congratulate the people of Malerkotla and thank chief minister @capt_amarinder ji for declaring #Malerkotla as a district. It is a rich tribute to the Nawab of Malerkotla Sher Mohammad Khan who protested the execution of the two Sahibzade (younger sons of 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh),” Parkash tweeted. In another tweet, the minister termed Malerkotla a symbol of communal harmony. People of Phagwara and all parties have been long demanding a district status for Phagwara, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malerkotla-as-new-district-som-parkash-differs-with-yogi-punjab-bjp-leaders-hails-capt-101621195510447.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Stakeholders seek review of Centre-notified basmati seed varieties||Even as Punjab’s agriculture department has pegged a one-third increase in the area under aromatic basmati from 4.06 lakh hectares in the previous kharif season to 5.35 lakh hectares in the upcoming one, there is a lack of clarity over the number of varieties notified by the Union agriculture ministry.The sowing of aromatic variety grain begins in the first week of July, and currently, traders and farmers are arranging for the seeds.“Thirty-four varieties of the aromatic paddy have been notified by the union agriculture ministry which is creating lot confusion among farmers and millers. We need to discard such varieties which are not grown and have no commercial value,” suggested Ashok Sethi, director, Punjab Rice Exporters’ Association.According to Sethi, presently most popular and accepted variety in the international market is basmati 1121, both for parboiled and steamed rice. “It is recommended that genuine seeds authorised by the Basmati Export Development Foundation (BEDF) be made available to the rice growers,” he suggested.Concerns over falling quality Seeking a review of the list of basmati seed varieties after discussion with exporters, agricultural scientists and experts at Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), Sethi raised the issue that certain seed producers outside the state have geographical indication tags for growing basmati.Giving example of the 90-day 1509 variety, introduced by the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) in 2016, Sethi said the original seeds bore good results, but later due to cultivation at commercial levels, the grain quality turned out poor and during shelling, 50% was broken.Seed variety 1718 is also facing similar issues, said Sethi, suggesting scientists share characteristics of new seeds for quality and nutritional value analysis.Harpreet Singh, a basmati grower from Batala, said that farmers are reluctant to grow 1509-variety owing to the poor quality of seeds available.“Though it is a short duration variety, the grain quality has deteriorated over the years. The 1708 variety of ICAR, an improved version of PUSA-1121, has not been fully accepted by the farmers,” he said.Last season, this variety sold for ₹2,700 to ₹2,800 a quintal, and fetched higher rates in the previous years.Agri dept recommends PAU varieties State agriculture director SS Sidhu recommends basmati growers to adopt the varieties developed by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana. “The PR varieties are the best as they are grown locally and are suitable in view of the weather and soil conditions,” he added. He asked Punjab and Haryana farmers to grow PR121, 126, 127, and 128 varieties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stakeholders-seek-review-of-centre-notified-basmati-seed-varieties-101621195508312.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||4,141 more contract infection in J&K||As many as 59 people lost their lives to Covid on Sunday with 4,141 fresh infections in the past 24 hours taking the overall death toll to 3,149 and the total cases to 2, 44,608.Of the 59 deaths in the UT, 31 were reported in Jammu division and 28 in Kashmir. May has been the worst month for Jammu and Kashmir in terms of Covid cases and deaths as the monthly infections have reached 68,525 and fatalities to 867 on Sunday. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 44,395.“Covid fatalities can be reduced by timely testing and hospitalisation,” said surveillance medical officer of World Health Organisation, Jammu, Dr Ravinder Pal Singh.Officials said with 831 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 625 in Jammu district, 320 in Budgam and 252 in Baramulla and 237 in Rajouri. The number of active cases has reached 51,623, officials said. “Covid is no taboo and the majority of the patients who contract the infection recover easily. If any family in your neighbourhood has a Covid patient, do not ostracise them. Give them support, moral or otherwise,” Dr Singh said.Officials said that some 3,934 patients have recovered of the disease, including 2,749 from Kashmir and 1,185 from Jammu. As many as 1,89,836 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 77.60% against around 98% in the first fortnight of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4141-more-contract-infection-in-jk-101621195449675.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vax drive for 18+ starts in Himachal today, over 21,000 to take shot||The vaccination of people in the age group of 18-44 would start on Monday in Himachal Pradesh. The estimated population in the age group is 31 lakh. The state has placed an order for 74 lakh doses for the 18-44 age group and has received 1,07,620 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune. The remaining doses will be supplied to the state by SII in phased manner in next three-four weeks. A state government spokesperson said that eligible people who have registered on the CoWin portal will get the jab on first come first serve basis. He said the vaccination for this age group will be held on only two days in a week — Mondays and Thursdays. He said that vaccination will be held at 213 centres on the first day. As of now, 21,090 people have booked appointment for vaccination. He said to avoid any inconvenience and overcrowding at the session sites, the beneficiaries should arrive as per their registered schedules only. To avoid any hassle, it has also been decided that the vaccination of 18-44 years age group will be done at dedicated sites only and exclusive vaccination sessions will be created so that there is no mix-up between the beneficiaries of these age group and the prioritised age group. The government spokesperson said that DCs and SPs have also been requested to ensure law and order at these sites. In the first phase, vaccination will be done on May 17, 20, 24, 27 and 31. Another deadliest day as 70 succumb to Covid Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday witnessed deadliest day since the outbreak of Covid pandemic after 70 patients succumbed to the contagion, highest single-day fatalities. The death toll has mounted to 2,311. Highest 30 fatalities were reported in Kangra, 11 in Shimla, six each in Mandi and Solan, four each in Hamirpur, Sirmaur and Una, two in Kullu and one each in Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti. Before this, maximum fatalities were reported on Friday, May 14, when 67 people lost their lives. Kangra, Shimla and Mandi collectively account for 60% deaths. Kangra has recorded highest 662 fatalities since the outbreak, followed by Shimla where 463 people have died and Mandi, where 265 succumbed. Meanwhile, the state recorded 2,378 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the state’s total count to 1,60,240. Of the new cases, 787 were reported in Kangra, 336 in Solan, 242 in Shimla, 206 in Una, 181 in Chamba, 156 in Mandi, 144 in Hamirpur, 113 in Bilaspur, 95 in Sirmaur, 80 in Kullu, 23 in Lahaul-Spiti and 15 in Kinnaur. The state also recorded 4,974 recoveries — highest in a single day. The total recoveries have reached 1,20,990. Kangra has clocked highest recoveries of 22,706 followed by Mandi (17,748), Shimla (16,965) and Solan (15,343). Active cases come down to 36,909 In terms of total caseload, Kangra is the worst-hit district with 34,949 infections and is followed by Mandi with 21,884 cases and Shimla with 20,560 cases. Solan has total 19,006 cases, Sirmaur 12,282, Hamirpur 11,257, Una 10,440, Bilaspur 9,956, Chamba 7,918, Kullu 7,297, Lahaul-Spiti 2,364 and Kinnaur 2,327.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-drive-for-18-starts-in-himachal-today-over-21-000-to-take-shot-101621195448403.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nihang hacked to death in Batala, 14 booked||A 55-year-old Nihang was hacked to death in broad daylight over old enmity in Batala on Sunday, said police. The incident took place around 11:30am when Narinder Singh Mann, along with his aide Gurdev Singh, was on his way from Isha Nagar in Batala to Talwandi village on a motorcycle. Police said 14 persons, mostly Nihangs, who came in a jeep, attacked Mann with sharp-edged weapons. He was rushed to the civil hospital where he died. Mann was associated with Misal Saheed Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Tarna Dal (an outfit of Nihang Sikhs) and used to stop the accused from preparing cannabis drinks at a gurdwara in Batala city, said police.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against 14 persons. Of these, two have been identified as Major Singh and Sahib Singh. Gurdev said the accused nursed a grudge against Mann as he used to object to their activities in the gurdwara. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashpal Singh said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nihang-hacked-to-death-in-batala-14-booked-101621194608487.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Despite govt orders, health workers in Punjab vaccinating all in 18-44 age group||Defying state government orders to vaccinate certain set of people in 18-44 age group, the vaccination is open for all at all immunization facilities across the state.In the third phase of vaccination in this particular age group, the state government is specifically inoculating families of healthcare workers, co-morbid persons and construction workers. However, people in these age groups can be seen thronging vaccination centres in huge numbers, making it difficult for health authorities to arrange vaccine for all. It has been seen that the health staffers could not ask the beneficiaries to show any comorbid condition card or any other documents related to their disease before registering them for the vaccination.“The problem is not only persisting in Patiala but across the state. This is the main reason that Punjab exhausted one lakh doses of Covid vaccines in three days,” said a senior doctor.He added that the health teams could not deny vaccine when people in this age group walked in directly to get the jab.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the health teams have been instructed to follow strict guidelines issued by the government to entertain certain categories in the 18-44 age group.“The categories defined by the government are administered vaccination on priority basis. We are monitoring the situation on daily basis and try to cover maximum people under this age group,” Dr Singh said.People come with some health certificate along with them to get vaccinated, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-govt-orders-health-workers-in-punjab-vaccinating-all-in-18-44-age-group-101621194368446.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt launches ‘Covid Fateh’ drive to tackle pandemic in rural areas||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday launched “Covid Fateh” programme as part of a “Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyaan” to tackle the spread of Covid pandemic in the rural areas of the state. He stressed the need to avoid the kind of situation prevailing in the villages of Uttar Pradesh and directed the health and rural development departments to lead the campaign with mobilisation of the community in the villages. “The entire staff should be utilised to spread awareness among the villagers on the dangers of Covid,” he said, adding that the health and wellness clinics should become the fulcrum, and community health officers, panchayats, school teachers, anganwadi and ASHA workers, village police officers, youth volunteers must be mobilised to steer the programme. The Guardians of Governance and the police force should work closely to make this programme a success, he said, adding that the idea is to spread awareness and dispel myths and also ensure adequate sampling and vaccination. Terming the casual attitude of the people towards symptoms like cold and cough, which they do not report timely, as the biggest issue, Amarinder called for early identification of the infected people and ensuring early treatment. Symptomatic persons should be given basic medicines like paracetamol and cough syrup, and vitamin C, at their doorsteps, he directed, and said they should be encouraged to get tested and supported in home isolation if they test positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-launches-covid-fateh-drive-to-tackle-pandemic-in-rural-areas-101621194188311.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Restrictions extended till May 31 as Punjab continues to record high CFR||Chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered extension of all restrictions imposed to contain Covid-19 spread till May 31, with directions for strict enforcement of the curbs. The decision comes as the state continues to record a high positivity rate of 13.1% for the last week and a case fatality rate at 2.4%.The CM said deputy commissioners will continue to determine the opening of shops in a staggered manner and enforce other restrictions to check the spread of Covid, particularly in the rural belt. Depending on the local conditions, the DCs can make suitable amendments, added the CM. He asked the district administrations to ensure food kits for those in quarantine. Reviewing the state’s Covid-19 situation at a meeting, he said while the restrictions so far had shown results, with some decline in day-to-day positivity and cases coming down from around 9,000 to 6,000, there was a need to extend the same due to the high positivity rate of 13.1% as of the May 9 to May 15 period, with case fatality rate (CFR) standing at 2.4.Raising concerns over the spread of the new fungal disorder associated with Covid, the CM said that there’s need to increase surveillance. Dr KK Talwar, who heads the government’s expert group on Covid, termed the fungal infection as a serious issue, which could be attributed to either high use of steroids or use of un-distilled water in oxygen. The CM also directed the district administrations to investigate complaints of patients being fleeced by some private hospitals, warning that these would be shut down if they continue to indulge in malpractices. On the availability of oxygen, the CM asked the health department to monitor the situation, adding that his government had arranged PSA plants and was expecting over 2,500 oxygen concentrators this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/restrictions-extended-till-may-31-as-punjab-continues-to-record-high-cfr-101621194068314.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||202 more Covid deaths, 7,038 new cases in Punjab||Punjab registered 202 more coronavirus deaths, taking the toll to 11,895 on Sunday, according to a medical bulletin.The infection tally rose to 4.98 lakh with 7,038 new cases, while 9,059 more patients recovered. The active cases declined from 77,789 the previous day to 75,478, the bulletin stated.The test positivity rate is 9.76 per cent and the number of recoveries rose to 4.1 lakh, it said.Twenty-two deaths were reported from Bathinda, 20 from Ludhiana, 19 each from Muktsar and Fazilka, and 15 from Patiala, among others.Ludhiana reported 942 cases, but it was lower than Saturday’s infections of 1,132. Bathinda registered 705 more cases, followed by 673 in Jalandhar and 542 in Mohali.There are 443 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 9,796 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/202-more-covid-deaths-7-038-new-cases-in-punjab-101621193768270.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six dera followers arrested for 2015 Bargari sacrilege||The Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT), led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, on Sunday arrested six Dera Sacha Sauda followers in connection with sacrilege incident at Bargari village in Faridkot district that had sparked statewide protests in 2015.Confirming the arrests, an SIT official, not wanting to be named, said the accused were identified as Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village.Sukhjinder, Shakti, Ranjit and Baljeet were also arrested in another sacrilege case in which two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24-25, 2015. Both cases were registered at the Bajakhana police station.The SIT probe has found that the accused had scattered the torn pages of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib), which was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara on October 12, 2015, at Bargari. The derogatory posters were also pasted by them near the Bargari gurdwara, claimed the SIT.The accused will be produced in the Faridkot court on Monday for securing their police remand, said the SIT official. In 2018, the Khatra-led SIT had arrested more than 20 followers of the Sirsa-based dera, including Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in the Nabha jail in 2019, in connection with two other sacrilege incidents and rioting in Punjab in 2015. The SIT claims the dera followers had confessed to the crime.The Akali-BJP government, led by Parkash Singh Badal, had handed over the probe into the three sacrilege incidents to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The first case pertained to the theft of the bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village near Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. The second was the putting up of derogatory posters at Bargari village on September 25, 2015; and the third was the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the bir were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015. In July 2019, the CBI had filed a closure report in three sacrilege cases.The Congress government, led by Captain Amarinder Singh, however, took back the cases from the CBI and handed over the probe to the SIT led by Khatra. In July last year, the SIT named jailed Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, national committee members of dera --- Sandeep Bretta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri --- as accused and filed a chargesheet against seven dera followers in a case relating to the theft of the “bir”.In January this year, Punjab and Haryana high court asked the state government to replace the head of the SIT probing 2015 sacrilege cases, after which IG Parmar was appointed as the new chief. The HC had also directed CBI to handover all the case files and asked SIT to file a supplementary chargesheet after taking into account of the evidence filed by CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-dera-followers-arrested-for-2015-bargari-sacrilege-101621193468363.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Anaemia primary cause of 3-year-old Covid patient’s death in Ludhiana: Civil surgeon||A day after a three-year-old Covid patient died, health authorities confirmed acute anaemia as the cause of death.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwallia Gill said a team of doctors conducted a review and established that the girl, Mansi, died of acute anaemia. However, as she was also Covid positive, she was buried following safety protocols on Saturday evening.She added that the child’s parents had been tested and found negative for the virus.Unable to come to terms with the loss of his youngest child, Ram Kumar, 27, who hails from Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and lives in Harbanspura, also has his depleted bank balance riding heavy on his mind.The tragedy-struck family spent all their savings in just a week since the child was found positive on May 8. “I used to earn ₹9,000 a month at a shop, but lost my job two months ago amid the pandemic. My savings were not enough for my daughter’s treatment, so donations from philanthropists helped raise ₹1.67 lakh, but still she could not be saved,” said an inconsolable Kumar. “Her health deteriorated on May 8 and through some tests we learnt that her haemoglobin had dropped, which had resulted in water retention and swelling. I took her to Krishna Charitable Hospital, where she tested positive for Covid, which rose the treatment cost,” he added.“On Saturday morning, she was arm wrestling with me and asked me and my wife for toffees. We were hoping that she will be discharged soon, but suddenly her condition worsened and she passed away in front of our eyes,” the distraught father rued.Heart-rending scenes were witnessed at the crematorium in Civil Lines where the three-year-old was buried in the presence of her parents and her five-year-old brother, who kept trying to rush towards his younger sister’s body wrapped in a protective suit.Burying a three-year-old was possibly the most difficult task he had ever performed, said Mandeep Kumar Guddu, a worker at the crematorium, who has performed over 1,000 last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anaemia-primary-cause-of-3-year-old-covid-patient-s-death-in-ludhiana-civil-surgeon-101621193289394.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing case: Enough evidence against Badals, but they are being protected, says Sidhu||Congress leader and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday claimed that there was enough evidence against the Badals in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case, but they were being protected. Responding to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s statement asking him and others to share evidence they claim to have on sacrilege cases, Sidhu said he had shared a video footage in public domain about three years ago, which showed the role of police acting at the behest of the Badals. “Enough Cognizable Evidence available against Badals, says Justice (Retd.) Ranjit Singh Inquiry Commission Report. In Sept 2018, I shared in Public Domain, statements by Doctors, Ex-DGP & Civil Administration that prove actions at Kotkapura Chowk were consentual with then CM (sic),” he posted on Twitter with a nine-minute video of his statement made at that time. He further said that this CCTV footage was hidden from Justice (Retd) Zora Singh Inquiry Commission during the Badal regime, but was later dug up by Justice Ranjit Singh. “I brought this footage to public domain, which shows role of police, acting on behest of the Badals You are guilty but being protected! (sic),” he said in another tweet. On Saturday, Sukhbir had asked the Congress leaders, including Sidhu, and their “open and secret allies” claiming to have concrete proof on who planned, sponsored and executed the unforgivable sacrilege against Guru Granth Sahib to publicly place that evidence before the Khalsa panth, court, SIT and the people in general. Sidhu has been targeting his own government ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the SIT report in the police firing case last month. He has also accused chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of shielding the Badal family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-case-enough-evidence-against-badals-but-they-are-being-protected-says-sidhu-101621193288126.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||MLA Bains, Gosha come to blows at launch of road project in Ludhiana||Lok Insaaf Party supremo Simarjeet Singh Bains and Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, along with their supporters, exchanged blows during the foundation-stone event for a road’s construction in Janta Nagar on Sunday. The clash took place when Bains and his supporters reached Janta Nagar to lay the foundation stone. In the meantime, Gosha, who was distributing langar in the area, arrived at the spot, accusing Bains of taking undue credit for the project.Things suddenly turned ugly as supporters of both leaders threw punches and hurled abuses, amid tossing of turbans, which was captured on video by onlookers.Amid sloganeering from both sides, police remained mute spectators.Later, the Division Number 6 police lodged an FIR against Bains, his son Ajay Preet Singh, Gosha and 60 others for curfew violations. Both groups also reached the police station and filed cross complaints.Amanot Singh Gohalwaria, son of former SAD mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria, claimed that his father had got the work order cleared for the construction of the road from Janta Nagar to Military Camp in 2016. “But, due to the assembly and MC elections, and subsequent lockdown in 2020, the work was stalled. Now, when the work was going to begin, MLA Bains arrived there for inauguration for publicity,” he added.“Members of both groups violated curfew guidelines by assembling in the area in large numbers. Apart from Gosha, MLA Bains and his son, some of those booked are Swaran Singh Makkar, Amrik Singh Gogi, Arjan Singh Cheema, Sikander Singh Pannu, Harjot Kang, Amanjot Singh, Mandeep Singh and Prabhjit Singh Pandher,” said inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, station house officer (SHO), Division Number 6 police station. He said more sections will be added in the FIR after verifying complaints of both groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mla-bains-gosha-come-to-blows-at-launch-of-road-project-in-ludhiana-101621192988184.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||17-hour curfew in Ludhiana extended till May 31||With the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic continuing to sweep across Ludhiana, the district administration has extended the 17-hour daily curfew for two more weeks.The administration had imposed the seven-day curfew on May 10, but decided to continue it till May 31, after chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced extension of the existing curbs across the state till month end.In Ludhiana, the curfew will remain in force from 12pm to 5am, following which shops, private offices and establishments can open, and public movement can resume till noon.However, apart from the relaxed hours, home delivery of milk is also allowed from 5pm to 9pm and milk vendors will not require curfew passes.These restrictions will be observed on weekdays – Monday to Friday, while the weekend lockdown will be imposed from 12pm on Friday till 5am on Monday, when there will be complete ban on public movement.Amid the curbs, inter-state movement is allowed on national and state highways, however, the administration had advised against non-essential travel.All manufacturing industrial units are allowed to continue operations.Any violations of the order will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code.May’s tallies already ahead of April’sMay so far has witnessed 21,229 Covid infections and 345 deaths, compared to 20,176 cases and 231 deaths in the entirety of April when the second wave had started surging.Ludhiana’s 75,815 cases and 1,720 deaths so far are the highest in Punjab, while the district’s 13,217 active cases also top the state’s tally. Though the recoveries are highest at 60,858, the recovery rate of 80.27% is behind the state average of 82.4%.Since the district went under the 17-hour curfew on May 10, the cases have shown a decline, coming down from 1,470 on Monday to 942 on Sunday – a drop of 35%. Yet, the daily deaths remain in double digits and had also reached the all-time high of 30 twice, on May 10 and 11.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the curbs were being extended to bring the situation further under control. He cautioned residents against complacency towards the pandemic, which was still raging across the state and urged them not to venture out unless in case of emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/17hour-curfew-in-ludhiana-extended-till-may-31-101621192810934.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vax shortage brings drive to halt in Punjab’s Mohali district||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mohali has taken a severe hit due to shortage of doses for the past five days, forcing the health authorities to close all their camps in the district.Even the two drive-through facilities that were started to an overwhelming response on May 12 have been closed for the past two days.From around 10,000 doses being administered daily till about a week back, only 788 people were inoculated on Sunday, that too mostly at the two private hospitals – Max and Fortis – which had independently launched the drive for 18-44 years age group earlier this month.“For the past four days, we have not got any vaccine from the central government, forcing us to close all our camps in the district. We organised the drive only at the civil hospital in Phase 6 on Sunday, that too for just a few hours,” said district epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra.Nagra said the district had received 11,000 doses from the state government for the 18-44 age group, and only three-day stock is remaining. “As of now, we are administering the vaccine only to construction workers besides families of health workers and frontline workers in this category. We are hoping things will improve in the coming days,” he said.Has been leading so farTill May 13, vaccines were being administered at 55 centres in Mohali, including 50 government centres and five private hospitals. According to data made available by the district administration, the health authorities have administered around 3.33 lakh doses till May 16, which is among the highest in Punjab.In fact, Mohali has shown the way by launching the first drive-in vaccination and starting a helpline to provide free cab service to senior citizens going to get jabbed. Besides providing the vaccine at government centres, the Mohali administration had also been holding special camps at industrial units, corporate offices and residential areas, which has helped it achieve highest inoculations in the tricity.However, the situation has changed in the past few days. Manoj Dass, a social worker based in Zirakpur, said: “For the past three days, no camp has been organised for any age group here. We are approaching the authorities, but to no avail. People are now going to Chandigarh and Panchkula to get vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-shortage-brings-drive-to-halt-in-punjab-s-mohali-district-101621192808903.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Contagion wipes out 20 more lives in Ludhiana, daily cases drop below 1,000 after 16 days||The Covid-19 pandemic claimed 20 more lives on Sunday, youngest among them a 35-year-old man from Textile Colony.For the past two days, the daily deaths had stayed below 20 after steadily rising for five days since May 9, touching the all-time high of 30 twice, on May 10 and 11.However, in some respite, the fresh cases on Sunday dropped below the 1,000 mark for the first time since April 30, when 789 people had tested positive.The 942 cases on Sunday pushed the district’s caseload to 75,815, of which 13,217 patients are still under treatment, the highest since the pandemic broke out in March last year.As many as 60,858 patients have successfully beaten the virus in Ludhiana through treatment at various hospitals and in home isolation, and 1,720 people have died.Currently, 52 patients are on ventilator support, of whom, 28 are from Ludhiana, and 24 from other districts and states. Among those who died on Sunday were 10 women and an equal number of men, the oldest being a 78-year-old man from Green Field.At 11, the majority were aged between 50 and 70, four in their 30s and 40s, while five were over 70 years old.Vaccination sites for MondayLUDHIANA Vaccinations for comorbid people and health workers’ family members in the 18-44 age group will be held at various government schools on Monday.These include schools at Sekhewal, Indrapuri, Jamalpur, Madhopuri, Kesar Gunj Chowk, Kundanpuri, Civil Lines, Haibowal Kalan, Dholewal, Kot Mangal Singh, Shimlapuri, Midha Chowk, Jawahar Nagar, Jagraon, Khanna, Samrala, Roorian Maloud village, Macchiwara, Manupur, Gurusar Sudhar, Koom Kalan, Sidhwan Bet, Mansuran, Hathur, Sahnewal and Dehlon. Centres are also set up at Indoor Stadium, Pakhowal Road; Channa Devi School, Salem Tabri; Green Land School, Chandigarh Road; and Ajitsar Government Girls School, Raikot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contagion-wipes-out-20-more-lives-in-ludhiana-daily-cases-drop-below-1-000-after-16-days-101621192689494.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||30 more succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity||Even as number of daily Covid-19 cases has seen a decline over the past one week, the pandemic continues to take its toll on the tricity, as 30 more patients succumbed to the virus on Sunday.This was only the third time that the number of fatalities touched this grim milestone. While as many people had died on May 9, the peak was recorded on May 5, with 38 deaths. The sudden surge comes a day after the tricity gave a sigh of relief as the number of deaths dropped to 19, and below 20 for the first time in a week.While Mohali recorded 12 deaths on Sunday, 10 people died in Chandigarh, and eight in Panchkula, which is also its all-time high that was previously reported on May 12.“The surge in fatalities is witnessed after the spike in cases. The patients who are critical tend to remain under hospitalisation for a longer duration. So, generally there is a difference of two weeks between the peak of cases and deaths,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, Chandigarh health department.Meanwhile, after registering a consistent drop in the number of cases from the peak of 2,612 on May 10 to 1,405 on May 15, the tricity recorded a slight uptick with 1,491 people testing positive. Chandigarh reported 664 cases, followed by 542 in Mohali and 285 in Panchkula. Active case load drops to 18,505With more people being cured and discharged than those testing positive, the active case load in the tricity dropped to 18,505 from 20,500 a day before.In Chandigarh, 7,644 cases remain active, down from 7,847 on Saturday. Among the 10 dead, three were under the age of 60. The toll has reached 635, with 146 reported this month. Of 55,367 people tested positive so far, 47,088 have recovered, including 857 discharged on Sunday. Mohali district has reported 60,601 cases so far. Its death toll has climbed to 760, with 166 people succumbing in just 16 days this month as compared to 159 throughout April. All the 12 who died on Sunday were senior citizens with comorbidities, said the civil surgeon.With 1,923 patients discharged on Sunday, the total has climbed to 51,123 while the active case load has dropped to 8,717 from 10,109 on Saturday.In Panchkula, a 30-year-old man from Mirpur was among the eight dead. While five were above the age of 75, two were in the 45-55 age group. The toll has reached 285, with 78 dead this month. Of the 27,566 people tested positive so far, 24,867 have recovered. The number of active cases stands at 2,144, down from 2,544 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30-more-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-101621192568204.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Protest over Khattar’s visit: Farmers block major highways after clashing with cops in Hisar||Rohtak/Karnal/Ambala/Chandigarh: Hours after Haryana Police resorted to lathicharge and lobbed tear gas shells to disperse a group of farmers who tried to march towards the venue where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to inaugurate a Covid hospital in Hisar on Sunday, farmers blocked major state and national highways across the state. While farmers claimed that over 50 of them sustained injuries in the lathicharge, a government spokesperson said over 20 policemen, including a DSP and five women cops, were also injured. Protesters blocked the Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway 44 at Bastara in Karnal, the Hisar-Chandigarh highway in Kaithal, Kurukshetra-Pehowa-Paitala, Kurukshetra-Kaithal highway, NH-44 on Ambala-Patiala border , NH-73 on Ambala-Yamunanagar highway and toll plazas in Karnal, Panipat and Shahbad, for two hours from 5pm to 7pm, forcing the authorities to divert traffic to link roads. In Hisar, police claimed some farmers hurled stones at them when they tried to stop them. Five police vehicles were also damaged by the protesters, they said. Miscreants broke the barricades: Cops “The miscreants broke the barricade installed on the canal bridge and threw it into the water. They also attacked DSP Abhimanyu Lohan under the Jindal overbridge. The injured cops are being treated at the civil hospital,” a police spokesperson said. “Upon entering Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjivani Hospital complex, the miscreants tried to run a tractor over policemen, thereby injuring them,” the spokesperson said, adding that five police vehicles were also damaged. “The miscreants tried to enter the Covid hospital even after the inauguration was over,” he added. Protesters also blocked the movement of police vehicles and said they will continue to protest until the farmer leaders asked them to disperse. “Why did the CM have to visit Hisar to inaugurate the hospital, he could have done it virtually,” asked Haryana BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni. “The police resorted to lathi-charge and used tear gas shells, besides using plastic bullets to disperse the farmers in Hisar. Many farmers received injuries,” Charuni said, alleging that despite the state restricting gatherings hundreds of people were allowed to gather for the hospital inauguration. Next course of action Hisar meet: Charuni Charuni said the farm leaders had called a meeting in Hisar to decide further course of action. “ We will clear the road for ambulances, military convoys, fire brigade and tankers carrying oxygen. Farmers from Ramayana toll plaza will start marching towards the office of the Hisar IG and if our grievances are not accepted, we will start a dharna outside police stations across the state,” Charuni added. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said they had asked the Hisar IG to release 85 farmers detained by the police. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said that traffic had been diverted from the NH 44 via link roads. He said that there were no reports of violence, but the police have been deployed to deal with any law-and-order situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protest-over-khattar-s-visit-farmers-block-major-highways-after-clashing-with-cops-in-hisar-101621192509499.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Meet Panchkula MC staffer who has overseen cremation of over 700 Covid-19 victims||By 1 in the afternoon, 14 bodies are halfway through cremation, five have just been set ablaze, three more pyres are being prepared, while two bodies covered in white lay at some distance.At the gate of the cremation ground in Sector 28, Panchkula, one more body of a Covid-19 victim lies in an ambulance as the driver asks directions to the graveyard.The flow of bodies does not end here. And the supervisor, Surinder Singh, walks among the corpses and pyres without fear…. or even a PPE kit.Singh, and his team members, say working with a PPE kit on, amid the heat and flames rising from the pyres, gets too difficult.“In March 2020, I cremated the first body of a woman who died of Covid-19. Since then, I have been assigned the task of cremating all Covid-19 bodies,” says the 28-year-old staffer of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC).Since March last year, Singh has helped cremate over 700 bodies, which belonged not only to Panchkula residents but also to those who came from other states to get treatment here but lost the battle to Covid-19. Of these 700, as many as 200 were created in the month of May alone, Singh adds.A day in the life of a crematorAt 8am, Singh leaves from his house in Mohali and reaches the mortuary of the Sector-6 civil hospital in Panchkula. After taking the details of the corpses, he calls their families and coordinates for cremation or burial. He then visits other hospitals in Panchkula, gathering details of others who have died of the virus.While commuting from one hospital to another, Singh arranges for ambulances to ferry the dead to the cremation ground, meanwhile instructing his team to prepare the pyres.“Last year, there were only one or two cremations a day, or weeks would pass without one. But now we are cremating at least 20 bodies a day,” says Singh, whose phone doesn’t stop ringing.Singh earns only ₹14,000 a month, but has been working 24x7 without an off for a year. “I do get stressed at times so I pray. Initially, I was unable to sleep, but now I feel numb. I have small kids, elderly parents and a wife, but it’s a service and I cannot say no to it,” he says.“I don’t even feel like eating here. People are dying, how can one eat?” asks Singh, who reaches home by 9pm every day.A man in white, who introduces himself as an army officer and one of the family members of a victim, is full of praises for Singh: “I have never seen such a dedicated man. He is on duty 24x7.”‘Hasn’t taken off in a year’The assistant sanitary inspector, Ajay Kumar Sood, who is also the in-charge, says: “Surinder has not taken a single off in the last one year. He is a very dedicated and hardworking employee.”Former MC commissioner RK Singh says: “The team is very dedicated. During these tough times, we have been holding meetings to boost their morale and how they should work without getting emotionally impacted.”Last year, four helpers were assigned to Singh; the number was reduced to two, but it has again been increased to six. One of them is Rahul, a 27-year-old resident of Gandhi Colony, Panchkula, who has also been working here since the pandemic began. A daily wager and father to three daughters, Rahul says that it is work, which has to be done: “If we won’t, then who will?”Wearing only N-95 masks, Surinder and Rahul get up to burn the two bodies in white, that have been awaiting their turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/meet-panchkula-mc-staffer-who-has-overseen-cremation-of-over-700-covid-19-victims-101621192389818.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Testing levels drop by 20% amid raging pandemic in Chandigarh||Even though the weekly Covid-19 cases in the city reached record numbers in the first week of May, the number of tests conducted in the subsequent week showed a decline, as suggested by the data collated from Chandigarh administration’s daily bulletin.A decrease of around 20% has been witnessed in the number of tests done on a weekly basis even though Chandigarh remains among the worst affected states and union territories (UTs) in the country in terms of test positivity rate.Between May 2-8, when the city recorded 5,901 cases, 25,372 tests were conducted. Subsequently between May 9-15, with 4,496 cases, the tests dipped to 20,326.The central government has advised states and UTs with over 10% positivity rate to continue with “stringent containment” even if they are witnessing a declining trend in the pandemic.Chandigarh’s weekly positivity rate has been above 20% for the last five weeks suggesting that every fifth person being tested has contracted the infection.Former director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and health adviser to the Punjab government, Dr KK Talwar, said, “Fewer tests mean the real number of positive cases will not come to the fore. In Punjab, the positivity rate has declined without any decline in the number of tests. The indicator of positivity rate suitably suggests the manner in which the number of tests should be conducted.”Former head of the department of community medicine and school of public health at PGIMER, Dr Rajesh Kumar, said, “Testing levels should remain high so that cases are detected and isolated at the earliest. This will stop the infection from spreading and bring the pandemic in control. Even though it appears that the infection spread is being controlled, more contacts should be brought under the ambit of testing. Testing levels should not drop at this crucial juncture.”Dip in testing due to lockdown restrictions: AdmnAuthorities, however, say that the dip in testing levels can be linked to the restrictions owing to the lockdown, which should have resulted in a decreased demand for testing.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The lockdown measures have resulted in control of the infection transmission, which has resulted in lesser testing. However, the testing levels should not drop and we will improve them further.”UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that the dip, of around 500 tests daily, was from non-targeted testing: “There is no compromise on testing of contacts and those with symptoms. The decrease in tests is from the proportion that is randomly done and no case in which there is a minute suspicion is being denied the facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/testing-levels-drop-by-20-amid-raging-pandemic-in-chandigarh-101621192388731.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen concentrator bank started in Ludhiana for Covid patients at home||The Red Cross Society has started an oxygen concentrator bank for Covid-19 patients getting treated at home.Inaugurating the bank at the Red Cross Bhawan on Sunday, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the bank had been set up with 25 oxygen concentrators, which will be given to patients under home isolation.The concentrators, donated by an NGO, can be borrowed against a daily rent of ₹200 via an application on www.ludhiana.nic.in. A doctor’s prescription and a refundable security of ₹25,000, either by draft or cheque made out to the Red Cross Society, are mandatory. The applicant will be informed through phone within 12 hours if the application is accepted. The concentrator can be procured from the Red Cross Bhawan between 9am and 5pm, and patients can also contact the helplines 94173-76655, 98784-50219 and 81465-55493.The deputy commissioner said the concentrators will prove useful in the treatment of patients with mild symptoms and help reduce the caseload on hospitals.Further, on the advice of a seven-member committee of doctors, hospitals have been allowed to give oxygen cylinders to cured patients for post-infection concerns. The DC said the administration will supply the oxygen to the hospitals as per demand, adding that Ludhiana had ample supply of the life-saving gas currently.He was accompanied by additional deputy commissioner (D) Sandeep Kumar and civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oxygen-concentrator-bank-started-in-ludhiana-for-covid-patients-at-home-101621192268769.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Double mutant Covid variant found in 22% PGIMER samples||The highly transmissible B.1.617 variant of Covid-19 has been found in five of the 23 samples sent by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to the National Centre of Disease Control, New Delhi, for genome sequencing recently. First detected in India last October and described in late March by the misnomer “double mutant”, it was classified as a “variant of concern” globally by WHO last Monday.“Reports of sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 from 23 nasopharyngeal swab samples of Covid-19 patients sent from PGIMER were received on May 13 from NCDC, New Delhi. The presence of the double mutant B.1.617 variant having the signature mutations L452R and E484Q has been confirmed in 22% (5/23) of the samples after sequencing,” said Dr Jagat Ram.Vaccine-induced antibodies are less potent in neutralising this variant, and the surge in cases during the second wave of the pandemic has somewhat been attributed to it, he said, adding that it has been found in more than 40 countries.Of the other samples, the UK variant B.1.1.7, which is also a “variant of concern” and is associated with high transmissibility was found in 39% (9/23) samples. Earlier in April, too, as many as 70% of the 60 samples sent by the PGIMER for genome sequencing turned positive for this variant. “Considering the high transmission rates of the new variants, citizens should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour by wearing masks, maintaining social distance and frequently using sanitiser or washing hands,” said Dr Jagat Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/double-mutant-covid-variant-found-in-22-pgimer-samples-101621192100334.html
