18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fuel prices reach all-time high in Chandigarh tricity area||After staying fixed in the months of March and April, fuel prices have hit a record high in the tricity after consistently rising over the last one week. In Chandigarh, petrol prices climbed to ₹89.3 a litre from ₹88.31 on May 11 while diesel rates increased to ₹83.17 a litre from ₹82.03 last week. Mohali and Panchkula too saw a price hike of ₹1 per litre over the last week. In Mohali, petrol currently costs ₹95.05 a litre while diesel is at ₹86.41 per litre. In Panchkula, petrol rates crossed the ₹90-mark for the first time to settle at ₹90.52 a litre while diesel too continued to weigh heavy on the pockets at ₹83.89 per litre. No increase in veggie prices The increase in prices, however, hasn’t affected the prices of vegetables much and is unlikely to happen until the next month as per officials of the Sector 26 wholesale mandi. Officials said, “Right now, we have locally grown vegetables that come from nearby places such as Punjab and Haryana, so fuel isn’t a big factor. Some items such as ginger, ladyfinger, bottle guard and pumpkin come from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, but locally grown vegetables are also available so prices continue to stay down.” Officials added that next month, locally grown vegetables will reduce and the city will get vegetables, such as peas and cauliflower, from Himachal Pradesh. If the fuel rates keep increasing, these vegetables will end up getting more expensive at the Sector 26 mandi as well as the apni mandis of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fuel-prices-reach-all-time-high-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101621361235123.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks govt to decide on complaints against DGP in three months||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday disposed of a petition filed by Haryana IPS officer Y Puran Kumar, seeking a restraining order against director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava to write his annual performance appraisal (APR) report.Kumar had sought the restraint order to write his APR till the time the complaints filed by him against the DGP are decided.The petitioner though on Tuesday contended before the HC that he is confining the prayer in this petition to the consideration of his complaints by additional chief secretary (home).Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal, of the high court, in his order, said that in view of the limited prayer of the counsel for the petitioner, the petition is disposed of with a direction to additional chief secretary (home) to consider and decide the complaints in accordance with law expeditiously, preferably within a period of three months from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-govt-to-decide-on-complaints-against-dgp-in-three-months-101621358176313.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Protest over shifting ventilators: Court orders accused to make contribution to Covid care fund||Granting bail to four Nuh residents accused of assaulting and obstructing government officials from doing their duty, a Mewat court on Monday ordered the accused to deposit ₹5,000 each in the Red Cross Fund of the Nuh deputy commissioner under the Covid care head.In his order, additional sessions judge (ASJ), Mewat, Prashant Rana said the exemplary cost is being imposed on the accused so that in future, no person obstructs work of frontline workers during the pandemic and the damage caused by the accused in delaying transportation of ventilators is compensated to some extent by their contributions towards Covid treatment of citizens.As per court orders, allegations against the accused were that they objected to shifting of 10 ventilators from Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati (SHKM) Government Medical College, Nalhar to Rewari and Palwal.The accused were arrested for allegedly rioting, armed with deadly weapon, wrongful restraint, assault to deter public servant from duty, attempt to murder, negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, criminal intimidation on May 4.“The ventilators were being shifted on government orders. Apparently, the accused obstructed shifting of ventilators and a few of the accused pelted stones. Three police officers received injuries. No property was damaged, as told by the investigating officer present in the court. No injury dangerous to life, was suffered by any person. Also, the allegations of snatching by causing hurt or wrongful restrained, are not made out,” the court said.“Which of the accused inflicted the stone injury, is doubtful? Around 70 accused are there, and five injuries were caused. Prima facie, attempt to murder and snatching is not made out at this stage. Apparently, offence committed by applicants was obstruction in official duties. The accused have no criminal antecedents. They are in custody since May 4. The trial of the case will take time and no purpose will be served, if the accused are further kept in custody. The accused deserve to be enlarged on bail,” the ASJ court said.The ASJ said conduct of the accused in obstructing shifting of ventilators to other districts, however, is not only prima-facie illegal but also highly unethical.“They may have done the said obstruction on account of sentiments towards their district. However, in times of pandemic, regionalism should not prevail in the mind of any citizen. Since the accused delayed shifting of ventilators to other districts, for two hours, they deserve to be rectified by way of appropriate costs,” ASJ Rana said.Allowing their bail application, the court said the accused will be released from custody subject to their furnishing personal bonds of ₹50,000 each.“They will also deposit ₹5,000 each in the Red Cross Fund under the Covid care head and the duty magistrate will issue the release warrants after receipt of Red Cross contribution by the accused, the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protest-over-shifting-ventilators-court-orders-accused-to-make-contribution-to-covid-care-fund-101621357875277.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||124 more Covid fatalities reported in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday recorded 7,774 fresh Covid-19 cases while 124 people succumbed to the virus even as 14,897 recovered in the last 24 hours across state, according to the health bulletin.Faridabad has the highest recovery rate of 94.03% and Fatehabad the lowest of 79.42%. The recovery rate of seven districts in state is above 90%. On Tuesday, the recovery rate of Gurugram was 88.19%, lower than the cumulative recovery rate of the state (88.33%).In past last 24 hours, 60,457 samples were taken in state. Of the 7,774 fresh cases, Gurugram recorded the highest of 1,247 new cases, Faridabad 429, Sonepat 408, Hisar 630, Ambala 178, Karnal 377, Panipat 154, Rohtak 325, Rewari 280, Panchkula 270, Kurukshetra 164, Yamunanagar 317, Sirsa 691, Mahendergarh 298, Bhiwani 530, Jhajjar 452, Palwal 262, Fatehabad 174, Kaithal 74, Jind 332, Nuh 55 and Charkhi Dadri 127.The highest of 14 people died in Gurugram, 10 each in Hisar and Karnal, eight each in Faridabad, Ambala and Rewari, nine in Jind, and six in Charkhi Dadri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/124-more-covid-fatalities-reported-in-haryana-101621357821609.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Over 10 lakh villagers screened in Haryana||At least 10 lakh villagers have been screened across state under the Haryana villagers’ general health check-up scheme launched in the wake of Covid-19 causing upheavals in the hinterland, the state government said on Tuesday.On Monday, 2.54 lakh people were screened. In 2,095 villages across state, rapid antigen tests were conducted and 2,958 persons were found Covid positive.The state government has dispatched about 2,500 teams to villages to screen people.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who on Monday held an emergency meeting with top bureaucrats to fine tune the response to contain the spread of the virus in rural areas, directed deputy commissioners (DCs) to undertake the campaign on a war footing.While directing the administration to mop up all resources to take the challenge head-on, the CM said, “The pandemic will not be allowed to spread its wings in villages.”He said that an atmosphere of positivity needs to be fostered in villages and the state government should not fall short of contributing to it.While directing that there should be no slackness in the door-to-door screening of Covid patients, the CM directed that adequate infrastructure should be in place to treat patients to prevent further spread of the virus.Khattar, who is personally monitoring the day-to-day situation, has also directed strict adherence to the ‘test, track and treat’ strategy to combat the threat under which patients with mild to moderate symptoms are put under home isolation.Besides, multi-disciplinary teams comprising trainee doctors, asha workers and anganwadi workers have been rushed to the ground to make sure that every villager is taken care of.The government has decided to set up an isolation centre in every village for which dharmashalas, government schools and Ayush centres can be used and equipped with all essential infrastructures.Every gram panchayat with a population of up to 10,000 will be given ₹30,000 each whereas those above 10,000 population will receive ₹50,000 each for making basic arrangements.Over 1.5 lakh rapid antigen test kits have been distributed and the CM has directed that supply of kits should continue uninterrupted.AMBULANCE RATESThe spokesperson said similar strict action has been taken against private ambulance drivers who are overcharging from patients. He said that rates have also been fixed for them.As per fixed rates, ₹30/km has been fixed for advance life sport ambulance, ₹15/km for basic life sport ambulance.Besides this, a fare of ₹500 has been fixed for the local area distance of 10km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-10-lakh-villagers-screened-in-haryana-101621356374418.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Gurmeet Ram Rahim seeks emergency parole to meet ailing mother||Jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who is currently lodged in Rohtak's Sunaria jail, has sought 'emergency parole' to meet and attend to his ailing mother, officials said on Tuesday.Serving a 20-year jail term in Rohtak's Sunaria jail since 2017 for raping two of his women disciples, the 53-year-old Sirsa-headquartered sect chief has submitted some documents regarding the ailment of his mother to the prison authorities.The Dera chief has sought 21-day parole to meet and attend to his ailing mother Naseeb Kaur, prison officials said.“Following his emergency parole plea, we have written to the Haryana Police in this regard and sought NoC from them,” Sunaria jail superintendent, Sunil Sangwan told PTI over phone.The prison officials have also forwarded the documents regarding the ailment of Dera chief's mother to the concerned authorities to verify them.Before taking a decision on parole plea, considerations mainly on law and order ground will be taken into account, sources said.Notably, the Dera head had earlier been given a day's parole to meet his ailing mother in October, 2020.Last week, he had been admitted to the PGIMS hospital in Rohtak for a day with complaints of dizziness and blood pressure fluctuations.The Dera chief was in August 2017 sentenced by a special CBI court in Panchkula to 20 years in jail in the two rape cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurmeet-ram-rahim-seeks-emergency-parole-to-meet-ailing-mother-101621343690352.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Live-in-relationships morally, socially unacceptable, says Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has said a live-in-relationship is morally and socially unacceptable while dismissing a petition filed by a runaway couple seeking protection.Petitioners Gulza Kumari (19) and Gurwinder Singh (22) in the petition had stated that they were residing together and intended to get married shortly.They had apprehended danger to their lives from Kumari's parents."As a matter of fact, the petitioners in the garb of filing the present petition are seeking seal of approval on their live-in-relationship, which is morally and socially not acceptable and no protection order in the petition can be passed. The petition stands dismissed accordingly," Justice H S Madaan said in his May 11 order.According to petitioner's counsel J S Thakur, Singh and Kumari were living together in Tarn Taran district.He said Kumari's parents, who are in Ludhiana, did not approve of their relationship.The couple could not get married as Kumari's documents, which have details of her age, were in possession of her family, Thakur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/liveinrelationships-morally-socially-unacceptable-says-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101621336028248.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar private hospital’s Covid facility suspended for overcharging||The Jalandhar district administration on Tuesday suspended the level-2 Covid care facility at a private hospital after a preliminary report submitted by the health authorities flagged malpractices, including overcharging. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said that family members of a Covid patient, who died at Shamsher Hospital, complained of malpractices following which an inquiry was marked. The health authorities recommended suspension of level-2 facility for new admissions at the hospital as penalty. Also read: Black marketing of Covid drugs: Here’s what 9 politicians told the Delhi PoliceThori said a four-member committee was set up to probe discrepancies in drug procurement and distribution as alleged in the complaint. The committee will submit its report within three days. It comprises the sub divisional magistrate-1, civil surgeon, zonal licensing authority, and senior medical officer, Wadala. The complainant alleged that the patient was admitted to the hospital’s level-2 Covid care ward without an RT-PCR test. He was given treatment that is only given to level-3 patients and that too after consulting experts. FIR against private lab for overcharging The Jalandhar district administration also recommended that a case be registered against a private lab, Atulaya Laboratory, for overcharging for Covid-19 tests. Assistant commissioner (grievances) Randeep Singh wrote to the commissioner of police, Jalandhar, recommending the laboratory be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1987, and the National Disaster Management Act, 2005. The district-level committee found that the lab charged ₹1,200 for the Covid-19 test and ₹1,500 for home collection of samples, while the Punjab government has fixed ₹900 as the charge for conducting the Covid test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-private-hospital-s-covid-facility-suspended-for-overcharging-101621336633777.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim seeks parole to meet ailing mother||Dera Sacha Sauda sect chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is undergoing a 20-year jail sentence for raping two followers, has sought parole of 21 days to look after his ailing mother, prison officials said on Tuesday. Sunaria jail superintendent Suneel Sangwan said: “We have written to Haryana Police and Sirsa district administration to verify whether the dera chief’s mother is ill or not. We have also asked the Sirsa district administration to clarify whether there is any law and order threat or not after releasing him.” Also read: Bargari sacrilege: 6 dera men sent to 4-day police custodyThe Dera Sacha Sauda chief was given a day’s parole to meet his ailing mother on October 24, 2020. State jails minister Ranjit Singh had justified the parole at that time, saying it was given as per the law. Ram Rahim’s mother was admitted in a Gurugram hospital at that time. “There is a provision under the law that in case of an emergency in the family of a convict the prisoner is allowed to visit his family under police protection. He was taken under full police protection after the government had taken into consideration all aspects,” Ranjit Singh had said. Last week, Gurmeet Ram Rahim had been hospitalised at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak after his blood pressure dipped in the jail. He was discharged when all his health parameters were found to be in the normal range the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-seeks-parole-to-meet-ailing-mother-101621328173254.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Inapt Covid behaviour, virulent strains behind sudden spike in deaths in Jammu:Experts||A three-member panel of experts, which had come to Jammu to ascertain the cause for the high mortality rate in the division, attributed the surge in deaths to Covid-inappropriate behaviour and the presence of three virulent strains from the UK, South Africa and India (B.1.617) in the region. The team comprised Dr Mahesh Waghmare, deputy director (microbiology), National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi; Dr. Pranay Kumar Verma, deputy director of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) at the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi; and Dr Navneet Sharma of PGIMER, Chandigarh. Waghmare said, “While the lockdown will definitely help contain the virus, Covid-apt behaviour is indispensible. We found that people were not following the norms stringently, which has led to the high positivity and mortality rate in the region. Earlier, the region had the South African and UK variants and now we also have the highly infectious Indian variant as well.” Delay in hospitalisation contributing to high fatality rateThe team found that the mortality rate within 24 hours of hospitalisation was 30% while 12% patients were being brought dead to hospitals. “This shows people are reaching hospitals at a very late stage, which is contributing to the high mortality,” Waghmare said. The Indian variant is primarily responsible for the surge in cases in Jammu division, said experts. In March, the UK variant was found in 60% of the 434 samples sent for genome sequencing. In April, it dropped to 47% while the B.1.617 variant’s prevalence increased from 5.8% to 38%. The Indian variant has now overtaken UK strain in Jammu division. Experts suspect that the Indian strain is now contributing to at least 50% cases. Waghmare conceded that the government was ill-prepared for the sudden surge and there were insufficient critical care beds in the region. He suggested strict police patrolling during concession hours to check overcrowding and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Both preventive and curative aspects have to be adhered to in earnest but the greater responsibility lies with the people,” he added. “We may be lacking in infrastructure but we are augmenting it. Doctors and paramedics are on the job 24x7. Following sudden spike in deaths, a massive door-to-door sampling has also been initiated in Jammu,” a local official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inapt-covid-behaviour-virulent-strains-behind-sudden-spike-in-deaths-in-jammuexperts-101621282272108.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s grimmest day yet as virus claims 73||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed another grim day on Monday with 73 people losing their lives to the novel coronavirus, the highest-ever daily fatalities since the outbreak, taking the overall death toll to 3,222.The UT also recorded 3,344 fresh infections, taking the UT’s Covid count to 2,47,952. Of the 73 deaths in the UT, 54 were reported in Jammu division and 19 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,926 are from Kashmir, 1,418 are from Jammu, while 76 were travellers.May has turned out to be deadliest month for J&K as the monthly toll touched 940. With 71,869 infections, the month also clocked the highest number of cases so far. Around 48,437 patients have recovered this month. Officials said with 613 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by 495 in Srinagar, 376 in Budgam and 228 each in Anantnag and Udhampur. The number of active cases has reached 50,852, officials said. Most cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.Dr Lenah Bashir, lecturer microbiology, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said cough, cold, loss of taste and smell, and fatigue were mild symptoms while breathlessness indicated severe infection. “Severe symptomatic patients should be shifted to the hospital for treatment and monitoring,” she said.She said that double mutant strains of SAR COV2 are showing heightened infectivity and evading the immune systems, hence increasing mortality. “Previously,infected people have a greater chance of re-infection due to the double mutant,” she said.92 inmates test positive for COVID-19 in two prisonsNinety-two inmates have tested positive for COVID-19 in two prisons of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Monday, and asserted that all the positive cases are asymptomatic and have been isolated in separate barracks.The latest detection in Udhampur and Kupwara district jails through special Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) screening pushed the active cases among inmates to 115 out of a total of over 4,570 prisoners in all the jails, officials said.The special drive in the two jails was carried out nearly two weeks after a prominent separatist leader and chairman of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, who was lodged in Udhampur district jail under Public Safety Act, died of Covid at a government hospital on May 5.J&K gets 7 new oxygen plants from GermanyJ&K on Monday received seven new imported oxygen plants from Germany with a cumulative generation capacity of 7,100 litres per minute (LPM). The oxygen plants were carried by an Indian Air Force aircraft from Munich in Germany and reached Srinagar Airport in the afternoon. “New Oxygen Plants including 5 of 1000 LPM, one of 1500 LPM and one of 600 LPM capacity will further add 7100 LPM to the existing availability,” Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha said in a tweet. He said this will hugely augment oxygen supply to the health infrastructure in the UT.“My deepest gratitude to Hon’ble PM @narendramodi for providing 7 Oxygen plants to JK UT. With his intervention, these Oxygen plants were airlifted by @IAF_MCC from Munich, Germany and safely landed at Srinagar Airport today at 12:45PM,” the LG added.Construction workers given aid 
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Aspiring teachers gherao Punjab school education minister’s residence in Sangrur||Members of the ETT-TET Unemployed Teachers’ Union gheraoed the residence of Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla and broke barricades when they did not receive assurance of a panel meeting with the minister on Monday. Earlier, they had assembled outside the deputy commissioner’s office where their indefinite protest has been going on since January 4. They also held a march from the DC office to the minister’s residence.The aspiring teachers ended their protest after a written assurance of a panel meeting with the education minister on May 24 at Chandigarh.Sandeep Sama, senior vice-president of the union, said that their two members have been protesting in Patiala for the past 58 days. “However, the government is not paying heed,” he added. Sama said the government announced 2,364 posts for ETT, but the education department was considering BEd candidates for these vacancies. The protesters demanded that 10,000 more vacancies for ETT-qualified teachers be advertised and only qualified candidates from the category should be considered for these posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aspiring-teachers-gherao-punjab-school-education-minister-s-residence-in-sangrur-101621281912680.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination vexation: Contradictory messages leave J&K’s 45+ group baffled||J&K’s ‘45 plus’ vaccination beneficiaries were perplexed after they first received a message asking them to appear at their chosen site to receive the second dose of the coronavirus vaccine, followed by another message asking them to reschedule.The request to reschedule comes after the Centre revised its norms to increase the gap between the doses to 12 to 13 weeks. A Jammu resident, Kunal Shrivatsa, who was one of the recipients of the contradictory messages, said the revised norms had been announced on May 13 but he and his family had booked a slot on May 12. “Dear Kunal Shrivatsa, Your vaccination is scheduled for 22-05-2021 01:00PM-04:00PM at KOT BHALWAL. Your booking reference ID is 14230350723762 and your 4 digits secret code for vaccination is 3762 – CoWIN,” read the first message, received on May 12. “Dear Kunal Shrivatsa, scheduled vaccination on 22-05-2021 is cancelled, Inconvenience is regretted. Reschedule on cowin.gov.in,” read the second message, received on May 16. Centre had said pre-booked appointments will not be cancelled Notably, on May 16, the Union health ministry had said, “Online appointments, already booked for the second dose of the Covishield vaccine, will remain valid and the same will not be cancelled on Co-WIN platform.” It, however, said requisite changes have now been made to the CoWIN digital portal, as a result of which further online or on-site appointments will not be possible if the period after first dose date for a beneficiary is less than 84 days. Financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo said slots had been rescheduled as per revised norms. While Dulloo said more supplies were on their way to J&K, a senior health official said the UT was facing shortage of vaccines. No vaccination in Valley in 5 days Kashmir valley had recorded no vaccination on Sunday in a striking contrast to the Centre’s claims of despatching vaccines on a daily basis. The health bulletin says none has been vaccinated in the last five days. “It seems the government’s exercise of re-scheduling the gap from first dose to 12 to 16 weeks is either because it has run out of vaccines or production has not been scaled up to the requisite level,” said Naveen Mattoo, a Kashmiri Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-vexation-contradictory-messages-leave-j-k-s-45-group-baffled-101621281911564.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Construction of water treatment plant begins at Patiala’s Ablowal||The much-hyped canal-based water supply project worth ₹503 crore has been initiated with the start of construction work of 115 MLD water treatment plant at Patiala’s Ablowal village on Monday.Member of parliament from Patiala, Preneet Kaur, laid the foundation stone at an event organised by the district administration. However, Covid restrictions and guidelines went for toss as no social distancing was observed at the venue.The project aims at channelising the water distribution system, besides assisting in controlling depleted underground water table due to the traditional tubewell system.It is one of the dream projects for Patiala. In 2006, the project was proposed to ensure round-the-clock water supply, but the project got buried under piles of official documents for over a decade, before regaining pace after Captain Amarinder Singh came to power in 2017.Preneet said the project includes water treatment plant of 115 MLD (million litre per day), a clear water reservoir of 17.28 MLD besides storage and sedimentation tank of 236 MLD at Ablowal village.“Nearly 5 lakh people of the city would get 24x7 uninterrupted clean water supply through this project. The work of this important project would be completed within the stipulated time by Punjab water supply and sewerage board and Larsen and Toubro company,” she added.As per the details, the multi-crore project has been divided into two phases. In the first phase, at least 35 cusecs of water will be fetched from Bhakra canal, stored and treated on 32 acres at Ablowal. In the second phase, water fetched from Ghaggar-link canal will be treated accordingly.Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said currently, the city’s demand of 33 cusec water is being met with 134 tubewells, but due to the over 30 years’ old system, 60% water is getting wasted. “The two-phased project is being set up keeping in mind the year 2051, when population of the city is expected to be doubled. This project will then provide 63 cusecs water,” Bittu said.In 2019, the Union ministries of finance and urban development had given a green signal to the MC’s canal-based water supply system project, which was to be carried out as a joint venture by the state and the central governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/construction-of-water-treatment-plant-begins-at-patiala-s-ablowal-101621281851655.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||191 ventilators lie unused in HP for want of skilled staff||At least 191 medical ventilators received from the Centre during the first Covid-19 wave last year under the PM Cares Fund are lying unused in Himachal Pradesh due to the lack of trained staff to operate them besides technical reasons. Till last year, the hill state had only 52 ventilators in its health institutions, including medical colleges. In June last year, the state received 574 ventilators from Chennai, including 178 portable ones of which 405 are functional. “All ventilators received from the Centre were distributed to the hospitals,” said Ramesh Chand, the deputy director, health, who is the nodal officer for procurement. “We have received ample personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and masks from the Centre,” he says. The ventilators were distributed to different hospitals for installation. Some hospitals installed them, anticipating the requirement, while a majority of them, particularly the district and zonal hospitals, remained reluctant to install them. The health department has now hired a private company to install the ventilators. A majority of the 191 ventilators are lying unused for want of the medical gas pipeline system and other accessories needed to operate them. Thirty ventilators were given to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla; 19 to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Shimla; and 10 to Kamla Nehru Hospital. Five ventilators each were given to hospitals in Rohru and Rampur. Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda, got 42 ventilators and 15 went to Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College, Chamba. Ten ventilators were given to hospitals in Palampur, but they were not installed and five were dispatched to the hospital in Nurpur, while 15 ventilators were given to the zonal hospital in Dharamshala. The ventilators given to the Palampur hospitals were later shifted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda, as the hospitals did not have doctors who could operate them. The health department has a shortage of skilled technical staff, including anaesthetists to operate the equipment. Stock unused, returned to Centre While the stock is lying unused, high-load health institutions, such as Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, and Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk, are facing shortage of ventilators. RPGMC, Tanda, has 72 ICU beds and all of them are occupied as on May 16. Similarly, LBSGMC has also exhausted its 50-ICU bed facility. Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, has 45 ventilator beds of which 38 are occupied. According to health department sources, the state received 250 more ventilators from the Centre around two months ago, but these were later returned. While the health authorities claimed that these were portable ventilators and were meant for another state, the sources said that the Centre recalled these ventilators as they were lying unused. Foreign aid reaches Himachal Himachal Pradesh has received medical equipment to fight the pandemic from various countries. Among them are 96 large oxygen cylinders from Finland, 25,000 viral transport mediums (VTMs), mask and PPE kits from Kazakhstan; 288 large oxygen cylinders from Singapore; and 25,000 rapid testing kits from South Korea. Earlier, 50 ventilators from Switzerland, 41 from Spain, 20 from Canada, 10 large ICU ventilators from Egypt were received. Shimla has got 150 large oxygen cylinders from England, 283 small oxygen cylinders from Kuwait, 100 small oxygen cylinders from Korea, 185 cylinders from Taiwan, 596 remdesivir injections from the US and 80,000 masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/191-ventilators-lie-unused-in-hp-for-want-of-skilled-staff-101621281611591.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy transplantation to begin on June 10 in Punjab||The Punjab agriculture department has decided to advance the start of paddy transplantation in the upcoming kharif season. The decision to begin the sowing on June 10 came considering the shortage of labour due to ongoing pandemic. The decision will also facilitate staggered paddy sowing so that social distancing protocols could be maintained. The state authorities are cautious as the virus has spread its tentacles in the rural areas of Punjab. In 2020, the paddy sowing had begun on June 13 and in 2019, it was mandated to start paddy transplantation from June 20 in a bid to conserve subsoil water which fulfils 85% irrigation needs in the state. The Punjab government had passed a legislation to ensure that all farmers adhere to the transplantation schedule, but it was left with no options but to advance the process due to the pandemic. “We have no other option right now. There is acute labour shortage, so we have decided to advance the paddy transplantation,” said SS Sidhu, director, agriculture. The state government’s legislation that paddy wouldn’t be sown before June 20 outlines that late transplant is complemented by monsoon and there is not much dependence on the subsoil water. However, in 2019, when the campaign for parliament elections was going on, Punjab CM, on the demand of farmers, had announced to advance the process by a week to June 13. By an estimate of state agriculture department, 12.5 lakh labour heads are required to sow paddy in 30 days’ time frame. “But so many people to transplant paddy in the state are not available,” Sidhu said. Paddy is a major kharif crop in state, which is expected to be sown across 70 lakh acres in the forthcoming season. In the previous seasons, PAU had been taking a stand for not changing transplant schedule keeping in view acute fall of subsoil water table across the state and a report by central ground water board asking state machinery to regulate water usage.However, this year, PAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon said that Covid crises are worsening and the virus is spreading fast in the rural Punjab. “This is the least we could do to help our farmers,” he V-C said.Direct seeing of rice on 30 lakh acresThe agriculture department has decided that out of total area of 66 lakh acres under paddy in the ensuing season, direct seeding of rice will be done on at least 30 lakh acres. In the previous season, 12.5 lakh acres were under the DSR method. “The trials conducted in the previous season have shown good results, and we are ready to increase the area,” said the director.The department has pegged the area under premium quality basmati paddy at 13 lakh hectares, an increase of one-third in total area. The sowing of aromatic variety begins from first week of July and that of DSR from the mid of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-transplantation-to-begin-on-june-10-in-punjab-101621281551671.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP sees 27% increase in fatalities in a week||With 439 people succumbing to the virus in the last week, Himachal Pradesh registered a 27% increase in fatalities against 346 Covid-induced deaths reported in the second week of May. The state had clocked an all-time high of 70 deaths on May 16. Since the outbreak, the virus has claimed 2,311 people in the state. Himachal has a fatality rate of 1.44%, which is higher than the national average of 1.1%.Kangra is leading the charts in both infections and deaths. With 150 deaths, the most populous district logged an average 21 deaths a day over the week. It has recorded 662 deaths and has a fatality rate of 1.89%. Shimla has registered 463 fatalities since the outbreak and 63 in the past week alone. Mandi’s death count has reached 265, of which 48 took place in the last seven days. Similarly, Solan’s total count is 199, of which 46 succumbed between May 10 and 16.Kangra, Shimla, Mandi, Solan account for 60% of casesThe hill state also registered a 9% rise in new infections over the past week with a total of 1,60,240 positive cases recorded till Sunday. Health department data shows the state recorded 28,817 cases over the last one week compared to 46,432 cases recorded in the preceding week.Kangra alone accounts for 20% of the total caseload. The four worst-hit districts of Kangra, Shimla, Mandi and Solan share 60% of the cases. The four districts have recorded a cumulative 96,399 cases to date since the outbreak. Kangra recorded 8,686 new cases in a week, 17% more than the previous week’s tally of 7,410 infections. Mandi recorded 3,471 new cases, Solan 2,624 and Shimla 2,418.60% increase in recoveriesWith the rise in cases, the number of recoveries has also gone up. As many as 23,945 people recuperated in last week compared to 14,897 recoveries during the second week of the month—a rise of about 60%.May 16 saw highest single day recoveries at 4,974. Among the districts, Kangra has clocked highest recoveries of 22,706 followed by Mandi (17,748), Shimla (16,965) and Solan (15,343). The recovery rate has climbed up slightly to 75.5% compared to 73.8% in the preceding week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-sees-27-increase-in-fatalities-in-a-week-101621281431518.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Harassment allegations against Channi: Women commission chief threatens to go hunger strike if govt doesn’t act||Punjab State Commission for Women chairperson Manisha Gulati on Monday threatened to go on an indefinite hunger strike if the state government fails to act on a clarification sought by her in harassment allegations by a women IAS officer against cabinet minister Charanjeet Singh Channi. In November 2018, the IAS officer had accused Channi of harassing her even as no formal complaint was lodged in this regard. The development comes in the wake of Channi holding a meeting with a cabinet colleague and Congress MLAs, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, over alleged mishandling of the sacrilege and police firing cases by the Amarinder Singh-led government. “Despite several reminders, I have not received any reply from the government and now I am being held guilty by a section of the officers for not taking action. I am not answerable to the government but to the women of the state,” she said in a press conference in Chandigarh, asking the government to file a time-bound reply to a fresh communiqué sent by the commission. “The matter can be taken up even 10 years after its occurrence. The government should know how powerful the (women) commission is. In case anything happens to me, the government will responsible,” she said. “In 2018, I had taken suo motto action and sought clarification from the then chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh about the matter. I had sent a reminder also but there was no reply,” added Gulati. “The CM had then given a statement that the minister has sought forgiveness. No one accuse me of being hand in glove with the minister and not taking action against him. I have never spoken to him. I will campaign in the 2022 state polls and make public aware as how women in the state are treated,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harassment-allegations-against-channi-women-commission-chief-threatens-to-go-hunger-strike-if-govt-doesn-t-act-101621281374394.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Programme to detect sick patients floated in Barnala||Amid surge in Covid cases in Barnala villages, Pendu Sanjeevani Committee — a community-based programme — has been launched for timely medical intervention at grassroots level, subdivisional magistrate Varjeet Walia said on Monday.The SDM said that early proactive detection of all sick patients in the villages, facilitating their testing, ensuring medication, daily monitoring of vitals and timely referral to Level-2 facilities in case of health deterioration are the core principles of the committee which comprises registered medical practitioners (RMPs), health workers, patwari, guardians of governance (GoG), and volunteers. The programme was launched from Chananwal of the district. “Daily door-to-door health survey began on May 14, a day after the launch. This included recording of vitals such as body temperature, SPO2 levels, heart rate and symptoms experienced. Total 16 people with Covid-19 symptoms were identified on May 15. Of the identified sick patients, 11 underwent Covid tests,” he added. As per this programme, daily village health survey reports will be provided to chief health officer and senior medical officer. They will categorise all patients in the village under Level 1 and Level 2 stages.“The idea is that the committee members will first identify non-tested patients and then motivate and counsel them for testing and isolation. Body vitals of such patients will be recorded daily in the survey, which will help us gauge the medical condition of the patients who do not come forward for testing. Suitable medical treatment would be given to these L1 or L2 patients. This model would result in reduction of fatalities in villages,” the SDM added. Panels formed to tackle Covid in Patiala rural areas
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab set to engage RMPs to combat Covid in rural areas||The Punjab government has decided to rope in registered medical practitioners (RMPs) in its fight against the coronavirus pandemic in rural areas of the state. In a video conference, chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Sunday asked the district administrations and health department officials to chalk out a plan to improve rural outreach across the state. Officials said RMPs, also referred to as quacks by medical professionals, may prove helpful in convincing residents in villages to get themselves tested for Covid-19 and follow the medical protocol. According to estimates, Punjab has nearly 70,000 RMPs working in cities and rural pockets. The RMPs do not have medical degrees but practice medicine, predominantly in peri-urban and rural areas. “They might be criticised by various sections but the RMPs can play a significant role a time when the pandemic has spread aggressively in rural pockets and people are hesitating to get tested,” said a senior health official.Mansa was the first district to engage RMPs to contain the spread of virus in villages.Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said a special outreach drive with RMPs on board will commence in the district from Wednesday. “The RMPs will be members of a group of health workers contacting residents in the rural belts. They will not treat any patient but will take stock of health condition of people and report to the health authorities for further action,” he added.In the predominantly rural belt of south Malwa districts, there has been a spurt of infections and mortalities. On Monday, Fazilka had 10 villages declared as containment zone.Fazilka civil surgeon Parminder Singh said the health teams will be strengthened by engaging RMPs and they can help in reducing the burden on over-stressed hospitals.“People in villages hesitate in sharing their health status with officials but they feel comfortable with RMPs. They share a bonding with these practitioners and we can make use of their relationship in enhancing health surveillance effectively,” he said.Ramesh Kumar Bali, president of the Medical Practitioners Association of Punjab, a union of RMPs, said he recently discussed the issue of roping in RMPs with health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and the chief minister’s adviser Sandeep Sandhu.“More than 60,000 RMPs in Punjab have at least an experience of 10-years and they can be engaged for mass awareness at villages. The RMPs have the largest network of healthcare at the grassroots level. Our team can motivate people to go for isolation and taking vaccination by removing misconception about the pandemic,” said Bali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-set-to-engage-rmps-to-combat-covid-in-rural-areas-101621281372486.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lahan, illicit liquor seized from Congress MLA aide’s house in Khemkaran||A joint team of excise department and police on Monday recovered 400-kg lahan (raw material used for making liquor) and 400 litre illicit liquor from the house of a confidant of Congress’ Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar at Dayalpura village of Tarn Taran district. The accused, Nirbhai Singh, a panchayat member, escaped from the spot even as he was present at the time of the raid. In a video clip that was purportedly shot during the raid, Nirbhai is seen talking on phone. His “servant” Ranjit Singh was arrested, the police said. Excise department officials said the raid was conducted early morning on a tip-off. Three drums were also recovered from the spot. A case was registered against Nirbhai and Ranjit Singh under sections 61-1-14 of the Excise Act at the Bhikhiwind police station. “We had information that Nirbhai was involved in bootlegging. He is a panchayat member but claimed himself to be village sarpanch. We didn’t know how he escaped from the spot,” said Inspector Jatinder Singh of the excise department.Kacha Pakka police post in-charge sub-inspector (SI) Lakhwinder Singh, who was part of the raid, said, “We nabbed Ranjit but Nirbhai managed to flee.” It was the police team that allowed Nirbhai to escape from the spot, it is learnt. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said, “I will check if the accused was present at the time of the raid.”An excise official said, “We even got a call from MLA Bhullar’s personal assistant who asked us to oblige Nirbhai.” MLA Bhullar said, “I do not know why he kept such a large quantity of liquor at his residence.” About his photos with the accused, he said, “He is from my constituency and it’s normal to get photographed with people from one’s area.” In another raid in the village, the team arrested Nishan Singh, also a Congress worker, after 400-kg lahan and 20 litre illicit liquor were recovered from his premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lahan-illicit-liquor-seized-from-congress-mla-aide-s-house-in-khemkaran-101621281313702.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 SITs on task, focus back on sacrilege, police firing cases||With Punjab heading for elections early next year, the politically sensitive cases of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and subsequent police firing in Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015 are back in the spotlight as three special investigation teams (SITs) have been tasked with expediting probe to take these cases to their “logical conclusion”.The investigation into these cases was put on the fast track last week by the state government with the SIT headed by inspector general of police SPS Parmar probing the sacrilege cases arrested six followers of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda for desecration at Bargari. The SIT led by additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav that was formed on May 8 to probe the Kotkapura cases also started inquiry after visiting the firing site, besides taking case records in possession from the local police station. On May 15, the government also formed a three-member SIT headed by IGP (Ludhiana range) Naunihal Singh to probe the Behbal Kalan firing case. As the issue of delay in justice in the sacrilege and police firing cases is echoing within the ruling Congress, many senior party leaders have been critical of the state government’s handling of the matter. Amritsar (East) MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu has been continuously hitting out at chief minister Amarinder Singh accusing him of protesting the Badals with “nefarious intentions”.Since 2015, two judicial commissions and five SITs (including two new SITs constituted this month) have been formed by the state government, besides a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which had given clean chit to the accused dera men.The previous SITs have pointed out “conspiracy” following a series of sacrilege and police firing incidents. The SIT headed by SPS Parmar is looking into the three FIRs registered at the Bajakhana police station in connection with sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib. The first case pertained to the theft of the bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village near Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. The second was the putting up of derogatory posters at Bargari on September 25, 2015; and the third was the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the bir were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015. The Parmar-led SIT had put focus on the third FIR with the arrest of the six dera men and this is for the first time that arrests were made in this case.Before the CBI officially started inquiry after being handed over probe into the three sacrilege incidents by the previous Akali-BJP government, a three-member SIT headed by former IG Ranbir Singh Khatra had arrested more than 20 dera followers, including Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in the Nabha jail in 2019, in connection with two other sacrilege incidents in 2015 and rioting in Punjab in 2011. The SIT claims the dera followers had confessed to the crime.In July 2019, the CBI had filed a closure report in three sacrilege cases, saying it could not find any proof against the accused. The Congress government, however, took back the cases from the CBI and handed over the probe to the SIT led by Khatra. In July last year, the SIT named jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, national committee members of dera — Sandeep Bretta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri — as accused and filed a chargesheet against seven sect followers (including five arrested by Parmar-led SIT) in a case relating to the theft of the ‘bir’. But later, all were released on bail.On the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order quashing all the reports submitted by SIT headed by (now retired) IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, the state government constituted new three-member SIT headed by ADGP Yadav. As per information, SIT is going through the previous investigation and looking into all the legal challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-sits-on-task-focus-back-on-sacrilege-police-firing-cases-101621281312673.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 3,546 fresh infections, 58 deaths||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 3,546 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 1,63,786 while the death toll mounted to 2,369 after 58 patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases 1,215 were reported in Kangra, 429 in Mandi, 389 in Sirmaur, 344 in Hamirpur, 300 in Shimla, 242 in Bilaspur, 200 in Chamba, 181 in Una, 99 in Kullu, 79 in Solan, 49 in Kinnaur and 24 in Lahaul-Spiti.Highest 24 fatalities were reported in Kangra, 10 in Solan, seven in Shimla, five in Sirmaur, four in Una, three in Bilaspur, two each in Kullu and Mandi and one in Kinnaur.There 36,633 active cases in the state while recoveries reached 1,24,750 after 3,760 people recuperated.Kangra remains the worst hit district with 36,159 infections and is followed by Mandi with 22,313 cases and Shimla 20,860 cases.Solan has total 19,085 cases, Sirmaur 12,671, Hamirpur 11,601, Una 10,621, Bilaspur 10,198, Chamba 8,118 , Kullu 7,396, Lahaul-Spiti 2,388 and Kinnaur 2,376.HP guvs wife tests positive, hospitalised Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya’s wife Vasantha Dattatreya tested positive for the novel coronavirus here on Monday. She was hospitalised at state’s premier medical Institute – Indira Gandhi Medical College.The Raj Bhawan spokesperson said after the development the governor has isolated himself and cancelled his appointments for the next few days. Four other staff members, including two cooks, a peon and female attendant in the governor’s house have also tested positive. All four have been isolated. Both the governor and his wife Vasantha had been administered two dose of the vaccine. “She has been hospitalised as a precautionary measure,” said senior medical superintendent Janak Raj Pakhretia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-3-546-fresh-infections-58-deaths-101621281311628.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||18+ vax launched in HP: 31% residents vaccinated, no vials wasted, says Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur launched a statewide vaccination drive for people in the 18 to 44 age bracket here on Monday. Approximately 31 lakh residents will be inoculated in the third phase of vaccination across the hill state. So far, 21,090 people have booked a slot on the CoWIN portal. As jabs to the 18 plus group will only be administered each Tuesday and Thursday, the next four dates of vaccination for the age bracket are May 20, 24, 27 and 31. Slots for the May 20 session will become visible on the application on May 18.1 lakh vials availableAsking the masses, particularly those in rural areas, to get the jab, the CM said, “Around 1,00,700 vials are available across 213 vaccination centres in the state. Hundred people will be vaccinated every day in each centre. So far, we have vaccinated 31% of the population. We are among the few states that have ensured 0% vaccine wastage.” He was speaking at the sidelines of an event organised at Government Senior Secondary School, Chotta Shimla. A total of 21,50,353 shots have been administered to the people of the state, the CM said.A good number of youngsters showed up on the first day of the vaccination drive. Shailja Pathania, a housewife. “We appreciate the efforts of the government as vaccination is the only way to protect us against the deadly virus “ said Shailja Pathania, a housewife.Enthusiasm ran high among the youngsters. “I was nervous about receiving the first dose, but it went well. I appeal all youngsters on my age group to get themselves vaccinated,” said Shivangi Thakur, 18, a student.The vaccination drive for health workers in the state had been launched on January 16, for frontline workers on February 2, for the ‘60 plus’ group and those aged between 45 and 60 with comorbidities on March 1 and for the 45 plus group on April 1. 90% patients in home isolationVirtually interacting with accredited social health activist (Asha) workers across the state, the CM urged them to ensure better coordination with Covid patients in home isolation so that their health condition could be monitored better. “Delay in shifting the Covid patients in home isolation to hospitals is one of the major causes for fatalities in the state. Since around 90% of Covid patients in the state are in home isolation, ASHA workers are the bridge between the patients and health department.” Govt concealing data: Cong chief Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee Chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore has expressed concern over the slow pace of the vaccination programme in the state. He asked that the government ramp up testing and the pace of vaccination for all eligible groups. Rathore said, “At the moment, the government is getting a large amount of relief material as well as money from abroad. The government should disclose where the money and the relief material is being used.The government is hiding figures pertaining to the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18-vax-launched-in-hp-31-residents-vaccinated-no-vials-wasted-says-jairam-101621281191534.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Virus claims record nine lives in Haryana’s Panchkula district||With nine patients succumbing to Covid-19 on Monday, Panchkula district recorded its highest death toll in a day since the outbreak last March. The number of fatalities has climbed to 294, with 140 logged during the second wave since April 1. The case fatality rate has climbed to 3.7%.Those dead included a 35-year-old man from Sector 19 besides three people in their 40s and one in the 50s. The remaining three were in the age group of 65-79.Meanwhile, 241 people tested positive for the virus, down from Sunday’s 285 cases. The district had hit the peak on May 5 with 654 cases.According to experts, there is around a two-week gap between the peak in cases and deaths, as critical patients tend to remain hospitalised for a longer time.Meanwhile, Mohali recorded 11 deaths while six people died in Chandigarh, taking the tricity’s total to 26, down from Sunday’s 30.The tricity’s cumulative infection tally stood at 1,750 on Monday, going up from 1,491 the previous day. Earlier, after hitting the peak with 2,612 cases on May 10, the number of cases had dropped down to 1,405 on May 15.The spike was largely due to Mohali district, which reported 889 cases on Monday, up from Sunday’s 542.Mohali city accounted for 242 cases, followed by 201 in Dhakoli, 130 in Kharar, 115 in Dera Bassi, 63 in Gharuan, 47 in Kurali, 26 in Boothgarh and eight in Banur. The district has reported 14,920 cases in May so far, as compared to 19,406 throughout April. However, with 938 patients being discharged, the active case load has come down to 8,657.In Chandigarh, 620 people tested positive, down from 664 on Sunday. The number of those recovered stood at 876, which brought down the number of active cases to 7,382. With more people being cured and discharged than those testing positive, the active case load of the tricity has dropped to 18,258 from peak of 24,201 on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-claims-record-nine-lives-in-haryana-s-panchkula-district-101621280413215.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s vaccine quota for 45-plus category dries up||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Punjab for the 45-plus age category has almost dried up for want of vaccine. Also, the state is yet to fully open vaccination drive for the 18-44 age category. According to reports from various districts, there was a hue and cry at most of the vaccination centres for the second consecutive day with a large number of people returning home without a jab. On Sunday, there were only 5,200 doses available for the 45-plus category, which, on Monday, came down to 4,200. Punjab is left with only a few hundred doses of Covishield and Covaxine that senior health officials say will suffice only for those seeking the second dose on Tuesday. Even as state government is left with around 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield for the 18-plus category, the quota has been reserved for families of health workers and the construction workers, falling in this age criteria. The Centre will send 75,000 doses for 45-plus category on Tuesday which are likely to reach the vaccination centres by the same evening. Director, health and family welfare, GB Singh, said because of the shortage of the vials, the vaccination for 44-plus category could not take place on Monday as well. State finally orders one-lakh Covaxine doses The Punjab government, which till now was dithering from purchasing Covaxine, on Monday booked an order of one-lakh doses with Bharat Biotech. Earlier, the focus of the government has been on purchasing Covishield from Serum Institute of India (SII) and it didn’t make purchase of Covaxine citing its high price and the availability of Covishield with almost same efficacy at much lower price. “Many other states booked both Covaxine and Covishield and their supplies from the private manufactures for the 18-plus category is better than ours,” a health department official said. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Hussan Lal, said Covaxine is being purchased for the employees working in different industrial units. “Many industrial units have requested us to make the purchase for which they will contribute,” said the principal secretary. He said the vaccine supply may be better ease in coming days as the private hospitals of the state are also likely to get 2-lakh doses by the end of this month. On Monday, deputy commissioners also asked the private hospitals which were inoculating the 45-plus category people to give their requirement by May 28. National vice-president of India Medical Association (IMA) Dr Navjot Dahiya said the state should speed-up efforts to provide vaccines to private hospitals as manufactures have expressed their inability to supply any directly to them at least for the next six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-vaccine-quota-for-45-plus-category-dries-up-101621280232824.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jakhar denies VB probe against party leaders||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Monday denied the rumours of vigilance probe against party leaders, asserting that there was no truth in them. Reacting to Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh’s charge of a threat call by the chief minister’s political secretary, Jakhar said that he (Pargat) was a role model for the youth and the party respected his sentiments. “The main agenda is to save the people from Covid-19 and to punish the perpetrators of sacrilege incidents that happened during the previous government,” the PPCC chief said, denying the vendetta politics charge. He said the Congress was against using the constitutional institutions to settle scores and it was unthinkable to do so against its own MLAs. ‘Sandhu says he made no threat call’ Jakhar also said that Capt Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to chief minister, himself had made it clear that he never made any threatening phone call to the legislator. “It appears to be more a case of misunderstanding than a threat. If he (Sandhu) made such a call and said those things at someone else’s behest, it is indeed a matter of probe,” he added. He also urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to investigate the propaganda regarding vigilance probes against party leaders as it was tarnishing the image of the party. These mischievous rumours were being spread to divert attention from the pandemic and bringing the culprits in sacrilege incidents to book by completing the probe quickly, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jakhar-denies-vb-probe-against-party-leaders-101621279873177.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||CM’s political secy threatened me over phone: Pargat Singh||The rift in the ruling Congress in Punjab took a nasty turn when party MLA Pargat Singh on Monday accused Capt Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, of threatening him for speaking his mind on the sacrilege and police firing cases. Pargat, who has been critical of his own government’s mishandling of the probe into these cases, alleged that Sandhu threatened him over the phone on Thursday night. “Sandhu said he was conveying the chief minister’s message that papers have been collected against me and I should be ready to face action. I asked him thrice whether the CM had told him to say these things and he (Sandhu) confirmed it,” the Jalandhar Cantonment MLA said at a press conference at his flat here. The two-time legislator said he told Sadhu to convey to the chief minister that he (Pargat) was ready to face any consequences. “I later even asked him if he has given my message to Capt, he confirmed that he has. If this is what one has to face for raising the sacrilege cases, power purchase agreements, illegal mining and probe into irrigation scam, so be it. I am ready to face any kind of probe. They can do whatever they want,” the former India hockey captain said, adding that he had informed Punjab Congress Sunil Jakhar about the threat call. While Sandhu did not respond to calls or text messages, no statement was issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO). Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa termed the incident as extremely distressing. “I stand with him (Pargat) and his democratic right to speak about issues affecting Punjab. This continuous attempt to browbeat party MLAs for raising their voice must stop,” he tweeted. The Congress MLA’s serious allegations have left the state government red faced. Considered close to former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Pargat has been critical of the Amarinder Singh government’s handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases. After a meeting the chief minister held with party MLAs three weeks ago, he had hit out at the state government, stating there was perception among the people that Amarinder and Badals were hand in glove. Both Sidhu and Pargat had also held a meeting with some ministers and MLAs critical of the chief minister which did not go down well with the CM’s camp. At his press conference, Pargat also said the threat call from the CM’s aide had left him dejected because he had never expected such a thing. He also raised questions over the vigilance probe initiated against close associates of Sidhu and the bid to rake up a two-and-a-half-years old case of alleged harassment of a woman IAS officer against cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi who has also been discontented over the legal setback in the Kotkapura police firing case. “The misuse of agencies for arm-twisting and carrying out political vendetta must be stopped. Such threats will not work. They need to give up such tactics,” Pargat said, calling BIS Chahal, adviser to CM, the de facto DG of the State Vigilance Bureau. The MLA also denied that there was any attempt by them to form a group or camp in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cms-political-secy-threatened-me-over-phone-pargat-singh-101621279751416.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclone Tauktae: Chandigarh to feel the impact too||The ripples of the Cyclone Tauktae, which is expected to hit Gujarat on Monday night, will be felt in the city with light rain up to 20mm likely on Tuesday, and moderate to heavy rain between 30mm and 70mm on Wednesday and Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The IMD has issued an orange alert for Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday for heavy rain and thunderstorms with gusty winds upto 50km/h. On Tuesday, the disturbance in weather is likely to start from the southern parts of Haryana and move towards Chandigarh. Orange is the second highest alert issued by the IMD, asking people to be prepared.Speaking about this, IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said, “Though the cyclone will break once it hits the coast of Gujarat, the circulations in the atmosphere will continue to move northwards owing to pressure differences. The winds, however, will be reduced in speed and are likely to go up to 50km/h. The activity will remain active in the city till Thursday and we can expect dry weather again from Friday onwards.”Sharp decline in temperature likelyThe maximum temperature is likely to remain around 27°C on Wednesday and Thursday. Even on Monday, the maximum temperature is likely to stay around 35°C due to cloudy weather and light rain of upto 20mm. The temperature will, however, start rising again from Friday onwards.The maximum temperature in the city went up from 39°C on Sunday to 40.7°C on Monday. The minimum temperature went up from 21.6°C on Sunday to 22.6°C on Monday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature is likely to remain between 35°C and 27°C, while the minimum temperature will remain between 22°C and 20°C.High western disturbance activity in city this yearBesides the cyclone, the region has also seen higher than average activity of western disturbances for this season. Speaking about this, IMD Chandigarh director AK Singh said, “What’s interesting is how these systems came one after the other in the past few days, which doesn’t happen around this time. We have had about six western disturbances affecting the region this year in April and May. Last year the number was around three.”Singh added that unlike the Indian monsoon, western disturbances are harder to predict: “They arise primarily due to temperature differences between the Arctic latitudes and the temperature latitudes. More such systems are expected in the season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cyclone-taukate-chandigarh-to-feel-the-impact-too-101621279511438.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Early-stage irrational use of steroids worsening Covid cases: PGI expert||At least 80% of the Covid-19 patients in the intensive care units (ICUs) of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) are on ventilators.Administration of steroids at an early stage of treatment, which is “totally avoidable”, is one of the key reasons, said Dr GD Puri, who is the head of the department of anaesthesiology and intensive care at PGIMER. Dr Puri on Monday shared with the UT administrator that the institute was getting most patients in critical condition, who were referred there from various district hospitals in the neighbouring states.The expert, who also heads the Covid-19 management committee of the premier tertiary care institute, said: “Most patients in PGIMER are critical and the first reason could be that they are reaching here late. Second, they have already been given treatments in district hospitals or are left untreated.”“The third reason, which we are observing, is the irrational use of steroids, which is proving fatal,” he said.Steroids are medications which are used for reducing inflammation. Calling their use a “double-edged sword”, Dr Puri said: “We do not give steroids to treat viral cases. However, it was in September last year when the UK’s recovery trial showed benefits for Covid patients who were given steroids.”But that does not mean that doctors can give steroids without using rationality, he said. “What’s happening is that local physicians are coming up with various theories; they think if there is shortage of oxygen beds or other medicines, then why not give steroids before the disease worsens,” said the expert.Steroids can prove fatal“What they don’t realise is that if given without hypoxia (a condition in which the body or a part of the body is deprived of adequate oxygen supply), it can be harmful or even fatal for a patient,” he said.Dr Puri said that they do not give steroids in the first phase when viral replication is happening, because it may stimulate the virus and exaggerate its harmful effects, like dropping of oxygen and interference with the immune system.He said that it’s in the later stages (second week) when a patient has hypoxia and there are after-effects of the infection like inflammation. At this stage, steroids are to be given but with proper caution.“The dosage, timings and stage at which steroids have to be given is very crucial. One can not just advise steroids. Also, long-term usage of steroids in Covid-19 patients can also lead to secondary infections like black fungus,” Dr Puri said. He said that a team of PGIMER had been regularly educating physicians in the region on the judicious use of steroids.Currently, there are 368 Covid cases at PGIMER, of which 95 belong to Chandigarh, 140 to Punjab, 62 to Haryana, 27 to Himachal Pradesh and 44 from other states. There are 78 ventilators in PGIMER, of which 67 were occupied till Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/earlystage-irrational-use-of-steroids-worsening-covid-cases-pgi-expert-101621279451552.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen quota for private hospitals hiked in Chandigarh||The quota of medical oxygen for private hospitals in Chandigarh has been increased, the UT health department has said.The daily quota of ‘D’ type cylinders at 10 private Covid-19 hospitals has been hiked from the existing 460 to 625. For mini Covid centres, the same has been increased from 5 to 50.A press statement issued by the department stated that a team of senior doctors from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi-specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, visited private and government hospitals in the city to educate the staff about optimum utilisation of oxygen.A considerable amount of oxygen has been saved by ensuring that there is no leakage in the oxygen pipelines and outlets. The guidelines to maintain the saturation at 94 instead of 100 are followed and by ensuring that the flow of oxygen is correct, as per the requirement of the patients.“The above series of efforts have resulted in a smooth supply of oxygen in the city. The consumption by some hospitals has considerably reduced because of efforts of optimum utilisation and conservation by check of wastage. Considering availability of sufficient oxygen, the quota of oxygen cylinders fixed for private hospital has been increased,” it adds.The central government has fixed the daily quota of 20MT of medical oxygen for UT, Chandigarh from M/s INOX Barotiwala. This medical oxygen is being utilised for GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and Sector 48 Covid hospital. Private healthcare institutions are also being catered to from this quota of oxygen. Additionally, three oxygen generation plants have been commissioned recently in these hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oxygen-quota-for-private-hospitals-hiked-in-chandigarh-101621279334884.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn caps rates for private ambulances||The Chandigarh administration has fixed the rates for private ambulances to prevent any overcharging from citizens for transporting patients within and outside the city.For example, for an ambulance with oxygen support, charges within the tricity have been fixed as ₹300 up to 20km and ₹12/km thereon.The order came into effect from May 17. Any breach of the order will invite action as per the law, which may include cancellation of the driving license of the ambulance driver and vehicle’s registration of certificate, impounding of the ambulance and imposition of penalty starting from minimum ₹50,000.Covid treatment charges re-notified Since there were complaints against private hospitals overcharging Covid-19 patients, the UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday directed the health department to again notify the approved rates for Covid treatment. Consequently, the health department issued directions to private hospitals reiterating the stipulated rates in different categories of patients and facilities.Hospital rates fixed in Panckula The Panchkula administration has fixed the per-day treatment charges for Covid patients at private hospitals.They rates vary for hospitals with and without national accreditation (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers).At non-NABH hospitals, isolation beds will cost ₹8,000 per day, ICU beds without ventilators ₹13,000 per day, and ICU beds with ventilators ₹15,000 per day.In case of JCI/NABH accredited hospitals, daily charge for isolation beds will be ₹10,000, ₹15,000 for ICU without ventilator care, ₹18,000 for ICU bed with ventilator.This package includes all treatments except remdesivir, tocilizumab and tests for Covid markers. The Covid helpline is 9817573779, 9817580716, 9817580549 and 9817588985.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-caps-rates-for-private-ambulances-101621279275506.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Overcharging: Probe panel indicts Zirakpur hospital||The three-member committee probing overcharging and other allegations against New Lifeline Hospital, Zirakpur, has found the latter to be at fault and recommended strict action.An inquiry was marked against the private hospital after a deceased patient’s family alleged overcharging by the hospital and denial to give the body without clearance of bills. The patient, Paramjit Singh, was suffering from severe pneumonia due to Covid-19 when he was admitted to the hospital on April 26. He died on May 14.The probe panel comprising the local sub-divisional magistrate, deputy superintendent of police, and senior medical officer on Monday submitted its report to the deputy commissioner, recommending strict action and booking the hospital authorities under sections 51 (b) and 58 of the National Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act.Grave lapses in medical recordsIn its report, the committee stated that there was overcharging and grave lapses in medical record management by the hospital authorities.The inquiry report mentioned the rates charged by the hospital to be “exorbitantly high”. It also said that the hospital didn’t have National Accredited Board of Hospitals (NABH) certification.The rates they are charging for an ICU bed with ventilator are not as per the norms issued by the Punjab government, the report stated.The claims made by the hospital that the patient was being treated as per medical protocols also fell flat as the hospital could not produce any treatment record of the patient. In fact, the entire medical record management system was found to be faulty.The hospital authorities’ argument that they had given LAMA (left against medical advice) to the patient’s family to shift the patient to another hospital could not be established as the hospital failed to produce any documentary evidence in this context. Even the basic Covid care guidelines like wearing of PPE kits by the sanitation staff were not adhered to, the report mentioned.Moreover, the panel was not provided with the stock register and the payment receipt records were also not maintained. No payee PAN detail entries were made for any transaction above ₹1 lakh.Hospital denies negligenceThe panel report reads, “New Lifeline Hospital Zirakpur failed to show before the committee NABH certificate, stock register, patient’s summary/ treatment record, LAMA summary/ discharged certificate. In view of above, it is ascertained that there was medical negligence on part of the hospital, and the only treating doctor, Munish Goel, cannot be ruled out as no record pertaining to treatment has been put herewith.”Even the behaviour of Dr Munish Goel, the only treating doctor of the hospital is not as per his profession, as he has been found to be very rude and violent towards patients and their attendants, the report adds.However, the hospital’s managing director, Parveer Goyal said they cooperated fully with the committee members and provided all the documents they required. “We are again saying that allegations levelled against us are baseless,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/overcharging-probe-panel-indicts-zirakpur-hospital-101621279211620.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||ASIs’ killing: Gangster Jaipal, aides were living on rent at NRI’s house for six months||Wanted by police for gunning down ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh in New grain market of Jagraon, gangster Jaipal Bhullar and his three accomplices were living at a rented accommodation in Kothe Baggu village of Jagraon for the past six months, it is learnt. The house belongs to a Canada-based NRI who had rented out a portion of the house to Jaipal and his aides and the rest to some other tenants. The villagers alerted the police after coming across the posters of the assailants. The villagers identified Baljinder Singh alias Babbi as one of the tenants and informed the police. The villagers also told the police that they had seen Babbi and others many times moving in and out of the house. The accused had not come to the house since the killing of the cops. The police searched the house and found some belongings of the assailants. Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Ludhiana Rural) Charanjit Singh Sohal said the police came to know that the accused shifted to the house in November 2020 and the owner didn’t go for police verification of the tenants. Search operation launched Police have initiated a search operation to locate Jaipal and his aides at Alamgir village and surrounding areas after an input that they were hiding there. The police cordoned off the village on Monday and sealed all the roads connecting the village. The search operation was on when the report was Monday late night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asis-killing-gangster-jaipal-aides-were-living-on-rent-at-nri-s-house-for-six-months-101621278551937.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dhindsa, Brahmpura launch Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt)||Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and former Lok Sabha member Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, who separated themselves from the Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) after the 2017 state polls, on Monday formed a new political party, Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). The two leaders jointly made the announcement at party’s office in Mohali. Dhindsa is president of the new outfit and Brahmpura is its patron. The new political outfit was formed after the dissolution of Brahmpura-led SAD (Taksali) and Dhindsa-led SAD (Democratic) on April 19, and according to a spokesperson of the party, the launch of the new oufit got delayed due to ongoing wave of the pandemic. “The organisation structure of the party will be announced soon,” said Dhindsa after a meeting with Brahmpura. Speaking to the media, Dhindsa asked SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal to clarify his party’s position on accepting donations worth ₹12 crore by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) from Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan who “supported” genocide of Sikhs in 1984. Bachchan donated ₹2 crore in cash and ₹10 crore in the form of diagnostic machines. Dhindsa also sought details of donors from Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and DSGMC. The party leadership also paid condolences to former Akal Takht jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti, former Akali Minister Inderjit Singh Zira, former journalist and MLA Jarnail Singh, Abay Singh Sandhu (nephew Shaheed Bhagat Singh), Sant Baba Chota Singh, former minister in the centre Raghunandan Lal Bhatia, along with other prominent persons who passed away recently. Former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, former MLA Justice (retd) Nirmal Singh, former finance minister Punjab Parminder Singh Dhindsa, former deputy speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha Bir Devinder Singh, former MP Bibi Paramjeet Kaur, AISSF president Karnail Singh Peermohammad, and former MLAs Jagdish Singh Garcha and Ranjit Singh Talwandi were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhindsa-brahmpura-launch-shiromani-akali-dal-sanyukt-101621278432216.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab School Education Board declares results of Classes 8, 10||The Punjab School Education Board on Monday declared results of classes 8 and 10 on the basis of a continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE) for the former and internal assessment for the latter. The results will be uploaded on the PSEB’s official website www.pseb.ac.in and www.indiaresults.com on Tuesday after 8am.In Class 10, 99.93% of students cleared the exam as out of the total 3,21,384 students, 3,21,163 passed. In Class 8, the pass percentage is 99.88% as out of the total 3,07,272 students, 3,06,894 have passed.Continuing the trend this year too, girls outshone boys in both the classes. In Class 10, the pass percentage of girls is 99.94%, while that of boys is 99.92%. In Class 8, the pass percentage of girls is 99.9%, and boys’ is 99.86%.PSEB chairperson Yograj said it was for the first time that the board had recorded a pass percentage of above 99% in both the classes. He said for the third consecutive year, government schools have performed far better than affiliated and associated schools. For Class 10, the pass percentage of government schools is 99.96%, while in affiliated schools, it is 99.89% and in associated schools, it is 99.85%.Similarly for Class 8, the pass percentage of government schools is 99.91%, while in affiliated and associated schools, it is 99.85% and 99.77%, respectively. In Class 10, Rupnagar district topped the state by scoring 99.99% pass percentage, followed by Bathinda with 99.97%. Tarn Taran district remained on the bottom with 99.89%.In Class 8, Tarn Taran topped the charts by achieving 99.97% pass percentage followed by Bathinda with 99.96%. Muktsar Sahib district remained on the bottom with 99.28%.If not satisfied with result , write to us: ChairmanPSEB chairman Yograj said that if a child is not satisfied with the result, he/she can write to the board and can take the theory exam once the normalcy returns. “For Class 10, they can write to us on matricsecrecy.pseb@punjab.gov.in and for Class 8, the email id is primarymiddle.pseb@punjab.gov.in,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-school-education-board-declares-results-of-classes-8-10-101621248070376.html
