19-05-2021||Chandigarh||2.28 lakh new Covid cases, 2.52 lakh recoveries in Haryana in May||Twenty-two patients in Karnal district battling with Covid-19 were among the 153 fatalities recorded in Haryana on Wednesday, pushing the fatality rate to 0.99% and death toll to 7,076, according to the health bulletin.The caseload of daily fresh cases continued registering improvement as 6,818 new cases were recorded despite 69,780 samples taken in last 24 hours across state.The positivity rate on Wednesday was 11.27% and the cumulative positivity rate 8.50%.Another bright spot of the fight against the virus was more people recovering from the infection than the fresh cases as on Wednesday 11,821 people recovering against 6,818 new cases.On Tuesday, Haryana recorded 7,774 fresh cases, 124 fatalities and 14,897 recoveries.This month, total recoveries have outnumbered the new cases. For instance, in last 19 days, the state recorded 2,28,529 new cases and 2,52,473 recoveries.The recovery began outnumbering new cases significantly in the past one week. The recovery rate has risen to 89.14% from 79.14% on April 30 and 78.70% on May 1.Fatalities took place in every district on Wednesday with Karnal recording 22 deaths, Gurugram 15, Hisar 14, Panipat 10, Faridabad and Ambala nine each, Bhiwani eight, Rohtak, Jind and Kaithal seven each, Sonepat and Yamunanagar six each, Rewari and Fatehabad five each, Panchkula and Sirsa four each, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar and Nuh three each, Mahendergarh, Palwal and Charkhi Dadri two each.The active cases till Wednesday stood at 70,758 while positive cases in home isolation came down to 63,052.Among the fresh cases Gurugram recorded 1,161 cases, Faridabad 435, Sonepat 492, Hisar 565, Ambala 199, Karnal 270, Panipat 407, Rohtak 326, Rewari 283, Panchkula 378, Kurukshetra 145, Yamunanagar 278, Sirsa 249, Mahendergarh 375, Bhiwani 115, Jhajjar 274, Palwal 153, Fatehabad 227, Kaithal 82, Jind 238, Nuh 46 and Charkhi Dadri 120.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/228-lakh-new-covid-cases-2-52-lakh-recoveries-in-haryana-in-may-101621444426488.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Exploring possibility of Sputnik V production in Haryana: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, during a press conference Wednesday, said that he spoke to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to explore the possibility of Sputnik V vaccine manufacture in Haryana.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is in a pact with the Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell 250 million vials of Sputnik V in India. He said Union minister Nitin Gadkari has suggested that more pharma companies should be allowed to make Covid vaccine in country. “Haryana will explore if there can be tie-ups with companies like Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India that manufacturing vaccines in India to scale up production,” he said.‘SCALING UP TESTING IN VILLAGES’The Haryana government has stepped up testing in rural areas to check Covid spread. Dushyant said that the idea is to screen as many as people as possible after reports that despite showing symptoms people are reluctant to get checked.The JJP leader dismissed Opposition leaders’ claims that there was under-reporting of Covid deaths in rural areas. “Testing has now been scaled up. All DCs have been directed in this regard and rapid antigen testing and RT-PCR tests are being done. Testing capacity has also been increased,” he said.‘REFRAIN FROM STEPPING OUT IN VIEW OF TAUKTAE’Dushyant urged people to stay vigilant over the next 48 hours and refrain from stepping out in view of Tauktae.Dushyant said according to the MeT department, the flow of storm is moving towards Haryana via Gujarat and Rajasthan, and speed of the storm can move up to 50km/hr in most districts of Haryana from Wednesday afternoon to Thursday evening.DCs of all districts have been instructed to conduct regular monitoring. Instructions have been given to make arrangements in order to ensure that there is no loss of life and property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exploring-possibility-of-sputnik-v-production-in-haryana-dushyant-101621444234884.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana deputy CM says cyclone Tauktae approaching state, urges people to stay indoors for next 48 hrs||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday alerted the people of his state regarding the storm "Tauktae", saying it is headed towards the state. He urged the people to stay vigilant during the next 48 hours and not step out of their homes for their safety, an official statement said here.According to the Meteorological Department, the flow of the storm is moving towards Haryana through Gujarat, Rajasthan and its speed can move up to 50 kilometers per hour in most districts of the state from Wednesday to Thursday evening.All Deputy Commissioners have been instructed to conduct regular monitoring, Chautala said.Instructions have been given to make arrangements in order to ensure that there is no loss of life and property in any district, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-deputy-cm-says-cyclone-tauktae-approaching-state-urges-people-to-stay-indoors-for-next-48-hrs-101621438392959.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||GS Bajpai is new V-C of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala||GS Bajpai has been appointed as the vice-chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL), Patiala. Punjab and Haryana High Court chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha, who is the RGNUL chancellor, selected Bajpai from a panel of three names suggested by the search committee formed in October 2020. Bajpai will assume charge on Friday for a tenure of five years. Also read: When to take Covid vaccine after recovery? After 3 months, says CentreProfessor of criminology and criminal justice With more than 30 years of professional experience as an author, researcher, teacher and administrator, Bajpai is at present professor of criminology and criminal justice (law); chair professor at KL Arora Chair in Criminal Law at National Law University, Delhi; and chairperson of the Centre for Criminology and Victimology. He has served as the registrar of National Law University, Delhi, between 2014 and 2021. Bajpai is a member secretary of the Committee of Criminal Law Reforms, appointed by the ministry of home affairs. Promoting research to benefit legal system When contacted, Bajpai said that he will focus on making RGNUL a top research institute. “A university can serve in the best way by doing research on policy issues and submit it, which will enable the legal system, administration, and other stakeholders to bring reforms for better results for citizens. My aim is to promote such research that will benefit the legal system, policy makers and public. I will promote student and faculty initiatives in research,” he said. He said faculty development programmes will also be priority to create quality human resource. “We need to train the faculty according to international standards,” Bajpai said. On the task assigned by the Union home ministry, he said that the report of the Committee of Criminal Law Reforms is almost ready and will be submitted soon. “It got delayed because of the Covid lockdown,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gs-bajpai-is-new-v-c-of-rajiv-gandhi-national-university-of-law-patiala-101621423414483.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||AIIMS nurses back in Bathinda after complaint of poor facilities in Patiala||After 50 male nursing officers of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bathinda, exposed the pathetic hostel accommodation allotted to them in Patiala, the Punjab department of medical education and research on Wednesday relieved them of their services and sent them back to their parent institute. The nursing officers from AIIMS, Bathinda, reached Patiala three days ago and were deployed in the Covid wing of the government medical college with Rajindra Hospital. Also read: Delhi Covid-19 cases fall to 3.8K first time after April 5, positivity rate dipsHowever, they found that the college had made poor arrangements for their accommodation. They were put up at the State Physical Education College that has not been maintained. Besides the poor sanitation, the nurses complained of substandard meals in the hostel mess. The nursing officers went on a hunger strike to protest the poor quality of food at the hostel mess, but they kept working in the isolation isolation wards of the hospital. Mukesh Kumar, a nursing officer, said: “Fans were not working in a room where four nurses were asked to stay together. Washrooms were not in a working condition as fittings were broken.” The staff claimed that senior officials from the medical college and district administration assured them of resolving the matter soon. “Despite such deplorable conditions, we continued working in the Covid wards. However, on Wednesday, we were asked to leave the medical college and rejoin AIIMS, Bathinda,” the staffer said. Medical college principal Dr Rajan Singla said talks were held with the nursing staff and they were assured that the issue will be looked into, but they continued to protest. “The matter was taken up with secretary-level officials of the department. It was decided to relieve them from their services,” Dr Singla said. He added that they have informed the authorities that the medical college is available with ample nursing staff, which can take over responsibilities of the male nursing staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aiims-nurses-back-in-bathinda-after-complaint-of-poor-facilities-in-patiala-101621419618714.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Assocham to hold samwaad with MSMEs in Haryana on May 21||Non-governmental trade association Assocham will kick off a micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) samwaad (dialogue) in Haryana on May 21. The series will subsequently be held in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Union minister of state for MSMEs Pratap Chandra Sarangi and Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala will address the Haryana samwaad virtually in view of the Covid protocol. Also read: India makes the first move on trade and investment agreement with EUThe series is an attempt to channelise all MSMEs of the North towards productive growth as only such enterprises have the potential to get the country’s pandemic-hit economy back on track, the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) said in a release on Wednesday. Assocham president Vineet Agarwal said a report on the roadmap to aatmanirbhar Haryana will also be launched. “MSMEs can play a vital role in making India self-reliant,” he said. “Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream to make India aatmanirbhar, Assocham has started this MSME samwaad series in the northern states as we believe that MSMEs can play a vital role in making India a $5 trillion economy.” Assocham secretary general Deepak Sood said the series will provide a platform to MSMEs to discuss their plans, innovations and problems. The samwaad will be followed by an awards function. The awards will be finalised by the jury and announced on the digital platform during the event. Vijay Sharma, the chairman of Assocham Haryana Development Council, said the state has emerged as a hub for MSMEs in the past decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assocham-to-hold-samwaad-with-msmes-in-haryana-on-may-21-101621418117762.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Seven children orphaned due to Covid in Himachal: CM||Seven children have been orphaned due to the Covid-19 pandemic in Himachal Pradesh and the state government will take care of them, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has announced. Thakur said in Shimla on Tuesday that the state government will provide ₹2,500 every month as financial assistance for the maintenance of each such child living with extended families till the age of 18 years. Also read: Govt lays out procedure to rehabilitate children who lost parents to CovidAll seven children orphaned due to Covid-19 in the state are living with their extended families. He said the government had approached their guardians, but they refused to send the children to childcare institutions. “Directions have been issued to field officers to initiate action immediately for placing them under foster care and provide ₹2,500 monthly assistance to each,” Thakur said. Grant for kids to continue online education The chief minister said the government recently took steps for the care and protection of children amid the pandemic. Children enrolled in childcare institutions, who have been temporarily restored to their families due to the closure of schools amid the pandemic, will be provided ₹2,000 a month to enable them to continue their online education. At present, 598 children are being benefitted under this scheme. He said oximeters, thermometers and thermal scanners have been provided to all childcare institutions and employees working in these institutions have been declared frontline workers for vaccination. Under the Mother Teresa Asahay Maitri Sambal Yojana, an annual assistance of ₹6,000 a child is being provided to widows for the maintenance of two children up to the age of 18 years. Families whose annual income does not exceed ₹35,000 are covered under this scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-in-himachal-cm-101621404736855.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records its deadliest day as 231 succumb to virus||Punjab on Tuesday registered a record 231 deaths due to Covid, pushing the toll to 12,317, while 7,143 fresh cases took the tally to 5,11,652, according to a medical bulletin. While 34 deaths were reported from Bathinda, 21 from Ludhiana, 19 each from Muktsar and Patiala and 16 from Amritsar, among the fatalities witnessed in the past 24 hours. Ludhiana reported the maximum 991 cases, followed by 754 in Bathinda, 717 in Mohali and 663 in Jalandhar, among fresh cases. The state’s single-day recoveries, which were registered at 8,174, again surpassed the single-day infections of 7,143. The number of active cases also dropped from 73,616 on Monday to 72,277, revealed the bulletin. The state’s positivity rate stood at 11.51%, it said. With 8,174 recoveries, the number of those recovered reached 4,27,058, the bulletin stated. There are 422 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 1,213 other critical patients and 8,202 are on oxygen support, it said. A total of 83,37,236 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, Chandigarh registered 526 cases, taking the count to 56,513, according to a medical bulletin. Tuesday’s single-day cases were lower than 620 registered on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-its-deadliest-day-as-231-succumb-to-virus-101621369096486.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt’s detractors refuse to fight down, Rawat steps in to limit damage||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh came under fresh fire from his detractors within the state cabinet and the party who questioned the tactics to allegedly “browbeat” them and met at a cabinet minister’s residence on Tuesday to discuss their future strategy. The fresh shots were fired by former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh amid a damage-control exercise by All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. The state in-charge, who spoke to cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Bajwa and Pargat among others on Monday evening and Tuesday, had asked them to hold their fire, according to sources. Bajwa, Randhawa, Pargat were among more than half-a-dozen party leaders who met at Channi’s official residence and then spoke out. The common theme of their attacks was the attempt to rake up a two-and-a-half-years-old harassment allegation by a woman IAS officer against Channi and the threat call by a political aide of the chief minister to Pargat. Both Channi and Pargat have been critical of the state government’s handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases. The former had also held a meeting of about a dozen SC and OBC MLAs on unfulfilled poll promises which did not go down well with the CM’s camp. ‘5 ministers, 7 MLAs met at Channi’s house’ Bajwa, a strident critic of Amarinder, said they would not let the vigilance or any other agency to threaten or browbeat the ministers, MLAs and other party leaders who are speaking up in the interest of the Congress. “A threat is a serious offence and the CM has not issued any clarification even after 24 hours and then the attempt to rake up an old issue against the minister. This is not done. No one is scared and these tactics will not succeed,” he said, putting the number of those present in the meeting at five ministers and seven MLAs without disclosing their names. He said the government was targeting its own party MLAs when it should have probed the scams that took place during the previous Badal government. Bajwa said Rawat told him that they (central leadership) were watching and would do something very soon. “The high command should send a representative and convene a meeting of 80 MLAs, 11 MPs and 37 candidates who didn’t make it to the state assembly. I have conveyed this to central leaders. We don’t want leadership change but a course correction before it is too late,” he said. Sidhu says threat shows insecurity Sidhu, who has been breathing fire against the CM ever since the state government suffered a legal setback in the Kotkapura police firing case, said the threat to party colleagues exhibited fear and insecurity. “Ministers, MLAs and MPs raising people’s issues are strengthening the party, fulfilling their democratic duty and exercising their constitution right…but everyone who speaks the truth becomes your enemy. Thus, you threaten your party colleagues, exhibiting your fear and insecurity,” the former minister tweeted with a video clip of his friend Pargat’s press conference. Randhawa, Pargat slam women commission chief Both Randhawa and Pargat hit out at the Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati for her threat to stage a dharna and go to the Congress high command if the state government failed to submit a reply to a letter sent on the 2018 matter against Channi in which there was no complaint. “She holds a constitutional position and this is very unfortunate,” said Randhawa. Pargat, a former India hockey captain, also said that the commission chairperson should have known better and not acted in the manner she did. Channi had also planned a press conference on Tuesday but called it off after Rawat intervened. However, there was no official response from the chief minister or his advisers on the threat charge and the detractors’ continuous attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capts-detractors-refuse-to-fight-down-rawat-steps-in-to-limit-damage-101621368854729.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Positivity rate 6% higher in urban areas, Punjab tells HC||The Punjab government on Tuesday told the high court that the case positivity rate in urban areas is 16% against 9.9% in rural areas in the month of May, so far. At present, there are 50,234 active cases in urban areas and 20,854 in rural areas, the government told the court. These submissions were made during resumed hearing of a plea in which court is monitoring Covid-19 management in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The government told court that 4.7 lakh samples were taken in urban areas and 3.2 lakh in rural areas out of which 75,308 people in urban area and 31,978 in rural areas tested positive. The court was further told that facilities to treat non-critical patients are being uniformly created in urban and rural areas and government has decided to add 2,000 more such beds.On vaccination, the court was told that it has placed an order of 30 lakh doses with Serum Institute of India out of which 4.29 lakh will be delivered by month-end. The state has also ordered 1.19 lakh Covaxin doses, same are also to be made available by month-end, the court was informed, adding that the vaccine wastage in state was 4.17%. ‘Mandatory jabs need deliberations’ Punjab has also told the court that there are provisions to make vaccination compulsory for government employees. “Any policy decision on whether mandatory vaccination is required need more deliberations at various levels to evolve a criteria of outlining the population upon whom it can be made mandatory,” the state told the court. Issue of faulty ventilators addressed: Centre to HC The Centre on Tuesday told the court that all help is being rendered to two states and Chandigarh in Covid-19 management. As many as 675 ventilators have been allotted to Punjab, 548 to Haryana and 65 to Chandigarh. “If a complaint regarding any fault in the ventilator is received, the same is immediately attended to. An effort is being made to ensure that most of them remain functional,” the court was told. The Centre had responded to allegations from Punjab that 90% of ventilators it got under PM Cares Fund were faulty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/positivity-rate-6-higher-in-urban-areas-punjab-tells-hc-101621368434821.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||BJP veteran Chaman Lal dies at 87||Known for championing the cause of Jammu region, a Messiah for the poor and downtrodden and a true philanthropist, veteran BJP leader Prof Chaman Lal Gupta passed away on Tuesday morning at his Gandhi Nagar residence here. He was 87. He is survived by two sons and a daughter Prof Gupta, an alumni of GGM Science College in Jammu and Allahabad University, had tested positive for Covid and was successfully treated at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality hospital. “He had tested positive on May 5 and returned from hospital on Sunday after successful treatment. His condition suddenly deteriorated in the wee hours of Tuesday,” said a family member of the leader. Prof Gupta was Union minister of state, ministry of civil aviation, between October 13, 1999 and September 1, 2001, MoS (independent charge), ministry of food processing industries (September 1, 2001 to June 30, 2002) and MoS for defence (July 1, 2002 to 2004). Born in Jammu on April 13, 1934, the BJP veteran was not in good health for the last couple of years as he was suffering from various ailments. The deceased leader had an illustrious political career spanning over five decades after he became a member of the J&K legislative assembly for the first time in 1972. He was again a member of J&K assembly between 2008 and 2014. He was elected to the 11th Lok Sabha from Udhampur constituency of Jammu in 1996 and re-elected to 12th and 13th Lok Sabha in 1998 and 1999. An author of three books in Hindi and a two-time J&K BJP president, he had completed his MSc from GGM Science College Jammu and Allahabad University. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter and posted his condolences. “Shri Chaman Lal Gupta Ji will be remembered for numerous community service efforts. He was a dedicated legislator and strengthened the BJP across Jammu and Kashmir. Pained by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of grief. Om Shanti,” he tweeted. BJP national chief JP Nadda wrote, “Shocked to hear about the demise of BJP leader and former Union Minister prof Chaman Lal Gupta Ji. He played an important role in strengthening the party in Jammu & Kashmir...”. Lieutenant Governor of J&K, Manoj Sinha, also paid rich tributes to Chaman Lal Gupta. “Deeply pained to hear about the passing away of former union minister, Prof Chaman Lal Gupta Ji... he will always be remembered for his immense contribution towards welfare of the people.,” the office of the Lt Governor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-veteran-chaman-lal-dies-at-87-101621368256156.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Killing of ASIs: ₹19 lakh reward announced for info on gangster Jaipal, 3 aides||Police have announced a cash reward of ₹19 lakh for providing information on gangster Jaipal Bhullar and three of his accomplices who allegedly killed two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) of the crime investigation agency (CIA) in Jagraon town of Ludhiana district on May 15. The identity of the informer will be kept a secret, the police said.  ₹10 lakh was announced on Jaipal Bhullar, ₹5 lakh on Jaspreet Singh of Kharar and ₹2 lakh each was announced Balwinder Singh, alias Babbi of of Moga and Darshan Singh of of Ludhiana, an official said. Following a tip-off, the police conducted a search operation at Alamgir and surrounding villages in search of the accused. The cops have rounded up some people allegedly having links with the gangster.Ludhiana senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sohal said raids are on to nab the accused. Jaipal along with his accomplices had allegedly gunned down ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh in the new grain market of Jagraon and fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/killing-of-asis-rs-19-lakh-reward-announced-for-info-on-gangster-jaipal-3-aides-101621368134671.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||37-year-old resident doctor at GMC Patiala dies of Covid||Dr Rajan Singh, a 37-year-old senior resident at Government Medical College, Patiala, succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in the city on Tuesday. Dr Singh, who was from the department of surgery, was posted at isolation ward of GMC. He was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the private hospital after contracting infection on April 30. He was from Banga of SBS Nagar district and is survived by his wife, a son and parents.In a letter to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, GMC’s resident doctors’ association asked the state government to bear ₹12 lakh expenses incurred on his treatment and provide immediate financial help to the family. Dr Nitin Chhabra, president of the association, said Dr Rajan contracted the deadly virus while serving patients selflessly. “Dr Rajan was the sole breadwinner of his family. It would be very difficult for family to bear cost of his treatment. We want the government to stand by the families of our colleagues who lost their lives,” Dr Chhabra said.Patiala MP Preneet Kaur condoled the death, saying as a senior resident he had been at the forefront of the battle against the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/37yearold-resident-doctor-at-gmc-patiala-dies-of-covid-101621368076027.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Banning Sikh children from wearing kirpan in Oz schools unfortunate: SGPC||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday said the decision of imposing ban on wearing ‘kirpan’ by Sikh children in public schools in Australia’s New South Wales state was unfortunate as it is against religious freedom. In a press statement, SGPC president Jagir Kaur said the ban will come into effect from Wednesday (May 19). “The ban was imposed following an incident at a Sydney school on May 6 when a 14-year-old Sikh student who was bullied injured another student with his kirpan. The government there should have taken proper advice from the representative bodies of the Sikh community before deciding to imposing ban. It is one of the five symbols of Sikhism,” she said. She said it is believed that the education minister had an online meeting with two members of the Sikh community when she informed them about the ban. However, no discussion was held with the Sikh community before the decision was taken, she added. “The decision has deeply hurt the sentiments of Sikhs at home and abroad and is being widely opposed. Kirpan is worn in schools all over the world without any incident and the Sikh community needs to be cautious while taking lessons from the latest school incident in New South Wales,” the gurdwara body chief added. “The SGPC urges the Indian government and the Indian ambassador to Australia to take up the matter with the Australian authorities and make efforts for revoking this decision. We will soon write to the governments of India and Australia in this regard,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/banning-sikh-children-from-wearing-kirpan-in-oz-schools-unfortunate-sgpc-101621368074838.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||71 die, 3,967 test positive for Covid in J&K||As many 71 people lost their lives to Covid-19 on Tuesday in Jammu and Kashmir taking May’s fatalities to 1,011 and overall death toll to 3,293.The UT also recorded 3,967 fresh infections in the past 24 hours, pushing the overall cases to 2, 51,919.Officials said with 666 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 522 in Jammu district, 454 in Budgam, 272 in Udhampur and 196 in Baramulla. The number of active cases has reached 50,925, officials said. Officials said nearly 3,823 patients have recovered, including 2,463 from Kashmir and 1,360 from Jammu. As many as 1,97,701 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 78.47% Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole, meanwhile, said the rate of Covid cases has plunged by 10-12% during the past few days in Valley.He said that still there are chances that the mortality rate will remain the same or increase in the next few days. “The demand for oxygen beds has also eased out as more beds have been added at all dedicated hospitals,” he added. He said that Kashmir is in a comfortable position with five oxygen manufacturing plants while 20 more oxygen generation units have been installed at different hospitals in Kashmir.“The J & K government has placed an order of 1.2 crore vaccine doses. However, there can be difficulty as other states have also placed orders,” he said. “Despite that, vaccination of 45+ age group is going on in full swing and the rate in J&K is 61% against the 33% national rate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/71-die-3-967-test-positive-for-covid-in-jk-101621367955968.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Raging Indian variant, delay in hospitalisation contributing to Jammu’s high death rate||Rapid increase of the infectious B.1.617 variant, delay in hospitalisation of critical patients, only one major referral hospital for 10 districts of Jammu region and reluctance to get tested besides inappropriate Covid behaviour are the key reasons behind the sudden surge in Covid deaths in Jammu, experts have suggested. An analysis of official data from May 8 to May 18 (Tuesday) shows that Jammu region has recorded 435 Covid deaths as compared to 246 in Kashmir. Till Tuesday, Jammu district had recorded a death toll of 862 — highest among all 20 districts of J&K. The date-wise data of Covid deaths in Jammu also projects a scary picture. Forty-two people died on May 8, 32 on May 9, 39 on May 10, 41 on May 11, 46 on May 12, 35 on May 13, 39 on May 14, 37 on May 15, 31 on May 16, 54 on May 17 and 39 died on May 18. The data also showed that from May 8 to May 17, 24,618 new positive cases were recorded in Kashmir against 16,380 in Jammu. Principal of the GMC Jammu, Dr Shashi Sudan Sharma, said, “Cases of B.1.617 variant have gone up in Jammu and our mortality rate is higher than Kashmir’s. Higher positivity rate of Kashmir and lower positivity in Jammu has no correlation because people in Jammu are not coming forward for getting tested.” “A fear may have crept into them and they are not coming forward for Covid tests. However, at our GMC testing lab, the positivity rate is above 30%, which means one third of the patients tested in our lab are Covid positive,” she added. Dr Sharma further said that there are entire families and homes in Jammu, which are Covid positive. “We are just seeing a tip of the iceberg in Jammu in terms of positivity rate, which is much higher,” she added. The B.1.617 variant’s transmissibility is 22 times higher than other variants. In March, routine sequencing of positive samples from Jammu had reported that 60% had UK variant. In April, the percentage of UK variant dropped to 47% and B.1.617 increased from 5.8% to 38% and it is believed that the Indian variant has now overtaken UK variant in Jammu division. Experts feel that by now, it might have gone over 50% in Jammu. The genome sequencing was done by NCDC. Dr Sharma emphasised upon following Covid apt behaviour and described it as the only option available to contain the spread of contagion. “Covid apt behaviour is indispensable because this virus is very virulent. It should not be allowed to enter our body, but if contracted, then one must go into home isolation and monitor the oxygen saturation levels and fever. If the health deteriorates and oxygen saturation level drops below 90%, then one should immediately report to a hospital,” she added. However, she regretted that critical patients were reaching late to the hospitals. “25%-30% patients are being brought dead to us from Rajouri, Kathua and other places. Who is to be blamed? The virus is changing its character. Three doctors died of it… this variant is highly virulent and mutating, but people are not realising the gravity of the situation. If virus continues to spread like this, then we may not know how many new mutants will generate,” she added. She also rued that during 6am to 10am relaxation, people were overcrowding vegetable markets, grocery stores, bakery and milk shops. “That is why virus is multiplying and there are more deaths. That’s why there is no breather in admissions as well as deaths in Jammu,” she added. It may also be stated here that GMC Jammu is the only major referral hospital for the all 10 districts of the vast and hilly region unlike Kashmir, which has four major referral hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raging-indian-variant-delay-in-hospitalisation-contributing-to-jammu-s-high-death-rate-101621367954870.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Another deadliest day in Himachal claims 78 lives||Himachal Pradesh recorded another deadliest day on Tuesday as 78 patients succumbed to the coronavirus infection, taking the death count in the state to 2,447. This is highest number of fatalities after Sunday when 70 people lost their lives.Highest 23 deaths were reported in Hamirpur followed by 15 in Kangra and 10 in Solan. Mandi reported eight fatalities while seven people died in Sirmaur, three each in Kullu and Una, two in Chamba and one in Kinnaur.The case fatality ratio in the state is 1.46%.Meanwhile, state’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,66,678 with 2,892 more people detected positive. Of the new cases, 942 were reported in Kangra, 351 in Shimla, 314 in Mandi, 259 in Solan, 222 in Bilaspur, 174 in Una, 172 in Chamba, 143 in Sirmaur, 123 in Hamirpur, 106 in Kullu, 67 in Kinnaur and 19 in Lahaul-Spiti.The active cases in the state have come down to 34,888 as recoveries climbed up to 1,29,315 after 4,559 people recuperated.The state has recorded more recoveries than the positive cases on third consecutive day. The recovery rate has once again touched 77%.Meanwhile, Kangra remains the worst hit district with 37,101 infections and is followed by Mandi with 22,627 cases and Shimla 21,211 cases.Solan has total 19,344 cases, Sirmaur 12,814, Hamirpur 11,724, Una 10,795, Bilaspur 10,420, Chamba 8,290 , Kullu 7,502, Kinnaur 2,443 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,407. 200-bed makeshift Covid health centre comes up at Mandi’s KhaliyarHimachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday inaugurated a makeshift dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) on Radha Soami Satsang Beas premises in Mandi’s Khaliyar.This hospital has 200 fully oxygenated beds, 20-bed critical patients ward, central oxygen supply with two 20x20 oxygen manifold. The centre also has separate washrooms, lounge for patients, fire safety arrangements and purified drinking water facility for patients. It has 16 CCTVs and power backup besides on-spot lab facility which would be manned by 140 health personnel.Thakur said this makeshift hospital would go a long way in providing better healthcare facilities to Covid-19 patients. He said that another pre-fabricated hospital with 100 beds was also coming up at Bhangrotu.The CM said to cope with the ever-increasing demand of beds for Covid patients, the state government has constructed pre-fabricated Covid hospitals at Shimla, Kangra and Nalagarh. He said that similar hospital was also coming up at Ner Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-deadliest-day-in-himachal-claims-78-lives-101621367895026.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||These six volunteers have cremated 1.5K Covid victims in Ludhiana till now||A team of six volunteers, working tirelessly in coordination with the district administration, has cremated over 1,590 Covid victims since the pandemic began last year.Mandeep Guddu, Gurpreet Singh, Charanjit Singh, Harvinder Singh Amrit, Shivam Kumar and advocate Gopal Singh were initially part of the traffic marshal project launched last year and later came together after seeing family members step away from performing the last rites of their loved ones.“We pray every day that the situation goes back to normal at the earliest and the grim scenario at the cremation grounds ends,” the team said, which has been working at the cremation grounds in Model Town Extension and the one situated near Arora Palace on Gill Road.As seen in a heart-rending video, which has gone viral on social media, the volunteers broke down seeing the large number of bodies being cremated. They say it has not been an easy task for them, but they continue to perform the service as it gives them inner peace. Leading the group, Mandeep Guddu said, “I decided to volunteer after a video went viral in April last year, in which the family members of a Shimlapuri-based woman, including her son, refused to cremate her body. It felt like humanity was dying, so I decided to step forward. Soon after, my friends and colleagues under the traffic marshal program joined hands. We also participated in the cremation of ACP Anil Kohli.”Worried about their families’ safetyThe volunteers said it was not easy to convince their families and take permission from the administration. They also had to ensure the safety of their families.“I had isolated myself for three days after cremating the first victim in April last year. Even now, we take a two-hour break before moving back to our houses. I own a restaurant in the Haibowal area and my business also got affected as customers started avoiding my eatery,” said Mandeep.Speaking of the grim situation, advocate Gopal Singh, who also got infected last year, said, “We cremated 19 bodies a day at the peak of the first wave last year. But, for the last few weeks, we have been regularly cremating over 20 bodies. Over 40 bodies were cremated at three cremation grounds - Model Town Extension, Barewal and one near Dana Mandi in a day recently.”While the municipal corporation had earlier announced that the volunteers will be employed on DC minimum wages rates, but nothing official has been done in this regard yet.Wearing PPE kits in searing heat a challengeThe volunteers stated that cremating the bodies was not an easy task while wearing PPE kits. Two of the volunteers - Harvinder Singh and Shivam Kumar, fainted last week at the Dana Mandi cremation ground due to excessive heat.With the rising number of deaths, their work sometimes continues from 8am to 11pm and many times, they work in shifts to alleviate pressure and to look after their businesses and families.Gopal said, “It is difficult to watch a large number of bodies being cremated at once and sometimes, the relatives do not even come forward to perform the last rites.”Mandeep said, “We try to involve one family member in the cremation process and make sure that they also wear a PPE kit. We generally try to convince residents to cremate their loved ones at the gas crematorium at Model Town Extension, as there is excessive heat in the open. But, often residents remain adamant on traditional cremations.”Humanity above everything elseShivam Kumar, 22, left his job at a pharmaceutical company in Dugri to join the team. Kumar said he was being paid ₹15,000 per month and his family also opposed his decision initially. But, he desperately wanted to join this voluntary service to serve humanity.Harvinder Singh Amrit, 21, lost his job at a garment store last year and said he was looking for employment, but will continue his service till the pandemic ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/these-six-volunteers-have-cremated-1-5k-covid-victims-in-ludhiana-till-now-101621367417093.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two highway robbers who targeted truck drivers arrested in Ludhiana||Police have arrested two highway robbers, who used to snatch money and mobile phones from truck drivers to meet their need of drugs.As many as five mobile phones, two stolen motorcycles, sharp-edged weapons and ₹2,500 in cash has been recovered from the possession of the accused, Randhir Singh, alias Dheera, 30, and Paras, both from Phillaur.“The duo was arrested during special checking on National Highway-44 on Monday night. They were coming from Phillaur on a two-wheeler and tried to escape after spotting a police check post, but were nabbed,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh.“During questioning, the accused revealed that they used to rob truck drivers on the highway to make easy money for drugs. After committing the crime, they would to flee to Phillaur. They had robbed two truck drivers on Sunday night as well,” the ACP added.Inspector Gopal Kishan, SHO, Salem Tabri police station, said Randhir was a farmer, while Paras was a driver. “The former is facing trial in at least 13 cases of snatching and drug peddling, while Paras has three FIRs lodged against him,” he said.They have been booked under Sections 379-B (theft) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. A local court on Tuesday sent the accused to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-highway-robbers-who-targeted-truck-drivers-arrested-in-ludhiana-101621367355917.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt announces ₹10-lakh grant for villages achieving 100% vaccination target||To incentivise villages to give up vaccine hesitancy, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced a special development grant of ₹10 lakh to every village that achieves 100% vaccination target under the Punjab government’s “Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyan”. Appealing to sarpanches and panches across the state to lead their villages in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, Amarinder urged them to motivate the people to undergo testing even in case of mild symptoms, and to get themselves vaccinated. The chief minister was interacting virtually with village panchayats represented by more than 2,000 heads/members across over 4,000 live locations in rural areas of the state through LED screens. The CM informed them that the government had already sanctioned permission for sarpanches to utilise up to ₹5,000 per day from panchayat funds for emergency Covid treatment. Underlining the need to sensitise the rural population about the harmful effects of coronavirus and the importance of early detection and treatment to save precious lives, the CM said this could only be done through special awareness campaigns. Amarinder asked the panchayats to organise special medical camps and to rope in the services of ex-servicemen, who had fought several wars during their active service career and were now part of the state’s fight against the pandemic. He asked the sarpaches and panches to start “theekri pehra” in their villages to prevent infected persons from coming in and also distribute “Fateh Kits” to every person who tests positive, besides ensuring proper treatment in case oxygen saturation level goes below 94%. He also urged the people living in villages to immediately quarantine themselves in case of any symptoms, and get themselves tested to ensure early detection of the infection. Earlier, rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa requested the panchayat members to come forward to support the government’s endeavour to control the Covid situation. He also advised villagers not to rely on quacks but to consult the doctors in the government primary health centres. Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the health department had already placed an order for 12 lakh kits for Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) to detect the corona cases at the initial stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-announces-rs-10-lakh-grant-for-villages-achieving-100-vaccination-target-101621367354698.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Booze party in Ludhiana jail: Six inmates caught on video identified||Officials at the Ludhiana Central Jail have identified all inmates caught enjoying booze and hookah in the jail barracks through a viral video. A report has been sent to the Ludhiana police to lodge an FIR against Manwinder Singh, alias Nikka Jattana, of Jattana village, who is facing trial in at least 16 cases; Abhishek Kumar, booked in a narcotics case; Parminder Singh, booked for murder and attempt to murder; Bharti Singh, who is facing trial in seven cases; Kewal Krishan, an accused in a drug case; and Maninder Singh, a convict in drug case.According to the jail officials, the identified accused, who had formed a gang inside the jail, had disposed of the mobile phones, liquor bottles and hookahs after their video went public.Additional director general of police (ADGP, Prison) PK Sinha said it was being investigated how the accused managed to get the banned articles inside the prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/booze-party-in-ludhiana-jail-six-inmates-caught-on-video-identified-101621367295593.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana trader held for black marketing of oxygen cylinders denied bail||Shortage of oxygen has caused deaths of many patients, so selling oxygen cylinders at a higher rate is a serious offence, which does not deserve any leniency, a local court said on Tuesday, while dismissing the bail plea of a shopkeeper arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders. The defence counsel of the accused, Somnath of Purshotam Traders, Sudhar, had submitted in court that his client was innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. The counsel stated that recovery was over and the applicant was no more required by the police for the purpose of investigation and nothing was recoverable from him.However, the court of Jagraon judicial magistrate Simarjit Singh denied the plea. The Sadar police had arrested Purshotam on May 4 for black marketing of oxygen cylinders and recovered 23 cylinders from his possession.He was arrested following a complaint by a relative of a Covid patient, who had contacted the accused for an oxygen cylinder and was supplied two small cylinders for an exorbitant price of ₹26,000.The accused is facing a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-trader-held-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-cylinders-denied-bail-101621367175002.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Accused of letting off drug smugglers, axed Punjab Police inspector’s bail plea rejected||A Tarn Taran court has rejected an anticipatory bail plea of a dismissed Punjab Police inspector, accused of letting off two drug smugglers arrested with 1kg of heroin in March this year.Baljit Singh, who was posted in the Civil Lines area of Tarn Taran, had allegedly released Malkit Singh, alias Palta, and his brother-in-law Bau Singh after accepting ₹3.5 lakh as bribe on March 31. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Davinder Singh, who was posted at the Amritsar judicial complex, was arrested for aiding the inspector, while the other accused are still absconding.A case under the NDPS Act and Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against Baljit, Davinder and the drug smugglers. The police had also nominated one Jasbir Singh at whose home the deal was struck. Baljit, who has gone into hiding since the registration of the case, had filed a pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the CrPC. The case was heard in the Tarn Taran special court on Monday. Through his counsel Kanwaljit Singh Bath, Baljit pleaded that he was falsely implicated in the case. Bath told the court that no departmental inquiry was conducted before registration of the case against the former inspector.Additional public prosecutor Charanjit Singh contended that Baljit and Davinder shared the bribe money. The seized heroin was also with Baljit, he added.Tarn Taran special court judge Kawaljit Singh observed that the custodial interrogation of the accused was mandatory to ensure fair investigationThe case was registered on ASI Jatinder Singh’s statement. In his complaint, Jatinder said he got a tip-off that Baljit and Davinder had released two smugglers after taking ₹3.5 lakh bribe. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale had marked a probe to a deputy superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/accused-of-letting-off-drug-smugglers-axed-punjab-police-inspector-s-bail-plea-rejected-101621367114880.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana property grab case: SHO transferred to police lines for inaction||Inspector Goldy Virdi, SHO of the Basti Jodhewal police station, has been transferred to police lines for delay in action into the complaint by a victim of a property grab case.In the order, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has replaced Virdi with inspector Mohammad Jamil, who was earlier the SHO of the Tibba police station. Inspector Pramod Kumar, from police lines, will take over as the SHO of the Tibba station.On Monday, the victim, Satinderpal Singh, 34, along with his wife and two minor children, had reached the police commissioner’s office, where he threatened to immolate himself due to the alleged police inaction into his complaint.After Singh poured kerosene over himself, police swung into action and lodged an FIR under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc), 447 (criminal trespass) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused, Pradeep Kumar, alias Kaka, and Vikram Sahota, alias Vicky. No arrest has been made yet.According to Singh, he had kept his rented spare parts shop in Kali Sadak area locked due to the lockdown imposed in Ludhiana. On March 29, he came to know that Kumar and Sahota had grabbed his shop and stolen articles worth ₹20 lakh after breaking open the locks. Singh complained to the police commissioner that when he approached the Basti Jodhewal police for relief, instead of taking action, the cops started pressuring him for settlement. When he refused, they hurled abuses at him and harassed him, forcing him to consider ending his life.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Pragya Jain said they were looking into the role of other police personnel deputed at the Basti Jodhewal police station. “We are conducting raised to arrest the accused named by the complainant. Investigation is underway regarding the status of the shop in question,” said inspector Mohammad Jamil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-property-grab-case-sho-transferred-to-police-lines-for-inaction-101621367115330.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Robbers chop off man’s hand, decamp with tablet, ₹1,500 in Amritsar||Two bike-borne robbers chopped off a 35-year-old man’s hand and decamped with his bag containing a tablet and ₹1,500 at Naushehra Nangli village in Amritsar, police said on Tuesday.The incident took place on Monday afternoon when Akash Avenue area resident Plath Vishwas, who works with a private finance company, was returning after collecting the loan amount from the village. A video shot soon after the incident shows the victim sitting alongside a road with one of his hands lying on the ground.The victim was admitted to a private hospital, where his amputated hand was replanted, said Kambo station house officer Yadwinder Singh, adding that his condition is stable. Police said they were scanning CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the accused. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 379-B (theft by force), 341 (wrongful restrain) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the unidentified accused at the Kambo police station on Plath’s colleague Ankit Mittal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbers-chop-off-man-s-hand-decamp-with-tablet-rs-1-500-in-amritsar-101621366875875.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding truck mows down 60-year-old biker in Ludhiana||A speeding truck mowed down a 60-year-old motorcyclist on Southern Bypass near Dugri on Tuesday morning. Police said the victim, Mohan Singh, 60, was a tailor, who lived in Daba village.According to his brother Gurmeet Singh, Mohan had left the house around 8.30am for some work in Dugri. Later, he received a call about Mohan meeting with an accident. Onlookers rushed Mohan to a nearby hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries. “The truck driver, Chhota Singh, 45, of Rupnagar, tried to escape after the accident, but was nabbed by passers-by and handed over to the police. He has been booked under Sections 279 (reckless driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The truck has been impounded,” said inspector Surinder Chopra, SHO, Dugri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-truck-mows-down-60-year-old-biker-in-ludhiana-101621366874767.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Covid cases remain below 1,000 for third straight day, 21 dead||Covid-19 cases on Tuesday remained below the 1,000 mark for the third day in a row with 991 new infections. However, the deaths were still on the higher side with 21 people losing the battle to the contagion.Cases started receding on May 16 when 942 people had tested positive, the lowest since April 30’s 792 cases, followed by 851 infections on May 17. The deaths, too, saw a downturn, dropping below 20 on May 14 (19) for the first time since the 19 fatalities on May 8. But, have since May 16 remained above the 20 mark daily. At nine, it was only on April 25 last when the daily deaths were below 10. The youngest among those who died on Tuesday was a 31-year-old woman and the oldest, a 75-year-old resident of Basant Vihar. As many as seven of the deceased were in their 60s, six in their 50s, while four were aged above 70. Three people aged between 40 and 50 were also among those who died. With the fresh cases, Ludhiana’s cases and deaths since the beginning of the pandemic have climbed to 77,637 and 1,761, respectively, both highest in Punjab. However, at 7.53%, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – was below the state average of 11.5% on Tuesday.Yet, in the terms of active cases, Ludhiana is the worst affected in the state with 12,371 people still recuperating at hospitals or in home isolation. As many as 61 patients are on ventilator support.So far in May, the district has clocked 23,051 cases and 386 deaths, compared to 20,176 cases and 231 deaths through April when the second wave of the pandemic started sweeping the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-covid-cases-remain-below-1-000-for-third-straight-day-21-dead-101621366814700.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two Covid patients diagnosed with black fungus die in Patiala||Two Covid positive patients, who were also diagnosed for mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, died at Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.However, doctors ruled out black fungus as the main cause behind the deaths. Dr RPS Sibia, Covid care in-charge, said the patients developed complications due to Covid and were on ventilator support.“Both were diagnosed with black fungus but it did not turn out to be reason behind their death,” Dr Sibia said.He said six Covid patients suspected to be infected with black fungus were admitted to the hospital on Monday.“Four of the patients tested positive for the fungus, of which two died, while two are undergoing treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-covid-patients-diagnosed-with-black-fungus-die-in-patiala-101621366635243.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Probe reports never blamed Badals for firing incidents: Majithia||Former minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said that contrary to the Congress leaders’ claims, the reports by Justice Ranjit Singh Commission and the SIT led by Kunwar Vijay Pratap never blamed then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his deputy Sukhbir Singh Badal for the 2015 police firing incidents. Addressing the media at party headquarters in Chandigarh, Majithia said: “Both the reports didn’t indict the then CM and his deputy. The SIT relied on the commission’s recommendations, and the Haryana high court recently rejected the SIT report.” The Akali leader threw a challenge to his political opponents to submit an evidence in the HC or seek forgiveness. “Capt Amarinder Singh, state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi, besides former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu owe an explanation to the people of Punjab as it is a sacrilege not to use the evidence in order to punish the guilty.” Attacking Sidhu, Majithia claimed that the Congress MLA was seen touching feet of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and comparing him to Guru Nanak in a video grab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-reports-never-blamed-badals-for-firing-incidents-majithia-101621366454727.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Threat to public safety: 4 Punjab-origin gangsters on Vancouver police list||Police in the Canadian city of Vancouver has identified six alleged gangsters, including four Indo-Canadians, as they are linked to violence and may pose a threat to public safety.The Vancouver Police Department or VPD said they may pose danger to the public simply because they may be targeted by rival gang members. It released a poster featuring them and also posted it on social media.The six are brothers 38-year-old Barinder, and Meninder Dhaliwal, 28, Harjit, 38, and Garinder Deo, 35, also brothers, Ekene Anigbo, 22, and Damion Ryan, 41. They are connected to gangs operating in the Metro Vancouver region like Hells Angels, Brothers Keepers, Kang and Red Scorpion.This announcement came a week after a 28-year-old linked to gang activity, Karman Grewal, was executed by suspected rivals outside the main terminal of the Vancouver International Airport or YVR on the afternoon of May 9.The Vancouver Sun reported that a third Dhaliwal brother Harb, was gunned down outside a restaurant in Vancouver on the evening of April 17. Similarly, it said another Deo brother, Sukh, was the victim of a targeted shooting in Toronto in 2016.“Gang violence continues to be a prominent public safety issue in Metro Vancouver. There have been numerous reckless, brazen acts of violence that threaten the safety of innocent bystanders,” VPD chief constable Adam Palmer said in a statement, which was accompanied with a poster featuring photographs of the dozen mentioned in it.The VPD pointed out there have been 20 gang-related homicides in Metro Vancouver this year alone and 20 attempted murders. “Police are expecting the violence to continue and escalate,” the statement noted.Indo-Canadians have been prominent in the gang landscape in the region for many years.“Our police intelligence leads us to believe that the individuals we have identified today may be targeted by rival gang members. My greatest concern right now, related to the ongoing gang violence, is that an innocent bystander will be hurt or killed during a shooting targeting a gangster,” Palmer said, as he cautioned Vancouver residents “to know the faces of these individuals and to keep their distance from them.”The department has also initiated a new taskforce to deal with the escalating gang violence. Called Taskforce Threshold, it was launched on May 12.The statement also said that VPD is “continuing to share intelligence with and collaborate with other police agencies in Metro Vancouver, including the RCMP and Combined Forces Special Enforcement Unit of British Columbia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/threat-to-public-safety-4-punjab-origin-gangsters-on-vancouver-police-list-101621366274776.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||PM praises Chandigarh admn for setting up three oxygen plants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday appreciated the Chandigarh administration for timely commissioning three oxygen generation plants at government hospitals in the city. The PM was interacting through video conference with field officials from states and districts regarding their experience in handling the Covid-19 pandemic.The PM gave the instance of Chandigarh rapidly installing oxygen plants in time for its adequate supply. “Work is being done rapidly to install oxygen plants in hospitals in every district of the country, like in Chandigarh, through PM Cares Fund and these plants have already started functioning in many hospitals,” said ModiThe plants have been set up at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32; Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16; and Dedicated Covid Hospital, Sector 48.On behalf of the UT, deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar made a presentation on the administration’s experience in Covid management.Brar mentioned about the steps being taken, including setting up of oxygen plants on priority, formation of the tricity coordination committee, involvement of all doctors in decision making, increase in testing and contact tracing and use of Covid Care Centres. He also highlighted the role played by Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College besides non-government organisations, resident welfare associations, religious bodies and other members of civil society in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-praises-chandigarh-admn-for-setting-up-three-oxygen-plants-101621363694585.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown: Cases down in Chandigarh, Panchkula, but Mohali bucks the trend||The number of Covid-19 cases and positivity rate dropped in the second week of lockdown in Chandigarh and Panchkula, but went up in Mohali district.The Punjab and Haryana governments had imposed statewide curbs from May 3 while Chandigarh followed suit a day later. The lockdown has been further extended for a week in Chandigarh and Panchkula while it will remain in force till the month end in Mohali.While extending the curbs on Monday, the Chandigarh administration had reasoned that it does not want to undo the “gains of the lockdown”, ie, the plateauing of cases.In Chandigarh, the number of cases had gone up by 3.3% in the first week of the lockdown (May 4-10) as compared to the week prior (April 27-May 3), but saw a significant drop of 16% in the second week (May 11-17).Even the weekly positivity rate saw a marginal drop during this period, but still remains above 20%. It means that of every five persons being sampled, at least one is testing positive for the virus.Positivity rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled. On the other hand, the absolute number of positive cases is influenced by the number of tests conducted, and fails to give the true picture.For example, the drop in the number of positive cases in the second week of the lockdown is accompanied by a drop in testing numbers too.In week prior to the lockdown (April 27-May 3), 26,581 tests were conducted and 5,683 people tested positive, leading to a positivity rate of 21.4%. In the first week of lockdown, tests went down to 25,217 and case load went up to 5,874, with which positivity rate also saw an uptick to 23.3%. In the second week, tests further fell to 23,556, but even cases came down to 4,917, leading to a drop in positivity rate to 20.9%.In Panchkula, too, the trend has been similar to that in Chandigarh, with cases going down by 24% in the second week and positivity rate dropping to 15%, lowest across the tricity.However, Mohali, which has been the worst hit by the pandemic’s second wave in the tricity, has bucked the trend. The cases, in fact, surged by 26% in the second week and positivity rate, too, shot up from 22% to 27%.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the second wave was expected to peak during this period, and the lockdown has helped the administration in breaking the chain of infection. “We are hopeful that in the coming days, both the number of cases and deaths will come down,” he said.‘Takes at least 10 days to start seeing impact’ Meanwhile, the case fatality rate, ie, the proportion of people succumbing to the virus among all those tested positive for it, marginally declined from 1.07% (April 27-May 3) to 0.97% in the first week of the lockdown (May 4-10) in Chandigarh, before going up to 1.13% in the second week (May 11-17).In Panchkula, too, it declined from 1.31% (April 26-May 2) to 0.9% (May 3-9) before surging to 1.41% (May 10-16). In Mohali, the trend was once again the opposite, as the case fatality rate went up from 1% to 1.3%, before dropping to 1.07% during the same period as in Panchkula.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of community medicine and public health, PGIMER, said: “The impact of a lockdown takes at least 10 days to be felt. There is a lag of a week before the infection manifests itself. So, a person infected today will test positive in about a week. In case of deaths, the lag is of around two weeks.”The central government has recently advised states and UTs with over 10% positivity rate to continue with “stringent containments” even if they are witnessing a decline or plateau in order to sustain the trend.Meanwhile, UT adviser Manoj Parida said the lockdown may not be the solution, but gives a breather for the health infrastructure to be built up.“It helps in breaking the chain, and has started to show results. However, the long-term solution is for people to strictly follow Covid protocol and get vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-cases-down-in-chandigarh-panchkula-but-mohali-bucks-the-trend-101621363575148.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur hospital owner booked for fleecing Covid victim’s kin||A day after a three-member committee found a Zirakpur hospital guilty of overcharging and medical negligence, a case has been registered against its owner. The district administration has also constituted a medical board to determine the extent of medical negligence.The owner of New Lifeline Hospital, Dr Manish Goyal, has been booked under Sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 (b), 58 of the Disaster Management Act, and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.An inquiry was marked against the private hospital after a deceased patient’s family alleged overcharging and denial to hand over the body without clearance of bills. The patient, Paramjit Singh, was suffering from severe pneumonia due to Covid-19 when he was admitted to the hospital on April 26; he died on May 14. In its report, the committee had stated that there were incidences of overcharging and grave lapses in the medical record management by the hospital authorities.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that directions had been given to all private hospitals to prominently display the Covid-19 treatment charges as capped by the Punjab government.The hospitals have also been advised to exhibit the name of the nodal officer for grievance redressal by patients’ family/attendant, the DC added.Dayalan informed that very stringent action under the Epidemic Diseases Act would be taken against erring hospitals, and that the government was empowered to shut down the facility or take control over it, if need be.The nodal officers for grievance redressal in the district are the sub-divisional magistrates of the respective sub-divisions: Himanshu Jain (9533502245) for Kharar, Kuldeep Bawa (9815711006) for Dera Bassi and Jagdeep Sehgal (8727856083) for Mohali.The treatment charges for tertiary care (L3) in private medical colleges and hospitals without a ventilator and with a ventilator (invasive/non-invasive) for moderate to very sick patients range from ₹10,000 to ₹18,000. For details, the copy of the orders issued by Punjab government can be found at http://sasnagr.nic.in/.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-hospital-owner-booked-for-fleecing-covid-victim-s-kin-101621363274771.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moderate to heavy rain, squall likely in Chandigarh||The circulations arising from Cyclone Tauktae will reach the city by Wednesday and moderate to heavy rain up to 70mm is likely in the city as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Speaking about this, IMD officials said, “The rain is likely to be accompanied with gusty winds up to 50km/h and thunder and lightning. There are chances of squall also on Wednesday. Rain will continue on Thursday as well, but will reduce in intensity. The system is likely to stop from Friday onwards, with chances of light rain up to 20mm on that day.”The temperature is likely to take a plunge also with the maximum temperature likely to fall down to 26°C on Wednesday. Mercury will, however, start to rise again from Friday.Instructions issued by IMDFor thunderstorms and gusty winds, IMD has asked people to avoid taking shelter under trees and to avoid electric poles and wires. For the rain, the IMD has asked people to avoid going into waterlogged areas and clean their drainages. IMD has also asked farmers to avoid application of fertilisers and insecticides in their crops.The maximum temperature in the city went down from 40.7°C on Monday to 32.2°C on Tuesday. The minimum temperature went up from 22.6°C on Monday to 27°C on Tuesday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will stay between 26°C and 31°C while the minimum temperature will stay between 21°C and 23°C..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moderate-to-heavy-rain-squall-likely-in-chandigarh-on-may-19-101621363214630.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hospitals run out of Covid beds in Himachal||With the Covid-19 case count climbing in Himachal Pradesh, hospitals in major districts of the hill state are running out of oxygen-supported and ICU beds. The two major hospitals in Shimla, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, are packed to capacity and denying admission to Covid patients. One such patient, Sain Ram Dhiman, 65, tested positive on May 7 and was in home isolation at Kumarsain but when his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to the government hospital at Khaneri in Rampur only to be referred to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. Three days ago, his condition deteriorated and he was referred him to IGMC for further treatment since he required a ventilator. DDU has ventilators but they are not operational since the hospital has only one anaesthetist. IGMC denied him admission. “For three days, I’ve been requesting the IGMC authorities to admit my father in-law but in vain. His condition deteriorated after his oxygen saturation fell to 52. I made several calls and even sought help from the chief minister’s helpline but to no avail. We are at God’s mercy,” said Rajinder Kaul. Patients in need of critical care are being referred to IGMC from Solan, Bilaspur and Sirmaur districts. According to data on the Covid capacity portal, the state has a total capacity of 3,473 beds in its dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs), dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) and dedicated Covid care centres (DCCCs). On May 17, a total of 2,399 beds were occupied and only 1,074 available across the state. There are 2,409 oxygen beds of which 1,928 are occupied and 481 vacant. The number of ICU beds is 278 of which 241 occupied and only 37 are vacant. Can’t stretch more: Hospital authorities “We have 332 beds at IGMC and all of them are occupied. All 32 ventilators are being used,” said IGMC senior medical superintendent Janakraj Pakhretia. “Enhancing bed capacity will not solve the purpose. People have to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital is a 90-bed facility, but the capacity was augmented to cater to 137 patients. Today, all beds are occupied. “Our hospital is full to capacity, we can’t stretch anymore,” says DDU Hospital medical superintendent Ravinder Mokta. Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra has suggested taking over the sanatorium that has 40 beds. The government has also taken over the regional Ayurveda hospital in Shimla that is packed to capacity now. The state government has announced that if required it will create more space for patients at the parking space in Tutti Kandi. Facility at Walker Hospital ready The Indian Army on Tuesday handed over 60-bed facility at its Walker Hospital in Sanjauli. Kangra district has 723 beds of which 614 occupied and 109 are available. All 70 ICU beds in the district are occupied. There are 557 beds with oxygen support of which only 47 are available. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the authorities are managing in the current capacity as new patients are being admitted against the vacancy occurring on a daily basis after recovered patients are discharged. He said a 500-bed facility is coming up at Paraur near Palampur that will help ease the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hospitals-run-out-of-covid-beds-in-himachal-101621339813726.html
