20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Terror case: Tainted J&K DSP Davinder Singh dismissed from service||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh, who was arrested and subsequently chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a terror case, was on Thursday dismissed from service, an official order said.Singh was caught with two militants on January 10 on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway in south Kashmir. He is in jail at present. The order of dismissal of Singh was given by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha.“The lieutenant governor is satisfied after considering the facts and circumstances of the case that the activities of Davinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police (under suspension), are such that warrant his dismissal from service,” reads the order issued by commissioner secretary, general administration department on behalf of Sinha.Davinder Singh was intercepted when he was travelling on the national highway to Jammu along with two Hizbul Mujahideen commanders Naveed Babu, Rafi Ahmed Rather, according to the security establishment. A third man arrested with them Irfan Shafi Mir was a lawyer. Singh, suspected of going rogue, was arrested under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, or UAPA, the anti-terror law.Earlier, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had stripped him of the Sher-e-Kashmir Police Medal for Gallantry. Meanwhile two more government teachers have terminated under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India by the lieutenant governor . Earlier, an assistant professor, naib tehsildar (revenue officer) and two teachers were suspended on similar grounds for anti-national activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/terror-case-tainted-j-k-dsp-davinder-singh-dismissed-from-service-101621532807530.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||3rd wave: With kids expected to be at risk, Jammu hospital ramps up facilities||With experts predicting a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which may target kids and teenagers, Shri Maharaja Gulab Singh Hospital — the only children’s hospital in Jammu city that caters to all 10 districts of the division — has started putting its house in order to be better prepared to deal with any exigency. In the new paediatric block, which has three wards with 46 beds each, the hospital management plans to have 20 intensive care unit (ICU) Covid beds in each ward. SMGS Hospital medical superintendent Dr Dara Singh said, “All machinery has arrived and civil and mechanical work has begun. Beds in all paediatrics wards are being connected with high-flow oxygen. Similarly, 20 intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators will be installed.” “Being a paediatric hospital, we are preparing ourselves for the possibility that the third may affect children,” he said. “We have apprised authorities of our manpower requirement. For starters, we have asked for 50 nurses, 50 nursing orderlies and 25 sweepers. If the workload increases, manpower will be increased accordingly,” said Singh.Oxygen plant sanctioned“The hospital already has a 500 LPM oxygen generation plant. However, authorities have also sanctioned a new oxygen plant of 3,000 LPM ( litres per minute) to augment the supply. It will be installed within a week or two,” said Dr Singh. A room has been prepared for the plant its flooring fixed. The plant will have an independent transformer and power setup so that supply is not interrupted. Amid the pandemic, paediatrics and gynaecology wards have been combined and each bed is being connected with high-flow oxygen. Financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo has asked executing agencies to expedite the work and complete it at the earliest. Dr Singh said Wards 7 and 8, with a combined capacity of 53 beds, have already been dedicated to Covid patients, who are being referred from triage facilities.140 paediatric beds can be added“The 46 bedded Ward 19 has already been identified for paediatric Covid patients and we can augment it 140 additional beds, if required,” he said. As of now the hospital has four ICU wards with 16 ventilators. At present, paediatric Covid patients are being treated at MCH Gandhi Nagar Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3rd-wave-with-kids-expected-to-be-at-risk-jammu-hospital-ramps-up-facilities-101621532685399.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees 3% rise in recovery rate in 10 days||Sixty-seven people lost their lives to the novel coronavirus on Thursday, taking the Union territory’s death toll to 3,422 , of which 1,140 people have lost their lives this month .The region also recorded 4,169 fresh infections, pushing J&K’s case count to 2,60,057. As many as 4,042 people recuperated — 2,509 from Kashmir and 1,533 from Jammu — taking the total recoveries to 2,06,081. The recovery rate has improved from 76% on May 9 to 79.2%. Of the 67 deaths in the UT, 41 were reported in Jammu division and 26 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 2,651 are from Kashmir, 1,518 are from Jammu, and 30 are travellers. Dr Ishrat Hussain Dar, professor of medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said the second coronavirus wave is highly infectious.“It is mostly targeting the younger people and leaving trail of deaths. People should protect themselves and their families by wearing triple surgical or cotton masks and avoid filter masks,” he said. The month of May has clocked the highest monthly infections and fatalities at 83,974 and 1,140, respectively, while 60,640 people recovered from the virus.Officials said with 674 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 499 in Jammu district, 393 in Budgam, 333 in Baramulla, 255 in Anantnag and 215 in Bandipora. The number of active cases has reached 50,554, officials said. Asking people to get vaccinated, Dr Kailash Singh, assistant professor of surgery, Government Medical College, Jammu, said, “Studies have shown that 93% of the Covid fatalities were seen among people who were not vaccinated while the remaining had only received a single shot,” he said. Srinagar and Jammu have together contributed around 1.06 lakh cases and 1,619 deaths. With 904 fatalities, Jammu has taken over Srinagar, which has logged 715 deaths.GMC Kathua self-sufficient in O2 needs 
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclone Tauktae: Kangra diver onboard tugboat still missing||A diver from Dharamshala has been missing at sea since May 15 after the tugboat he was deployed on capsized after Cyclone Tauktae hit the west coast of the country. The 37-year-old sea diver, Pawan Chand Katoch of Gharoh village, which is 6km from Dharamshala, went missing off the Manglore port in Udupi district, Karnataka. He had been employed with Under Water Services Limited (UWSL) since 2009 and was deployed on the tugboat, Alliance, when the deadly cyclone ploughed through the costal state. “We contacted UWSL’s senior diving manager Paramjeet Singh Jassal and vice-president Ravi Sexena but did not get a satisfactory response regarding the wellbeing of my son. We do not know whether they are putting any efforts to search for the missing men or not,” said his father, Jagroop Chand Katoch. Congress general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania met Pawan’s family at Gharoh and assured them that all possible help will be provided. He also wrote a letter to the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur seeking his intervention in the matter.“I urge you to take up the matter with the concerned state and the company to get information about Pawan Chand Katoch,” he wrote. It is learnt that the tugboat was contracted by Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) for its single-point mooring facility.The boat with nine crew members aboard left the Manglore port on May 14 to carry out maintenance work at the facility, 17km from the port. While returning to the shore on May 15, the boat was caught in the rough sea and capsized.The damaged tugboat later washed ashore at Padubidri. Of eight workers, three survived, one died and the remaining, including Pawan, are missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cyclone-tauktae-kangra-diver-onboard-tugboat-still-missing-101621532085475.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||65 succumb to Covid in Himachal||Dharamshala/ Shimla: Himachal Pradesh’s coronavirus case tally rose to 1,72,722 as 2,648 more people tested positive on Thursday, while the death toll mounted to 2,581 after 65 patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 836 were reported in Kangra, 314 in Mandi, 257 in Solan, 226 in Hamirpur, 200 in Shimla, 191 each in Sirmaur and Una, 180 in Chamba, 175 in Bilaspur, 65 in Kullu, 14 in Lahaul-Spiti and seven in Kinnaur. With 19 deaths, Kangra reported the highest fatalities, followed by 13 in Shimla, seven in Mandi, five each in Sirmaur and Hamirpur, four each in Solan and Chamba, three each in Bilaspur and Una and two in Kullu. Recoveries climbed up to 1,36,663 after 4,257 people recuperated while there are 33,448 active cases. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 38,816 infections and is followed by Mandi with 23,330 cases and Shimla with 21,853 cases. Solan has 19,955 cases, Sirmaur 13,258, Hamirpur 12,248, Una 11,173, Bilaspur 10,824, Chamba 8,646 , Kullu 7,676, Kinnaur 2,498 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,445. CM seeks self-help groups’ assistance Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday said self-help groups (SHGs) can help during the pandemic by helping virus-hit families by taking care of their livestock and farms and aiding unemployed migrant labourers. He was virtually interacting with representatives of groups across the state. Appreciating initiatives taken by SHGs to supplement their income, the CM said the state will provide all possible help to promote the products prepared by SHGs. He said the ‘Mukhyamantri Ek Bigha Yojana’ had proved to be a boon for rural women. Under the scheme any woman in a SHG can avail benefits up to ₹1 lakh if she is a MGNREGA job card holder. Since the inception of the scheme, Thakur said, 10,364 works had been sanctioned in favour of women and ₹ 13.9 crore had been spent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/65-succumb-in-himachal-101621531846261.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||More than 13,000 oxygen beds available in Haryana||The Haryana government has made a provision of 13,949 oxygen beds besides 5,350 ventilators or intensive care beds.An official spokesperson said that for treatment of Covid-19 patients in rural areas, five to 20 D-type oxygen gas cylinders are being arranged at each community health centre.“In each district, a location for filling of oxygen cylinders has been fixed. The deputy commissioners, with the help of the nodal officer, are looking after the arrangements at cylinders refilling sites. The facility of oxygen mobile bank has also been started in Karnal,’’ the spokesperson said.The spokesperson said that 9,896 oxygen cylinders have so far been delivered against requisition of 15,396. The spokesperson said 5,473 requests for oxygen cylinders are not in order.A state-level control room has been in operation in Chandigarh round-the-clock to keep a watch on supplies and requirements of oxygen coming from the districts while chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the officials to make sure that oxygen is available at the doorstep of every needy person.At present, around 240 MT oxygen is coming in daily from seven different locations in country. Nodal officers have been appointed to ensure that the tankers are evacuated timely and oxygen supply reaches the decided destination.The state was initially granted a quota of 156 MT oxygen which at the intervention of the CM, was raised to 282 MT.Six pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology-based plants in Faridabad, Sonepat, Karnal, Ambala, Panchkula and Hisar are continuously producing oxygen in the capacity of 200 litre per minute.The Centre has also approved 43 more PSA technology-based plants of which two plants will be set up in medical colleges and the other 41 in different districts. These plants will start production by June. Each plant will produce 500 to 1,000 litre oxygen per minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-than-13-000-oxygen-beds-available-in-haryana-101621529684974.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s recovery rate improves to 90.38%||Haryana recorded 6,457 coronavirus cases and 129 deaths on Thursday. With 14,734 patients recovering from the virus, the number of active cases has come down to 62,352.A medical bulletin said that the positivity rate on Thursday came down to 10.84% and the cumulative positivity rate was 8.52%.The state’s recovery rate improved to 90.38%. There were 1,331 critically ill patients including 318 on ventilator support.Gurugram still has the highest number of 13,623 active cases in state, followed by Hisar (5,999), Faridabad (4,159), Sirsa (3,761) and Karnal (3,540), as per the bulletin.Among the fatalities, 12 persons were from Jind, 11 each from Karnal and Hisar, eight each from Gurugram and Faridabad, seven each from Ambala, Panchkula and Sirsa, six each from Bhiwani, Rohtak and Panipat, five each from Sonepat, Rewari, Yamunanagar, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri, four from Kurukshetra, three each from Kaithal and Fatehabad, two each from Mahendergarh and Palwal, and one from Nuh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-recovery-rate-improves-to-9038-101621529447530.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh loses theatre artiste Gurcharan Channi to Covid-19||Chandigarh woke up on Thursday to the sad news of theatre and film artiste Gurcharan Singh Channi losing a long battle with Covid-19 at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. Channi, 69, is survived by wife Harleen Kohli and children Gyan Dev and Sukhmani. A recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award and a Fulbright scholar, Channi was among the pioneers who enriched the arts. He belonged to Patiala and came to Chandigarh to study theatre in the first year of the Department of Indian Theatre founded by veteran Punjabi playwright Balwant Gargi in 1972. Recalling those days, his classmate Rani Balbir says, “He was a natural actor who could innovate at the spur of the moment. He loved to clown and charm and was the dearest classmate and close friend for a lifetime.” Also read: Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, seeks free education for kids orphaned by CovidStreet theatre times It was here that he found a mentor and friend in Gargi, who could see the spark in this handsome youngster, and encouraged him to join the National School of Drama (NSD) in Delhi in its splendid days with Abraham Alkazi as director. Passing out of the NSD, Channi chose the city of Chandigarh as his playground for street theatre, taking students from the city’s College of Arts and staging amazing productions such as Daffa 144 and Disturbed Area among others. He groomed the students in theatre and many of them went on to become established names in different fields. Photographer Diwan Manna says, “We came from villages, worked with Channi and learned much from him. We owe what we are to him for he had imbibed well the skills he learned from Gargi and Alkazi.” Others who were part of the street theatre team included celebrated dancer Navtej Johar and artistes such as late Naresh Pandit and Viney Vadhera. “His foresight and contacts were great, and we performed at the Gateway of India in Mumbai with writer Khwaja Ahmad Abbas and director Imtiaz Khan in the audience. He also invited the famous Badal Sarkar from Kolkata to do a workshop with us in Chandigarh,” says Manna. Dynamic artiste Channi believed in going miles before he rested and worked as a television producer with Jalandhar Doordarshan, making innovative programmes and tele-films based on Punjabi literature. He went on to become a professor at the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune. Chandigarh, however, remained his favourite and he set up the NGO Centre for Education and Voluntary Action (CEVA) doing community theatre and making commissioned films. Many remember him still as the face of protest at Jallianwala Bagh in Richard Attenborough’s famous 1982 film, Gandhi. He was given this role by casting director Dolly Thakore, another theatre veteran. Thakore recalled with love; “He bought his first fridge with the ₹4000 that we paid him and named it Dolly. This was an endearing story he loved to relate.” With tributes flooding social media, his actor-director friend Kamal Tewari said: “May all have the strength and courage to bear the loss of this dynamic artiste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-loses-theatre-artiste-gurcharan-channi-to-covid19-101621513904053.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||World’s highest motorable village Komic achieves 100% Covid vaccination||The world’s highest motorable village of Komic in the remote Spiti valley of Himachal’s tribal Lahaul and Spiti district has achieved 100% vaccination against Covid-19 for residents above the age of 44 years. Situated at 15,500 feet, the villagers rarely leave their houses and adhere strictly to the guidelines by the state government to protect themselves against Covid-19. “If we walk out of our houses, it’s only for farming. The older generation stays home with the children,” says local resident Palzor, 37. Villagers have been keen to get vaccinated and a majority took their doses ahead of the second lethal wave. “We are happy that the villagers have taken their second dose, too,” says Kaza block medical officer Tenzin Norbu. Also read: India logs 276,110 Covid-19 cases in a single-day; fatalities below 4,000A health department team, comprising vaccinator Prem Singh, verifier Kulwant Singh and ASHA worker Padma, have been visiting the high-altitude villages in Langza panchayat to vaccinate the residents. Besides Langza, the panchayat comprises Komic, which has the highest motorable road, and Hikkim at 14,400 ft with the highest post office in the world. In the 60-plus age group, 101 people have been vaccinated,while 150 villagers have got both doses in the 44-60 age group. Langza panchayat has a total population of 330. Climbing over connectivity challenges “After seniors, now youngsters are enthusiastic about getting vaccinated. The challenge in this area is limited internet connectivity so it becomes difficult for them to log on to the Co-Win portal to get registered,” says Padma, the accredited social health activist (ASHA). Kaza additional district magistrate Gian Sagar Negi says the state government was requested to allow offline registration for vaccination. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has now allowed it due to lack of internet facility. “Now 80% of the registration for vaccination is being done offline. Booking is done by calling up the health department and the slot is allotted based on lottery. 20% of the registration are still being done online but everyone has to first register for vaccination,” Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Pankaj Rai says. Tough terrain, climate no deterrent Despite its tough terrain and the valley receiving heavy snowfall at regular intervals, the Kaza block, comprising 13 panchayats, has taken the lead on vaccination. “People have no hesitancy in getting inoculated as they know that the health infrastructure in the region is limited. Everyone here wants to be protected from the virus,” says Padma. The health authorities at Kaza have been able to vaccinate 89% of the healthcare workers. Of the total 174 healthcare workers, 154 have got both doses. As many as 743 of the 914 people aged above 60 years have got the first dose of the vaccine, which is 82% of the total number, while 722 (79%) have been given the second dose as well. In the 45-59 age group, the Kaza health block has achieved 95% of the target by administering the first dose to 1,490 of the 1,578 residents. Ninety-six frontline workers have been given the first dose and 105 the second dose in Kaza. Among the vaccinated, 16 people had comorbidities. Till date, a total of 2,499 people have been administered the first dose and 997 the second dose in the valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/worlds-highest-village-komic-in-hp-achieves-100-covid-vaccination-101621487263505.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure five-bed Covid care centre in every panchayat: L-G Manoj Sinha||J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday directed all 20 deputy commissioners and health departments to ensure five-bed Covid care centre in every panchayat. In a series of tweets, he relayed the information. “Directed DCs & Health Department to ensure 5-bed Covid Care Centre in every Panchayat of J&K as many households may not have the option for isolation of Covid positive patients in their own residence. Each Centre to have One Oxygen-Supported Bed for immediate patient care (sic),” he wrote on his Twitter handle. “ ₹1 Lakh approved from District Capex Budget for creation of facilities in School, Community hall or Panchayat ghar in consultation with nearest Health Centre and Panchayat representatives. These Centres shall be equipped with necessary medical kit and linked to nearest health centres. This will strengthen health infrastructure in Rural Areas (sic),” he added. “The persons needing isolation shall be identified by the Panchayats/ concerned Medical Staff / ASHA Workers. Mobile testing vans to be utilized to cover villages for testing with the help of PRIs and volunteers. Medical officers to establish referral linkage with dedicated Covid Health Centres and dedicated Covid Hospitals. Ambulance services in rural areas to have oxygen support for safely transporting the patients to Covid dedicated Hospitals,” read another post of the LG. Meanwhile, amid surge in Covid cases in rural areas of Jammu and Kashmir, the president of All Jammu Kashmir Panchayat Conference, Anil Sharma, sought 100% testing and vaccination of the rural populace, which, he said, “was staring right into the eyes of death in view of lethargic approach of the authorities”.There are total 4,129 panchayats in all 20 districts of J&K. “There has been no vaccination at all for the past one month, that too, at a time when second wave is peaking. Zero work is being done to contain the virus in rural areas,” he claimed. “There is no vaccination among the 18- 45 age group in rural areas and 20% population above the 45 years of age is still to be vaccinated. The virus is travelling fast to rural areas and the villagers face a grave risk to their lives,” he added. Sharma said he had been receiving at least 100 calls daily from sarpanches and panches, informing about villagers testing positive in their areas. “We also volunteer to open all our panchayat ghars to convert them into Covid care centres for the patients, but the government should show some urgency,” he added. “People in villages, being robust, tend to overlook mild symptoms and in turn they are multiplying the virus. It is high time the government undertakes 100% testing and vaccination in right earnest,” he added. It may be stated here that vaccination drive for 18+ category in Jammu and Kashmir has been moving at a snail’s pace . “I, along with my wife, went to get the first jab, but we were told that there are no doses available for us,” said Hira Lal of Chachwal village in Samba district. Hari Singh, another villager of the same area, said that the health authorities themselves were not aware of how and when they would be getting supplies. Annual report on good governance releasedMeanwhile, L-G Sinha Wednesday released “Annual Report- Promoting Good Governance” compiled by the finance department showcasing major initiatives undertaken by it during 2020-21 to bring transparency and accountability in the execution of the public works. Arun Kumar Mehta, financial commissioner, finance department, and Nitishwar Kumar, principal secretary to the L-G, were present on the occasion. The report in the form of e-book provides insight into reforms, steps taken by the department to institutionalise prudence in financial management in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-five-bed-covid-care-centre-in-every-panchayat-l-g-manoj-sinha-101621455458231.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus cases up but Punjab yet to declare it as notified disease||The cases of mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, are on the rise among Covid patients in Punjab, with nine such infections reported in Amritsar district on Wednesday. The state authorities, however, don’t have a data on the exact number of black fungus cases as it has yet to declare it as a notified disease. In Haryana¸ mucormycosis is already a notified disease, making it imperative that government authorities be informed about each case. This allows tracking and management of any outbreak. The pandemic has catalysed the spread of mucormycosis, a rare but serious fungal infection, which can disfigure people even when it is not fatal. The disease is caused by a group of molds called ‘mucormycetes’. The infection can badly affect the nose, sinus, eyes, lungs and sometimes brain of the patient. Health experts believe that Covid patients/survivors, who are not following the post- recovery instructions of the doctor, especially pertaining to blood sugar levels and intake of medicines, are more prone to the fungal infection. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said of the nine patients, three have already lost their vision. No casualty has been reported so far in the district due to this fungal infection, he said. In some cases, doctors have to remove the eye to stop the infection from spreading to the central nervous system, the civil surgeon added. “All nine patients --- five women and three men --- are suffering from diabetes mellitus. They have infection in their ‘orbit’ bone, which is located in the middle part of the eye and nose. They all are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in Amritsar”, said Dr Charanjit. On Tuesday, two Covid positive patients, who also tested positive for black fungus, died at Patiala’s Rajindra hospital. However, doctors have ruled out black fungus as the main cause behind their deaths. Ludhiana is also witnessing a spike in such infections. “Till now, 22 Covid patients have been diagnosed with black fungus in the district. No casualty has been reported so far,” said civil surgeon Dr Kiran. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said: “The exact number of black fungus cases in Punjab will be ascertained only when the government will declare the disease as notified.” “Health department is talking to the government and the decision will be approved soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-cases-up-but-punjab-yet-to-declare-it-as-notified-disease-101621455457159.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees highest single-day recovery as 4,338 patients recuperate||As many as 62 people lost their lives to Covid on Wednesday in Jammu and Kashmir, taking May’s fatalities to 1,073 and overall death toll to 3,355.The region also recorded 3,969 fresh infections in the past 24 hours taking the overall caseload to 2,55,888. The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Wednesday was this month’s highest at 4,338, including 2,953 from Kashmir and 1,385 from Jammu.The number of people who recovered crossed 2-lakh mark to reach 2,02,039, improving the recovery rate to 78.95% against around 98% in the first fortnight of February. The officials said that 48,565 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours taking overall tests to 8.04 million.Dr Hardeep Singh, professor of medicine, Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, said that the second wave of Covid is highly contagious and the virus transmits from infected person to others at a faster pace.“Earlier, during the first wave, it was observed that the affected person could infect only a few persons around him, but now the same person infects almost all around him which is cause of great concern,” he said.Of the 62 deaths in the UT, 39 were reported in Jammu division and 23 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 2,594 are from Kashmir while 1,375 are from Jammu, besides 24 travellers.The people of UT have witnessed the worst effects of the pandemic in May since the outbreak as the monthly infections have reached 79,805 and fatalities to 1,073 on Wednesday. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 56,598.Officials said with 675 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 493 in Jammu district, 411 in Budgam, 371 in Baramulla, 190 in Kupwara and 171 in Pulwama. The number of active cases has reached 50,494, officials said. Regarding the third wave, Dr Singh said if we do not adhere to SOPs, undergo vaccination and achieve herd immunity through vaccination, the virus may come again in a different form.“It can have more dangerous consequences,” he said.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.05 lakh cases and 1,593 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has taken over as the one with the highest number of 884 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 709 deaths.Adviser to L-G, Baseer Ahmad Khan said that there is no shortage of oxygen, vaccines, drugs or other medical infrastructure. “The huge consignment of vaccines has already arrived and the vaccination drive as per the micro-plans, already prepared, shall go unabated,” he said. The J&K government has formed a committee, mostly comprising health experts, to formulate an action plan to tackle a possible third wave of Covid pandemic in the UT.The general administration department on Tuesday gave sanction for the constitution of a 10-member committee to be chaired by Dr MS Khuroo, senior doctor and former director of Kashmir’s premier tertiary care hospital, Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura. The co-chairman of the committee is Dr Shakti Gupta, executive director and CEO at AIIMS, Jammu.The committee will specially focus on preparedness in terms of creation of health infrastructure, enhancement in testing capacities, arrangement of essential drugs/logistics, treatment protocols, arrangement of machinery and equipment, oxygen supply and manpower.“The committee will look into issues like ramping up Covid hospital beds and critical care units, especially for paediatrics/neo-natal age group, which is likely to be affected more,” said the order by Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, commissioner secretary to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-highest-single-day-recovery-as-4-338-patients-recuperate-101621454976879.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Labour shortage looms over paddy transplantation this year again||Farmers in Punjab are staring at a severe shortage of labour for transplantation of paddy amid the Covid-19 lockdown that has forced thousands of migrant workers to return to their native states, particularly Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The same trend was witnessed last year when restrictions were imposed for the first time in the wake of the pandemic.Since the majority of paddy growers opt for transplantation of paddy, the conventional and labour-intensive method of sowing of the crop in Punjab, they need lots of manpower besides water for irrigation. Though local workers are roped in for the task, they alone are not enough to fulfill the required need. Paddy transplantation is expected to begin in the first week of June.Tajinderpal Singh, a farmer from Rasoolpur village of Tarn Taran district, said, “the cost of labour will go high this time again due to shortage. Last year, many farmers opted for the direct seeding of rice (DSR), a less labour-intensive method, but experience of many was not good. Therefore, such farmers are in a dilemma over other methods of sowing.” “The situation will be clear once paddy transplantation starts. But there is a strong apprehension among farmers that they will have to face the same situation and bear losses,” said Sandeep Singh Randhawa, a progressive farmer from Talwandi Lal Singh village of Gurdaspur district.Randhawa, who is also director of Punjab State Co-operative Supply and Marketing Federation (Markfed), added, “The farmers have a reason to worry about. First, the railways has increased train fares. Now, travelling from UP and Bihar to Punjab will be costlier for migrant labourers. If they hire buses, they will have to pay extra in the pandemic situation. Second, they will have to complete Covid-related formalities. So, they are least likely to come to Punjab for paddy transplantation.”“Because of labour shortage, the state government is giving power supply to farmers from May 25 for the DSR technique of sowing which has started in our area,” said Gurbinder Singh Bajwa, another farmer from Gurdaspur district.Kuljit Singh Saini, chief agriculture officer of Amritsar and Tarn Taran, said the situation is not so grim for paddy growers. “Machines have already reduced dependence on the labour for sowing paddy”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/labour-shortage-looms-over-paddy-transplantation-this-year-again-101621454920071.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Villages in Punjab’s Majha belt devoid of basic Covid care||Even as the Punjab government is making claims of focusing on controlling the coronavirus surge in rural areas, most of the villages in the state’s Majha region comprising Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran districts lack basic Covid care facilities such as testing and vaccination. Due to inadequate testing, surveillance and treatment facilities, the villages in the region are turning into hotspots of infection with high positivity and fatality rates. Also, people are still reluctant to come forward for testing while they are also not checking movement of outsiders in their villages.Satnam Singh, a resident of Rajian village in Amritsar district’s Ajnala sub-division said, “Our village does not have any Covid care centre. If any person develops virus symptoms, they have to travel to Rokhey village to get them tested for the disease. Even the health centre at Rokhey lacks basic facilities like medicines and medical staff. People have no other option but to go to private hospitals that charge hefty money.”“Doctors held a vaccination camp in our village but not many showed up. People in rural areas are still hesitant to disclose their symptoms to the health department staff, fearing the authorities will admit them to hospital where they will succumb to the virus. We urge the government to open testing facilities in every village of the state,” he added.Amritsar is reporting hundreds of fresh infection daily but the district health department has collected only 2.76 lakh samples from the district’s rural areas in nearly 14 months of the pandemic. Angrej Singh, a resident of Dall village in Tarn Taran district’s Bhikhiwind sub-division said, “Our village has the population of 7,000 but the local sub-health centre does not have Covid-19 testing facility. People have to travel 15-20 kilometres to get tested for the virus. Also, people are not cooperating with the health staff as they are not keeping tabs on movement of outsiders in the village.”“Despite the virus surge, a group of farmers is set to leave for Delhi on May 27 to protest against the central government’s three farm laws. In these challenging times, villagers are focusing less on the pandemic,” Angrej Singh added. The situation at Gurdaspur district’s Jhawar village is no different as there is no testing facility even as vaccination camps were held there. Tarsem Lal, a local resident, said, “Our village has a government dispensary but it lacks Covid testing facilities and medicines. Some accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) come to the dispensary but people are reluctant to share their health status with them. Besides, residents are not following Covid-19 protocol while authorities are not keeping tabs on the violators. The government should increase surveillance in rural areas.” Villagers in Amritsar, Tarn Taran start thikri pehra As many as 661 villages in Amritsar and 122 in Tarn Taran district have started ‘thikri pehra’ (community policing) to curb the movement of people in and out of villages —except emergency and essential services. Station house officers (SHO) and deputy superintendent of police (DSPs) concerned have also been asked to regularly check and ensure the thikri pehras.Satnam Singh, sarpanch of Chahowali village in Amritsar’s Majitha block, said, “With the help of the police, we started the practice for a few days. A team of police regularly checks our thikri pehra. Our village with a population of 2,500 has no positive case so far. But we still have designated our village government school as an isolation centre.”A doctor in Tarn Taran said, “Many people are still not willing to get tested for Covid-19. They still prefer quacks instead of approaching hospitals. The police should also issue instructions against all those quacks working in the villages to help in containing the virus.”(With inputs by Anil Sharma)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/villages-in-punjab-s-majha-belt-devoid-of-basic-covid-care-101621454737076.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chintpurni temple helps fight Covid, seeks donation of medical equipment||Extending a helping hand to the Himachal Pradesh government that is struggling to control the Covid-19 surge, the Chintpurni temple trust has launched an online service accepting the donation of medical equipment for coronavirus patients. The temple, also known as Chinmastika Dham, has provided a link on its website for devotees who wish to donate towards the cause. Devotees can donate 13 types of medical equipment through the link. These include pulse oximeters, oxygen concentrators, PPE kits, masks, oxygen cylinders and medicines. The devotees can also courier the donated goods to the temple officer, Mata Chintpurni Tehsil, Una district. “Devotees keen on making the donation in person can visit Chintpurni House or register themselves on the link after which a trust official will contact them. People should donate in kind (medical material) instead of cash,” temple officer Abhishek Bhaskar said. Amb sub divisional magistrate Manesh Kumar has urged people to come forward and help fight the war against coronavirus. “Medical equipment is the need of the hour, so if someone wants to donate it to the temple trust, they can send the goods through courier or get registered on the temple trust website,” he said. Richest temple in Himachal Last year, the Chintpurni temple trust made a donation of ₹5 crore towards the Covid relief fund. The temple, also known as the Tirupati of Himachal, is the richest in the state with a cash deposit of more than ₹1.5 crore, fixed deposits of ₹102 crore, around quintals of gold and 71 quintals of silver. Mata Chintpurni Devi is one of the many manifestations of Goddess Durga. In this form, she is also called Maa Chinnamasta or Maa Chinnamastika, the one with a detached head. Meanwhile, the state branch of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas has offered its satsang bhawan to create a Covid facility at Paravur in Kangra. The 700-bed makeshift hospital will be operational next week. It has also offered space to set up a hospital at Talyar in Mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chintpurni-temple-helps-fight-covid-seeks-donation-of-medical-equipment-101621454376920.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 3,396 infections, 69 deaths||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 case tally rose to 1,70,074 as 3,396 more people tested positive on Wednesday while the death toll mounted to 2,516 after 69 patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 897 were reported in Kangra, 442 in Shimla, 389 in Mandi, 354 in Solan, 298 in Hamirpur, 253 in Sirmaur, 229 in Bilaspur, 187 in Una, 176 in Chamba, 109 in Kullu, 48 in Kinnaur and 24 in Lahaul-Spiti.Highest 17 fatalities were reported in Kangra, 11 in Shimla, seven each in Hamirpur, Sirmaur and Solan, six each in Mandi and Una, three each in Bilaspur and Kullu and one in Lahaul-Spiti.Recoveries climbed up to 1,32,406 after 3,090 people recuperated while there are 35,124 active cases.Kangra remains the worst hit district with 37,988 infections and is followed by Mandi with 23,016 cases and Shimla 21,653 cases.Solan has logged total 19,698 cases, Sirmaur 13,067, Hamirpur 12,022, Una 10,982, Bilaspur 10,649, Chamba 8,466 , Kullu 7,611, Kinnaur 2,491 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,431.3,000 health employees outsourced by HP govtHimachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed concern over the high number of Covid deaths in the district and stressed on immediate shifting of home-isolated serious patients to health institutions for proper treatment.He was reviewing the situation prevailing due to Covid in Kangra. The chief minister said that the state government had increased the bed capacity from 1,500 to about 5,000 to cater to the rising number of Covid patients.He said the central government has increased the Himachal’s oxygen quota from 15 MT to 30 MT and the state government has also urged to further enhance the oxygen quota by 10 MT.Thakur said that keeping in view the gravity of the situation, the state government was also increasing ICU beds in the health institutions.He said that 20 additional ventilators have been provided at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Tanda and 25 at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla. He said that arrangements have been made to ensure adequate supply of oxygen at the Nurpur civil hospital.The chief minister ordered to deploy adequate staff in the health institutions and for the purpose, the state government has recruited about 3,000 employees on outsource basis.Efforts are being made to make fresh appointments in health institutions to further strengthen the staff,” he said.The chief minister said that HP government has also issued SOPs for the management of Covid victims’ bodies and provide financial assistance to next of kin of the deceased to carry the body to their native places if they wish to.Thakur said that efforts must be made to strengthen the home isolation mechanism as more than 90% of the Covid patients were at home.He said that elected representatives such as MLAs, pradhans, BDC members, zila parishad members and ward members must actively participate in strengthening the home isolation mechanism by keeping in touch with the family members of the corona patients.He said that usually, the delay in shifting the patients from home isolation to hospitals results in their worsening health and eventual death.He said that paramedical staff must also regularly monitor the health parameters of the home-isolated patients.Thakur also launched a home isolation kit, Sanjeevni, for Covid patients.He said that the kit would be provided to every patient in home isolation. He also interacted with Covid patients admitted to the zonal hospital in Dharamsala and RPGMC, Tanda through videoconferencing.Besides enquiring about their health, he also asked about the treatment and quality of service being provided to them in the hospital.Thakur also took stock of the progress of makeshift Covid hospital coming up at Paraur and directed the executing agency to complete the facility at the earliest. He was apprised that this hospital would be completed within two to three days.He said a severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) ward had been made functional at ayurvedic hospital in Dehra. He said that a similar ward was also opened at Palampur a few days ago. Secretary, health, Amitabh Awasthi, also joined the event virtually from Shimla.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati made a detailed presentation on Covid situation in Kangra district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-3-396-infections-69-deaths-101621454316690.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Treatment plant deadline lapse: PPCB slaps ₹1.27-cr penalty on Ludhiana dyers’ body||With the Punjab Dyers Association (PDA, Tajpur Road module) missing the January 31 deadline for making operational the common effluent treatment plant (CETP), the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has imposed an environmental compensation of ₹1.27 crore on the body. According to the information, the PPCB imposed the penalty under Section 33-A of the Water (prevention and control of pollution) Act, 1974.A 50MLD (million litres per day) plant on Tajpur Road is being constructed to stop the discharge of untreated dyeing waste into Buddha Nullah. The project commenced in 2014, but the work came to a halt in 2016 as the state and Union governments failed to issue grants worth ₹22.5 crore to the PDA. Out of ₹22.5-crore grant, the state’s share was ₹7.5 crore while Centre was to provide ₹15 crore. The total cost of the project is over ₹55 crore and the rest of the cost will be borne by the industry.The work on the project resumed in April 2019 after the PDA got a partial subsidy released through the National Green Tribunal and the authorities claimed that the project will be completed in a year’s time. However, the project missed several deadlines and January 2021 was the latest deadline for its completion.PPCB senior environmental engineer, Sandeep Bahl said, “The environmental compensation of ₹30,000 per day has been imposed on PDA and the office-bearers have been directed to submit ₹1.27 crore as penalty. The amount of penalty will increase with every passing day.” PDA chairman Ashok Makkar said, “The PDA cannot pay such a hefty penalty and we will take up the matter with the PPCB. The project got delayed due to delay in releasing the subsidy and the ongoing pandemic. The plant is ready but it has not been made operational as the PSPCL has not yet provided the power connection. We will take up the matter with PPCB officials.” Three CETPs have been approved for the city, of which only one on Bahadurke road with 15MLD capacity is operational. Another 40MLD plant is not operational for want of power connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/treatment-plant-deadline-lapse-ppcb-slaps-1-27-cr-penalty-on-ludhiana-dyers-body-101621453836008.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege case: Named as accused, dera chief yet to be grilled by SIT||Even 11 months after jailed Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was named accused in a case connected with Bargari sacrilege, Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases never attempted to question him. In July 2020, after the arrest of seven dera Sacha Sauda followers in a case relating to the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala in 2015, the SIT-led by former inspector general of police Ranbir Singh Khatra had named Ram Rahim and dera’s three national committee members—Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri—accused in this case. The new SIT led by inspector general of police SPS Parmar, too, has not initiated process to question dera chief so farDespite claiming in the charge sheet filed in the ‘bir’ theft case that the order to carry out sacrilege was given by Ram Rahim, who currently in jail in Haryana, the SIT is yet to file any official request for permission to interrogate him. The SIT probing sacrilege cases never visited the dera headquarters in Sirsa even as it claimed the conspiracy was hatched there. The ‘bir’ was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the ‘bir’ were found scattered in front of a gurdwara in the adjoining Bargari village, resulting in an outrage across the state and death of two Sikh protesters in police firing. The SIT in its charge sheet had claimed that it was Ram Rahim who ordered to carry out sacrilege to avenge insult of sect followers by a Sikh preacher. “Some dera followers arrested in connection with sacrilege revealed that Mohinderpal Singh Bittu, who was killed in a Nabha jail in 2019, told them that the sacrilege was executed at the behest of the dera chief. During a diwan (religious congregation) in on March 22, 2015, Harjinder Singh Manjhi, a Sikh preacher, asked some dera followers to remove their lockets or leave. Bittu raised the issue with Bareta, Kler and Dhuri, who saw it as an act of sacrilege and decided to take revenge. The sacrilege conspiracy was hatched thereafter,” the SIT charge sheet says. However, the SIT had immediately initiated the process to declare the accused national committee members proclaimed offenders (PO) after which the court declared them PO in January. An SIT member said, “Ram Rahim was named accused on the basis of statements of accused dera followers, who claimed Bareta, Kler and Dhuri had told them that orders were given by dera chief. But right now, all the three are absconding, so there is absence of linking evidence in this case so far. Dera head questioning is on the list but our priority is to nab the absconding dera committee members first. After which we will question him.” SIT probing police firing too didn’t reach Ram Rahim In April 2019, the SIT probing Kotkapura and Behabl Kalan police firing cases secured orders from a Faridkot court to question Ram Rahim. However, the Sunaria jail authorities refused to let the team meet the Dera head stating that permission from the local deputy commissioner was not there. After initial denial by Rohtak administration, the SIT got permission from the Haryana government in June 2019 for questioning Dera head in jail. However, the SIT never went to question Ram Rahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-case-named-as-accused-dera-chief-yet-to-be-grilled-by-sit-101621453597448.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Special Covid testing drive begins in rural Bathinda||A special drive under ‘Pendu Covid Fateh Mission’ for Covid-19 testing started on Wednesday in nine villages of Bathinda, one of the six worst-hit districts of Punjab. Under the drive, a task force comprising officials from the departments of health, panchayat, police and education will visit one village each in nine administrative blocks of the district daily. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said 200-300 samples will be taken at each camp and the entire district population will be covered by June 16. “In the last few days, most people who tested positive are from villages. Owing to a more village-intensive approach, the special drive will give more clarity on virus infection in rural pockets,” he added. To make the drive result-oriented, panchayats and local community leaders have been taken on board and announcements are being made a day prior to the visit, he said. Civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon said All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Bathinda, has deputed 20 nurses to intensify the Covid management drive. On the first day, about 1,000 samples were taken and data of positive cases is being compiled, he added. “Covid infection is taking a toll at the village level. Owing to rumours and misinformation, the rural population was reluctant to testing, the only cornerstone to combat the virus. A coordinated drive will clear the confusion among villagers,” said Dhillon. On Wednesday, 23 deaths were reported in Bathinda, and about 10 were from rural belts, he said. The district had 6,739 active Covid cases till Tuesday and 743 mortalities have been reported so far. Villages go for self-imposed lockdowns, ‘thikri pehra’ Sarpanch of Bhokhra village Fulel Singh said after 14 positive cases and six deaths within a fortnight this month, the panchayat decided to seal the village for two weeks. “Two members of a family died of Covid and there were many others with symptoms. The entire village agreed to a self-imposed lockdown. Nobody is allowed to enter or exit the village except in an emergency. All shops will remain close this week,” said the sarpanch. Similarly, ‘thikri pehra’ (community surveillance) in the south Malwa region, including Bathinda, Mansa and Muktsar, is going on for the last several days. In Mansa, the hotbed of farmer agitation, nearly 200 panchayats have volunteered to seal their respective villages. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surender Lamba said village police officers are assisting the panchayats in implementing self-imposed lockdown to break the virus chain. A community leader from Mansa’s Khiala Kalan village, Chanana Singh, said after weeks of hesitation, villagers have now started accepting the significance of testing and vaccination. “Media played a crucial role in removing misconceptions. Visuals and reports of patients struggling for hospitalisation and queues in cremation grounds made people realising the severity of the crisis,” he said. Fazilka deputy commissioner Harish Nayyar said an inter-department team will coordinate with community leaders to motivate villagers for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-covid-testing-drive-begins-in-rural-bathinda-101621453478335.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Despite SC stricture, Pearls group properties worth crores sold illegally||Despite a ban from the Supreme Court, properties of PACL India Limited, also known as Pearls Group, worth hundreds of crores were fraudulently sold by company representatives and family members of main accused Nirmal Singh Bhangu, including his son-in-law Har Satinder Singh Hayer, police investigations have revealed. Bhangu is in jail in connection with a ponzi scam involving over ₹48,000 crore. In April this year, the special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police probing the case, filed a charge sheet, against the multiple accused in a Ferozepur court. As many as 45 people, including company officials and family members of Bhangu, were booked for cheating, criminal conspiracy and other sections of the Indian Penal Code at Zira police station in Ferozepur district on July 16, 2020. Several arrests were made by the police on the complaint of one Pardeep Singh of Bhadson in Patiala district. In 2016, the Supreme Court restrained the PACL or its directors, promoters and others or its associate companies from selling or transferring properties in or outside India. In December 2015, the Securities and Exchange Board Board of India (Sebi) had ordered attachment of all assets of PACL and its nine promoters and directors for their failure to refund money to investors. A panel headed by Justice RM Lodha (retired) had initiated the process of refunds to investors. The chargesheet says that despite the ban, PACL and its associated companies started disposing of land worth hundreds of crores in and outside India. It says that one Pardeep Singh produced a power of attorney of Bhangu’s daughter Barinder Kaur of Mohali given to one Sarabjit Singh Sanghera of Australia to sell property worth of 6-crore Australian dollars. Sanghera had multiple powers of attorney given by Bahngu’s kin. The powers of attorney were prepared in Zira town of Ferozepur district. There were also financial transactions between Sanghera and Har Satinder Singh, says the challan. The charge sheet says financial transactions were also traced between Manoj Kumar, who was arrested in april this year, and Barinder Kaur and others. Also, Dhillon Empire, an associate company of PACL, kept operating its accounts. “The accused Munish Jakhar got registered land deeds of 112 flats of Nirmal Chaya project despite ban and gave the power of attorney of many commercial properties,” reads the charge sheet, adding the accused also issued no-objection certificate (NOC) of the plots situated at Nishaat Bagh in Patiala district to more than 35 people in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Besides, the police also found allotment letters to flats in Sector 104 in Mohali. “In Fazilka, PACL agent Rampal got transferred commercial property in-connivance with the revenue officials,” reads the charge sheet. When contacted Ferozepur range DIG Hardial Singh Mann refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-sc-stricture-pearls-group-properties-worth-crores-sold-illegally-101621453236929.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||2 Punjab farmers die near Singhu border, one found Covid positive||Two farmers from Punjab, who were part of the group protesting here against the new farm laws, passed away with one of them found Covid positive, officials said on Wednesday. Farmers Balbir Singh (50) of Patiala and Mahender Singh (70) of Ludhiana died on Tuesday. They were part of the group protesting near the Singhu border. Sonepat’s chief medical officer Jaswant Singh Punia said Balbir had been suffering from fever for a couple of days. He was declared brought dead at a government hospital and a test revealed that he had Covid, said Punia. Rai station house officer (SHO) Bijender Singh, however, said they were yet to receive the report from the health officials. Mahender’s body was sent for post-mortem and the exact cause of his death was yet to be ascertained, said Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting at various border points near Delhi, including Singhu and Tikri, for the past six months demanding rollback of the Centre’s new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-punjab-farmers-die-near-singhu-border-one-found-covid-positive-101621453002441.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Woman among 3 held with 1.6 kg of heroin, ₹50 lakh||Three people, including a woman, were arrested with 1.6kg of heroin and ₹50 lakh drug money near Tanda Chowk in Hoshiarpur, police said on Wednesday. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said a police party intercepted a Maruti Swift car (PB 02 BH 4443) near Tanda Chowk on Tuesday and recovered 45 grams heroin from occupants, identified as Pushpinder Singh of Narayan Nagar and Amit Choudhary of Bassi Khawaju. During preliminary investigation, it came to fore that they procured drugs from Jasvir Singh, alias Gajju, and his accomplice Jagroop Kaur, the SSP said. “Acting on the inputs, a police party raided Gajju’s house at Jandiala in Amritsar and arrested his accomplice Jagrup Kaur with 100 grams of heroin while he himself managed to flee. During search, 1.48 kg of heroin, 580 grams of opium, 560 grams of gold and ₹49,48,700 drug money were recovered,” said the SSP, adding that raids were on to nab Jasvir.A case has been registered under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Mahal said proceedings were being initiated to attach the properties of drug smugglers. He said during a special drive against drug peddlers, 189 cases have been registered since January and 234 offenders have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-among-3-held-with-1-6-kg-of-heroin-rs-50-lakh-101621452937173.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 dera men arrested for Bargari sacrilege test positive for Covid||Three of the six accused arrested by the special investigation team (SIT) in the Bargari sacrilege case tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, on Sunday arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village. The Faridkot court on Monday had sent them in police custody till May 21. Following the test reports, members of special investigation team and the Bajakhana police station personnel have been quarantined. Three accused, Sukhjinder, Nishan and Baljit, have been admitted to the isolation facility at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-dera-men-arrested-for-bargari-sacrilege-test-positive-for-covid-101621452758254.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 208 Covid deaths, 6,407 fresh cases||Punjab on Wednesday registered 208 more fatalities due to Covid-19, pushing the death toll in the state to 12,525, according to a medical bulletin.The infection count climbed to 5,17,954 with 6,407 new cases. The number of daily cases was lower than the 7,143 fresh cases that were registered on Tuesday. The state’s single-day recoveries, which were registered at 7,872, again surpassed the single-day infections of 6,407.The number of active cases dropped from 72,277 on Tuesday to 70,499, according to the bulletin.Twenty-seven deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 23 from Bathinda, 18 from Sangrur, 16 from Patiala and 15 each from Mohali and Muktsar, among fatalities witnessed in the past 24 hours.Ludhiana reported the maximum of 731 cases, followed by 661 in Jalandhar, 658 in Bathinda, 603 in Mohali and 530 in Fazilka, among other fresh cases.The state’s positivity rate stood at 8.71%, the bulletin stated.With 7,872 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 4,34,930, as per the bulletin.There are 405 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 1,130 other critical patients and 7,939 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 84,10,481 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-208-covid-deaths-6-407-fresh-cases-101621452456507.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclonic movement shifts eastward, Chandigarh receives only drizzle||The cyclonic movement, remnant of Cyclone Tauktae, has moved east towards Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, causing only cloudy skies and faint drizzling in Chandigarh on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Now, Thursday is likely to remain clear, while Friday may see rain up to 10mm.“The cyclonic movement had been moving towards the region due to pressure differences, however it shifted eastward on Wednesday. There is no specific reason for this deviation, but change by even a small angle can lead to a shift by hundreds of kilometres,” said Shivinder Singh, scientist at IMD, Chandigarh.Due to this, Singh said, there was no impact in Punjab, and only mild rain was seen in southern and south-eastern parts of Haryana. In Chandigarh, trace rainfall was recorded between 8am and 5pm at the Sector 39 IMD observatory.Coldest May day in over 10 years The cloudy weather and cool winds caused the maximum temperature to drop to 27.4°C degrees on Wednesday, 10 degrees below normal, making it the coldest May day in over 10 years.According to IMD, it was only in May 2013 last that a similar day temperature of 27.6°C was recorded.With a night temperature of 25°C, there was only a two-degree gap between the maximum and minimum temperatures on Wednesday. “The sky remained cloudy since morning with little sunlight even in the afternoon. This caused the temperature to drop. The weather is likely to remain clear from Thursday onwards, which will cause the maximum temperature to rise again,” Singh said.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 32°C and 35°C, while the minimum temperature will hover between 21°C and 25°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cyclonic-movement-shifts-eastward-chandigarh-receives-only-drizzle-101621450236049.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||10kg cocaine haul in Chandigarh: Mastermind, aide nabbed||Police have arrested two more Chennai men for their involvement in the smuggling of the 10.24kg cocaine recovered from their aide here on May 13. The accused have been identified as Vijay Kumar, 41, and N Jaffer Shariff, 28. They were arrested from Chennai on the disclosure of Ashfaq Rahman, who was the first to be arrested on May 13 following the recovery of the cocaine in one of the biggest narcotic seizures ever in Chandigarh. According to investigators, Shariff is among the masterminds of the racket wherein the accused smuggled drugs abroad through couriers. The duo will be produced before a Chandigarh court on Thursday. Rahman was caught while preparing to courier the contraband to Australia. The cocaine, packed in two cartons of crockery boxes, was discovered by the employees at Excel Worldwide Courier Agency in Industrial Area, Phase 2, who further alerted the police. The UT Police have also informed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) regarding a consignment of drugs sent via courier to Australia in April this year. “Investigations have pointed out that in April, the accused had succeeded in shipping a big consignment of drugs to Australia through Fedex company. The drugs were concealed in medical equipment in six cartons weighing more than 150kg,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. He added that NCB had been informed regarding this consignment, which was still on its way to Australia. “The bureau has been alerted to track the consignment through proper channel with the respective countries,” the SSP added. Apart from this, police have also shared information in this regard with the Enforcement Directorate; special branch, counter intelligence, Delhi; and special task force of Punjab Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10kg-cocaine-haul-in-chandigarh-mastermind-aide-nabbed-101621450058098.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn slashes oxygen cylinder security deposit||The Chandigarh administration has reduced the security deposit for an oxygen cylinder to ₹8,000, a day after it informed the Punjab and Haryana high court that it is examining the issue.The administration had come under severe criticism from the civil society for charging a hefty amount of ₹25,000 as security for the oxygen cylinder, following which the amount was reduced to ₹10,000 for certain types of cylinders.Nodal officer for oxygen supply in Chandigarh, Yashpal Garg, on Wednesday said that the refundable amount for B-type cylinders has now been reduced to ₹8,000. A person having their own B-type cylinder would pay ₹196 including taxes as refilling charges.The administration has clarified that the security amount was prescribed on the insistence of the vendor to get back the cylinders in time and to keep the supply continuous. However, if the vendor was satisfied, they may provide the cylinder to the person without any security.An application for e-permit can be submitted on the Chandigarh administration’s website http://chandigarh.gov.in/health_covid19.html and cylinders will be provided by the firm, Super Agencies, 40-MW Industrial Area-I, Chandigarh. The firm can be contacted by phone at 9888035000 or by email at superchandigarh@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-slashes-oxygen-cylinder-security-deposit-101621450056853.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-affected clusters getting bigger in Chandigarh||The size of Covid-affected clusters is getting bigger in congested parts of Chandigarh.There are currently 280 active containment and micro-containment zones that demarcate these clusters with higher incidence of infections. Around one-third people in these containment zones are in just seven clusters, with Manimajra accounting for four (see box). Since March this year, when the city was hit by the pandemic’s second wave, the administration has notified curbs in more than 400 areas, which, after the Centre’s push, has emerged as a key strategy to contain the virus spread. In the initial months of the pandemic, Bapu Dham Colony had become its epicentre in the city. With large clusters spread across the colony, the administration had declared nearly all of its pockets as containment zones. After the first wave receded, the administration had started creating micro-containment zones, which generally had three to four houses with 10 to 20 people. The strategy continued as the city was hit by the second wave, with multiple such zones carved out in March and April. However, now the cluster size has gone up in peripheral areas, such as Manimajra, where there is high population density with more people living in relatively smaller houses in congested neighbourhoods. With this, the administration has again started creating containment zones, such as the one in Manimajra’s Shanti Nagar that was notified on May 17 and has a population of 400.‘In congested areas, size has increased’“We are creating containment zones on the basis of contact tracing report and infection incidence in a locality. The aim is to limit the spread and break the infection. In congested areas, the size of the cluster has increased,” said deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar.Another senior official said that in the earlier weeks of the second wave, cases were mainly coming from sectors. “In May, villages and rehabilitation colonies also started reporting positive cases. As these areas are congested, more people are coming under containment restrictions for every new positive case reported than in relatively sparsely populated sectors,” said the official, who didn’t want to be named. Manimajra is becoming the new hub with the highest number of houses and a major chunk of population under containment curbs. Micro-containment zones were being created here since the start of the second wave, but, worryingly, it is in the last one week that the size of clusters has become bigger. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of community medicine and public health, PGIMER, said, “Congested areas are more prone to spread of the infection. This indicates more people can be exposed to the infection in these areas. In a locality with less than five positive cases, a micro-containment zone is created. If cases are 5-15 in a contiguous area, then containment zone has to be created.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidaffected-clusters-getting-bigger-in-chandigarh-101621449876582.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula to launch drive-through vaccination facility||Following in Mohali’s footsteps, Panchkula is also launching a drive-through vaccination centre at Parade Ground, Sector 5. The drive will take place on Friday and Saturday for three hours in the morning and two hours in the evening, said immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan. Pre-registration is compulsory, she said.The decision was taken by the deputy commissioner in order to intensify the vaccination campaign, which has become sluggish in the recent days. A committee comprising administrative, traffic police and medical officials will ensure the drive-through facility runs smoothly, while the civil surgeon will provide technical inputs.Meanwhile, after a gap of at least two weeks, the Panchkula health department has also started administering the first vaccine dose to the people in 45+ age category. It was suspended a few days after the drive for 18-44 age group was launched. Meanwhile, the number of vaccination sites for the younger group has been reduced to two.To date, 1,82,314 people have been vaccinated in Panchkula, including 1,888 in the age group of 18-44 years.Vax for 45+, drive-through centres resume in Mohali After five days, the vaccination drive for the 45+ age category also resumed in Mohali on Wednesday.The two drive-through facilities at the sports complex in Sector 78 and New Chandigarh, which were closed within three days of their May 12 launch due to the non-availability of vaccine, were also reopened.According to the Co-WIN portal, the drive was carried out at 44 government centres and eight private centres.Dr Vikrant Nagra, district immunisation officer, said: “We have got 11,000 doses of Covishield and 10,000 doses of Covaxin for the second dose. We have also got 6,000 doses from the Punjab government for the 18-44 age group. We are hopeful that the drive will run smoothly now.” From around 10,000 doses being administered daily till around May 10, the number had dropped to a paltry 875 on May 16, as the drive had been restricted to construction workers and family members of health care workers and frontline workers in the 18-44 age category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-to-launch-drive-through-vaccination-facility-101621449816533.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s mini Covid centres now open to all tricity residents||With more oxygen beds now available with the mini Covid-care centres in the city, the UT administration on Wednesday stated that the facilities were open to all residents of the tricity.UT adviser Manoj Parida, while inaugurating the fifth such facility at the Sector-47 community centre, said, “Thanks to great voluntary efforts of local organisations, we have 100 oxygen beds available for Covid patients, with free medical treatment. Any patient from the tricity is welcome. This 20-bed mini Covid centre has been set up by the Rotary Satellite Club of Chandigarh in association with the administration.”Four other mini centres with 134 beds are functional and 84 patients are admitted there.Earlier in the day, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore also held a meeting with UT officials on the working of the mini Covid centre, and decided that additional facilities would be set up only after 70% of the existing ones were occupied.The administrator directed the officials to ensure the quality of food being given in government hospitals and the centres is checked regularly and only fresh and nutritious food is supplied to the patients.Badnore thanked residents, traders, shopkeepers, etc, for their cooperation and for bearing with Covid curfew restrictions that had possibly prevented many more infections and even fatalities. The hardships borne by them have started bearing fruits with the visible plateauing of the Covid caseload in the city, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-mini-covid-centres-now-open-to-all-tricity-residents-101621449755812.html
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||15 Covid patients die in Mohali for second day in a row||Mohali district, which is the worst hit by the pandemic’s second wave in the tricity, on Wednesday reported 15 Covid-related deaths for the second consecutive day. Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported nine deaths and four patients succumbed in Panchkula, taking the tricity’s toll to 28.However, in some respite, with 1,382 people testing positive, the tricity registered the lowest number of cases since the 2,000 mark was breached on April 22. As many as 603 people were diagnosed with the virus in Mohali, followed by 414 in Chandigarh and 378 in Panchkula.Though the second wave of infections is ebbing but experts have said there is likely to now be a spurt in fatalities as people who have been battling for their life from when the cases hit a peak begin to either recover or succumb after prolonged critical care stay.The peak was hit on May 10 with 2,612 cases, with even Mohali logging a record 1,382 cases. Chandigarh registered its all-time high of 890 twice, on May 3 and 7, while Panchkula’s cases peaked at 654 on May 5. The total has remained below 2,000 since May 14. In terms of deaths, the tricity had reported an all-time high of 38 on May 5, Mohali recorded 17 deaths on May 5 and 9, Chandigarh hit the peak of 14 twice, on May 5 and 12, and Panchkula logged record nine deaths on May 17.Meanwhile, with more people getting cured than those testing positive, the tricity’s active case load dropped to 16,958 from the peak of 24,201 a week ago.After 2 weeks, 5 ICU beds become available in MohaliFinally, after two weeks, five intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients became available at some private hospitals in Mohali on Wednesday. The occupancy of oxygen beds, too, dropped to 80%, with 179 vacant, according to figures available in the evening. There are 395 ICU beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients at various private hospitals in Mohali district, and all were occupied for the past two weeks. Meanwhile, the civil hospital in Phase 6, which is the government’s lone Covid-19 facility in the district, has no ICU bed while all its 120 oxygen beds remain occupied.Mohali has also become the first city in Punjab where the a makeshift Covid hospital will come up under a new scheme of the state government. Under the scheme, Invest Punjab will coordinate with all departments concerned to ensure the grant of approval within 24 hours of the submission of application with self declaration. On Wednesday, it issued an NOC to Mohali Medical Group Private Limited to set up an 80-bed temporary facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-covid-patients-die-in-mohali-for-second-day-in-a-row-101621449216710.html
