21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to import black fungus medicines: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday said that the state government will import medicines needed to treat black fungus disease which is surfacing mostly among people recovering from severe spell of Covid-19.Admitting shortage of medicines needed to treat black fungus due to spike in cases, Vij said global tenders are being floated to import the medicine at the earliest.“Black fungus has come to fore recently due to which there is shortage of its medicine,” he said, in a statement.Haryana has approached the Centre in this regard and sought medicine. Apart from this, the Haryana government is floating global tenders for one crore doses of anti-Covid vaccine and other essential injections.Vij on Thursday held a meeting regarding black fungus (mucormycosis) cases and had ordered to float global tenders for injections needed to treat black fungus along with one crore Covid vaccine doses.Meanwhile, to ensure complete recovery post-Covid, Vij said that soon post-Covid centre, ‘Umang’ will be started in government hospitals of Haryana.Vij said these centres are being started where Covid recovered patients will be treated and given training for their physical fitness through yoga and ‘pranayam’.Besides this, services of physiotherapists and other physicians will also be available at these centres. Vij said due to increasing cases of Covid, patients are facing problems even after recovering from it and the state government is all set to tackle the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-import-black-fungus-medicines-vij-101621615491382.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to bear Covid treatment cost of BPL patients in private hospitals||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday announced that the state government will bear the cost of Covid-19 treatment of BPL patients in state’s private hospitals.Earlier, the state government had announced financial assistance of up to ₹35,000 to BPL patients undergoing treatment in private hospitals.“All BPL families not covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme will be eligible to get this benefit and the deputy commissioner will ensure that the financial assistance scheme reaches grassroots levels,” said Khattar, while chairing review meeting of Covid management with the DCs and administrative secretaries held on Friday through video conferencing.Khattar said the DCs should ensure that every patient who is eligible for this benefit get it on priority basis.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and state health minister Anil Vij joined the meeting from Chandigarh and Ambala, respectively.Khattar said focus should be shifted on making adequate arrangements to deal with patients suffering from post-Covid complications including keeping a close vigil on black fungus cases while putting up a tough fight against the second wave of Covid.A plan has been formulated for opening special clinics along with regular OPDs in civil hospitals across state to deal with post-Covid symptoms.The CM said from declaring black fungus a notified disease, setting up centres for its prevention and further constituting an expert committee to decide on the distribution of Amphotericin-B injection, a drug required to treat the said disease, state government is proactively focusing on ensuring timely treatment to patients affected with the infection along with making hands-on strategies to tackle Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-bear-covid-treatment-cost-of-bpl-patients-in-private-hospitals-101621615370810.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana allows MSMEs to start industry in 15 days: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said that due to continuous efforts of the state government, investment in MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) is increasing and entrepreneurs are showing interest in investing in Haryana.Addressing a virtual MSME dialogue series organised by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) on Friday, he said that small industries in state are growing due to big industries such as JCB, Maruti, Flipkart, ATL, and Honda.Dushyant said that under the Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy, 2020, the state is working towards doubling exports. He said due to the new industrial policy of Haryana, a mega plant for battery by ATL company on about 178 acre in Sohna as well as the largest and most hi-tech warehouse on about 140 acre in Asia by Flipkart are going to be set up in Haryana.Big companies such as Amaron are also showing interest in investing in Haryana. He said that the arrival of these big mother units will give boost to the MSMEs in state.He said that the state government is setting up large infrastructure for uplifting MSMEs in Haryana.He added that the state government has signed agreements with three e-commerce companies - eBay, Power2SME, and TradeIndia.com. This will provide a global market for Haryana’s MSMEs.Dushyant said there are about 9.7 lakh MSMEs in state and about 20 lakh people are being provided employment through them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-allows-msmes-to-start-industry-in-15-days-dushyant-101621615190768.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Malana to take shot at Covid vaccine after deity gives nod||Faith can move mountains. Malana, nestled in the Himayalas at 9,900 ft in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district, which made headlines recently for shunning the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the absence of the local deity’s blessings, has had a change of heart. Residents started registering themselves for vaccination two days ago with local deity Jamdagni Rishi or Jamlu Devta believed to have given his approval after a hard-fought debate in the two Houses of the village parliament. Members of both Houses agreed that vaccination is important but left the decision to the deity. Also read: Unregulated online classes affecting health of school children in KashmirMalana panchayat comprises the two villages of Saura Behad and Dhara Behad with a total population of 2,041 in 475 households, including 1,039 men and 1,002 women. So far, none of the residents has contracted Covid-19. Break from tradition “It’s not easy for these people to give up their tradition. But now we are hopeful,” says health educator Birma Thakur, who visited the village along with three staff members on Thursday. Panchayat pradhan Raju Ram and secretary Tek Singh Negi, along with lone accredited social health activist Nirma Devi, have been trying to convince the villagers to take the vaccine for the past two months. The team of health workers from Jarhi, the nearest town from Malana, would trek 7km on alternate days to reach out to the villagers. Raju Ram played a vital role in changing the mindset. He took the help of the panchayat and mahila mandals to convince the villagers. “Belief is one thing, but science is another. I categorically told the villagers that we can’t live in isolation for long. We now have the blessings of the deity,” he said. The panchayat had called a meeting and requested both Houses to deliberate on the matter. People coming forward good sign So far, 142 people have registered themselves. There are nearly 350 people above 60 in the panchayat. Of them, 40 have got themselves registered. “The state government has deputed two teachers to register the villagers for vaccination, few have come forward and the rest are still reluctant,” said panchayat secretary Tek Singh Negi. Nirma Devi is elated that people are finally coming forward for vaccination. She admits that she has not been inoculated either. “I’ll take the vaccine along with the villagers. It’s a good sign that people have started coming forward,” she says. Meanwhile, National Rural Health Mission state director Nipun Jindal has sought a report from the chief medical officers to identify remote villages where not a single person has been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malana-to-take-shot-at-covid-vaccine-after-deity-gives-nod-101621598869169.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Inquiry against Panchkula hospital for overcharging Covid-19 patients||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday ordered an inquiry against Paras Hospital, Panchkula, for overcharging Covid-19 patients. Vij formed a three-member committee to probe the complaints forwarded to him by Speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta. Also read: PM Modi warns against ‘black fungus’, says must focus on precaution, preparationThe committee, comprising state medical education and research director Dr Shaleen, additional director general of health services Dr VK Bansal and a state finance department official, will submit its report in a week. Gupta had written to the state government, requesting it to carry out an audit of bills issued to Covid patients at private hospitals. He had even visited Paras Hospital after getting complaints of overcharging. Speaker cited three cases in his letter to VijIn his letter to Vij, Gupta mentioned three cases of overcharging.A patient, Jog Dhyan, was handed over a bill of ₹7.59 lakh by Paras Hospital on May 13 for his treatment for Covid-19 between May 2 and 13. The charges were later reduced to ₹2.9 lakh after the district administration intervened and a district-level committee was set up to look into the allegations. The family of another patient who succumbed to Covid on April 9 was handed a bill of ₹9.77 lakh for his treatment since March 24 at Paras Hospital. Dharam Pal Singhal, who had been admitted to the same hospital on April 17 and was discharged on May 3, was handed a bill of ₹4.97 lakh for various procedures and lab tests. Haryana had in June last year issued an order capping the daily package rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals between ₹8,000 and ₹18,000. Hospital claimed bills were provisional The hospital authorities had told the district-level inquiry committee that the summary of tests and the charges for those tests were for the record of the hospital only. The hospital had maintained that the charges were provisional but the final billing would be done strictly as per the government’s instructions. The response of the hospital was part of the minutes of the meeting of the committee. Paras Hospital marketing head Yashwant Kumar said that the authorities would be able to comment only after going through the order of the committee constituted at the state level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inquiry-against-panchkula-hospital-for-overcharging-covid-19-patients-101621583448160.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC ex-chief justice AB Saharya dies of Covid-19||A former chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court, AB Saharya, 80, has passed away in Delhi due to Covid-19 complications. Family members said he was admitted at Apollo hospital in Delhi, where he died of multiple organ failure caused by Covid-19, on Thursday. Also read: Jaishankar in US next week, to discuss vaccines and Indo-PacificBorn on September 15, 1940, he got enrolled with the Mysore State Bar Council in October 1963 and shifted to Delhi in 1965, where was designated as senior advocate of the Delhi high court in November 1984. He was appointed a permanent judge on April 24, 1986, at the Delhi high court before he joined as the chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court on November 7, 1997. He retired on September 14, 2002. He was living with his family in Delhi, where his wife Prabha died in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-hc-ex-chief-justice-ab-saharya-dies-of-covid19-101621582188310.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wrong signal: 5G towers blamed for rise in Covid cases in Haryana||Mobile towers can transmit coronavirus! Well, that’s the latest misconception being spread across Haryana that has the already stretched administration gearing up to grapple with before it becomes a law and order problem. Alarmed by the swiftness with which the misinformation blaming mobile towers for the rising Covid-19 fatalities in the state is spreading, the Haryana government has directed deputy commissioners (DCs) and superintendents of police (SPs) to crack down on rumourmongers. Also read: India records 2.59 lakh new Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, fatalities go above 4,000“Misinformation attributing the Covid-19 fatalities to the testing of 5G towers is doing the rounds. This has led to damage to mobile towers by misguided elements,” state chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said in his communication to the DCs and SSPs on Thursday. Misinformation campaign to vaccine hesitancy This is the latest misinformation campaign that the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government is battling after facing vaccine hesitancy in Haryana’s hinterland. Villages dominated by a particular community, opposed to the BJP-led Centre’s farm laws, is asking people to violate the Covid lockdown. It is in this backdrop that the one-page order of the chief secretary becomes significant and reflects the gravity of multiple challenges the administration is facing in fighting Covid-19. Virus can’t travel on radio waves/mobile network Vardhan said the World Health Organisation (WHO) has clarified that such rumours are misplaced as viruses cannot travel on radio waves/mobile network. Other organisations have also debunked such claims, the order says and advises the DCs and SSPs to safeguard telecom infrastructure and related assets in their districts. “Take strict, coercive and immediate action against any miscreant spreading such misleading rumours,” the chief secretary said. The department of telecommunication, in its May 10 press statement, also clarified that linking the 5G network technology with Covid-19 has no scientific basis. Not just this, Vardhan said, the testing of 5G network has not yet started in India. “Hence, the apprehension that 5G trials/networks are causing coronavirus in India is baseless and devoid of any merit,” he added. Telecom providers express concernTR Dua, the director general of the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association, said he had sought Vardhan’s intervention. “Four towers were damaged in Jind and Rohtak districts. Fifteen villages wanted towers shifted due to the misleading campaign.The operation and maintenance of telecom towers was becoming challenging,” Dua said.Residents of Masudpur, Rakhi Shahpur, Khanda Kheri, Koth Kalan and Majra villages of Hisar district also raised concern amid the rising Covid cases. They met Narnaund sub divisional magistrate Vikas Yadav in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wrong-signal-5g-towers-blamed-for-rise-in-covid-cases-in-haryana-101621574207841.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Live-in couples entitled to protection, rules Punjab and Haryana HC||Live-in relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to commission of any offence, the Punjab and Haryana high court has held . “Such couples fear for their safety from relatives and not from the society, further holding that in law such a relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to commission of any offence. Hence, such persons are entitled to equal protection of laws as any other citizen of the country,” the court said in its May 18 order. The order comes days after two different benches had refused to grant protection to live-in couples. While one of the benches observed that the “entire social fabric of the society will get disturbed” if the plea is accepted, the other said “the petitioners, in the garb of filing the present petition, are seeking seal of approval on their live-in-relationship, which is morally and socially not acceptable.” The fresh order comes from justice Sudhir Mittal, passed on plea of a couple from Jind in Haryana, who had submitted that both are major but fear for their life and liberty as the girl’s parents are against the relationship and are threatening to cause physical harm to the boy. State counsel had contended that live-in relationships are not legal and are frowned upon by the society. Thus, no protection can be granted to the petitioners. “The Constitution of India is the supreme law of the land. Right to life and liberty is enshrined therein and is treated as a basic feature. The said right includes the right of an individual to full development of his/her potential in accordance with his/her choice and wish and for such purpose, he/she is entitled to choose a partner of his/her choice. The individual also has the right to formalise the relationship with the partner through marriage or to adopt the non-formal approach of a live-in relationship,” the bench observed. It further added that the concept of live-in-relationships has crept into the Indian society from western nations and initially, found acceptance in metropolitan cities, probably because individuals felt that formalisation of a relationship through marriage was not necessary for complete fulfilment. “Slowly, the concept has percolated into small towns and villages as well, as is evident from this petition. This shows that social acceptance for live-in-relationships is on the increase. In law, such a relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to commission of any offence and thus, such persons are entitled to equal protection of laws as any other citizen of the country,” the bench added. The court further observed that the constitutional courts grant protection to run away couples who apprehends threat to their lives and liberty at the hands of their parents and it does not make any difference whether they are in a live- in relationship or have formally got married.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/livein-couples-entitled-to-protection-rules-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101621544989499.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mutant virus variants found in 94% samples from Punjab||Mutant strains of the coronavirus are actively present in Punjab with 94% of fresh genome sequencing reports coming positive for such variants, posing challenge to the state health department in containing the second pandemic wave. Of the 188 samples from across Punjab tested for genome sequencing at the central government’s epidemiology testing units, 176 were tested positive for the “mutant strains”, health department officials said. Genome sequencing attempts to draw out complete genetics of viruses. Of the 176 samples, 81 carried the UK virus strain (B.1.1.7) and 92 had the Indian variants (B.1.617). Of the new strains (UK, South Africa and Brazil) detected in India, the former is believed to be 70% more infectious than others. Health experts believe that the high prevalence of mutant strains in Punjab is the prime reason for the spike in infections amid the second wave. In March this year, the UK variant was found in 326 (81%) of the 401 samples from Punjab tested for mutant strains.“So far, the state health department has sent around 2,000 swab samples of randomly infected people from all the districts of the state. The samples were sent mostly from government medical colleges (GMCs) in Amritsar and Patiala to the Centre’s epidemiology units for testing. We have received results of only 900 samples till now,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. “The national epidemiological units have huge pendency of samples as gene sequencing is not done commonly. It takes around one month to get reports from these units. The mutant strains are definitely a big challenge to us,” Dr Bhaskar added.According to the health department, in March’s reports, the UK strain was active in 12 Punjab districts, including Mohali, Jalandhar, Patiala, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Rupnagar, Bathinda and Tarn Taran.“The state health department will regularly send swab samples for genome sequencing as better detection can help us in planning safety measures. Also, people must follow social distancing norms and must wear masks to protect themselves from the mutant strains as they are highly communicable,” Dr Bhaskar said. Hussan Lal, principal secretary (health), Punjab, said, “The UK strain is highly active in Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mutant-virus-variants-found-in-94-samples-from-punjab-101621543729623.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three youths held with 1.6kg charas in Jalandhar||Police on Thursday arrested three youths in Jalandhar and claimed to have recovered 1.6kg charas from them. Jalandhar police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the crime investigation agency (CIA) staff intercepted a Suzuki Swift car during a special checking at Dairy Chowk in Model Town. “Upon noticing the police party, the driver tried to take a turn to flee, but was stopped. The cops nabbed Varun Kumar, Mohit Sharma, alias Pandit and Simranjeet Singh Randhawa. During checking, they recovered 900 gram charas from Varun, 700 grams from Mohit and 80 grams from Simranjeet. “The accused revealed that they used to bring the contraband from Himachal Pradesh and sell it at high rates in Punjab,” he added. A case under sections 20, 61, 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against the accused. Bhullar Simranjeet was arrested in a case of attempt to murder in August 2017 registered and was out on bail since 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-youths-held-with-1-6kg-charas-in-jalandhar-101621543726553.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda ‘pathi’ held for holding ardas for Sirsa dera chief’s release from jail||Police on Thursday arrested a ‘pathi’ of a gurdwara at Bir Talab village in Bathinda district for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by holding special ‘ardas’ for the controversial Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. The action was taken after Harpal Singh Khara, a lawyer, lodged a police complaint against the pathi Gurmel Singh Khalsa. Gurmeet Ram Rahim is undergoing 20-year jail sentence in Haryana’s Rohtak for raping his two women disciples. The sect chief was accused of blasphemy and sacrilege of Sikh scriptures.A video of Khalsa, a former sarpanch of Bir Talab, went viral where he is heard offering prayers for the jailed sect chief and saying he was a victim of a political conspiracy.The video, which was shot in the presence of devotees at a gurdwara, also contained an appeal calling for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention for the release of Ram Rahim.In the ardas, Khalsa said being a member of the Dalit community, he wished the next Punjab chief minister should be a scheduled caste and the BJP deserves appreciation for making a similar announcement.Khara, the complainant, said Khalsa’s conduct hurt the sentiment of Sikhs and a strict should be initiated against him. He also demanded action against the Bir Talab gurdwara management committee for allowing Khalsa’s address at the shrine. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said a case was registered under sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian penal code.“A team will probe the role of other persons named in the complaint,” said the SSP.Meanwhile, BJP state secretary Sukhpal Sra shot a complaint to the National Commission for Schedule Castes that Khalsa was arrested for raising a pro-Dalit sentiment of attaining more political power in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-pathi-held-for-holding-ardas-for-sirsa-dera-chief-s-release-from-jail-101621543725647.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot medical college plugs O2 wastage, treating twofold patients with same supply||The Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, has plugged the wastage of oxygen and is now treating more than two times the patients with the existing supply. On May 14, as many as 421 patients were under treatment with oxygen consumption at 10 metric tonnes against 9.9 metric tonnes on April 22 when only 177 patients were receiving medical care at the hospital’s 450-bed isolation facility.The hospital is catering to critical Covid-19 patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. The Covid isolation wards at the hospital were divided into two zones — high flow and low flow — according to the requirement of oxygen. “The high flow oxygen zone has been set up on the ground floor, where level-3 facility is for critical patients, while low-flow zone wards have been set up on the first floor. Oxygen concentrators were placed at 50 points where oxygen supply was not required,” said Dr Ruhee Dugg registrar, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS).“To ensure the hospital does not face oxygen shortage, an audit committee was constituted. The team visits Covid wards regularly to prevent any wastage,” she said. The BFUHS has also conducted a research study on the zoning of Covid wards, which they have now sent to other facilities so they can ‘replicate’ it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-medical-college-plugs-o2-wastage-treating-twofold-patients-with-same-supply-101621543666499.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Row over nurses: AIIMS Bathinda constitutes 3-member inquiry panel||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, on Thursday constituted a three-member committee to look in detail into sending back of 50 of its male nursing officers from Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, a day before. The state department of medical education and research on Wednesday relieved the nursing officers of duty and sent them back to their parent institute after they against “pathetic” accommodations provided to them. AIIMS, Bathinda, director Dr DK Singh said the matter needed to be thoroughly probed before fixing any accountability or contemplating action against the staffers. Dr Singh added that since the incident took place at Patiala’s medical college, they have limited information about what actually happened as no senior faculty member accompanied them. “We have set up the committee comprising senior doctors who will submit report to me. Further action will be initiated accordingly,” Dr Singh said. The nursing officers reached Patiala three days ago and were deployed in the government medical college’s Covid wing. Besides poor sanitation, the nurses complained of substandard meals in the hostel mess and deplorable living arrangements. The AIIMS, Bathinda, which has recruited 400 staff nurses and only 45-level 2 beds and 20 level-3 beds, had decided to send them in groups of 50 each for duty in four government medical colleges of the state with the approval of the Union health ministry. The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association has demanded termination of the services of the AIIMS nurses. Association president Dr DS Bhullar and general secretary Dr Darshanjit Singh Walia, said the nurses left the duties by making irresponsible and baseless allegations against the hospital authorities and have defamed the institution. “This is gross dereliction of duty. Besides termination of their services, criminal cases under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act should be registered against them,” Dr Bhullar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-nurses-aiims-bathinda-constitutes-3-member-inquiry-panel-101621543665557.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ban on kirpan: Sikh bodies take up issue with New South Wales govt||Enraged over the ban on wearing kirpan by Sikh students in the government schools of New South Wales (NSW) state of Australia, as many as 56 Sikh bodies have written a joint letter to the NSW government, terming the ban “wrong” and “unfair”. The Sikh community is in talks with NSW education minister Sarah Mitchell to get the order withdrawn. They have also asked the government to stop bullying of Sikh students, which leads to such incidents. The ban was enforced after a 14-year-old boy allegedly used a kirpan to stab a 16-year-old at a Sydney school. “The Sikh community has been hit hard by the knee-jerk reaction of the NSW government in the blanket banning of the Kirpan in NSW schools. The NSW government’s decision to impose a ban contravenes a statutory right to wear a kirpan for religious reasons. The right is not due to a ‘loophole’ in the law, as referred to by the education minister Sarah Mitchell. The ban has been imposed without taking the Sikh community into confidence, or consultation, in response to an alleged incident involving a 14-year-old Sikh student, who is believed to have been bullied in school,” reads the letter. Sources said the minister was urged to consider a compromise, including allowing the kirpan in schools under the condition that they remain locked in a case. Manjinderpal Kaur, volunteer of United Sikhs, who was among the Sikh panel engaging with the minister, said, “The state government is seeking inputs from the Sikhs in this matter and almost all the organisations, including largest Sikh body in the country Australian Sikh Association (ASA), have signed the letter.” “The minister told us that this ban is temporary. However, this issue must be resolved at the earliest as it has dire consequences for the Sikhs globally. And the Sikh leaders in Australia are trying their best to get it resolved as per the Sikh sentiments,” she added. SGPC president Jagir Kaur also wrote to external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Australian high commissioner in India urging them to ensure revocation of the ban order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ban-on-kirpan-sikh-bodies-take-up-issue-with-new-south-wales-govt-101621543425994.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||10 villages in Fazilka district declared containment zones||As many as 10 villages of Fazilka district have been declared containment zones, the highest number of villages in any Punjab district, following surge in Covid-19 cases. According to the official data, Fazilka saw a two-fold increase in new infections and Covid-related mortalities in May. In this month so far, the district saw a daily average of 404 new cases and 11 fatalities. Sources said most of these cases were from the rural pockets. The home district of state Congress president Sunil Jakhar has no facility to treat critical patients requiring ventilator, neither in government hospitals nor private health institutes. Health authorities say a cluster of five villages adjoining the Rajasthan border reported sizeable virus cases. Experts say attending weddings and visiting crowded places in Sriganganagar without Covid-appropriate behaviour contributed to the fast spread of infections in villages. On May 1, Fazilka had 7,906 positive cases and the tally was 8,085 on Thursday. Similarly, 137 deaths were reported in the district this month, taking the total number of fatalities to 348. District epidemiologist officer Dr Sunita said Bazidpur Kattanwali village was the first village to be declared a containment zone earlier this month. “Total 172 people have been tested positive for Covid-19 and casualties were also reported at Bazidpur Kattanwali. Several patients and deaths were reported from Ruhariawali, Dutrawali, Kular, Bhagsar, Panjkosi and other villages. After initial hesitancy, villagers have now started approaching the health department whenever they develop Covid-19 symptoms,” she said. Three localities in Arniwala, Bhagu and Ghallu are micro-containment zones. Civil surgeon Dr Parminder Singh said two weeks ago, a task force started a testing drive in villages. “A sharp increase in positive cases is due to aggressive testing. We have been focusing to mobilise panchayats to contain the infection spread,” he added. Sources said the civil hospital at Fazilka district headquarter has no Covid care facility and only the government hospital at Jalalabad has a 60-bed facility for patients needing oxygen support. “A community health centre at Ramsra village near Abohar town is being prepared as the level-2 facility. The health department had four ventilators which were handed over to Ludhiana as Fazilka has no trained personnel to handle ventilators,” says a district functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-villages-in-fazilka-district-declared-containment-zones-101621543065131.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six cases of black fungus detected among Mohali’s Covid patients||Mucormycosis or black fungus has been detected in six Covid-19 patients from Mohali, health authorities said on Thursday.The confirmation comes on a day when the Chandigarh administration notified the fungal disease as an epidemic in the city, where 23 patients from other districts and states are under treatment at PGIMER (16) and GMCH-32 (7). Panchkula, too, has confirmed six cases of black fungus, but the residential status of these patients was not immediately clear.In Mohali, apart from the six local patients, another seven from Punjab, Delhi and Ambala are also admitted in various private hospitals of the district.“Six cases of mucormycosis have been reported from Mohali. Three were detected at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6, from where two patients were shifted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and a private hospital in Zirakpur. Two more were confirmed at Fortis Hospital and another at the Sohana hospital,” said Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali. She said, “Early diagnosis and intervention is important. Repeated endoscopic examination of the nose, saline irrigation and surgical debridement can help treat the infection.”Mucormycosis is an invasive infection caused by a class of moulds called mucormycetes. The fungus enters the body by inhalation and affects the sinuses or lungs.“The infection is primarily found in Covid positive patients and is caused by indiscriminate use of steroids, uncontrolled diabetes, prolonged stay in the ICU and comorbidities,” said Dr Ashok K Gupta, director, ENT, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, who has been treating black fungus patients.Patients may experience swelling, pain, watering and redness of eyes; drooping of eyelids, double vision and in some cases, loss of vision. Further, black discolouration of the skin, facial swelling, ulceration in the nasal cavity and facial nerve paralysis have also been observed.All health facilities to report every case: UT health secretaryIn the order notifying black fungus as an epidemic, Chandigarh’s principal health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the UT administrator had notified the Chandigarh Administration Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations, 2021, under which all healthcare facilities, including government and private, will follow the guidelines for screening, diagnosis, management of mucormycosis, issued by the Union health ministry.All healthcare facilities will report every suspected or confirmed case of mucormycosis to the health department. No person, institution or organisation will spread any information for management of mucormycosis without prior permission from the health department, the order added.A committee under the chairpersonship of the UT health director, with specialists of internal medicine, ophthalmology, ENT and epidemiology as members, will be constituted to review any violation of the notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-cases-of-black-fungus-detected-among-mohali-s-covid-patients-101621542885692.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s daily Covid-19 deaths touch record high of 20||The Covid-19 pandemic wiped out 20 lives in Mohali on Thursday, the highest single-day toll since the pandemic broke out last year.With 10 and seven deaths in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively, the tricity logged 37 fatalities – second only to the all-time high of 38 on May 5, when 17 people had died in Mohali, and 14 and seven in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively.Chandigarh’s record deaths (14) were witnessed on May 5, and Panchkula’s (9) more recently on May 17.In some respite for Mohali, at 467, the fresh cases on Thursday were the lowest in 36 days since April 14, when 373 people had tested positive. Since then the daily infections had been steadily rising, hitting the record high of 1,382 on May 10.Showing a steady decline, at 1,076, tricity’s Thursday tally was also the lowest since April 14 when 1,070 cases were detected and 22% lower than Wednesday’s 1,395 cases.Chandigarh and Panchkula also contributed to this dip. The UT confirmed 404 fresh cases against 414 on Wednesday, while the number dropped from 378 to 205 in Panchkula.Steady decline in casesTricity’s daily cases have been receding ever since touching the peak of 2,612 on May 11, staying below the 2,000 mark for the past week. The active cases, too, have been declining, coming down from the peak of 24,201 on May 12 to 15,371 on Thursday – a 36% drop in eight days.However, there hasn’t been much change in the daily deaths, which have remained over 20 on nine of the past 10 days.The latest fatalities pushed Mohali’s toll to 821. The district’s total cases stand at 63,276, of which 7,078 are active. But, with 1,442 patients getting discharged on Thursday, the number of recoveries climbed to 55,377 (87%). Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said most of the deceased on Thursday were senior citizens or had comorbidities.25-year-old among UT’s fatalitiesChandigarh’s total cases and deaths have reached 57,331 and 666, respectively.A 25-year-old man from Dhanas was the youngest among those succumbing to the virus on Thursday. As many as 6,073 patients are still recuperating and 50,592 (88.2%) have successfully beaten the virus till date.In Panchkula, four of the seven casualties on Thursday were above the age of 60. The latest deaths took the toll to 307, while the cases have reached 28,660.There are 2,220 active cases in the district, but recovery rate has improved to 91% with the total patients getting cured reaching 26,133.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-daily-covid-19-deaths-touch-record-high-of-20-101621542526840.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn’s top brass sponsors 18+ vaccination drive in Masol village||Senior officers of the Mohali administration on Thursday decided to sponsor vaccination of an entire village in the district.Deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said, “When you lead by example, you create a picture of what’s possible. It then becomes easy for others to follow. So, I along with my colleagues decided to pay for the vaccination of 18-44 years population of Masol village.”Citing the reason for choosing Masol, the DC said, “The 45+ population of this village has already been vaccinated so we decided to cater to the remaining population, ensuring that the entire village stands hundred percent vaccinated.”Besides DC Dayalan, the officers who will chip in to pay for the drive are ADC (G) Aashika Jain, ADC (D) Rajiv Kr Gupta, Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain, Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa and Mohali SDM Jagdeep Sehgal.Meanwhile, in a generous move, Priyanka Gupta, owner of The Great Bear, Sector 26, Chandigarh, has sponsored the inoculation of 18-44 population of Nagalgarhian village, paying for 200 doses. “Let us all put in our might and join hands to save the human race from the worst adversary ever known,” she said.To sponsor/ donate vaccine, fill an online form at bit.ly/3wkMLgX and make payment of ₹430 per dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-admn-s-top-brass-sponsors-18-vaccination-drive-in-masol-village-101621541325557.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC launches special sanitation drive for streets, parks||Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Thursday launched a month-long special sanitation drive under Swachh Bharat Mission from Sector 22 here. Such joint drives will be conducted throughout the city daily till June 29.Sharma said the drives would be carried out jointly by all wings of MC this time, including sanitation department for cleaning the whole area, horticulture department for pruning of trees and cutting of grass, public health department for cleaning road gullies and chambers, and B&R wing for removing accumulated debris from the berms and other open areas.Special emphasis will be laid on cleaning parks, berms, streets and back lanes of houses and backsides of market places, he added. The mayor said that repair of underpasses, main roads, existing dustbins, painting of children playground equipment and railing will be done during the cleanliness drives. Focus will be on cleanliness of public toilets and community toilets as well, he added. During the Thursday cleanliness drive, workers from different wings of MC such as health, roads, horticulture and public health wings cleaned Sector 22. The mayor also distributed gloves, masks and vitamin D3 tablets to all sanitation workers.16 more vehicles to be boughtThe MC has planned to buy 16 new vehicles, including tractors and trucks, and outsource drivers for them at a cost of ₹1.5 crore to clear horticultural waste.The machinery is required for the collection and disposal of dry leaves and lifting of pruned branches of trees. The MC had made the allocation in the current financial year’s budget of ₹2.10 crore for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-launches-special-sanitation-drive-for-streets-parks-101621541147199.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Customs seizes undeclared cigarettes worth ₹3 crore||A Ludhiana-based garment firm is in the dock for not declaring cigarettes of British, Korean and Indonesian brands worth over ₹3 crore to evade customs duty running into lakhs of rupees. The cigarette cartons were concealed behind the bags of dry dates imported from the UAE. Customs officials of Dhandari Kalan’s Inland Container Depot (ICD) have registered a case of illegal import of cigarettes against Shreyans Apparels & Leatherites. Officials said the firm through its customs house agent Mojos Impex International filed the bill of entry dated May 13, 2021, for import of 1,120 bags of dry dates from the UAE as per import documents. During physical examination of the consignment, 250 undeclared cigarette cartons were found in two containers. There were 120 cartons of Esse brand, 20 cartons of Benson & Hedges and 110 cartons of Gudang Garam having 29.8 lakh sticks. The total value of the cigarettes has been pegged at over ₹3 crore. Commissioner customs AS Ranga said the cigarettes were not declared. “The import of cigarettes shall be subject to provisions contained in cigarettes and other tobacco products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 and related rules. The importer has not declared any such document in this regard and hence the goods are prohibited for import,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/customs-seizes-undeclared-cigarettes-worth-3-crore-101621541146018.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar breathes cleanest air of the year||Yamunanagar on Thursday recorded its cleanest air day this year as the air quality index (AQI) hovered between good (0-50) and satisfactory (51-100) categories for almost the entire day.The website of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) that displays hourly levels from the device installed at Gobindpura showed the levels as low as 50 (good) at 3pm.The AQI defines overall air quality. As per CPCB, it is calculated only if inputs are available for a minimum three pollutants out of which one should necessarily be either PM2.5 or PM10. Nirmal Kashyap, regional officer of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said this was an abnormal situation where the levels dropped to such an extent for the first time this year.“This could have happened as there is almost negligible industrial operations under the limits of municipality and rural areas. The rain due to the Tauktae cyclone has also settled the pollutants emitted from vehicles and other sources,” he added.Haryana is under complete lockdown for past almost three weeks owing to the rising cases of coronavirus in its second wave. The district is an industrial hub of plywood, mica, aluminium, and utensils, factories of which emit carbon to certain levels and as it is situated on the banks of the Yamuna, mining activities have always contributed to its air quality.In March, it was placed at 26th position in the top-30 most-polluted cities in the world and was among eight polluted places of the state and 22 of the country in a report released by IQAir, a Swiss air quality technology company.As per an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), HSPCB has also prepared a time-bound district environment plan last month and assigned tasks to various departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-breathes-cleanest-air-of-the-year-101621540965610.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets two more mini Covid centres||Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore on Thursday inaugurated two more mini Covid-19 centres, taking the total number of such facilities to seven. The UT administration has so far given permission to open up nine mini Covid centres.The mini centres with 50 beds each were opened in the sports complexes of Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Sector 8, created by Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti, and GSSS, Sector 43, set up by United Sikhs and Karan Gilhotra Foundation.Karan Gilhotra said, “Our volunteers are ready to serve and operate the Covid care centre having 50 beds with oxygen support. Moreover, 50 oxygen concentrators have also arrived at the site. A team of doctors and nurses have been appointed and medical support will be available 24x7. We have arrangements in place for clean drinking water and food. Apart from the food supplies, our team has PPE kits, gloves, masks and sanitizer and first-aid kits.”One of the trustees of Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti, Amar Vivek Aggarwal said, “This will give a lot of relief to the poor and underprivileged. The centre has indoor games like carrom, ludo etc, besides TV, Wi-Fi and intercom. The trust has already engaged eight doctors, 12 nurses and adequate paramedical and support staff for Covid care. The centre will also be facilitating yoga.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gets-two-more-mini-covid-centres-101621540727626.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||4 cops injured in clash between raiding team, liquor smugglers||Seven persons, including four cops, were injured in a clash between a police party and a family involved in liquor smuggling at Jagatpura village in Patiala district on Thursday.The incident took place when a team of the Patiala crime investigation agency (CIA) conducted a raid at the residence of alleged liquor smuggler Harbhajan Singh on Thursday morning. The accused, his family members and neighbours overpowered the police party and also fired multiple gunshots. Senior superintendent of police Sandeep Garg said the police also made a failed bid to conduct a raid at the house on Wednesday night. “We have booked 55 persons. One of the cops received a bullet injury in his thigh,” the SSP said, adding that the police fired in the air for self-defence.“Harbhajan Singh is a history-sheeter and nearly a dozen of cases of liquor smuggling and robbery are registered against him. He was presently out on bail,” the SSP said.The injured cops, head constable Raja Singh, who got a bullet injury in his thigh, ASI Malwinder Singh, senior constables Harinder Singh and Gagandeep Singh are admitted to the Government Rajindra Hospital.Police said 35 persons, including 11 by name, have been booked for murder bid and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-cops-injured-in-clash-between-raiding-team-liquor-smugglers-101621540665623.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, Punjab farmers leave for Delhi to join stir||Amid surge in Covid cases, especially in the rural Punjab, a large group of farmers left for Delhi on Thursday from the district’s Harike Pattan town to take part in the protest against three farm laws.The protesters, including women and elderly, left Harike Pattan in tractor-trailers, cars and mini-buses. Before embarking on their journey, the farmers shouted slogans against the central government. No one was seen wearing face mask and social distancing norms were also not followed. More than 40 people were seen huddled in some trailers. The procession, which is expected to reach Delhi on Friday, was organised under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) having a considerable hold in the Majha region and some districts of Malwa. It was the 13th procession of the KMSC from Tarn Taran since the beginning of the Delhi agitation. KMSC’s district president Sukhwinder Singh Sabran said: “The Centre is spreading misinformation about Covid to weaken our protest. This virus is pretty much similar to the other viruses. Covid will not kill farmers, but the black farm laws will.”He said besides revoking the three farm laws, the government should also apologise to the farmers for forcing them to stay on roads for six months.He said the farmers will continue to throng the national capital until the government revokes these laws, adding that they will also hold marches in villages to observe May 25 as a black day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-punjab-farmers-leave-for-delhi-to-join-stir-101621540485695.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot private lab, pharmacy owners held for providing fake Covid reports||Two persons, including private lab and pharmacy owners, have been arrested for issuing fake Covid-19 test reports. The accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, owner of Atulya Laboratory and Avinash Chawla of Regimen Pharmacy near Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot.In a joint operation, a team of the CIA staff and CID unit nabbed both the accused after conducting an undercover operation. The private lab was providing fake positive or negative Rapid Anitgen Test reports. The CIA sleuths also seized Covid-19 testing records and other documents from the lab.CIA staff in-charge inspector Amritpal Singh Bhati said they got a tip-off that the private lab is providing fake Covid-19 reports. “An undercover cop was sent to the lab who asked for a fake positive report. They demanded ₹8,000 from him and later, the deal was struck at ₹5,000. “They did not collect any swab sample of that person and kept only a copy of his Aadhaar Card. They took the money and told him to collect a positive report in the evening. When they provided a fake Covid positive report to our man, we nabbed them,” he said. He said they are interrogating both the accused to find out whether there are more labs or persons involved in such illegal activity, which is endangering lives of the people.A case has been registered under Section 420 (fraud) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) at the Faridkot city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-private-lab-pharmacy-owners-held-for-providing-fake-covid-reports-101621540366370.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir demands waiver of power, water bills for Covid-hit||BATHINDAShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday demanded waiver of power bills for both domestic and industrial consumers for a period of six months to help people amid coronavirus outbreak.At Ferozepur, he said that the government should also give relief from water bills and other taxes. Sukhbir was in the district to inaugurate a 25-bed Covid care centre in which all beds are equipped with oxygen concentrators at Gurdwara Jaamniwala at Bazidpur.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur said this was the fourth Covid centre started by the SGPC to provide free treatment to patients.Expressing concern over the non-availability of several Covid medicines, SAD chief said the situation could go worse as several parts of Punjab, particularly the Malwa belt, is under the grip of a pandemic.He said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should now step out of his farmhouse and meet people to understand hardships faced by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-demands-waiver-of-power-water-bills-for-covidhit-101621540185483.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: Call all-party meeting, special assembly session, Bhagwant Mann asks Capt||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday said people were suffering due to the coronavirus pandemic, but chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and other Congressmen were busy twisting each other’s arms instead of supporting them during this crisis.Addressing a press conference here, AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann urged Amarinder to learn from his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, who had taken a slew of steps to help the people. “Capt Amarinder has failed miserably in dealing with the pandemic and providing financial assistance to the families affected by it,” he said.Mann said Amarinder should convene an all-party meeting and a special session of the state assembly on the Covid pandemic. The Congress government did not punish the culprits of sacrilege and its ministers and other leaders were now afraid to go to the villages, he said.AAP MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Manjit Singh Bilaspur and Amarjeet Singh Sandoa, state general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat and state treasurer Neena Mittal were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-call-all-party-meeting-special-assembly-session-bhagwant-mann-asks-capt-101621539945439.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Be wary of leaders furthering own agenda, Jakhar tells party workers||Amid efforts by a section of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s detractors to regroup themselves, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday cautioned party workers against such leaders who were always trying to seek opportunities in any crisis situation. Reiterating that the biggest challenge before the state at present is to save the people from the Covid pandemic, Jakhar said any attempt to divert attention from this core issue cannot be termed as public interest. “After the decision of the high court to inquire afresh into the sacrilege related issue the people of Punjab, as well as Congressmen, were more than concerned regarding the case, but the Punjab government and the Congress high command are very serious about it and justice will be assured in the case,” he said in a statement here, taking a dig at Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and others for trying to foment trouble in the party. Bajwa and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu have been openly targeting the chief minister ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the SIT report in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. They are blaming the chief minister and his aides for the legal setback. Jakhar said that in such a challenging time, the behaviour of a few leaders trying to further their own agenda cannot be justified in any way. “By giving false figures of the people reportedly attending their meetings, some leaders were creating the illusion of leading a campaign which is a figment of their own imagination,” he said. Though he did not name anyone, the jibe is aimed at Bajwa who had on Tuesday claimed that five ministers and seven MLAs were present at a meeting held at cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s house whereas not more than half-a-dozen Congress leaders, including two ministers and three MLAs, attended it. Jakhar is also learnt to have spoken to central leaders about Bajwa’s efforts to fuel dissent in the party. Cong high command watching closely The Punjab Congress president said the party high command was monitoring the actions of leaders who were trying to seek accolades by giving an ultimatum to the government. “Any kind of support to such leaders would be a losing proposition. Instead of using their position to consolidate and strengthen the party, these self-styled leaders are creating fissures in the party cadre to further their not so hidden agenda,” he said, accusing them of pursuing their own goal instead of fighting the real issue, Covid-19. He said the party high command was seized of the matter and working to sort out the issues in an amicable manner, advising all the party leaders to focus on the programme given by the government to check the spread of Covid. On May 21, the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi should be observed by doing service to prevent the further spread of coronavirus, he added. AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat had also spoken to some of these leaders and told them that the central leadership was watching the developments and would intervene soon. (Box) Sidhu exhorts MLAs to meet central leaders Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu asked the party MLAs and workers to go to Delhi and tell the high command about the situation in Punjab. In a tweet, Sidhu said he had started seeking justice for sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and punishing the culprits during the campaign for the parliamentary polls three years ago. “Now, our MLAs and party workers must go to Delhi and speak the truth of Punjab to our high command, as I regularly do!” he posted with a video clip of his speeches during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, who has also been critical of the chief minister, had indicated two days ago that some MLAs might go to Delhi to meet the central leadership on these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/be-wary-of-leaders-furthering-own-agenda-jakhar-tells-party-workers-101621539766828.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Explore possibilities of floating global tender for vaccines: Capt||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the health department to explore possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of vaccines from all possible sources to ensure early inoculation in the state. The state government will also reach out directly to all vaccine manufacturers for direct purchase of Covid vaccines, including Sputnik V, Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, he said.Punjab has storage space for 35 lakh Sputnik V vaccines, which require storage temperature of minus 18 degrees Celsius. The CM said efforts would be made for procurement of vaccines to meet the acute shortage in the state, which had received fewer than 44 lakh vaccine doses so far from the Union government, of which only 1 lakh is currently available for use and which will also be exhausted within a day.The state government was forced to stop vaccination for Phase 1 and 2 categories in the last three days because of non-availability, said the CM, directing the departments concerned to continue pursuing the matter of supply aggressively with the Centre.As per Government of India allocation for Phase 3 (18-44 age group), the state government has been able to buy only 3.6 lakh vaccine doses, including 63,000 received on Wednesday. A total of 2.3 lakh doses have already been used, leaving only 1.3 lakh for use as of now, said the CM.Pointing out that almost 1 lakh unregistered construction workers and their family members had so far come forward for getting vaccinated in line with the state government’s prioritisation of vaccination for 18-44 category, the CM asked the labour department to ensure the registration of these workers on priority. DGP Dinkar Gupta said Punjab Police lost 21 personnel to Covid in the last five months, and of these, 50% were not fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/explore-possibilities-of-floating-global-tender-for-vaccines-capt-101621539765898.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Free education, ₹1,500 per month to kids orphaned during pandemic in Punjab||Punjab government will provide ₹1,500 per month as social security pension, along with free education up to graduation, for all those children orphaned in the Covid pandemic, as well as families that have lost their breadwinning member. This financial assistance will be provided from July 1 this year.Reviewing the Covid situation in the state, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh dubbed it as the state’s duty to become the foster parents of the children who have lost both their parents in the pandemic.He said affected persons would also be eligible for grant of ₹51,000 under the Ashirwaad Scheme from July 1, and would be entitled to free ration under the State Smart Ration Card Scheme and coverage under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana. The state government would also assist the affected family members to find a suitable job under Ghar Ghar Rozgaar te Karobaar Mission, he added. Amarinder said the relief measures will be provided to orphans until they attain the age of 21. In the case of families whose breadwinner has died, these would be provided for an initial period of three years, after which their situation will be re-assessed, and where the vulnerability continues to exist, the period may be appropriately increased. The CM also announced the constitution of a monitoring committee, headed by the minister for social security & women and child development, to review progress and relief measures for every single case. The committee will meet at least once a month, he said. CM for house-to-house surveillance Amid projections and concerns of a possible third wave of Covid and its impact on children, Amarinder ordered the health department to go into mission mode with preparation, which will include specialised training of all doctors in the health department by June-end, while directing house-to-house surveillance to control the current spread of the disease in the rural areas. Expressing concern over the spread of Covid in rural areas, the CM directed teams of the health and other departments to start house-to-house surveillance in every village. Stressing the importance of involving sarpanches in this exercise, the CM ordered their prioritisation, along with that of panches, as well as block samiti and zila parishad Chairmen and members, in vaccination. A day after Punjab government notified black fungus as a disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the CM directed the health department to ensure that the necessary medicines for treating the same are made available to all the government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-education-rs-1-500-per-month-to-kids-orphaned-during-pandemic-in-punjab-101621539706155.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees dip in Covid cases, positivity rate||Punjab on Thursday witnessed further dip in Covid cases and positivity rate. The state registered 5,566 fresh cases taking the infection tally to 5,23,423, according to a bulletin. The state reported 193 fatalities, taking the death toll to 12,716. The positivity rate also dropped from 8.71% on Wednesday to 7.03% on Thursday, the lowest in two months. This is for the sixth consecutive day that the daily caseload is less than the recovered cases. According to the bulletin, 26 deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 21 from Bathinda, 20 from Mohali, 13 from Gurdaspur and 12 each from Sangrur and Fazilka.Ludhiana reported a maximum of 784 positive cases, followed by Bathinda 604, Mohali 467, Muktsar 417 and Jalandhar 382. The number of recoveries reached 4,43,666, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-dip-in-covid-cases-positivity-rate-101621539525428.html
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Speaker restores unseated Kalka MLA’s membership||The Vidhan Sabha membership of unseated Haryana MLA Pradeep Chaudhary was restored on Thursday by Speaker Gian Chand Gupta with effect from April 19, the day Himachal Pradesh high court suspended his conviction in a criminal case. He was elected from Kalka on a Congress ticket.The Speaker on Thursday said Chaudhary’s membership of legislative assembly stands restored following a stay granted on his conviction by the HC.In January, Chaudhary was convicted and sentenced by a Nalagarh court for three years of imprisonment in a case of rioting.The Congress leader was subsequently unseated as a member of the Haryana legislative assembly as per Section 8 (3) of the Representation of the People Act.The disqualification provision says that a person convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years will be disqualified from the date of such conviction and will continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his release.Following the HC order, Chaudhary’s counsel Bipin Negi had said that a single judge bench of justice Sandeep Sharma of the Himachal HC has suspended his conviction.“The Solan sessions court had already stayed his sentence. Suspension of the conviction will continue till the appellate court decides our appeal against his conviction,” Negi had said.Legal experts said that if the HC stays the conviction of an unseated MLA, the assembly speaker will have to restore his or her membership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-speaker-restores-unseated-kalka-mla-s-membership-101621537065314.html
