22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Positivity rate drops to 6.6% in Punjab, lowest in 2 months||Even as the number of deaths in Punjab crossed the 200 mark once again on Saturday, the positivity rate in the state has halved in the past ten days. Positive rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is the proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled.On Saturday, the state registered lowest positivity rate in the past two months, with only 6.6% of the samples tested for the virus found positive, as compared to 14.2% on May 12, which was the highest. This drop is coupled with a record 82,097 tests conducted on Saturday.Moreover, it is for the first time in the past one month that none of the districts registered more than 15% positivity rate. Only two districts, Pathankot (10.37%) and Fazilka (10.39%), registered more than 10% positivity rate. In a big sigh of relief, the industrial town of Ludhiana, which at one point was registering highest positivity rate, recorded just 3.9%, lowest after SBS Nagar. 5,421 cases, 201 deathsMeanwhile, the state registered 5,421 fresh cases while 7,363 people recovered from the virus and 201 succumbed to it, bringing down the active case load. Among the fresh cases, 582 surfaced in Ludhiana, followed by 555 in Mohali, 445 in Jalandhar, 411 in Bathinda, 400 in Amritsar, 363 in Patiala and 305 in Muktsar. Bathinda and Patiala registered maximum 20 deaths each, followed by 19 in Amritsar, 17 in Ludhiana, 12 each in Fazilka and Amritsar and nine each in Faridkot, Sangrur and Jalandhar. As many as 7,280 persons were on oxygen support while 381 were on ventilator support on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/positivity-rate-drops-to-6-6-in-punjab-lowest-in-2-months-101621708079285.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Consumer rights organisation ask Haryana to encourage telemedicine||Consumer rights organisation, Consumer’s Voice, has asked the Haryana government to encourage telemedicine to save lives of those suffering from non-communicable diseases during Covid-19 pandemic. In a statement, chief operating officer of Consumer’s Voice, Ashim Sanyal said the Haryana government should encourage telemedicine to save lives of patients suffering from non-communicable diseases. He said that according to recent figures published by the Union health ministry, e-Sanjeevani, the government telemedicine platform, has clocked more than 50 lakh consultations in the past year. Every day, at least 40,000 Indians are dialling in from across country to use this contactless and risk-free health facility. With 63% deaths annually being due to non-communicable diseases, the pandemic has shown how telemedicine can be a long-term game-changer in managing burden of chronic non-communicable diseases, particularly to the rural underserved population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/consumer-rights-organisation-ask-haryana-to-encourage-telemedicine-101621706219941.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 11,327 Covid recoveries||Haryana recorded 5,021 new Covid-19 cases, 11,327 recoveries and 98 deaths on Saturday.A medical bulletin said the positivity rate has come down to 9.06% from 9.83% of Friday and the cumulative positivity rate was constant at 8.53%. The recovery rate has also further improved to 92.45%.The number of active cases came down to 51,470. Gurugram led the tally with 7,000 active cases followed by Hisar (5,273), Sirsa (3,360), Faridabad (3,212), Karnal (2,949), Mahendergarh (2,767), Panipat (2,460) and Bhiwani (2,239).Among the deaths, nine each were reported from Gurugram and Hisar, seven each from Ambala and Karnal, six each from Faridabad, Panipat and Rewari, five from Jhajjar, four each from Sonepat, Rohtak, Kaithal, Bhiwani and Jind, three each from Mahendergarh, Panchkula, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, two each from Nuh, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal and Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-11-327-covid-recoveries-101621702446592.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||With hospital 8 hours away, Covid centre set up at remote HP village||To check the spread of coronavirus in the tribal regions of Himachal Pradesh, particularly areas bordering Uttarakhand in Shimla and Sirmaur districts, the civil administration has set up a 10-bed Covid care centre at Kwar village. The transit Covid care centre will cater to patients from the remote panchayats of Dodra, Kwar, Jiskun, Pandhar and Dhandwarhi, which has a population of about 7,500. Locked away in the Himalayas, Dodra Kwar is one of the remotest inhabited pockets of the state that was connected by road only in 2013.The nearest hospital at Rohru is an eight-hour drive away due to the poor condition of roads in the region. Dodra and Kwar are two villages on the opposite sides of the valley separated by the Rupin river that merges into the Tons river. Also read: Two Covid vaccine doses needed for protection against variant from India: Report“Cases are on the rise and it’s not possible for all patients to travel to the nearest hospital at Rohru so we decided to set up the Covid care centre in the village itself,” says Rohru sub divisional magistrate BR Sharma, who holds the additional charge of the Dodra Kwar SDM. “We have set up the centre in a government building that was earlier being used as a sheep carding centre,” said Sharma, adding that the centre has two wards. At present, it has three patients, while there are 42 active cases in the remote region. Health teams deputed for vaccination The health department has deputed five teams to vaccinate those above 44 years in the villages of the region. The department has also stationed an ambulance at Kwar village to ferry critical patients to the civil hospital at Rohru. The civil hospital at Rohru has despatched 10 oxygen cylinders for the Covid care facility. “Local residents have been a big help. We had only 25 regulators for the cylinders but were helped by individuals and associations,” says Rohru civil hospital medical superintendent Dr Ravinder Mukhiya. The civil hospital can accommodate 70 patients though 54 patients are undergoing treatment at present. Local contractor Jai Chauhan, who travelled all the way to the industrial belt of Baddi to buy the regulators for the oxygen cylinder, says “The local truck operators’ union was a big help.” The hospital is now equipped with 90 oxygen cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-hospital-8-hours-away-covid-centre-set-up-at-remote-hp-village-101621688938528.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University gets 5 O2 concentrators from Taiwan university||National Tsing Hua University and Taiwan Education Centre in India, with the support of governments of both the nations, has given Chitkara University five oxygen concentrators to help battle the coronavirus pandemic.“The Chitkara community has received five oxygen concentrators as a token of friendship to strengthen our multilateral ties,” said Ashok Chitkara, chancellor, Chitkara University.The 8 LPM ( litres per minute) oxygen concentrators will help devices that extract oxygen from atmospheric air. It will be an electrically-powered molecular sieve (artificial zeolite) used to separate nitrogen from ambient air. “As the country fights the second wave of Covid pandemic, oxygen concentrators are among the main instruments for treatment of patients. This gesture has not only boosted our partnership but also proved that we are together in this global pandemic. These devices will be used for the welfare of the society and for needy patients under the patronage of the Chitkara Community,” he said. In December 2019, Chitkara University had announced its association with the Taiwan Education Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-gets-5-o2-concentrators-from-taiwan-university-101621688278012.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Develop social media strategy to fight fake info on Covid: Experts||From linking 5G communication technology and male infertility to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state health authorities see fake theories being floated on social media as major contributors to the slow response to vaccination in the rural areas. As the Punjab government has yet to draw up a strategy to debunk unfounded claims, conspiracy theories are being spread to disrupt the government’s plans to contain the pandemic. Also read: ‘Enough is enough’: IMA demands prosecution of Ramdev under Epidemics ActCommunication analysts say that the state government may take a cue from the Centre’s Press Information Bureau (PIB) to combat hoax messages on social media. State ministers, MLAs and MPs should proactively step forward to clear rumours around Covid-19 and its treatment, the experts say. The government should identify specific false narratives challenging Covid-appropriate behaviour and engage professionals for the effective handling of misinformation and fake news, they say. Vaccine hesitancy, containment zones in Fazilka Fazilka district epidemiologist Dr Sunita confirms that during mass testing it was observed that villagers attributed vaccine hesitancy to 5G technology. “It was common to hear in the rural areas that infections and mortality were due to the new age technology used by the communication sector. Scores of them were in a denial on the pandemic and we are still struggling to convince them,” she says. Fazilka has the highest nine villages as containment zones where the areas are sealed due to a high number of virus infections. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Haryana) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni recently told villagers that the large number of deaths in the rural areas was due to 5G radiation and not Covid-19. 5G testing hasn’t even started in the country The testing of the 5G network has not yet started anywhere in India, says the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) in a recent press statement. “Such audio and video messages by others as well are on social media for quite some time. Rural communities take farmer union leaders seriously on such issues. Since fake narratives have not been countered, a section of people still believe that the pandemic is not an emergency medical situation but an official conspiracy to derail the farmer agitation against the farm laws,” says a civil surgeon. Another source in the health department says a section of people fear vaccination may affect male fertility or cause genetic changes among young women. “The global scientific community has ruled out any such impact of vaccines, but these issues are prevalent among the urban and rural population. In April, the state government roped in Moga born actor-philanthropist Sonu Sood as a brand ambassador for Punjab’s vaccination programme, but he has hardly any visibility on the importance of Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. Engage religious leaders, Punjabi singers According to Rubal Kanozia, a media analyst and an assistant professor at Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, the Punjab government should engage religious leaders, Punjabi singers and even news anchors, who have a sizeable following on social media, to debunk myths associated with the pandemic and vaccination. “Punjab has a significant penetration of smartphones in villages and celebrated faces can become a game-changer by using social media platforms. A call by heads of religious institutions and deras can improve inoculation significantly,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/develop-social-media-strategy-to-fight-fake-info-on-covid-experts-101621681197495.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu dares Capt Amarinder to prove he wanted to switch sides||Congress leader and former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been critical of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the Bargari sacrilege issue, on Saturday challenged him to prove that he had met any leader of another party for switching sides. “Prove one meeting that I have had with another party’s leader. I have never asked anyone for any post till date. All I seek is Punjab’s prosperity. Was invited and offered Cabinet berths many times but I did not accept. Now, our esteemed high command has intervened, Will wait,” the Amritsar East MLA tweeted. Also read: 6 feet or 10 metres: What experts say about safe distance to keep Covid at bayHe also shared a video footage of a press conference he addressed recently in Patiala in which he says that his family members and he sacrificed key posts just for the sake of Punjab so why would he seek the posts now. His tweet comes after Capt Amarinder claimed that “he (Sidhu) is in talks with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal and that he can switch sides any moment”. Without mentioning his name, he dared him to prove that he had had any meeting with a leader of any other party. Sidhu has been critical of Capt Amarinder after the Punjab and Haryana high court last month quashed a probe into the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident, which had taken place during a protest against the desecration of a religious text in Faridkot district. The CM too had slammed Sidhu, calling his outbursts total indiscipline and suggesting that he may be leaving for the AAP. Capt Amarinder and Sidhu had met over tea in March following reports that the Congress central leadership had been trying to rehabilitate the MLA who had resigned as minister after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio in 2019. After the meeting, Amarinder had expressed confidence that Sidhu would be back in his cabinet. Sidhu had joined the Congress after leaving the BJP before the 2017 assembly elections. Punjab cooperative and jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh and Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa are among the other Congress leaders who have criticised Capt Amarinder for not delivering justice in the Bargari sacrilege and police firing incidents. All these Congress leaders also want action against former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and former deputy CM and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in this issue. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-dares-capt-amarinder-to-prove-he-wanted-to-switch-sides-101621678857822.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh notifies black fungus as epidemic||The Himachal Pradesh government has notified mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, as an epidemic for a year after it reported its first such case on Thursday. Issuing the notification under the Epidemic Disease Act, governor Bandaru Dattatreya cited the threat of the outbreak of mucormycosis among immune-compromised Covid-19 patients being treated with steroids in neighbouring states. Also read: Centre asks states to create pool of trained drivers for transporting liquid oxygenAccording to the regulation, all healthcare facilities will follow the guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of mucormycosis, issued by the Union health ministry and the state government from time to time. They will report every suspected or confirmed case of black fungus to the health department through the chief medical officer (CMO). No person, institution or organisation will spread any information or material for management of mucormycosis without the state health department’s permission. A committee, chaired by the CMO, will be set up in each district. It will have specialists of internal medicine, ophthalmology, ENT and epidemiology as members and will review any disobeying of the notification by any person, institution or organisation. A notice will be issued by the CMO in such a case and the reply will be reviewed by the committee. If it is not received within the stipulated time or if the reply is found unsatisfactory or if it is confirmed that the person/institution/organisation has disobeyed the regulation, the CMO will take necessary action. Any violation of the regulation shall be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-notifies-black-fungus-as-epidemic-101621677298033.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Reset policy to tackle Covid-19 effectively||When Covid-19 alarm bells rang in early 2020, individually and institutionally, we were groping in the dark. The information asymmetry was plugged as more research-based data emerged. As the first wave waned, false and unscientific narratives and policy inaction lulled us into complacency. Eventually, the inevitable second wave caused unimaginable human and economic catastrophe in the country. Thus, it is pertinent to analyse our approach, or the lack of it, which is responsible for the current state of affairs. At the outset, there has been an unequivocal failure in discharge of constitutional duties, protection of fundamental rights of citizens and the abdication of governance by the central and the state governments alike. Therefore, the courts have been forced to assume normal executive functions. This must challenge the executive to have a rethink about the efficacy of its functioning. In tackling Covid-19, the centralised top-down approach has worked neither at the national nor at the state level. Valuable time was lost in the micro-management of policies that resulted in preventable casualties. Numerous faults could be listed in the approach adopted hitherto but our endeavour at individual, societal, state and national level is to equip ourselves better for future waves. Vaccine procurement should be with Centre The amended vaccine procurement policy needs to be abandoned in favour of the previous single-point procurement by the Centre. The differential pricing policy is arbitrary and must go. Formulation of policies, after a consultative process with the states, with respect to time-bound universal vaccination; streamlined single-point vaccination procurement at the national and international levels; and ensuring adequate supply of oxygen should be the domain of the central government. Floating global tenders by states is no assurance for supply of vaccines. The financial capacities of states do not inspire confidence among international vaccine producers and their negotiation skills don’t match with the central government. Thus, the Centre is most suitable to procure from abroad and at home. The whole financial burden, like pulse polio, needs to be borne by the Union government as the precarious financial position of many states could make them falter and impede universal vaccination. A realistic assessment about the demand and supply of vaccines is a pre-requisite for a vaccination plan to blunt the impact of the second and coming waves. India administered 19.19 crore doses till the morning of May 21, 2021. Only 3.05% of the population has received the second dose. The Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have promised to ramp up vaccine production in the coming months but to what extent that is possible remains to be seen. If we are to vaccinate 85 crore people, who are above 18, in one year, then we need roughly 12.57 crore doses a month, (after accounting for 19.19 crore doses), with approximately 41.32 lakh doses administered daily against an average of 15.35 lakh achieved till May 21. It is a tall order. Any rollout plan would depend upon the capacity utilisation of producers and import tie-ups. Thus, the formulated policy ought to inform the citizens of vaccination timelines for fully vaccinating 140 crore people. Empowered task forces for region-based surveillance Considering the magnitude of the disease and size of the country, it is imperative to have cross-jurisdictional region-based surveillance for geographically contiguous areas. Thus, five national-level empowered task forces (ETFs), comprising virologists, vaccinologists, epidemiologists, government officials, and other experts for five regions, namely north, south, east and northeast, central and west India need to be constituted. These ETFs, fully empowered, will ensure the implementation and harmonisation of the national strategy taking into account specific needs of any state. Each ETF will coordinate with a similar ETF constituted at the state level. Issues of regional relevance would be resolved at the level of the relevant regional ETF and only the most contentious issues could go to a national committee, headed by the Prime Minister, comprising ministers concerned, senior secretaries, leaders from pharmaceutical companies and industry. Each state may be divided into regions, each under a group of senior officials, experts, and representatives from medical associations. Mapping of all resources from hospital beds, medicines and logistics at the state, region and zone levels is a pre-requisite. The potential of urban and rural local bodies needs to be utilised adequately. They have more reliable information on the spread of the disease, possess an effective communication network, are better placed to rope in local NGOs and are better equipped to mobilise local resources. Transparency and communicationCities with municipal corporations need to be divided into optimum number of zones, each under a dedicated group led by a senior officer and comprising medical specialists, elected municipal councillors and representatives from hospitals. Other municipal areas, and each block in rural areas, can work as a single zone under a similar dedicated group. These dedicated groups can be empowered to requisition hospital beds and ambulances under their jurisdiction whenever needed. All data about available hospital beds, ambulances, oxygen and medicines should be put on a public portal of each zone. It is time for the ministers and chief ministers to lead from the front. Let each minister, in charge of one or more districts, sit at the district headquarters to coordinate this fight. Transparency and communication with public, missing so far, will enhance credibility and bulwark against growing pessimism among citizens. We need to redirect ourselves towards our strengths instead of political bickering at the common citizens’ cost. The writer is a retired additional chief secretary of Punjab. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reset-policy-to-tackle-covid-19-effectively-101621656415613.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ram Rahim gets parole to meet ailing mother||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is undergoing a 20-year jail sentence for raping two followers, was granted parole on Friday to look after his ailing mother, a senior prison official said.The official denied to comment on how long the parole was. “...Every prisoner has a right to get parole and it was granted after taking feedback from administration and the police. We gave him a day-long parole last year too,” the official said.Singh, who has been taken to Gurugram to meet his mother amid heavy police security, had sought parole four days ago.Last year on October 24 too, the Dera Sacha Sauda chief was given a day’s paroleto meet his mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ram-rahim-gets-parole-to-meet-ailing-mother-101621641162321.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Infant’s death: Dispute redressal commission asks Ludhiana hospital to pay ₹35 lakh||Holding a city-based private hospital guilty of gross medical negligence following the death of an infant, a day after its birth in 2016, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed the hospital and insurance company to jointly pay ₹35 lakh as compensation. In addition to the compensation, Handa Hospital, Civil Lines, where Dr Pratibha Handa, was the gynaecologist on duty and Dr Pradeep Handa, the paediatrician, will have to pay ₹33,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant, Pulkit Kapoor, and her husband Karan Kapoor on account of “sudden loss of newly born child because of sheer medical negligence as well as the resultant loss of love and affection of the child, mental agony, harassment, and avoidable pain and suffering caused to the complainants.”While pronouncing the judgment, justice Paramjit Singh Dhaliwal, president, State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission observed that during each visit between November 27 to July 26, 2016, the complainants were informed that the mother and baby were fine, without any complications and there would be hassle free normal delivery. Initially, the expected date of delivery was July 26, 2016 but the same was later changed to August 3, without explaining the reason. Caesarean section delivery was neither required nor suggested.What happened? “After complainant developed labour pains on July 26, 2016, she was taken to Handa Hospital at 2pm. However, despite repeated requests, she was examined by Dr Pratibha only at 4.30pm. She was told to tolerate the pain and her pulse rate, blood pressure, or foetal heart rate were not monitored. She was also not allowed to meet her husband,” Bhavnik Mehta, the complainants’ counsel said. “It was only at 10.20pm, over six hours after first check up that Dr Pratibha came to attend the complainant. After a cursory examination, she noticed that the baby had passed meconium (stool). She informed complainant that the baby was in distress, due to which emergency caesarean operation would have to be performed. Thereafter, she went away, without addressing the concerns of the complainants and did not show any professionalism, sensitivity and empathy,” said the order.The caesarean section was performed and the baby was delivered at 11.04 pm.The complainant requested the paediatrician to arrange an ambulance from DMC Hospital, but Dr Pradeep took the baby in his private car. The mother was not allowed to accompany the baby. Dr Pradeep told her that he had put a breathing tube in the baby’s throat and that he would send his ward boy. There was no other equipment in the car. The baby had turned blue (cyanosed), was cold and was breathing occasionally by the time he reached DMC Hospital. The doctors at DMC Hospital said the baby was critically ill, because of lack of oxygen in his system and it had caused irreparable damage to the brain system. In all, ₹1,25,000 was spent on treatment of the child but it was declared dead at 9.30pm on July 27, 2016.The order Although, the loss suffered by the complainants due to deficiency in service and medical negligence cannot be compensated in terms of money, yet in view of the totality of facts and circumstances of the case, we award lump sum compensation of ₹35 lakh to the complainants along with interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of filing of the complaint till realisation, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/infants-death-dispute-redressal-commission-asks-ludhiana-hospital-to-pay-35-lakh-101621631693274.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s positivity rate comes down by 15% in 12 days||Twelve days of lockdown-like restrictions in Ludhiana have caused the district’s positivity rate to drop by 15%, slightly alleviating its burgeoning coronavirus caseload. For the first time in 30 days, 687 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in the district against at least 700 daily cases over the last fortnight and the positivity rate dropped to 6.7% from 22%. The district had last recorded 685 cases on April 18. There are now 9,988 active patients in the district. This is the first time in 18 days that the number of active cases has fallen below 10,000. So far, 79,839 people have tested positive for the virus in the district.The district also reported 23 fatalities, of which seven were in their 50s and 60s, three were in their 40s and four were in their 70s. The youngest person to be claimed by the virus was a 26-year-old resident of Jamalpur. Of the deceased, 13 were men and 10 were women. The district’s death toll has touched 1,837 and the fatality rate 2.3%.FICO to organise vaccination drive at subsidised ratesThe Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) will organise a vaccination drive for its staff and employees of its members at subsidised rates. For all member industrial units with an employee strength less than 100, FICO will organise a special vaccination drive at FICO secretariat, Jaimal Road, Janta Nagar, Ludhiana. Each dose will cost ₹430, of which FICO will contribute ₹131 and the member unit will contribute ₹299.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-positivity-rate-comes-down-by-15-in-12-days-101621631393711.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cache of arms, ammo recovered from gangster Jaipal Bhullar’s accomplices, 6 held||Six people were arrested on Friday for helping gangster Jaipal Bhullar and his three aides, who are wanted for the killing of two assistant sub-inspectors, evade arrest. Two of the accused, Gurpreet Singh alias Lucky and Ramanpreet Kaur alias Raman, were arrested from Boparai Gate, while Satpal Kaur, Gagandeep Singh alias Nanna, Jaspreet Singh and Nanakchand Singh alias Dholu were arrested from Sahauli village, said senior superintendent of police (SSP, Ludhiana rural) Charanjit Singh Sohal. A cache of ammunition, illegal weapons, a car, fake vehicle registration certificates and other documents were recovered from their possession, indicating that they had been proving shelter, vehicles, weapons and assorted aid to the fugitives. Police have already arrested Satpal Kaur alias Noni, the wife of one of Bhullar’s absconding aides Darshan Singh. The SSP said the accused had been arrested under Sections 212 (harbouring an offender), 216 (harbouring offender who has escaped from custody or whose apprehension has been ordered), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The accused have been remanded five days in police custody. The gangster and his three aides had murdered two ASIs in New Grain Market of Jagraon on May 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cache-of-arms-ammo-recovered-from-gangster-jaipal-bhullar-s-accomplices-6-held-101621630973410.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar, aides used snatched police weapons to gun down ASIs in Jagraon||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar and his three accomplices, who are on the run after gunning down two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) of the crime investigation agency (CIA) in Jagraon town of Ludhiana district on May 15, had used 9mm pistols, which are strictly reserved for security personnel, to carry out the killings, police officials said on Friday. It is suspected that the weapons used to kill ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh had been snatched from an ASI in Doraha city, five days before the attack, police said. It is suspected that Bhullar and his aides — Balwinder Singh of Mahalla Khurd village, Moga; Jaspreet Singh of Kharar town, Mohali; and Darshan Singh of Sahauli village, Ludhiana — have at least three official pistols, including one snatched from slain ASI Bhagwan Singh, in their possession.The development has sent shock waves across the police department, which is now scrambling to connect incidents where miscreants have made off with police weapons to crimes committed using 9mm pistols. Two recent incidents where the police personnel have lost their service pistols to miscreants are under the scanner. On May 10, two occupants of a Hyundai Aura car had assaulted ASI Sukhdev Singh on the national highway in Doraha and fled with his service pistol, which was loaded with six bullets.  They had injured the ASI with the butt of a pistol they were already carrying and driven off on the wrong side of the road after removing the number plates of the car. An FIR was registered under Sections 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 332 (causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 333 (causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 379-B (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and different sections of the Arms act against unidentified accused at the Doraha police station.It is suspected that the vehicle used to carry out the crime had been snatched from an insurance company employee at gunpoint in Samrala on October 23. However, the police had failed to trace the accused.In the second incident that took place on May 3, ASI Rajesh Kumar, who is deputed in the anti-smuggling cell, had lost his service pistol loaded with 10 bullets to miscreants, who had broken into his car after smashing its windowpanes near the civil hospital. A case had been lodged against unidentified accused at Police Division 2.Inspector general of police (IGP, Ludhiana range) Naunihal Singh said the bullets recovered from the bodies of the ASIs had been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for examination. “Several teams are working round-the-clock to arrest Bhullar and his aides,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-jaipal-bhullar-aides-used-snatched-police-weapons-to-gun-down-asis-in-jagraon-101621629952462.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana restauranteurs elated over curfew relaxation; biz will remain hit, say traders||Ludhiana The announcement of one-hour relaxation in curfew timings from May 24 has failed to appease traders at large. However, permission to deliver cooked meals till 8pm has certainly brought respite to the food industry, which as per the May 8 orders, could not deliver food after noon, leaving them with inconvenient business hours. Those running non-essential business say their sales have dipped because of the curfew and an hour’s relaxation in the afternoon was unlikely to help drum up business. “The relaxation hours from 5am to 1pm are not conducive for business,” said a shopkeeper, who did not wish to be named. A trader, Sunil Vinayak, recommends that the curfew be relaxed between 8am to 3pm. “Under the present slot, what is the point of increasing the relaxation by an hour? It will only increase the chaos in the market. the timing should be such that it suits everybody.” Jewellers in Catch-22 situation Raman Gogna, a jeweller, says, “Gold rates are announced at 11.30am, so we are left with a very small window for sale and purchase. Thanks to the odd relaxation timings, customers are not showing up. If the timings are changed to 8am to 4pm, it will help our business. The timings right now, are as good as an airtight curfew, for the all the good it does us,” said Gogna.Nonetheless, restauranteurs welcomed the announcement. “Being allowed to deliver food will provide a major respite to the food industry. It is a step towards gradual reopening. At the very least, we will be able to meet some of our expenses. Takeaways and home delivery are a small percentage of our sales, while in-house dining is the mainstay. I do understand that under the present circumstances it is not wise to start in-house dining. However, I hope that in time, it too can be restarted, said Sukhkaran Singh Gill, who owns a restaurant in Ghumar Mandi. “Till such a time, the government should give small business owners some incentives such as tax rebates, relaxation in electricity charges and other taxes levied by the municipal corporation,” Singh added.‘Timely shot in the arm’ Another restaurant owner, Harjinder Singh Kukreja, agrees, “Timely action will save the industry from sinking. Food delivery is as essential as medicines. Many quarantined patients and senior citizens depend on food delivery,”he said.Hotel and Restaurant Association president Amarvir Singh said the relaxation had provided oxygen to the asphyxiating food industry. “We are hoping that the government will soon allow 50 to 100 people to assemble for weddings,” Amarvir said. Bhupinder Basant, senior vice-chairperson, Punjab Traders Board (excise and taxation) has also appreciated the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-restauranteurs-elated-over-curfew-relaxation-biz-will-remain-hit-say-traders-101621629652705.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Come May 24, curfew in Ludhiana to be relaxed for another hour||In a relief to the business community, come May 24, shops in Ludhiana district will be able to stay open for another hour as the administration decided to extend the weekday curfew relaxation timings till 1pm on Friday. As per the fresh directions, hotels and restaurants, which had taken a hit thanks to the inconvenient curfew relaxation timings, will now be able to deliver cooked food till 8pm. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “Relaxation time for all shops has been extended by one hour from Monday to Friday. Earlier, the seven-hour relaxation window was from 5am to noon. However, now shops can remain open till 1pm.” “Though, the 16-hour curfew will begin at 1pm, hotels and restaurants can now deliver food till 8pm,” the DC said. The fresh directions came as a breather for the hotel and restaurant industry of Ludhiana, which had suffered huge losses due to the restrictions as even home delivery had been prohibited in curfew hours in the orders announced on May 8. “No dining in is permitted but takeaways are allowed till 1pm. Strict action will be taken against those found ordering takeaways from hotels after curfew has been imposed. E-commerce and courier companies may also function from Monday to Friday till 8pm after taking curfew passes,” he said, adding that there had been no let-up in the weekend curfew, which will start at 1pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday, as usual.Appreciating the business community’s support in reining in the cases, the DC said, “The district’s positivity rate has dropped. The number of fatalities is still high but we hope the figures will reduce in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/come-may-24-curfew-in-ludhiana-to-be-relaxed-for-another-hour-101621629172987.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Death rate among kids less during second wave than first in Punjab||Children and youngsters were affected less during the second wave of coronavirus in Punjab than the first last year as far as death rate is concerned, reveals an analysis of the data of the state health department till April-end. The state government, however, claims to have started making preparations amid concerns that the third wave of the pandemic may attack kids more. In the second wave till April 30, the case fatality ratio (CFR) in the 0-14 age group is 0.1% against 0.4% in the first wave (till December 31, 2020), according to the age-wise analysis of the positive patients. “In the 11-20 age group, the CFR in the second wave is 0.3% as compared to 0.9% in the first wave. Deaths in this age group in the first wave were more,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. However, positivity rate (number of persons detected positive against those tested) in the 0-10 age group during the second wave is 2% against 1.8% in the first wave. The Punjab government on Thursday announced to start “mission mode” preparedness to tackle the third wave by setting up special treatment facilities for children. Taking stock of the Covid situation in the state, the chief minister has directed the state expert group headed by former PGIMER director Dr KK Talwar to look into all aspects and get training modules prepared for the health department. “Kids are considered to be the safe from the virus because of the natural protection they enjoy because of different reasons. What will make them more prone to the virus in the third wave is that a large number of adults would have got vaccinated by that time. Also, the way the virus is mutating, we don’t know how it will target different age groups. It’s better we get prepared for every eventuality,” said Dr Talwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/death-rate-among-kids-less-during-second-wave-than-first-in-punjab-101621628216139.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||No critical care facilities in 17 districts, SGPC to provide vaccine: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday claimed that 17 of the 22 districts in Punjab had no critical Covid care (level-3 beds) facilities due to which more than 200 deaths were taking place in the state daily. “While other states made adequate arrangements in the past six months, the Congress government in Punjab did nothing and even 800 ventilators provided by the central government remain in stores,” said Sukhbir while inaugurating a 25-bed Covid care facility set up by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) at Gurdwara Sri Nankeana Sahib in Sangrur. The facility is equipped with oxygen concentrators. Accompanied by SGPC president Jagir Kaur, her predecessor Gobind Singh Longowal, former MLA Iqbal Singh Jhunda and party spokesman Winnerjit Singh Goldy, the SAD chief asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to assign districts to his ministers to deal with the crisis by ensuring all patients had access to medicines and oxygen.“The black fungus is more dangerous but medicines are not available for the disease in many hospitals. The government should have made arrangements in advance but failed to do so,” he added.The former deputy chief minister announced that the SGPC was in the process of procuring 50,000 doses of vaccine and would start a drive to vaccinate people in the days to come. He said the government should also talk to vaccine manufacturers and place purchase orders directly to meet the demand for vaccine in the state.Jagir Kaur said more Covid care centres would be set up by the SGPC in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-critical-care-facilities-in-17-districts-sgpc-to-provide-vaccine-sukhbir-badal-101621628212277.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||SAD flays minister Tript Bajwa for linking farmers’ stir to Covid surge in Punjab||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday condemned Punjab rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa for trying to deflect attention from the Congress government’s failure in combating Covid-19 to farmers engaged in agitation against the Centre’s agriculture laws.The Akali party asked the state government to answer for its failures instead of defaming the annadata (food provider).In a statement here, SAD Kisan Wing president Sikander Singh Maluka said it was shocking that at a time when Punjab was in chaos due to the utter callousness of the Congress government, the latter was trying to paint farmers participating in dharnas against the three contentious laws at Singhu and Tikri borders near Delhi as super-spreaders.Asserting that this was furthest from the truth, Maluka asked, “How is it that the government discovered this fact after so long when the situation has gone out of hand due to its failure to provide medicines, oxygen and quality treatment at government hospitals.”He said the farmers had been agitating at the Singhu and Tikri borders for more than seven months. “Why are they being singled out for attack now? The state Congress must tell Punjabis if this is a part of a conspiracy to scuttle the kisan andolan at the instance of the central government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-flays-minister-tript-bajwa-for-linking-farmers-stir-to-covid-surge-in-punjab-101621628156014.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Four labourers killed in Kullu tunnel collapse||Four labourers trapped after an under-construction tunnel collapsed in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu on Friday have died, police said. The incident took place at Pancha Nullah near Garsa after which rescue teams were rushed there, Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said. Six labourers were working at the NHPC-2 hyrdo power project when the incident took place around 4pm.Meanwhile, a fierce thunderstorm wreaked havoc in Kangra, Mandi and Chamba.Though brought about by a western disturbance, the rough weather is said to be fallout of Tauktae. Power supply was snapped at several places and there was a complete blackout in eight panchayats of Bharmour. Thunderstorm wreaks havoc A fierce thunderstorm wreaked havoc in Kangra, Mandi and Chamba on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.Though brought about by a western disturbance, the rough weather is said to be fallout of Cyclone Tauktae.Roofs of six cowsheds were blown away by strong winds in Bhatiyat region of Chamba district while power supply was snapped at several places after trees fell on transmission lines and electric poles were uprooted. There was a complete blackout in eight panchayats of tribal Bharmour subdivision.A house and a cowshed were damaged in Dharamshala town. However, no loss of life has been reported in any part.Meanwhile, Tissa recorded maximum 41mm rainfall, Chamba 21mm, Reckong Peo and Kalpa 19mm each, Dalhousie 17mm, Bharmaur 8mm, Gaggal 7mm, Kasauli, Jogindernagar, Wangtoo and Sarahan 5mm each and Rohru, Dharamshala, Manali and Palampur 3mm each.Kalpa was the coldest in the state with minimum temperature of 3.9 degrees Celsius while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti recorded low of 4 degrees Celsius. Una was the hottest with high of 34 degrees Celsius.Minimum temperatures were 1 to 2 degrees below normal.The MeT department has predicted wet weather in the state till May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-labourers-killed-in-kullu-tunnel-collapse-101621628093107.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||4,854 people sought counselling in HP during pandemic: Health officials||With the lockdown in place to the contain the virus spread in Himachal, people infected with Covid-19 who are under home isolation are suffering from the anxiety, said National Rural Health Mission director Nipun Jindal. Majority of the patients suffer from anxiety, worries, non-specific psychological distress, depression, stress symptoms including PTSD, insomnia, hallucinations, paranoia and suicidal ideation, he added. “People are also worried about how will they get their medications during the curfew. Patients in isolation also have symptoms of anxiety and had been contacting us. Those in hospital isolation are highly vulnerable to experiencing psychiatric symptoms, which may be either due to direct effects of the illness, reactionary or sometimes side effects of the medications like steroids or other drugs,” Jindal said. So far, 4,854 people have reached out to doctors and counsellors through different helplines set up by the government . Out of them, 2,337 patients have been counselled since January this year.Anxiety, anger, depression, fear of contracting infection and frustration due to inability to meet people and go out freely are the common emotions with most of the people. Some people, who are vulnerable or have pre-existing mental health issues, have clinically significant depression and anxiety or even may develop suicidal ideation,” said Dr Dinesh Dutt Sharma, head of psychiatry department, IGMC. The pandemic has brought multiple challenges in addition to the disease and during this period, renewed emphasis is required on the mental health issues of Covid patients during their illness, post-Covid period, people with pre-existing history of psychiatric disorders as well as mental health concerns faced by the public, Jindal added.He said health helpline 104 was providing counselling services related to mental health and de-addiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4854-people-sought-counselling-in-hp-during-pandemic-health-officials-101621628037054.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||First black fungus patient in Jammu dies||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded first death due to black fungus. A 40-year-old patient suffering from mucormycosis was admitted to the government medical college in Jammu on Thursday, but he succumbed today, said financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo. Principal and dean of GMC, Dr Shashi Sudan Sharma, said, “His tests confirmed him to be a case of mucormycosis, commonly called black fungus. His blood sugar had shot up to 900 when he was brought to the hospital emergency.” He was a Covid patient, who had recovered and even tested negative in RTPCR test. “He contracted black fungus due to his uncontrolled levels of blood sugar. Steroids are given to Covid patients for a long time, but in his case his blood sugar was uncontrolled and he had not been administered with proper antidiabetic medication,” Sharma said. People with weak immunity and those having uncontrolled diabetes are vulnerable to this disease, she added. Once inside the body, black fungus starts damaging blood vessels, brain and even bones. Dr Sharma said that doctors were attending to him and the first priority was to bring down his blood sugar levels and stabilise them, but he died this afternoon. “Black fungus is not related to Covid, but we have found it in corona patients in other states. Since steroids are used in the treatment of Covid for a long time, in cases of steroid-induced diabetes and uncontrolled sugar levels, the patient may get predisposition to this condition called black fungus. It is not a communicable disease at all,” she added. She said that when the patient was brought to the emergency, he not only had 900 blood sugar level, but was in ketoacidosis state. “The mucormycosis had progressed a lot in him and in such cases, we have to first control underlying diseases like diabetes and ketoacidosis. We also give anti-fungal, but first the underlying disease has to be controlled. Recovery rate vary from patient to patient,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-black-fungus-patient-in-jammu-dies-101621628036094.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Active cases in J&K drop below 50,000||After the recovery of 4,466 patients on Friday, the number of active cases in J&K dropped below 50,000. On Friday, 43 people lost their lives to Covid in Jammu and Kashmir, taking May’s fatalities to 1,183 and overall death toll to 3,465.The region also recorded 3,808 fresh infections in the past 24 hours pushing the overall cases to 2,63,905. There are 49,893 active cases in J&K presently — 7,519 in Jammu and 6,884 in Srinagar districts.The overall number of people who recovered reached 2,10,547, improving the recovery rate to 79.95%. Of the 43 deaths in the UT, 27 were reported in Jammu division and 16 in Kashmir. Officials said with 598 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 401 in Jammu district. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.07 lakh cases and 1,641 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has taken over as the one with the highest number of 919 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 722 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/active-cases-in-j-k-drop-below-50000-101621628035011.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 2,662 fresh infections, 57 fatalities||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid case tally rose to 1,75,384 as 2,662 more people tested positive on Friday while the death toll mounted to 2,638 after 57 patients succumbed. Of the new cases, 720 were reported in Kangra, 434 in Shimla, 301 in Mandi, 271 in Sirmaur, 173 in Bilaspur, 172 in Hamirpur, 162 in Solan, 143 in Una, 124 in Chamba, 77 in Kullu, 69 in Kinnaur and 19 in Lahaul-Spiti. Highest 23 fatalities were reported in Kangra, eight in Hamirpur, five each in Mandi, Shimla, Una, four in Bilaspur, three in Solan, two in Sirmaur and one each in Kinnaur and Kullu. Recoveries climbed up to 1,41,198 after 4,533 people recuperated while there are 31,519 active cases. Kangra still remains the worst-hit district with 39,533 infections and is followed by Mandi with 23,631 cases and Shimla 22,287 cases. Director General of Himachal Pradesh Police Sanjay Kundu visited various police stations in Shimla to boost the morale of force deployed on Covid duty. He said various crimes have seen a decline amid curfew. He said so far, 2,874 police personnel have contracted the virus and five cops have succumbed to the contagion. Kundu said the war against drugs was also on. He said a fine of ₹56.55 lakh has been realised from violators. The DGP said 90% of the police force has been vaccinated.Replying to a query on a Shimla police officer facing charges of sexual harassment of a female cop, the DGP said a case under relevant provisions has been registered and the matter has been handed over to CID.Providing uninterrupted treatment to other patients a priority: GovtState government is providing best healthcare facilities to people suffering with non-communicable diseases (chronic disease) like diabetes and hypertension amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a government spokesperson said on Friday.He said keeping in view the current pandemic situation, directions have been issued to all chief medical officers and senior medical superintendents to provide an uninterrupted supply of drugs and healthcare facilities in all the public health institutions across the state.Guidelines related to healthy lifestyle including healthy diet, physical activity, less consumption of sugar and salt, avoidance of alcohol and tobacco, reducing stress and adequate sleep to increase immunity levels, are available at the ministry of health and family welfare’s official website www.main.mohfw.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-2-662-fresh-infections-57-fatalities-101621628033934.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Five lives lost in twin Himachal mishaps||Five persons died in two separate accidents in Himachal Pradesh on Friday. Four women were killed and two others were seriously injured when the vehicle they were travelling in rolled down a gorge in Gehra village of Thauna panchayat in Sarkaghat subdivision of Mandi district. The deceased have been identified as Jhansi Devi, 60, Damodari Devi, 55, Sarla Devi and Kamla Devi. The injured, including a woman, are undergoing treatment. Sarkaghat DSP Chanderpal Singh said five women of Gehra village had gone to fair price shop to buy ration. While returning home, the women took lift in an SUV which plunged into a 250ft gorge after the driver lost control. Locals rushed them to the local primary health centre, where the two women were pronounced dead on arrival while others were taken to community health centre in Sarkaghat. The other two were referred to Mandi zonal hospital, but they died on the way. Police have registered a case of rash driving and causing death by negligence and further investigations are on. In another mishap, a man died, while two others went missing after the truck they were travelling in fell into a stream in remote Churah subdivision of Chamba district. The deceased has been identified as Pawan Kumar, a resident of Churah valley, who worked as a cleaner. Chamba SP S Arul Kumar said the accident took place early on Friday at Tissa bridge. “Three persons were said to be washed away by the gushing water. Body of one of the victims has been found and a rescue operation is on to trace others,” he said. The identity of those missing is unknown. The police have registered a case and initiated investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-lives-lost-in-twin-himachal-mishaps-101621628032224.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farm protest: HC seeks Punjab DGP’s reply on Adani subsidiary plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought response from the Punjab director general of police (DGP) on a petition filed by Adani Logistics, an Adani Group subsidiary, against the farmers’ protest holding up its stocks in Ludhiana.The firm had approached the court in March saying the farmers have been sitting on a dharna in front of its inland container depot in Ludhiana, thus rendering it non-operational since January 1. No action was taken to remove the blockade despite it having filed a number of complaints with the police, the firm had said.The state government in response to the plea had informed court that of the 300 loaded containers lying in the depot earlier, 275 carrying perishable goods were taken out. Only 25 containers of non-perishable goods are parked there, it added. The court was also informed that these containers are held up on account of custom clearance and not protests. Meetings were held with farmers and they have sought time to await the decision of the Supreme Court regarding challenge to the three farm laws. On the other hand, the firm had told the court that nearly 450 customers, including exporters and importers, are associated with the inland container depot that has 89 workers. The high court bench of Justice HS Sidhu said under the circumstances, it may be appropriate that the DGP in consultation with the chief secretary may take an initiative to get the blockade lifted and the exercise be carried out expeditiously. The DGP shall file a personal affidavit on the outcome by June 4, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-protest-hc-seeks-punjab-dgp-s-reply-on-adani-subsidiary-plea-101621627973155.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||PPCB seeks more funds from Centre for in-situ management of paddy stubble||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has sought funds from the central government for 70,000 more machines for in-situ management of crop residue during the paddy harvesting season in later part of the year. In an action plan sent to the Union ministry of environment last week, the board submitted a three-year roadmap seeking ₹873 crore to distribute 1 lakh machines to the state’s farmers for the purpose. It said from 2018 to 2020, as many as 75,355 machines were given on subsidy for machines which could process 6.45 million tonne stubble against 20 million tonne paddy straw produced every kharif season. Of the 20 million tonnes, half rest is set on fire, it added. Crop residue management machines include mulcher, rotavator, happy seeder, straw shredder and reverse plough. According to the action plan, 70,000 subsidised machines will supplied to farmers in the year 2021-22; 20,000 in 2022-23 and 10,000 in in 2023-24. In the upcoming season, paddy will be cultivated on an estimated 27 lakh hectares and the premium basmati over 5.35 lakh hectares.The Union ministry of agriculture had earlier given a grant of ₹793 crore to Punjab to purchase machines. In 2018-19, ₹269.38 crore was released and 27,747 machines were distributed to the farmers. In 2019-2020, as many as 23,068 machines were given when the state received ₹273.8 crore. In 2020-21, 24,540 machines were distributed to the farmers at ₹250 crore. The machines are given on 50% subsidy to individual farmers and 80% subsidy to the custom hiring centres. The state government wants to open more centres in villages with all types of machines.As per the action plan, 0.82 million tonne paddy straw is used in 10 biomass-based power generating plants which have a total capacity of 91.5 megawatts, 0.1 million tonne is used by the paper industry, 2.57 million tonne generated from basmati crop is used a dry fodder for animals while 6.45 million tonne is disposed of through in-situ management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ppcb-seeks-more-funds-from-centre-for-in-situ-management-of-paddy-stubble-101621627972081.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Technical institute faculty in Chandigarh to retire at 65 not 58: HC||In a significant judgment, the Punjab and Haryana high court has held that retirement age for faculty of institutes governed under norms of All India Institute of Technical Education (AICTE) will be 65 years and not 58 as fixed by Chandigarh administration. The court also directed that the petitioners who have been forcibly superannuated be taken back with consequential benefits. The high court bench of justices AG Masih and AK Verma set aside the 1992 rules adopted by Chandigarh administration according to which retirement age of faculty of institutes such as Government College of Arts and Government College of Architecture, Chandigarh, was fixed at 58 years. The high court held that retirement age of such faculty will be 65 years with an extension period of five years as applicable in central government institutes. A set of faculty members of these two colleges had moved Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) challenging the 1992 rules. However, in 2020, the CAT had dismissed their plea. Their argument was that their institutes are governed under AICTE Act, 1987, and rules with regard to regulations on pay scales, service conditions etc. would apply as followed by all AICTE governed institutes. The UT had argued that the services of the petitioners are covered by the rules framed under 1992 notification according to which Punjab government service rules have been adopted. Hence, retirement age would remain at 58 years. The high court bench said in the case of the Union Territories, the rule-making power belongs to the President. This power under Article 309 and the rules framed will operate and will have a force of law, unless and until Parliament chooses to legislate on the subject. “Once the Parliament legislates, such Act and the rules/regulations framed there under, would take over the field resulting in the rules framed by the president under proviso to Article 309 seizing to operate forthwith,” the court said referring to AICTE Act. The court said that under AICTE Regulations, 2010, the age for superannuation was 65 years with a provision for re-employment up to the age of 70 years. To the argument that funds for the colleges are provided by the UT, the court said that these are central government funds and UT is merely utilising them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/technical-institute-faculty-in-chandigarh-to-retire-at-65-not-58-hc-101621627912050.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Probe begins against Panchkula hospital for overcharging Covid-19 patients||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday ordered an inquiry against Paras Hospital, Panchkula, for overcharging Covid-19 patients. Vij formed a three-member committee to probe the complaints forwarded to him by Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta. The committee, comprising state medical education and research director Dr Shaleen, additional director general of health services Dr VK Bansal and a state finance department official, will submit its report in a week. Gupta had written to the state government, requesting it to carry out an audit of bills issued to Covid patients by private hospitals. He had even visited Paras Hospital after getting complaints of overcharging. Gupta said, “I had recommended that the allegations against Paras Hospital be probed by a high-level committee after the district-level committee had found discrepancies. I have also recommended that the licence of the hospital be cancelled and the same be locked as we cannot allow them to fleece the patients.” Speaker cites three instances Gupta in his letter to the health minister had mentioned three cases of overcharging. One Jog Dhyan was handed over a bill of ₹7.6 lakh by Paras Hospital on May 13 for his treatment for Covid-19 between May 2 and 13. The charges were reduced to ₹2.9 lakh after district administration intervened and district-level committee was set up to look into the allegations. The family of another Covid-19 patient who had succumbed to the virus on April 9, was handed a bill of ₹9.7 lakh for his treatment since March 24 at Paras Hospital. Dharam Pal Singhal, who had been admitted to the same hospital on April 17 and was discharged on May 3, was handed a bill of ₹4.97 lakh for various procedures as well as lab tests. Gupta had written in the letter that several patients and their families have approached him for help during the second wave. Haryana had in June last year issued an order capping the daily package rate for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals between ₹8,000 to ₹18,000. We follow govt policies: HospitalParas Hospital spokesperson in a statement to the media said, “In this pandemic, we are standing firmly along side the government in its fight and serving the patients. We are completely aligned with government policies and patient bills are prepared as per the guidelines issued by government authorities. We will be fully cooperating with the inquiry and ensure that we continue to save as many lives as possible and treat as many patients as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-begins-against-panchkula-hospital-for-overcharging-covid-19-patients-101621627793475.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||13 more die of Covid in Mohali, new cases on a slide||The district on Friday reported 13 Covid-related deaths, taking the toll to 834. In a respite, the number of fresh Covid -19 cases has come down to 336, taking the patient tally to 63,612. For the first in past three weeks, the positivity rate has come down to 8%. In the past three weeks, 239 people have died due to the virus. Amid a surge, the district has recorded 17,042 cases to date in May, while in April 19,406 cases were recorded and 159 deaths. Out of Friday’s 336 cases, 105 are from Mohali city, 63 from Dhakoli, 48 from Kharar, 42 from Dera Bassi, 18 from Boothgarh, 22 from Gharuan, 8 from Kurali, 3 from Banur and 27 from Lalru. Meanwhile, 1,003 patients recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 6,402 and the number of those recovered climbed to 56,376.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13-more-die-of-covid-in-mohali-new-cases-on-a-slide-101621627373581.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Have ordered 30,000 vials of drug to beat black fungus: Punjab to HC||ChandigarhThe Punjab government on Friday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it has ordered 30,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, a drug to beat black fungus. The high court asked Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to deliberate upon any preventive measures, which can be taken against the spread of black fungus and apprise the court on May 25. Additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain told court that five more companies have been given licence to manufacture the drug. The court was hearing a plea in which it is monitoring Covid-19 situation in two states and UT. As regards to spread of Covid-19 in rural areas of Punjab and Haryana, Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda told court the emphasis was on providing help in the villages for which health wellness centres have been set up. Haryana’s advocate general BR Mahajan said that government has decided to continue with already established helpline number by the state in rural areas and not to put out private numbers of doctors as responsibility for attending the calls from a caller cannot be fixed or there is no mechanism to have check for the same. Punjab raises poor supply of O2 After the hearing, Nanda said the court was also urged to issue directions to the Centre to provide logistics support as the state has been able to lift only half the allocated 300 metric tonnes of oxygen as it has to ferry it from Jharkhand and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/have-ordered-30-000-vials-of-drug-to-beat-black-fungus-punjab-to-hc-101621627012061.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus: Man dies in Bathinda hospital, 71 infected in Punjab so far||Bathinda/Ludhiana Covid-triggered mucormycosis or black fungus infection is rising in Punjab. So far, 71 people have been infected with the disease and two have lost their lives. Ludhiana has reported 30 such cases, the highest in the state, followed by nine each in Amritsar and Jalandhar, eight in Patiala, six in Mohali, three in Bathinda, two each in Muktsar and Ferozepur and one each in Sangrur and Kapurthala. The South Malwa belt of the state reported its first black fungus death, second in the state, on Friday when a 62-year-old Covid patient of Gidderbaha town of Muktsar district died of the infection at Adesh Medical College and Hospital in Bathinda. Muktsar civil surgeon Dr Ranju Singla said the patient was under treatment at the Bathinda facility for the last five days. He underwent eye surgery after developing black fungus and later succumbed to fungus-related complications.“Black fungus has actually emerged as a pandemic within a pandemic. There is a shortage of Amphotericin-B, the injectable drug required to treat the disease,” said a senior health official.Bathinda has reported three black fungus cases, two each in Muktsar and Ferozepur. One patient of Moga undergoing Covid treatment was found infected whereas no such case is reported from Faridkot, Mansa and Fazilka.Sangrur man dies in PGIMER A 32-year-old man from Sangrur succumbed to the disease at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on May 16. “The district has reported only one case of black fungus so far,” said Sangrur civil surgeon Dr Anjana Gupta.Ludhiana worst-hit Ludhiana has 30 confirmed and six suspected cases of black fungus, said civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, adding that a patient died of suspected mucormycosis on Wednesday at a private hospital, which is being verified by a panel of doctors. Sixteen patients are admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, six in SPS Hospital, four in Deep Hospital, two in Christian Medical College and Hospital and one each in Mohan Dai Oswal and Fortis Hospital.Nine cases in Amritsar Amritsar has reported nine cases of black fungus and all patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals in the city. “These patients were infected or have recovered from Covid and their condition is stable. We are collecting data of patients and will report to the state health department,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh.Jalandhar deputy medical commissioner Dr Jyoti Sharma said seven patients suffering from of black fungus are under treatment while two have been referred to other districts. One case has been detected in Kapurthala district on Friday, said the health authorities. 8 infected in Patiala Of the eight cases in Patiala, four were reported in Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital and others in private hospitals in the past one week. Civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said there are two suspected cases in private hospitals and their samples have been sent for investigation. Health dept plays down rise in casesEven as the district health authorities are confirming rise in cases of black fungus, the state health authorities in Chandigarh say only three cases have been reported from across Punjab so far. “Punjab has three cases of black fungus to date. While two cases are confirmed, one more suspect case has been reported on Friday,” said state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 and black fungus Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. He said district administrations have not yet reported to the state headquarters about the presence of large number of cases. (With inputs from Sangrur, Patiala, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-man-dies-in-bathinda-hospital-71-infected-in-punjab-so-far-101621626952506.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Ex-journalist to be quizzed for bouncer’s murder||Accused in a property grab case, former journalist with a Hindi daily, Sanjiv Mahajan, will now be quizzed with regard to the murder of bouncer-cum-financier Surjit Singh, who was gunned down in March last year. Mahajan’s is the first arrest in Surjit murder case though police are yet to nominate him as an accused. Mahajan is lodged in Burail jail in connection with the property grab case in which slain bouncer Surjit was also named as an accused. Mahajan was arrested along with realtor Manish Gupta, Satpal Dagar, brother of deputy superintendent of police Ram Gopal, and Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh in the property grab case. Chandigarh Police on March 2 had booked around 10 people, including slain bouncer Surjit Singh, for kidnapping and torturing Rahul Mehta, the sole heir of his family, in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney of his 338-square-yard house and selling it to Manish Gupta’s brother for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019. “We have brought him on production warrants as we had some leads against Mahajan. He was formally arrested but his involvement is part of investigations. In case his role emerges, he will be nominated as an accused,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. Earlier, Mahajan moved an application for his narco and brain mapping test in connection to Surjit’s murder case which was dismissed by the court. He also moved an application before the court to allow his counsel to be present during the questioning and medical examination, which was allowed. The court, however, dismissed his request to install CCTV cameras where his interrogation will be done. Surjit’s wife suspected Mahajan’s involvement Mahajan was on Friday produced before a court and remanded to two-day police custody. Police had procured Mahajan’s production warrants after Surjit’s wife Meenakshi raised suspicion that Mahajan could be involved in the murder of her husband. “In her statement before the police, Meenakshi claimed that Mahajan and Surjit developed differences owing to financial transactions which may have led to the murder of her husband,” said Shruti Arora, assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South), Chandigarh. She added, “We have got his remand and will question him. If anything conclusive comes up against him, further action will be taken up accordingly.” Gangster Bambiha group had already claimed responsibility for gunning down Surjit Singh (39). The gang through social media had bragged about the murder of Surjit to avenge the killing of bouncer Amit Sharma at Saketri. Surjit was shot dead by two bike-borne unidentified people around 11pm on March 16, 2020, in Sector 38 (West). As per the police, Surjit was considered a sympathiser of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. He was into business of supplying bouncers in the Tricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ex-journalist-to-be-quizzed-for-bouncer-s-murder-101621626891909.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid-related death in P’kula after 27 days||After almost a month, no Covid-related death was report from Panchkula district even as 206 people—127 males and 79 females—tested positive on Friday. With this the total number of cases reported in district so far went up to 28,866 out of which 1,834 are active. The district recorded 307 deaths so far. The recovery rate in the district is 92.58%. Good response to drive through vaccination The health authorities on Friday started drive through vaccination at the Sector 5 Parade Ground for the age group of 18 to 44 years in the district which was inaugurated by Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta. Even though the drive was to start at 9am people had started queuing up since early morning. Long queues of car were seen lined up on the road to the parade ground. “The drive through vaccination drive started off to an encouraging response,” said Gupta. He said ‘vaccination on wheels’ will be held for two days and on each day, two sessions will be held, from 9am till 12 noon and then from 4pm to 6pm. Apart from this, Gupta said vaccination is being administrated at 22 places in the district. On Friday, 6,015 people from different age groups got the jab of which 5,958 were administered the first dose while 57 got their second shot.UT again matches its own daily highest Covid death tollFourteen people succumbed to Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Friday ,taking the toll to 680. Also, 406 new infections were reported in the city.Chandigarh has reported 14 deaths —highest in a single day—twice before on May 5 and May 12.The Covid-19 case tally in Chandigarh stand at 57,737, of which 5,675 cases are active. As per officials, 790 patients were discharged on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-related-death-in-p-kula-after-27-days-101621626772132.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER receiving at least 10 black fungus cases daily||Mucormycosis or black fungus, which has been declared an epidemic in several states, is being detected in 10 patients on an average daily at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), microbiologists say. Most of the patients are those who have recovered from Covid-19.Mucormycosis is an invasive infection caused by a class of moulds called mucormycetes. The fungus enters the body by inhalation and affects the sinuses or lungs. The infection is primarily found in Covid positive patients and is caused by indiscriminate use of steroids, uncontrolled diabetes, prolonged stay in the ICU and comorbidities.Professor Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of PGIMER’s microbiology department on Friday said the institute is recording a spike in cases of the fungal infection with most patients landing up in the emergency ward.Prof Chakraborty, one of the members who drafted the government advisory on mucormycosis and also a part of the Fungal Infection Study Forum, said there was a need to start dedicated service for the infection as non-Covid medical services are currently closed which may result in delay reporting such cases.“Currently we are detecting 10-15 infections daily. Patients from across the region are reporting in emergency with clinical symptoms. If the patient is still Covid-19 positive, they are shifted to the dedicated Covid-19 block and others are managed in different areas,” he said.Docs raise logistics issuesHowever, doctors say there are logistics issues in treating infected patients as most OPDs are shut and it is difficult to detect the fungus through teleconsultation. Prof Chakraborti said he has been raising this issue on every forum that post-Covid-19 clinics should have ENT specialists who can cater to such patients and a few states have also agreed to the suggestion.“Serious logistics issues are there. It will be difficult to detect early symptoms through tele-consultation and patients will land up in the emergency wards with acute complications. So, this needs to be dealt with on priority,” he said.6 new cases at GMCH-32On Friday, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, also reported 6 cases of this infection, taking the number of such patients in the hospital to 22.Dr Jagdish Chander, former head of the microbiology department at the hospital who is currently part of a panel constituted by the college for tracking and treating such cases, said people should check for pain in the left or right side of the face, nasal blockage, nasal discharge. Delay in diagnosis can cause double vision, blurring, or protrusion of the eye.Nine patients are from Punjab, seven from Haryana, while two patients each from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.Meanwhile, Haryana health authorities said six mucormycosis patients were hospitalised in Panchkula. Only one of the patients is a resident of Panchkula, rest are referral cases from Delhi NCR region and other parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-receiving-at-least-10-black-fungus-cases-daily-101621626606993.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rumblings in Cong: Central leadership watching situation in Punjab, says Venugopal||Amid raging infighting in its state unit in Punjab, the Congress on Friday said the party leadership is watching the developments in the state and will take a call on the situation. Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said the issue is strictly an organisational matter and the party high command is aware of the developments. “Of course, internally, we are watching the situation in Punjab and the high command will take a call on that,” he told reporters at a virtual press briefing when asked about the internal bickering in the state unit with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and former state minister Navjot Singh Sidhu openly hitting out at each other. Sidhu, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and a couple of party MLAs have been openly targeting the chief minister ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the SIT report in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. They are blaming the chief minister and his aides for the legal setback and seeking the party central leadership’s intervention. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Thursday cautioned party workers to be wary of leaders fuelling dissent to further their own agenda even as Sidhu gave a call to party MLAs to go to Delhi and tell the high command about the real situation in the state. There has been speculation about the constitution of a three-member committee to resolve the differences between the warring groups, but party leaders in Delhi and Punjab denied having any information in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rumblings-in-cong-central-leadership-watching-situation-in-punjab-says-venugopal-101621626591902.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 172 deaths, 5,278 new Covid cases||Punjab on Friday registered 172 more deaths due to Covid-19 as 5,278 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 5,28,676, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the infection has claimed 12,888 lives in the state. Twenty-three deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 19 each from Patiala and Bathinda and 13 from Mohali. Ludhiana reported the maximum 687 cases, followed by 565 in Bathinda, 486 in Mohali and 380 in Patiala. Meanwhile, 8,652 people recovered from the infection. The number of active cases also declined from 67,041 on Thursday to 63,470 on Friday, as per the bulletin. The state’s positivity rate also dropped from 7.03% on Thursday to 6.92%, it said. With 8,652 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 4,52,318.There are 418 critical patients who are on ventilator while 7,448 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 85,56,117 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-172-deaths-5-278-new-covid-cases-101621626232105.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pak’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa govt to restore 19th century gurdwara||The provincial government in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa will renovate a 19 century gurdwara built during the reign of Sikh ruler Hari Singh Nalwa and open it for devotees.Presently, the gurdwara in Mansehra district is closed and acts as a makeshift library, officials said.The provincial government said restoration of the gurdwara would promote religious tourism as a large number of Sikh devotees from across the world have evinced interest to visit the shrine.In February this year, the provincial Auqaf and Religious Affairs Department had recommended the local government to take up the restoration proposal with the Evacuee Property Trust Board (EPTB) in Lahore.The EPTB is a statutory board that manages religious properties and shrines of Hindus and Sikhs who migrated to India after Partition.The EPTB has declared the gurdwara as historic asset and directed the department of local government, KPK, to vacate the building, including the library.The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has welcomed the restoration plan.Hari Singh Nalwa (1791–1837) was the commander of the Sikh Empire and is remembered for the battles in Kasur, Sialkot, Attock, Multan, Kashmir, Peshawar and Jamrud. Over 50 buildings, including forts, towers, gurdwaras, tanks, are said to be built under his direct supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paks-khyber-pakhtunkhwa-govt-to-restore-19th-century-gurdwara-101621625992553.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana registers 5,643 new Covid cases, 313 from villages||Haryana recorded 5,643 Covid-19 cases, 13,486 recoveries and 112 deaths on Friday. The number of active cases further came down to 54,397.As per a medical bulletin, the positivity rate came down to 9.83% on Friday and cumulative positivity rate was 8.53%. The recovery rate further improved to 91.53%.The bulletin stated that 2,335 Covid positive cases have been detected in villages since May 15 and the cumulative positivity rate in the rural areas is 4.18%. The daily positivity rate in rural areas is 2.31%. About 55,884 persons in villages have been tested using rapid antigen testing (RAT) kits. About 13,563 RAT sampling was done on Friday in villages alone and 313 persons were found infected, the bulletin said.Health officials said Haryana Villagers General Health Check-up Scheme (HVGHCS) was started on May 15 in view of increasing number of cases being reported from villages.The villages with high Covid load were taken up on priority. Screening of rural population is being carried out by village health screening teams and suspected cases are checked by village headquarter teams and tested for viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-registers-5-643-new-cases-313-from-villages-101621615311342.html
