23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid shadow over bike sharing project in Chandigarh||The second Covid-19 wave has put into question the continuation of the popular public bicycle sharing system in the city.On one hand the Cycle4change challenge, under which the public bicycle sharing was launched in October last year, will be ending on May 31. And at the same time, the launch of the first phase of the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) public bicycle sharing system (PBSS) project has been delayed by at least two months. The first phase was to be launched in May.Currently, 225 bicycles, including more than 100 pedal-assisted e-Bikes, can be rented from 25 docking stations spread across the city. The stations include prominent locations such as Rock Garden, High Court, Sukhna Lake, PGIMER, Sector 17, Sector 22, Sector 34, Sector 35, and Sector 43.Cycles likely to be unavailable after May 31Chief general manager of CSCL, NP Sharma, said, “We have written to the company managing cycles under the Cycle4Change challenge to stop charging people from June 1 onwards as the challenge ends on May 31. We are awaiting their response on whether the cycles will be available after May 31 or not.”If the company says no to offering free cycles, there would be none available for public use. Users are charged at ₹10 for an hour and ₹5 for half an hour.On the delayed start of the CSCL’s project, Sharma said, “We have given two months (May and June) deadline extension to the private firm implementing the public bicycle sharing system in the city.” He attributed the delay in the implementation of the first phase to issues related to the pandemic, particularly, the lockdown.Project to be developed over 4 phasesUnder the CSCL’s project, 5,000 bicycles will be provided in the city along with a network of 617 docking stations spread throughout the city giving last mile connectivity to the users. The size of the project will make it India’s largest and densest public bike sharing network.The project will be developed in four phases of 1,250 cycles and 155 docking stations each, with the availability of pedal-assisted e-bikes with charging facility.All bicycles will be GPS-enabled and will be monitored from a command-and-control centre with 24X7 helpline facility for users. The PBSS project is being implemented and operated by the concessionaire M/s Smart Bike Tech Private Limited, Hyderabad, for a period of 10 years on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-shadow-over-bike-sharing-project-in-chandigarh-101621794365629.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown likely to continue in Chandigarh||The Covid-19 lockdown will continue in Chandigarh, though a few relaxations are likely, according to a highly placed source in the administration.The final decision will be taken during the review meeting on Monday. The weekly lockdown, which has been extended twice since first being imposed on May 4, is to come to at end at 5am on Tuesday.“Both Punjab and Haryana have opted to extend the lockdown till this month end. Chandigarh will follow the same pattern,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t want to be named.The lockdown was imposed in the two neighbouring states on May 3. While Punjab extended it till May 31 last week, the Haryana government followed suit on Sunday. In the fresh orders, Haryana also introduced the odd-even formula for opening non-essential shops, on the lines of Punjab. In Chandigarh, too, traders have been protesting for the past one week against the total closure of non-essential shops, and a decision on some relaxations can be expected on Monday.“Both Punjab and Haryana have announced relaxations for non-essential shops. It is imperative that shops are allowed to open in Chandigarh too, as businesses, particularly small and medium ones, are facing a severe financial hardship. Traders cannot sustain themselves if their shops are directed to remain closed,” said Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal.Last week, the Chandigarh deputy commissioner, on instructions of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, had called traders for a meeting on the issue. “We were assured that our demand for opening of shops would be considered, at least on the odd-even basis,” said Singh.‘Inclination towards uniform rules across tricity’The number of positive cases in the city has seen a downward trend since the lockdown was imposed, and so has the positivity rate. “In the meeting to be held on Monday, the administration will consider all health indicators and needs of the businesses before taking a final decision on relaxations. There will be an inclination towards keeping uniformity regarding lockdown and accompanying restrictions across the tricity,” said the official.Even last week, the administration had considered allowing opening of non-essential shops on Punjab’s pattern, but finally decided against it in order to “capitalise on the plateauing of cases”.In Punjab, all shops in urban areas follow the odd-even rule while only essential item shops are allowed to open in malls. Restaurants are allowed to provide only home delivery, till 9pm. In villages, all shops are allowed to operate. According to the fresh orders in Haryana, standalone shops have been allowed to open during the day and others can open on alternate days on odd-even basis from 7am to 12pm . Malls are not allowed to open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-likely-to-continue-in-chandigarh-101621793104177.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moderna refused to send vaccines as it only deals with Centre, says Punjab govt||Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer Moderna Inc declined the Punjab government’s request to procure vaccines saying that it only deals with the central government, state nodal officer Vikas Garg said in a statement on Saturday. “One of the Covid vaccine manufacturer ‘Moderna’ has refused to send direct vaccination to the Punjab government as according to their policy, they only deal with the Government of India and not with any state government or private parties,” the statement said.The Punjab government approached Sputnik V, Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson after being directed by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the statement said adding that the state government was forced to stop vaccinations due to unavailability of vaccines for the last three days.“All efforts are being made for procurement of vaccines to meet the acute shortage in the state, which had received fewer than 44 lakh vaccine doses so far from the Government of India,” it said.Garg’s statement pointed out that Punjab has been able to buy only 4.2 lakh vaccine doses, including 66,000 doses which were received on Saturday. Garg said that 3.5 lakh doses have already been used and the state is left with 64,000 doses currently.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on May 20 directed the health department to look out for possibilities if a global tender can be floated to meet the vaccination requirements of the state. He also said that the government has the capacity to store at least 35 lakh doses of Sputnik-V vaccine.Garg said out of all the vaccine manufacturers, it was only Moderna which replied to the Punjab government’s query.Punjab reported 5,421 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the tally to 533,973. The state also registered 201 Covid-19 fatalities pushing the death toll to 13,089. Punjab currently has 61,203 active cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moderna-refuses-to-send-vaccines-to-punjab-says-it-only-deals-with-centre-101621770937177.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||IMA Panchkula offers free telephonic doctor consultations||Due to non-availability of OPD services in the government sector, the Indian Medical Association, Panchkula, has decided to offer free telephonic consultations.A total of 12 private doctors have been roped in to provide consultations during different time slots for various specialities. “To avail this service, any person desiring to consult any doctor can call at these numbers on the provided contact numbers during that time slot,” the official statement of IMA said.As many as five internal medicine specialists are available from 9am to 7pm – Dr Prakash Chand Gupta (9am to 11am, 94172-56129), Dr DK Oberoi (10am to noon, 94177-94335), Dr Tejinder Mohan Aggarwal (2pm to 3pm, 76960-10707), Dr Sunita Singla (4pm to 6pm, 98160-53715) and Dr Jyotika Kapoor (6pm to 7pm, 9888205130). Four child specialists are available from 9am to 8pm – Dr Rajiv Arya (9am to 10am, 95925-53137), Dr Arun Dua (11am to 1pm, 98760-29885), Dr Shakuntala Lavasa (3pm to 5pm, 94172-62239) and Vijay Singla (7pm to 8pm, 99888-97570).For dermatology issues, Dr Nitika Arya can be contacted from 1pm to 2pm at 98550-08581 and for gynaecology concerns Dr Mamta Singla from 2pm to 3pm at 93162-82935. Intensivist Dr Deepak Khanduja is available from 6pm to 7pm at 99881-99907. All consultations will be free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ima-panchkula-offers-free-telephonic-doctor-consultations-101621716359530.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two Pakistan teens held near Khemkaran border, repatriated||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday apprehended two Pakistani teenaged boys from Mianwala village near the Khemkaran border in Tarn Taran district. The boys, aged 15 and 17, belong to Pakistan’s border district of Kasur. Later, the two were repatriated on “humanitarian ground”. “The personnel of the 14 battalion detected some suspicious movement along the international border. When the area was closely monitored, the two were noticed crossing the zero line. When they were moving towards the barbed wire fence in the Indian territory, our troops challenged and apprehended them,” said a BSF official.Another BSF official said their preliminary investigation suggested that the two inadvertently crossed over to the Indian territory. “Our investigation is still on into the matter,” he said. No police case was registered against the teenagers till filing of the report. The BSF said first they lodged a protest on the issue with the Pakistan Rangers and later handed over the boys to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-pakistan-teens-held-near-khemkaran-border-repatriated-101621715040015.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man held with illegal foreign-made pistols in Faridkot||Police on Saturday arrested a man allegedly with four illegal sophisticated foreign-made pistols in Faridkot district. The recovered firearms include two Austria-made Glock pistols (.9mm) and a Brazil-made Taurus pistol (.45 bore) and a Smith and Wesson (.45 mm) pistol made in USA that fetch lakhs of rupees in the black market as they are not available in India. Cartridges were also seized. The accused was identified as Karamjit Singh of Kohar Singh Wala village in Ferozepur district. The police have secured his three-day police custody. Superintendent of police (SP) Bhupinder Singh Sidhu said Karamjit was nabbed on a tip-off. “During preliminary investigation, it was found that he was working at the behest of Harbans Lal of Mukstar district, a murder accused lodged in jail. Now, we will bring Harbans on production warrant to cross-question the two,” he said.The police are trying to trace the source of the seized weapons. “According to our information, the weapons were handed over to him at Bhucho Mandi in Bathinda district. We will question more people in this connection,” said Sidhu.The police suspect the arms could have been smuggled into India from the eastern border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-held-with-illegal-foreign-made-pistols-in-faridkot-101621714981399.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Validity of marriage no ground for denial of protection to couple: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said the question over validity of a marriage cannot be a ground for denial of protection sought by a couple who have married against the wishes of their parents. The high court bench of justice JS Puri said this while dealing with a plea in which a coordinate bench on protection plea of a Jalandhar woman, who converted from Islam to Hinduism to marry a Hindu man, had asked whether the execution of an affidavit is sufficient for her conversion. The query was posed to their lawyer on May 12 and he was asked to address arguments on the issue on May 17. The plea said she executed an affidavit on April 28 declaring that she has converted to the Hindu religion. She married the boy the same day. The court had asked whether, execution of an affidavit is sufficient to convert to Hindu religion. On May 17, before Justice Puri, the petitioners’ counsel had submitted that their prayer was confined only to granting protection of life and liberty and the validity of the marriage was not the subject matter. The lawyer had also referred to a 2014 judgment in which a division bench had held that even in the absence of such validation, the state was obligated to protect their life and liberty. “The scope of the present petition is only regarding the protection of life and liberty of the petitioners and, therefore, the validity of the marriage cannot be a ground for denial of such protection,” the bench of justice JS Puri said while disposing of the Jalandhar couple plea and asking authorities to take steps to protect their lives and liberty. In past two weeks conflicting judgments have been reported on protection to runaway couples. On May 11 one of the benches observed that the “entire social fabric of the society will get disturbed” if the plea for protection from a live-in couple is accepted, the other bench termed live in relationships “morally and socially not acceptable” and dismissed the plea. These judgments were followed by two other benches ruling the opposite, while a bench on May 18 held that live-in relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to commission of any offence. Another bench had come out with observations that live-in relationships may not be acceptable to all, but could not be termed illegal. Hence, the denial of protection to a live-in couple would be a mockery of justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/validity-of-marriage-no-ground-for-denial-of-protection-to-couple-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101621714980463.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||79 cases in 3 days, Patiala’s Dhablan village turns Covid hotspot||With 79 cases of infection reported in the past three days, Dhablan village in Patiala district has turned into a Covid-19 hotspot The village with a population of nearly 2,400 has recorded a positivity rate as high as 10% and was declared a containment zone by the district health department to contain the virus spread. It recorded five deaths in the past one month. Nearly 800 people were tested in the village in the past one week. Sarpanch Manpreet Kaur said it all started a month ago. “The virus spread in the village since the villagers did not take any precautions. People continued to sit together in the village common area and did not get tested, which deteriorated the situation,” she said.Now, the movement in the village has been restricted and those found positive for the virus and their family members are not allowed to step out of their homes.Dr Aslam Parvez, a medical officer, said of the 42 cases were reported two days ago while 37 tested positive on Saturday.“The villagers’ reluctance to get tested is the main reason behind the spread. But now, they have started coming forward for testing,” Dr Parvez said.“We are continuously maintaining communication with the patients so that they can be provided immediate help in case of emergency,” he said.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the department is conducting testing in a phased manner and will test the remaining population at the earliest.“Since the main road passes through the village, the department has declared both sides of the roads as containment zone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/79-cases-in-3-days-patiala-s-dhablan-village-turns-covid-hotspot-101621714920003.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||52-year-old man shot dead over land dispute in Mohali||A man was killed while another was injured after shots were fired during a clash between two groups over a land dispute in Ranimajra in Mullanpur on Saturday. Balbir Singh, 52, who was killed, and Parminder Singh, 32, who was injured, were both property dealers. The accused Pindi and Jassi, are business owners. They have yet to be arrested. Police said Balbir had purchased 1.5 kanal land in Mullanpur and was building an office for his property consultancy business. “The accused men had claimed a share in Balbir’s land. On Saturday, too, the accused had an argument with Balbir, after which they shot him,” said Yogesh Kumar, station house officer, Mullanpur. A bullet hit Balbir’s chest while one brushed past Parminder’s head, injuring him. Balbir and Parminder were rushed to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) where Balbir was declared brought dead and Parminder is under treatment. A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/52yearold-man-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-mohali-101621714859896.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||5,000 turn up for two-day drive-through vax camp in Panchkula||With vaccination slots hard to come by, around 5,000 people from the tricity area and neighbouring states, availed of the two-day drive-through vaccination at the Parade Ground in Sector 5, Panchkula.All those above the age of 18 could avail of the facility, pre-registeration being the only requirement. On Saturday, the final day of the drive-through vaccination, four teams vaccinated at least 2,900 people between 9am and 7:30pm. So far, 1,98,453 persons have been vaccinated in the district. Earlier, the drive-through vaccination was only to take place for two hours each in the morning and evening. However, when a large number of people turned up the drive continued until late in the evening without a break. Sanjay Sagar, a Sector 11 resident, who had brought his 19-year-old daughter to get the jab, said, “Their infrastructure was good and the staff was excellent. It hardly took a couple of minutes to get the jab and enter the details. A long queue of vehicles had formed to get the jab,” he said.Priya Kapoor Malik, a teacher from Pinjore said, “The staff as well as the police were very polite and efficient. They were working without break. Even the Red Cross was serving packed food to those waiting on the roads.”However, those on two-wheelers or on foot were not allowed to get the jab. Dr Meenu Sasan, immunisation officer said: “We could not give vaccines to those on two-wheelers, because they would have had to wait for the vaccine. Where would they have waited? The drive was in an open area.”  “People even from far-off places such as Shimla and Baddi had come for inoculation, while many were from Chandigarh and Mohali,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5000-turn-up-for-two-day-drive-through-vax-camp-in-panchkula-101621713120762.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Contagion snuffs out 32 more lives in Chandigarh tricity area||The Covid-19 deaths in the tricity crossed the 30 mark for the third time this week on Saturday, while the infections also saw a slight rise after slumping below the 1,000 level after over a month on Friday.Mohali led the daily toll with 16 people succumbing to the virus, followed by 12 in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula, where no death was reported on Friday after nearly a month.At 555, Mohali also had the maximum cases on Saturday and was the only one to record a spike, taking tricity’s total up from 941 on Friday to 1,102.On the other hand, Chandigarh and Panchkula, with 392 and 155 cases, respectively, saw their figures sliding further.After hitting the peak on May 11 (2,612), tricity’s Covid cases have remained below the 2,000 mark for eight days straight since May 14, but the deaths’ graph has to yet to show a significant downturn.In some respite, Mohali recorded more recoveries (732) than positive cases on Saturday, bringing the active cases down to 6,210.Of the total 64,167 patients so far, 57,107 (88%) have been cured and 850 have died. Chandigarh’s recoveries reached 52,172 (90%) with 790 patients getting discharged on Saturday. The city’s caseload stands at 58,129, of which 5,265 patients are still recuperating and 692 have succumbed to the virus.In Panchkula, 27,007 patients (93%) have been cured out of the 29,021 infected till date. As many as 1,703 cases are still active and the virus has claimed 311 lives in the district. The latest fatalities included a 72-year-old man from Sector 7, a 56-year-old man from Surajpur, a 53-year-old woman from Pinjore and a 45-year-old man from Sector 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contagion-snuffs-out-32-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101621712879894.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Cats of a lesser God||Unlike charismatic species such as tigers and elephants, the habitats and well-being of the less popular and poorly-researched species such as small wild cats hangs in uncertain balance. The pressure on the habitats of these non-VIPs or the common folk of the jungle, so as to say, is intense. If action plans to save these species are not drawn up in earnest, these humble creatures may well go extinct in a region without the people ever knowing they had existed right under their noses from the proverbial times immemorial. A two-year study, ‘Spatial Ecology And Prey Base Of Lesser Cats’, deployed sophisticated digital camera traps at night while seeking to rectify the historical neglect of the presence of small cats at Kalesar National Park, Haryana, nestling in the biodiversity-rich Shivalik foothills. The research project was funded by the Government of India’s department of science and technology. It involved use of camera trap data from 40 trapping stations operated during 2018-2020 at Kalesar and resulting in a total of 8,082 trap nights. Despite their wide-ranging distribution in India, very few field studies have been done on small cat species and there is paucity of knowledge about ecology and behaviour of these species from the conservation and scientific viewpoints.Conducted by Rajiv S Kalsi, author and zoology head at MLN College, Yamunanagar, the research revealed the presence of four species of small cats at the park: leopard cat, rusty-spotted cat, jungle cat and Asiatic wildcat. The study was revelatory: the first two species were not known to exist at the park. Small cats are the most elusive creatures at the park as they are reeling under intense habitat pressure and competing with high leopard densities. Small cats are thus forced to maintain a low, virtually invisible profile. It was only the sustained use of advanced technology provided by US-made Cuddeback camera traps that conclusively established their existence. The research project’s findings provide a basis for the executive to draw up future management and conservation plans to firewall the cats’ threatened lives from intrusive, overlapping human interests.Elucidating upon the reasons for small cats escaping the radar, Kalsi told this writer: “Cats are by their very nature elusive and secretive. Small cats at Kalesar are also mindful of keeping away from leopards as the latter are an apex predator species and compete with small cats for prey such as junglefowl, hares and rodents. Since small cats can easily be mauled and killed by leopards, they tend to stay away from leopard territories and hunt when leopards are not active in the area. That implies that small cats can exist only in small densities because of high leopard densities at Kalesar. Thirdly, there is sustained disturbance in the park because of national highway 907 that passes through. In fact, my interest in small cats was triggered by a road kill of a jungle cat and it got me thinking that there must be more such cat species in Kalesar’s remote, unexplored depths.”Small cats are so elusive at Kalesar that even field researchers hardly sight them as they dart furtively across open spaces during the day and hole up in trees and undergrowth before launching hunts in the remote hours between 1am and 3am. Road kills thus provide solid though tragic evidence of the existence of such unknown species. “In addition, the park suffers from a high level of disturbance by grazing cattle and locals collecting firewood in large amounts, and poaching. Due to this reason, small cat species were mainly distributed in the denser parts of the habitat and away from trails and fire lines,” Kalsi added. A byproduct of the research project on small cats, Kalsi’s camera traps revealed a very high density of leopards at Kalesar. Leopards were recorded in 199 independent camera trap images. His modelling indicates there may be 26 to 28 leopards at Kalesar. “Leopards are very opportunistic predators and their diet very varied. They can kill species ranging from sambars to bandicoots and thus come into conflict with the smaller cats, who kill smaller species, which overlap with the leopards’ comprehensive dietary menu,” he added.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-cats-of-a-lesser-god-101621712700167.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shortage of drug to treat black fungus adds to Chandigarh hospitals’ pains||Battling the rise in the number of black fungus cases, city hospitals are grappling with the shortage of Amphotericin-B, a key drug to treat the deadly fungal infection.On Saturday, Union minister of chemicals and fertilisers DV Sadananda Gowda announced allocation of 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin-B to various states and union territories, but only 50 were for Chandigarh.This, when 35 patients from across the region are being treated at PGIMER and another 20 at GMCH, Sector 32.At GMCH, with the cases rising, efforts are underway to procure the drug from any available source, but there is no positive response yet, according to director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur.“We have stock for only around two days, as the drug is not easily available,” she said.“For the time being, we have sourced 50 vials from PGIMER and are not denying treatment to any patient,” said Dr Sudhir Kumar Garg, medical superintendent at the hospital.Vinay Jain, general secretary of the Chandigarh Chemists’ Association, said previously the demand for the drug was low, so few chemists stocked it, which had suddenly resulted in its shortage in the face of high demand.The situation is better in Panchkula, where adequate stock is available for the nine patients under treatment at various hospitals. “Among them two are from Panchkula and the rest from other states,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, adding that Amphotericin was being sourced through the health department headquarters and was sufficiently available.Mohali, too, has not reported any scarcity. Civil surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said the headquarters had been able to provide the doses required for the three patients still recuperating here.‘Will get 2,000 vials from pvt supplier’UT health secretary Arun Gupta said the administration was trying to procure the drug on the lines of Punjab and will be placing an order for 2,000 vials from a private supplier as the supply from the Centre will not be enough.“As soon as we have the stocks, we will set up a centralised distribution system for hospitals,” he added.“Liposomal Amphotericin-B is administered daily as per the patient’s weight. For instance, the daily dose will be 350mg for a patient weighing 70kg, which can be roughly fulfilled with five vials for three weeks,” said Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, professor and head of department of medical microbiology, PGIMER.According to hospital director Dr Jagat Ram, among the 35 black fungus patients at the institute, 24 were Covid positive and 11 were non-Covid.“A lot of these patients are Covid positive and diabetic, with compromised immunity. Such patients are victims of indiscriminate use of steroids and hence, develop mucormycosis even after discharge. There is a need to monitor the sugar level of patients receiving steroids during Covid treatment, which will help stem the formation of fungus,” Dr Ram added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shortage-of-drug-to-treat-black-fungus-adds-to-chandigarh-hospitals-pains-101621712339786.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid warriors: The real superheroes sans capes||Relentlessly attending to a steady stream of patients, running from bed to bed, going without food and water for over six hours at a stretch while sweating profusely under a heavy PPE kit such is the punishing daily routine of our medics in these drastic Covid times.Sadly, only a few privileged hospitals that can afford to give their staff PPE kits, which has exacted a toll on our heroic medical professionals, many of whom have succumbed to the deadly disease. I am the proud mother of a Covid warrior, a budding doctor, whom I have not hugged in weeks. Every day she is in close proximity with death, trying to save the lives of Covid patients. We only speak on the phone when she returns home after strenuous hours. She has isolated herself from the entire family so that we do not contract the deadly virus.No, not all heroes wear capes, some wear scrubs, PPE kits, surgical gloves, stethoscopes and still don’t live to see another week! Despite all precautions, the sanitisers, the triple masks, and the PPE kits many medical professionals have themselves succumbed to the infection while treating their patients. Ironically, sometimes the patients survive but their medics do not. But, they just don’t give up, you know! The deep sense of morality, responsibility and duty takes over. There is nothing like ‘social distancing’ between a doctor and a patient in a Covid ward. They simply keep trying their best to save the hapless patient lying there gasping for breath, whose vitals are fluctuating, who is unable to reach out to his family, who fears death and who is dying to be given a second chance to live life just once more. The angels in white coats — nurse or doctor —are their only hope.Coming from a family of army veterans where her grandfather and father have fought for India, my daughter was not one to sit at home, though many told her to make up some excuse to skip the call of duty and protect her family. For her, nation and duty came first!Like most of her colleagues and seniors, she has to keep her emotions aside while dealing with Covid patients and their families. If they know a patient is at the threshold of death, doctors begin preparing the family, which is already devastated trying to arrange for funds for their loved one’s treatment. Further, the aggrieved family cannot give the departed soul the funeral they deserve as they cannot see or touch the infected body. Often the doctor is brutally blamed for the death but once again our medics are trained to understand the emotions of the common man amid grief. But do you understand a doctor’s life during Covid times ?The deadly virus has not only gripped the body and mind of each patient in the ICU ward, but it also takes its toll on the emotional health of each medical personnel. Yet, they have to keep sane and return home to their families and behave ‘normal’. Not to forget, they are almost treated as ‘untouchables’ even though they are not Covid positive ! Though the PPE kit drops off at the hospital premises, the sense of duty does not, as they wash their clothes separately, sweep their rooms on their own and food is served in different utensils at a safe distance. Just like prisoners served food separately in jail! The support of an entire worried family is behind each Covid warrior who is trying to save your life, please don’t forget that! So, please be responsible citizens and get yourself vaccinated at the earliest and do not land up in Covid wards, so our doctors and their families can take a breather!No, they don’t feel scared for themselves, as they know they may have already acquired the virus being in the hospital 24x7, but they are scared for their families’ safety! Can you imagine the inner conflict these doctors undergo? To save helpless patients they don’t know in an ICU ward and then return home, tired, in an isolated room and unable to meet their own family just to protect them? Who do they choose? Or should they choose anyone at all? They just continue doing their duties with empathy and compassion.As a mother who is worried all the time but proud all the same, I stood by my daughter when duty called, turning a deaf ear to hearsay! Because I read a line somewhere which said, “Virus is everywhere, but so is Waheguru”. Ultimately, she and each Covid warrior fighting out there are in His hands too.(The writer is a Panchkula-based author)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-warriors-the-real-superheroes-sans-capes-101621711679607.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Ten ways to beat the blues||The monstrous reign of the pandemic continues for now, but hopefully not for much longer. At last, there appears to be waning of the curve, and this is thankfully also reflected in decreased numbers of SOS calls that one has been receiving. Yet, and heartbreakingly so, three good friends have succumbed to the disease in recent days.However, a motivational writer must gear up and buckle up at all times, so here goes. In a not-so-subtle departure from recent writings about philosophy and deep inspiration, it is time to list out a few concrete ways in which we can combat this contagion with superior solidity. These suggestions are primarily for those who are hale and hearty, but are struggling to cope with the barrage of sad news floating around. 1.Pray more: If you’re spending five minutes per day in prayer, please multiply that by at least six. Families that pray together will find powerful vibrations of peace, joy, strength and calmness, emanating from and into their environs. Let us not underestimate the power of collective prayer, a vibratory force which science has not yet understood, but which will definitely benefit humanity forever.2.Volunteering: A truly laudable way to keep yourself gainfully engaged is to volunteer with an NGO which is out to provide care and succour to the ill and needy. Even if you have to volunteer from home, there are numerous options to choose from. You can also lessen the impact of negative news by assuaging the feelings of the elderly and having long conversations with them.3.Sing together:Group singing, and even solo humming in the shower, will elevate the mood as well as increase happy hormones within you. Singing has a demonstrated and proven effect on improving mental as well as physical health. I’m no expert on this, but am sure that singing is good for your lungs too.4.Outdoor exercise: Even if there is little or no space available outdoors, due to the lockdown, breathe in some fresh air whenever you can. Indulge in some brisk walking or even jogging on the spot if necessary. Get those lungs exercised and your bodily cells jumping about boisterously. 5.Play games: With the family in the living room, with friends online, with yourself (quizzes, puzzles et al) and be competitive. Antakshari or dumb charades are terrific family games. Online apps like Psyche and word games are also sure shot entertainers and build knowledge as well.6.Counsel younger people: The young are often left feeling anxious about their future and this pandemic has worsened their worries. There are many youngsters who might really benefit by a call from a well-meaning senior. Maybe someone who was your junior in college or a subordinate in a former office. 7.Read a lot: Pick up all those books which you had meant to read but could never get down to. Books are also stress busters and provide a soothing old-world balm to the hassled modern human being who spends a humongous amount of time with his smartphone.8.Get creative: Pick up a new hobby or skill. There are plenty of online classes to choose from. From culinary skills to belly dancing, from French classes to origami, you can learn a lot during the lockdown. Also start writing those articles, which you always wanted to write. Try out your photography skills with still life or portraits. Creativity is a proven stress buster.9.Start your own YouTube channel: Everyone loves speaking, or most people do. Get over that camera shyness and record yourself a few times. Ask your friends if your speech or singing was up to the mark. Once they give the go ahead, take the plunge and launch yourself on YouTube. You’ll be surprised to find that you’re much better than most people out there!10. Meditation and the search within: Those who’d always been meaning to start meditating ‘one day’ will do well to make a serious attempt during these uncertain times. The peace that comes from meditation has a calming effect upon us all day long. Learn some techniques and just go ahead!It is the inner conquests which matter, after all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-ten-ways-to-beat-the-blues-101621710900379.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Muktsar reports second black fungus death||A 57-year-old man died in Muktsar late Friday night after developing complications caused by black fungus infection.Spokesperson of the Muktsar district health department said the man died at his residence in Bhaliana village. He was a suspected Covid patient and lost his vision due to the fungal infection.“After falling sick a few days ago, he visited a private medical institute in Ludhiana where doctors advised him to undergo an eye surgery. He returned home and died last night,” said the spokesperson.It is the second death in Muktsar district as another patient succumbed to fungal infection at a Bathinda hospital on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/muktsar-reports-second-black-fungus-death-101621710720255.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||15 illegal mining spots in Tarn Taran to be under CCTV surveillance||Tarn Taran police have identified 15 spots, which were being used for illegal sand mining for the past five years in the district, for installing closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras to curb the practice.For keeping 24x7 surveillance, the CCTV cameras will be installed from the funds of the Saanjh Kendra, set up by the Punjab government to provide police-related services to the people. Besides, the police have also identified nearly two dozen routes near Beas and Sutlej rivers, which were being used for transportation of illegally excavated sand, to install special barricading.On Saturday, Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale along with other senior police officials visited the vulnerable pockets for finalising the mapping for the project. He also held meetings with the panchayats of those villages from which the illegal business had been going on for the past few years.“We have asked the panchayats to identify the suspected vehicles passing through their villages, so the accused involved in the illegal trade could be identified and arrested,” said the SSP. He said the station house officers concerned will remain in touch with the panchayats and the work for installing the CCTV cameras will begin soon.“From May last year to date, we have registered 59 cases, besides arresting 70 accused. We have also confiscated 39 trailers laden with sand, three earth-moving machines, five motorised carts, 15 tippers and a Mahindra Bolero. The amount of the impounded vehicles is pegged at ₹5.34 crore,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-illegal-mining-spots-in-tarn-taran-to-be-under-cctv-surveillance-101621710542907.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Dating death with a drizzle of poems||Amritsar boy Gul Chauhan, who chose to make Chandigarh his home, is one of a kind in the world of Punjabi littérateurs. He has carried the evergreen tree of his salad days through life, penning around 10 books of verse and prose in his own easy and unhurried manner. An old friend, he shares none of the ambitions and anxieties of writing with the purpose of winning first the languages department award, then the coveted Sahitya Akademi Award and with a little bit of luck the international Dhahan Prize for Punjabi Literature. Such minor concerns have never bothered him, for his has been a tryst with his own words and thoughts aiming to translate the noise around him into the music of an innocent song sung by a village schoolgirl in Government School, Khizrabad, off the Siswan Road: Tikka pawan sair nu janwa tedha cheer kadh ke, jeharhian moh-mohabbatan laayian o’ na jayio chhad ke (I’ll wear a gold ornament in the side-parting of my hair out on a walk, do not ever leave me forgetting the tender ties of love).Poet and the pandemicThere is much that one can share about the experience of knowing this character who goes about with a confused expression, living the literary vagrancy, awargi would be a better word, in the tradition of famed writers of yore such as Sarat Chandra of Bangla, Majaz and Manto of Urdu and our own poet of the city, Kumar Vikal, who wrote in Hindi. An outdoorsy person he would go chasing dreams in Sector 17 around 20 years ago without fail and post himself in one of the corridors and watch eagerly through the glasses perched on his snub nose beautiful women come and go. But what has been most noticeable in these times are his poems addressed to the harrowing experience of the second wave of Covid-19 written in his very free and conversational style, which has been his contribution to Punjabi poetry over the years. “When the first wave of the pandemic was announced with the banging of thalis and lighting of lamps preceding the lockdown, I dismissed it all like many other Punjabis as some new demon created by the State to puzzle the people and take away their attention from more pressing issues. But it was in the cruel second wave while the body politic was indulging in kumbh melas or trying to capture Bengal, the horror struck with friends, relatives, co-writers just withering away as the strange infection travelled up their nostrils.” Thus, these poems were penned, says Gul, with lurking fear that the virus could be climbing the stairs of his home any moment. “Well, the fear was genuine for in my journey of starting from poetry and then moving to prose for a long time, I had returned to poetry in the last five years and now this nuisance was here to put an end to the enchanting time I was having,” he adds, in all seriousness. Ode of loss and longingThe first anthology of Gul’s poems Hare Rang Di Kavita (The Book of Green Poems) came out in the first lockdown. An artist as well, he first posted the poems on Facebook accompanied with his own sketches. The book was still lying in the sanitised parcel as one read them sometimes one a day and sometimes six a day on the social networking site. It is beautiful poetry that was born out of everyday experiences and thoughts from cleaning his room to eating a watermelon. Then the recent change of mood made one tear the parcel and pull out the book just to remember that life was filled with green words not too long ago.And onto the recent ones, while one is still mourning the death of poet friend Mangalesh Dabral and then more names start adding up on the page of loss. Gul describes this despair in the face of deathy his own credulous way: ‘Kyon aini chheti chetti mar rahe ne log/ Hore gal hai akhbar de page te marna kise da/ Facebook di abhasi bheerh te dam torhda door da dooja koi…(Why are people passing away in such a hurry/It is another thing when someone dies on a newspaper page/Some some stranger calling it a day in the virtual crowd of the Facebook...). “It is quite another thing when a friend calls in a scared voice to briefly inform that so and so has died as what does one have to do with so and so. One takes a deep breath saying that let the whole country die with shortage of oxygen but let your one friend who is struggling to breathe live another day,” he says, in a sardonic monologue capturing the bitter truths of a time when death is a way of life. But there are moments when the poet looks away from the darkness to cheer his friends and readers saying: ‘Nahi darna nahi dost/Guzar jayega eh daur/ Beet jaayegi eh kaali raat barkha di/Kal charhega phir suraj apna/Agge ton vi chamakda damakda nawan!’ (Don’t be afraid my friend/This time too shall pass/The dark rainy night will end/The sun will come out again/Bright, shinier than before, anew).Talking to oneselfThe poet goes on talking to himself in the isolation of his room, sometimes wary of peeping out of the window lest some sad news travels in. All of us have done so in the lonely masked times over and again. These spontaneous outpourings by Gul catalogue the melancholy and ruthlessness of the times no bars held. And one weaves one’s way through the words trying to put some order in the disorderly mess. Yes, one would like to ask the poet: “Gul, what colour will you give to this book of poems?” And then one adds, “When all this ends will I find you in Sector 17 once more in the evenings humming the lines of your naive village girl student?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-dating-death-with-a-drizzle-of-poems-101621710541499.html
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor unit busted at Muktsar’s Badal village||The Punjab excise department has busted an illicit liquor racket at Badal village in Muktsar district with the arrest of its kingpin Manoj Sharma.It was the first major raid by the excise department in southern Punjab since April last year, when the authorities had launched Operation Red Rose against illicit manufacturing and trading of liquor.According to officials privy to the matter, the role of a politically influential person from the village — which is the native place of Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal and state finance minister Manpreet Badal — is under scrutiny.Joint excise commissioner Naresh Dubey, who oversaw the raid at the manufacturing unit on Friday, said the gang was supplying illicit liquor in southern Punjab.“The unit was operating from an orchard and it was under surveillance for over 10 days. Besides recovering more than 2,200 liters of extra neutral alcohol, our team also found a huge cache of holograms, packaging material of various premium liquor brands and packed cases ready for delivery,” he said.Two men, Pargat Singh and Jashan Singh, who were working at the unit were also held besides the kingpin. “Land records have been summoned. More arrests are likely,” said Dubey. Muktsar senior superintendent of police D Sudarvizhi said a case is being registered at the Lambi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-unit-busted-at-muktsar-s-badal-village-101621708320712.html
