25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Despite curfew, snatchers, burglars have a free run in Ludhiana||Even though the district was under a 17-hour curfew and full weekend lockdown for the last two weeks, the restrictions seem to have been no impediment for snatchers and thieves.Around 40 cases of snatching, vehicle theft and burglaries were reported between May 10 and 23, while curfew was in place from noon till 5am to rein in the surging Covid cases in Ludhiana.This, when the police claim to have been on 24x7 patrol to ensure compliance of the curbs.As many as 15 residents fell prey to snatchers, who took away their mobile phones and other belongings, and another 14 cases came to fore where burglars broke into properties and decamped with valuables. Three of these took place during the day time.While the city came to a halt during the curfew hours, thieves even managed to make off with nine parked vehicles.The maximum number of cases, four each, was reported in areas under the Division Number 7 and Salem Tabri police stations.Police also found women actively involved in snatchings. On May 20, a Sector 32-A resident, Poonam Sharma, 42, had reported to the police that a woman, along with her male accomplice, snatched her gold chain at knifepoint near Vardhman Mills.According to investigations, most of the snatchings took place in the interior lanes, as people remained off the main roads due to the restrictions.In some relief, during these two weeks, police managed to cut short the theft spree of six gangs, including one of highway robbers that targeted truck drivers. Yet, most cases remain unsolved.Box attached||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-curfew-snatchers-burglars-have-a-free-run-in-ludhiana-101621966991679.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Teen assaulted, kidnapped in Jagraon over neighbourhood rivalry, three arrested||Police have arrested three men for assaulting and kidnapping a 15-year-old boy at Jagraon’s Anarkali Bazaar on Monday.The accused, Sagar Kalyan, Inderpreet Singh and Sunny, all residents of Rani Wala Khuh, Jagraon, attacked the victim, Sachin Kumar, 15, also of the same area, over a neighbourhood rivalry, police said.Kumar, who works at a garment shop in Anarkali Bazaar, had stepped out of the shop on Monday, when the trio attacked him with sharp-edged weapons.They forcibly took him away on a motorcycle, while relentlessly beating him up and eventually dropped him near the new grain market, before fleeing. On being informed, the City Jagraon police reached the spot and rushed the victim to a hospital.In his statement to the police, the teenager said the accused had a rivalry with some residents of his colony, and also nursed a grudge against him after spotting him talking to them. He alleged they also snatched his silver chain and ring.ASI Chamkaur Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused were arrested within a few hours of the attack.They have been booked under Sections 365 (kidnapping), 379-B (snatching), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teen-assaulted-kidnapped-in-jagraon-over-neighbourhood-rivalry-three-arrested-101621966871598.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s daily Covid cases drop further, but deaths go up||The district’s daily Covid-19 cases fell below the 500 mark for the first time in 40 days with 461 people testing positive in the last 24 hours.The number of daily deaths, however, saw an uptick with 19 patients losing their lives to the virus, 26% higher than Monday’s 15 fatalities.Tuesday’s cases were 9% lower than 507 a day ago. At 482, it was on April 15 last when the daily infections were less than 500. Since then, the cases shot up, reaching the peak of 1,729 on May 9, forcing district authorities to clamp a 17-hour lockdown from May 10.Case fatality ratio on the riseThe restrictions on public movement have yielded results in the form of cases slumping by 73% in the subsequent 16 days. However, the fatalities’ graph has yet to show a major downturn. Instead, the case fatality ratio (CFR) – the proportion of deaths against positive cases – continues to climb on a weekly basis.The CFR in the week before the lockdown (May 3-9) was 1.4% with 140 deaths against 9,405 cases.While the infections came down to 8,800 in the first week (May 10-16) of the restrictions, the case-death ratio shot up to 1.9% with 170 casualties. The subsequent week (May 17-23) was worse, with the CFR spiking to 2.9%, as 154 of the 5,223 patients testing positive died.Active cases slip furtherOn a positive note, with the district adding more recoveries on Tuesday, the active cases dropped to 7,133, against 7,804 on Monday.Of the 81,986 people contracting the infection in Ludhiana so far, 72,945 have successfully beaten the virus – a recovery rate of 88.9%, ahead of the state average of 87.8%. Among the 7,133 patients recuperating at hospitals and in home isolation, 64 are on ventilator support at various health facilities.District’s death toll crosses 1,900 markThe latest fatalities pushed the district’s Covid toll to 1,908, highest in Punjab.Fourteen men and five women were among those who died on Tuesday, with a 30-year-old resident of Kundanpuri being the youngest.The oldest to die was a 69-year-old resident of Civil Lines. A whopping nine of the total 19 deceased were in their 50s, while four among those who died were aged between 60 and 70. Three each were in their 30s and 40s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-daily-covid-cases-drop-further-but-deaths-go-up-101621966691481.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||64 black fungus patients in Haryana not infected by Covid: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said there are at least 64 patients in state undergoing treatment for black fungus even though they were not infected by Covid-19.Stressing on the need of extensive research to ascertain the causes behind black fungus that had infected over 450 people in Haryana by Monday, Vij said that as per a study it was found that 213 black fungus cases, while undergoing treatment for Covid did not even require medical oxygen.“People with no history of Covid or who were not on oxygen support during Covid treatment are suffering from black fungus and it is a matter of concern,” he said, asking the Centre and scientists to look into these findings.He added that of 413 patients of black fungus who were part of the study, 79 were not diabetic. Vij said 110 patients of black fungus were not given steroids and 213 were among those not on medical oxygen therapy during Covid treatment.“So, there is an urgent need of research to ascertain causes of mucormycosis (black fungus),” Vij said in a tweet and a press statement.TWO MORE DIE OF BLACK FUNGUS IN KARNALMeanwhile, two more deaths caused by mucormycosis (black fungus) were reported in Karnal on Tuesday, taking the district’s death toll to six.As per information from the district health department, four new cases of black fungus were reported in district in the past 24 hours and number of infected persons has reached 28.They were suffering from Covid and were admitted at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, Karnal.Dr Jagdish Dureja, director of the hospital, said the two people who died have been found infected with black fungus after their death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/64-black-fungus-patients-in-haryana-not-infected-by-covid-vij-101621960872243.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dalal seeks probe by commission of inquiry against BJP-JJP regime||Former Haryana minister Karan Singh Dalal on Tuesday sought appointment of a commission of inquiry to look into the alleged acts of omission and commission of the BJP-JJP regime in state during the ongoing pandemic.Dalal, who submitted a representation in this regard to the Haryana governor, accused the state government of failing in tackling black marketing of medicines and shortage of hospital infrastructure during the pandemic.“Haryana has also borne the brunt of the epidemic where lakhs have been affected and thousands have died, mostly without proper medical care and attention. In fact, the second wave has exposed the hollow claims of the Haryana government regarding everything being normal and under control. No set Covid protocol was followed and there was persistent shortage of medicines, beds, ventilators and oxygen in hospitals which led to hoarding and black marketing,” the Congress leader said.Dalal alleged that a blunder was committed by the state government when it decided to use industrial oxygen for medical purposes. The outcome has opened Pandora’s box as incidence of new life-threatening diseases such as black fungus have been seen.‘ALLEGATIONS BASELESS, PREPOSTEROUS’Rebutting Dalal’s allegations, a government spokesperson said that the observations made in the representation were baseless and preposterous.“The Haryana government has not only been on its toes right from day one but has also taken a large number of preventive measures in anticipation to avert the catastrophe caused by Covid-19. That is why the fatality rate in state has remained around 1 % and the recovery rate has been around 95%,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson said that a provision of 13,949 oxygen beds and 5,350 ventilator beds has been made in state. “Haryana is not only the first state to conduct a door-to-door survey in the rural pockets but the campaign of test, track and treat ensured that the pandemic was contained well in time,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson said Dalal’s comments regarding use of industrial oxygen were unscientific. “The industrial oxygen was converted to medical grade and then used in hospitals,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalal-seeks-probe-by-commission-of-inquiry-against-bjp-jjp-regime-101621960751502.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to purchase 20 lakh smart meters: State power minister||Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh on Tuesday said that 10 lakh smart meters were purchased of which 2.75 lakh have been installed in Gurugram, Faridabad, Karnal and Panchkula.He said that the department will soon purchase about 20 lakh smart meters to ensure more transparency in electricity bills.Singh said there will be no surcharge on electricity till the lockdown is in place in state and electricity security of four months has been deferred for one year.He said that 236 teams of about 1,700 members have been constituted to conduct power theft raids in industries, brick kilns, shopping malls and resorts across state.He said that ever since he took charge of the power department, about 2,600 power theft cases have been detected after conducting raids in the field and accordingly fine has been imposed on the defaulters which has generated the revenue of ₹536 crore in the power sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-purchase-20-lakh-smart-meters-state-power-minister-101621960692300.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Refrain from wasting public money on Coronil: Haryana AAP||Criticising the BJP-led Haryana government for “wasting public money on unscientific treatments like distribution of Patanjali’s Coronil kits”, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) unit of Haryana said the state government should utilise the funds to purchase more ventilators and create adequate oxygen plants for hospitals in state instead.State health minister Anil Vij had on Monday said that one lakh Coronil kits will be distributed free of cost to Covid patients to speed up their recovery. Vij had also said the cost of Coronil kits will be borne by Patanjali and the Haryana government’s Covid relief fund in 50:50 ratio.In a joint statement, head of AAP medical cell in Haryana, Dr Sarika Verma and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta said, “The Drug Council of India has not approved Coronil as a medical treatment for Covid and the government should refrain from wasting taxpayers’ money on it.”The statement said the party will request Vij to make all medical expenditure on the advice of the ICMR. The state government should improve the health infrastructure by increasing the number of tertiary care centres in every district instead of spending it on products which have no medicinal value.“There is shortage of Amphotericin in every city of Haryana. Hospitals in Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala and Hisar are struggling to get adequate medicines to treat patients. We request Vij’s intervention to airlift required injections from foreign countries and utilise taxpayer’s money to save people’s lives,” AAP leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/refrain-from-wasting-public-money-on-coronil-haryana-aap-101621960690643.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nalagarh-based pharma unit making fake Covid drug vials sealed||The drug control authorities of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have sealed a pharmaceutical unit in Nalagarh for allegedly manufacturing fake remdesivir injections in large quantities. The fake drugs were seized in Haryana and found floating in a canal in Punjab.The Haryana Police said that an FIR was registered at the Ambala police station on April 21 after police seized 24 remdesivir vials from the possession of four accused.Working on this information, 11 accused were arrested during the investigation. They were selling the vials to people at exorbitant rates.Police traced the manufacturing unit, Alfin Drugs Pvt Ltd, owned by one Dilpreet Singh in Nalagarh, and sealed it along with the drug control authorities.Total 673 fake remdesivir injections were recovered, of which 423 vials were seized from the arrested accused. The remaining 250 were recovered on Monday from the unit which was subsequently sealed.During the course of the investigation, connection of these accused have been found with remdesivir injections that were thrown in the canal at Salempur village police station in Chamkor Sahib, Punjab.Further probe is underway and we are trying to arrest other members of the syndicate, police said, urging people to inform police about black-marketing of Covid-19 medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nalagarhbased-pharma-unit-making-fake-covid-drug-vials-sealed-101621960574246.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||128 Covid fatalities reported in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday recorded 128 fatalities and 2,817 new cases of Covid-19 while 6,720 patients recovered in the past 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.It was for the first time in the past many weeks that the new cases count was below 3,000 even as 50,545 samples were taken in the past 24 hours.The fatality rate rose to 1.04% on Tuesday when the death toll mounted to 7,735.Of total 128 deaths, the highest 16 people died in Hisar, followed by 11 in Jhajjar, nine in Rohtak, eight each in Gurugram, Karnal, Panipat, Sirsa and Bhiwani. Jind, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra and Ambala recorded five fatalities each.Similarly, Gurugram recorded 220 new cases, Faridabad 102, Sonepat 143, Hisar 295, Ambala 124, Karnal 197, Panipat 94, Rohtak 121, Rewari 205, Panchkula 174, Kurukshetra 67, Yamunanagar 162, Sirsa 208, Mahendergarh 83, Bhiwani 125, Jhajjar 122, Palwal 32, Fatehabad 77, Kaithal 45, Jind 163, Nuh 20, and Charkhi Dadri 38.The bulletin stated that there are 27,779 patients in home-isolation and the active cases in state were at 34,088.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/128-covid-fatalities-reported-in-haryana-101621960517445.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine wastage of Haryana is 2-3%||The Covid-19 vaccine wastage in Haryana has been brought down to 2-3% as per the latest data Centre has released, said additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora.Earlier, the wastage percentage of Covieshield was 6% and that of Covaxin was 10.2%, prompting the Haryana health department to take corrective measures.“The vaccine wastage percentage was relatively higher in the data released by the Centre as there was data mismatch and the districts have rectified it,” Arora said.The data mismatch was corrected and subsequently the wastage percentages dropped in case of Covishield from 6% to 3.1% and that of Covaxin from 10.2% to 2.4%, he said.“So, the average wastage percentage is between 2-3%,” Arora added.Mission director, National Health Mission (Haryana) Prabhjot Singh, along with the state immunisation team, held two orientation programmes with officers of the health department involved in vaccine administration of all districts through video-conferencing.Thereafter, the districts with high wastage were identified and separate consultation was given to them. Arora said districts which were high on vaccine wastage were Hisar, Palwal, Nuh, Kaithal, Rohtak and Bhiwani.Arora said 53.72 lakh vaccine doses have been presently administered in state. Among the best performing districts are Gurugram (6,34,610 vaccine doses), followed by Faridabad (5,00,600), and Ambala (3,94,162).At least 2,07,892 healthcare workers (HCWs) have been administered first dose of the vaccine and 1,33,828 HCWs the second dose. Among the frontline workers (FLWs), 1,64,609 FLWs have been administered the first dose and 75,740 FLWs the second dose.Among people above 60, and those falling within the age group of 45 to 60, 32,70,712 people were administered the first dose of vaccine and 7,74,105 the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-wastage-of-haryana-is-23-101621960394426.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 vaccine wastage rate improves in Haryana, average now at 2% to 3%, says state government||The Haryana government on Tuesday said that the Covid-19 vaccine wastage in the state has improved from 6%, according to the government’s data, to 2-3%. In a press release, the Centre also said that the vaccine wastage rate was higher in the government data because of a mismatch, which has now been rectified by the districts.“Haryana health department improved the vaccine wastage data from 6%, as per the data recently released by the Centre to 2-3% (as per recently updated data available with state government). The vaccine wastage percentage was relatively higher in the data released by the Centre as there was data mismatch and the districts have rectified it.” the state government said in its statement on Tuesday.“Haryana had a 6% vaccine wastage of Covieshield and 10.2% wastage of Covaxin. Thereafter the officers of the health department immediately swung into action and identified that there was a data mismatch,” the government further said.Additional chief secretary of health Rajeev Arora said that the health department officials have corrected the data mismatch and “subsequently the wastage percentages dropped from 6% for Covieshield to 3.1% and 10.2% of Covaxin to 2.4%. Thus, the average wastage percentage is between 2-3%,” the statement showed.Earlier on May 11, the Union ministry of health and family welfare in a press release, noted that Haryana, Rajasthan and Assam were the top three states with the maximum wastage. Data from the ministry showed that the wastage was 6.49% in Haryana, 5.92% in Assam and 5.68% in Rajasthan. The ministry also highlighted that Nagaland, Tamil Nadu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Punjab, Manipur, Bihar and Meghalaya were the other states which also reported a higher rate of vaccine wastage.In Haryana, 3,270,712 people between 45 and 60 years of age have been given the first dose and 774,105 people in the same age group have received their second. Also, in the 18 to 44 years age group, 4,388,638 first doses and 983,673 second doses have been administered, according to the state government’s data on Tuesday. Also, 3,757 new Covid-19 cases and 95 deaths were reported in the state previously on Monday, a bulletin from the state government showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-vaccine-wastage-rate-improves-in-haryana-average-now-at-2-to-3-says-state-government-101621952802384.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Mohini Singh awarded British Order of Merit||Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II has appointed Indian citizen Mohini Singh, who works at the British deputy high commission in Chandigarh as a consular officer, as an honorary Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (MBE). This honour is conferred by the Queen in recognition of Mohini’s services to British people during the Covid-19 pandemic, a press release from the deputy high commission said on Tuesday. Also read: We need Taiwan as observer at WHA and Covid investigation, says USIn 2020, the UK Government organised 66 special chartered flights, running from April 8 to June 5, which brought back nearly 18,000 passengers from 32 locations across India to the UK. The lockdown coincided with a peak period for British people travelling to Punjab to see family and visit Golden Temple. To meet the extraordinary demand from the region, Amritsar airport saw the largest number of UK Government chartered flights across the whole of India – with the deployment team on the ground made up of staff from the British high commission in Delhi and the deputy high commission in Chandigarh. As a consular officer, Mohini’s role was to help provide support and advice to British nationals trying to get home. One of UK’s largest repatriation ops in 2020 Caroline Rowett, the British deputy high commissioner in Chandigarh, said: “Mohini worked tirelessly to support affected British people during the lockdown and the ban on international travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the lockdown, over 8,000 people were successfully repatriated from Amritsar on 29 flights, one of the UK’s largest repatriation operations in 2020.” An elated Mohini Singh said: “I’m delighted to receive this award and grateful to be a part of the UK in India network. It has been a challenging year, but my family and colleagues have been extremely supportive, empathetic and unfailingly kind.” Mohini, who is from Chandigarh, has been working at the British deputy high commission in Chandigarh since 2018. She holds a Master’s in Public Affairs from the University of Texas, Austin, USA. The Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) is awarded for an outstanding achievement or service to the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-mohini-singh-awarded-british-order-of-merit-101621944010680.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||YouTuber booked in Arunachal for racist remarks held in Ludhiana||YouTuber and social media influencer Paras Singh, alias Bunty, was arrested in Ludhiana on Tuesday for his racial remarks against a Congress MLA from Arunachal Pradesh and ill will towards the people of the state. Paras Singh, who goes by the name Paras Official on his YouTube channel, had in a video posted on Sunday termed Congress MLA Ninong Ering a non-Indian and apparently claimed that Arunachal Pradesh was a part of China, sparking furore among Arunchalees and people from other parts of the country. Also read: Aim to comply, discussing issues: Facebook on new social media guidelinesIn another video, posted on Monday, he apologised for his comments. “A case has been registered against Paras for racial hatred and the cyber crime branch in Itanagar is investigating the matter,” Arunachal Pradesh police chief RP Upadhyaya said. Paras Singh has 457k subscribers on his YouTube channel. Union minister of state for youth affairs and sports Kiren Rijiju confirmed Paras Singh’s arrest and tweeted that he has talked to the Ludhiana commissioner of police to speed up the process to hand over the accused to Arunachal Pradesh Police. Appalled, dismayed: Arunachal leaders Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu condemned the racial slur and said the “video aims at inciting ill will and hatred towards the people of Arunachal Pradesh”. Social media should be used with caution and any infringement will lead to action according to law, the CM added. State deputy chief minister Chowna Mein said he was “appalled and greatly dismayed” to see the YouTube post, which not just “casts doubt on the nationality of the Arunachal Pradesh MLA but also questions about the existence of the state within India”. “To doubt our nationality because of how we look is a problem most of us from the Northeast of India face regularly in the mainland. What we look like, how we dress, what we eat and how we live makes us no less Indian. We are proud to be a state in the Union of India where even in the interior most we greet each other with a Jai Hind and primary schoolchildren even in the border villages sing Saare Jahaan se Achha, Hindustan Hamara with pride,” he said on his official Twitter handle. More legal trouble for YouTuber Paras Singh had apparently made the comments while reacting to a letter written by Ering to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wherein he had sought a ban on the relaunch of PUBG Mobile as Battlegrounds Mobile India. The Pasighat East MLA, when contacted, said he would file a case against Paras Singh. The All-Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) issued a statement to say that the people of the state are hurt by the remarks. “Such incidents are not isolated ones and have been happening time and again in various parts of the country. It is distressing that even after over 70 years of the country’s independence, people from the state and the northeast region in general face humiliation in other parts of the country, whenever they go there for work or study,” the joint statement by AAPSU president Hawa Bagang and general secretary Tabom Dai said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youtuber-booked-in-arunchal-for-racist-remarks-held-in-ludhiana-101621934890336.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||19-year-old ambulance driver killed in oxygen cylinder blast in Moga||A 19-year-old ambulance driver was killed when an oxygen cylinder exploded at the house of a Covid-19 patient at Kokri Vehnival village in Moga district, police said on Tuesday. The driver, Satnam Singh, had just brought the patient home from a private hospital and was checking the cylinder kept in the house when the blast occurred late on Monday night. The patient was in the ambulance and escaped unhurt. Also read: Medical students stuck in India seek help to take exams in BangladeshSatnam’s father Avtar Singh said, “The elderly patient was on oxygen support in a private hospital of Moga. But when his health deteriorated, he was referred to a level-3 hospital. The family, however, decided to take him home.” “My son was assigned the task of driving him back home. Once there, the patient requested my son to check the oxygen cylinder as there was no technical staff of the hospital with him. The cylinder exploded in the process and my young son died on the spot,” he said. Avtar Singh was at the civil hospital in Moga with relatives to collect the body after the post-mortem. The use of storing oxygen cylinders at home is not allowed in Punjab. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu announced on Monday that oxygen concentrators will be issued for use at home on the advice of a doctor for patients post Covid-19 recovery. Oxygen cylinders are not allowed for patients in home isolation. They are to be taken to hospital to for oxygen supply Deputy superintendent of police (city) Barjinder Singh was at the civil hospital to investigate the case. “I have informed the sub divisional magistrate and station house officer of the police station concerned to initiate further action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19yearold-ambulance-driver-killed-in-oxygen-cylinder-blast-in-moga-101621928590165.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh stable, on low-flow oxygen in Mohali hospital||A day after legendary athlete Milkha Singh was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali, it is learnt that his condition is stable and he is on low-flow oxygen. Milkha, 91, complained of discomfort on Monday morning after which he was admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital with Covid pneumonia. Earlier, he was recovering in isolation at his house in Sector 8, Chandigarh. Also read: Mucormycosis treatment challenges, oxygen therapy link: Top doctor lists outHis son and golfer Jeev Milkha said that the move to hospital was precautionary. “He’s weak and not eating well since Sunday, so we had to hospitalise him. We thought it’s safer to have him admitted where he would be under supervision of senior doctors and recover well,” he said. The Olympian is said to have contracted the virus from a staff member at his residence. Other family members tested negative, while Milkha’s RT-PCR test came out positive. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, provided a home attendant and oxygen facility. Milkha Singh is the only Indian athlete to have won an individual Commonwealth Games gold on the track, after claiming the 440 yards race at Cardiff in 1958. He has also won four Asian Games titles, including the 200-400 double in 1958 and the 400m in 1962. His greatest performance was finishing fourth in the 400m final at the 1960 Rome Olympics, missing out on the bronze by 1/10th of a second. Known as the Flying Sikh, he’s the first Indian athlete to get the Padam Shri in 1959.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-stable-on-low-flow-oxygen-in-mohali-hospital-101621924089874.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black Fungus: Chandigarh orders 2,000 vials of Amphotericin B||Advisor of Chandigarh Administration, Manoj Parida on Monday informed that Union Territory has placed an order for 2,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, a drug which is used in treatment of black fungus.The Advisor informed that, the order of Amphotericin B injection is being placed with Mylan company."We have placed an order for 2,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection with Mylan company for supply costing about ₹1.2 crores. We have followed Punjab tender rates," said Parida."Of 62 patients of Mucormycosis admitted, 10 are from Chandigarh," he added.Further speaking about restriction in the Union Territory, Parida informed that salons, barbershops, spas, and malls will continue to remain closed."It is clarified that salons, barbershops, spa, and malls will continue to remain closed. Non-essential shops like auto service centres are allowed to be open till 3.00 pm only" said"All essential shops like chemists, groceries can remain open till 5:00 P.M. Only non-essential to close at 3:00 pm" he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-chandigarh-orders-2-000-vials-of-amphotericin-b-101621906769785.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt tells ‘Invest Punjab’ to work out model for incentives on case-to-case basis||Chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday asked the Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion (PBIP), also known as ‘Invest Punjab’, to work out a model where incentives for industry can be given on a case-to-case basis. Chairing the third meeting of the board of governors of PBIP through video conferencing, the CM said the anti-red tape legislation, recently passed in the state, was aimed at making government procedures investor friendly. Invest Punjab CEO Rajat Agrawal said in the last four years, 2,394 projects, to the tune of ₹84,500 crore, have come to the state. Out of these, 53% projects have already started production and another 35% are in various stages of construction. He added that 24% of the total projects have come up in SAS Nagar while 22% projects are in Ludhiana. The state also witnessed investments in interior districts such as Sangrur and Bathinda, and border districts such as Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Pathankot, he said. The CM said that since March 2017, investment proposals have come from countries such as Germany, Japan, France, USA, UK, UAE, Singapore, Spain, Denmark, South Korea and New Zealand, and he hopes that by the end of December 2021, Invest Punjab achieves a milestone of Rs. 1 lakh crore in investments. Hero Group’s chairman and managing director Pankaj Munjal said his company has already tied up with Japanese Company Yamaha and Mitsui besides other companies of Germany and UK to set up facilities in the Hi-Tech Cycle Valley. He said that the e-cycle market industry alone has a global potential of over Rs. 5 lakh crore, out of which, India has merely captured 2% i.e Rs.10,000 crore which could further be enhanced to Rs.50,000 crore. Chairman, CII Punjab, Bhavdeep Sardana emphasised on the need for setting up a steel city in the state, considering the existing growth and potential in secondary steel, forging and machining. Chairman and managing director of Vardhman Group, Sachit Jain spoke about the investments made by AICHI Steels of Japan in Punjab through Vardhman Steels. He further informed that Vardhman Steels is planning to invest another Rs. 200 crore in its expansion project very soon. Speaking on the occasion, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the state has major land chunks for industry at Rajpura, Bathinda and Goindwal Sahib, which can be optimally utilised and offered to those entrepreneurs who want to set up their ventures in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-tells-invest-punjab-to-work-out-model-for-incentives-on-case-to-case-basis-101621886648372.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 Covid patients diagnosed with black fungus die in Amritsar||Three Covid positive patients, who were also diagnosed with mucormycosis died at Amritsar hospitals on Monday. Punjab has reported 17 deaths due to black fungus in the past four days. While one patient belonged to Amritsar district, the others were from Tarn Taran and Jalandhar districts. “A 65-year-old Amritsar resident died in a local private hospital while two patients, 62-year-old man from Patti, Tarn Taran, and other 75-year-old man from Phillaur, Jalandhar, died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, on Monday,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh. GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh said, “Two Covid-19 positive patients, who were also found infected with black fungus, had died at the hospital but the fungal infection was not the main reason behind their death. They died due to Covid-related complications.” A total of 111 cases of mucormycosis have so far been reported from state and an expert group has finalised the treatment protocols for the disease, state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said. He said 25 of these cases were reported from government health facilities, while the remaining 86 from various private hospitals.“Black fungus cases are mainly found in patients who have recently recovered from COVID-19 or are immune-compromised (suffering from HIV or Cancer etc.) or the patients recovered from Covid with help of steroids/immuno-modulators, those who were on oxygen support for long time and people having uncontrolled diabetes,” the minister said in an official statement.Sidhu said antifungal drugs are required to treat this disease and the supply of these medicines is regulated by the central government. Two injections are being provided to the states by the Union government in the treatment of black fungus. No one can procure these medicines from the open market directly as their distribution is under the sole purview of Government of India, he stated.The health minister informed that an expert group of the state government has finalised the treatment protocols and an expert committee has been formed to advise the treating hospitals and physicians in accordance with the treatment protocol for mucormycosis or black fungus.Any hospital requiring injections Liposomal Amphotericin-B and Amphotericin-B can also approach this committee and it shall be made available subject to the availability from Government of India. However, at present due to restricted supply, this committee would examine requests and ensure that the basic requisite quantity of the medicine is provided to hospitals which require these injections on priority for treating the patients of black fungus.All patients of this disease will have to be notified by the treating institution/physician as the disease is now a notified disease in the state of Punjab. Sidhu further stated that symptoms of black fungus infection can include facial pain or swelling, stuffy nose or brown nasal discharge, toothache, loose teeth, redness, pain or swelling of the eye, fever, shortness of breath, headache, altered sensorium, double or blurred vision. If anyone has any such symptoms, he/she should report to the nearest health facility at the earliest, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-covid-patients-diagnosed-with-black-fungus-die-in-amritsar-101621886412817.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hoist black flags atop houses on May 26: Sukhbir to partymen||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday asked party leaders and workers to hoist black flags atop their houses on May 26 to express solidarity with the farmers protesting against the farm laws. Sukhbir also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to talk to the farmers immediately to resolve all their grievances, saying there is no scope for egos in a democracy. ‘People have lost faith in govt hospitals’ Inaugurating the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s eighth Covid care centre in the state at Guru Nanak Sangat Hospital, Kalra village, of Adampur town in Jalandhar on Monday, the SGPC chief said people have lost faith in government hospitals due to lack of arrangements for Covid patients. “The Centre has failed to provide vaccines to Punjab despite high mortality rate. Punjab needs a bold leadership at this juncture. I urge the CM to visit most-affected districts and also direct his ministers to engage with the people directly to resolve their issues like lack of oxygen, medicines and quality medical care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hoist-black-flags-atop-houses-on-may-26-sukhbir-to-partymen-101621885868406.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda AIIMS forms task force to treat black fungus patients||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, has constituted a multidisciplinary mucor task force to treat patients diagnosed with black fungus.Institute executive director Dr DK Singh said on Monday that the team will work on early diagnosis and treatment of mucormycosis patients.ENT specialist Dr Vaibhav Saini will be the in-charge while Dr Vikasdeep Gupta has been designated as the nodal officer of the task force. Dr Singh said patients can dial the black fungus helpline number 0164-286-7348 or AIIMS Covid helpline number 0164-2867468/69 for assistance. O2 concentrator bank facility The district authorities on Monday started an oxygen concentrator bank to facilitate people under post-Covid-19 care.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the medical equipment will be issued at a nominal cost of ₹200 per day for 10 days and a refundable security amount of ₹10,000.He said the machines will be provided by the district Red Cross officials after an undertaking by a doctor or hospital that patient’s family has been trained in using the oxygen concentrator.On Monday, Bathinda reported 315 fresh Covid cases and 14 deaths.Pvt doctors join hands to offer free treatment in Amritsar AMRITSAR: Private doctors have joined hands under the banner of Amritsar-based Muskaan Trust to offer free treatment to patients suffering from black fungus. They have also launched a free ambulance and oxygen concentrator service to those suffering from Covid-19, in collaboration with Toronto-based Pravasi Sahaayta Foundation. These doctors are being assisted in their endeavours by city businessmen, who have come together to aid this mission under the banner of an NGO, Helpers.“The initiative has been launched by extending our services to 30 black fungus-affected patients,” said Dr Madhu Shankar Diwan, founder, Muskaan Trust, and an oral and maxillofacial surgeon. He said that the treatment entails several expensive surgeries. Dr Kuldip Singh Arora, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, and Dr PPS Batra, an ENT surgeon have also extended their support to the Trust in the humanitarian initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-aiims-forms-task-force-to-treat-black-fungus-patients-101621885749778.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Actor Deep Sidhu booked for violating Covid norms||The district police booked actor Deep Sidhu for violating Covid guidelines during his visit to Faridkot district on Monday.Out on bail in the Red Fort violence cases, Sidhu, along with his supporters, reached at gurdwara at Jaitu and later went to Matta village in the Faridkot on Sunday. Police said Sidhu addressed a large gathering at both the places, which was a violation of lockdown guidelines issued by the state government. “During investigation, we found that he was not even wearing mask,” police said in a statement.An FIR has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) of IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act at Jaitu police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/actor-deep-sidhu-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-101621885568852.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||CJ urged to form larger HC bench on examining marital status for giving protection to runaway couple||A single bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court has requested the chief justice to constitute a larger bench to examine whether protection can be provided to runaway couples without examining their marital status. The bench said this while hearing a petition filed by a couple from Haryana wherein the man ran away with a woman without divorcing his wife and sought protection. The bench said, “It appears that various benches of this court (of co-ordinate strength) have formed different opinions on the matter which cannot be reconciled easily. Therefore, it is appropriate to request the chief justice to constitute a larger bench to decide the petitions seeking protection.” The expression “person”, the bench added, is used instead of using the word “adult” in view of the fact that this court also seems to have granted protection in certain cases where both the petitioners were had not attained adulthood. “Keeping in view the fact that a large number of writ petitions regarding the issue are being filed, the counsels would be at liberty to request a larger bench for interim relief and expeditious disposal,” it said. In the past few weeks, conflicting verdicts have been given on the issue of protection to runaway couples. On May 11, a bench observed that the “entire social fabric of the society will get disturbed” if the plea for protection from a live-in couple is accepted, while another termed live-in relationships “morally and socially not acceptable”. These judgments were followed by two other benches ruling the opposite. A bench on May 18 held that live-ins are not prohibited nor do they amount to commission of any offence, another observed that such relationships may not be acceptable to all but could not be termed illegal and, therefore, the denial of protection to live-in couples would be a mockery of justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cj-urged-to-form-larger-hc-bench-on-examining-marital-status-for-giving-protection-to-runaway-couple-101621885453418.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Door-to- door survey starts in Kalanaur to identify people with comorbidities||To check the spread of Covid-19 infection, , the health department on Monday started a door-to- door survey in Kalanaur block of Gurdaspur district to identify people with comorbidities, especially non-communicable diseases.Twenty two medical teams will conduct the survey, said officials. Kalanaur senior medical officer Dr Lakhwinder Singh Athwal said, “People with diseases like hypertension and mellitus diabetes are more prone to get infected with the virus as they have a low immunity. We observed that non-communicable diseases are a major factor behind Covid deaths. We launched this campaign to put such people on medication in time.”Dr Athwal added, “Our mass media wing is creating awareness about the impact of the virus on those with comorbidities. We are appealing to the public to contact health facilities in case they have any symptoms.”He added, “On day 1, we identified 41 persons with non-communicable diseases and we started their medication immediately. Unfortunately, majority of them did not know they had any complication. Since November 2020, we have identified 1,284 patients of mellitus diabetes and 752 patients of hypertension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doorto-door-survey-starts-in-kalanaur-to-identify-people-with-comorbidities-101621885452448.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Stop taking subordinates along to new place of posting: Punjab DGP to senior cops||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta has directed the senior officers to stop transferring their subordinates and personal staff of their choice to their new place of posting, terming the practice “not permissible”. In a letter shot off recently to heads of police ranges and districts, the DGP said it has come to notice that some police commissioners and senior superintendents of police (SSPs) are taking junior officials such as deputy superintendents of police (DSPs), station house officers (SHOs), and their personal staff along. Such a practice needed to be stopped forthwith, he added.“Allegations of corruption and misconduct by such personal staff, especially readers etc, have come to my notice. Such practices lower the image of the government and the police department besides bringing a bad name to the officers concerned,” the letter read.He further directed the inspector generals of police (IGPs), deputy inspector generals of police (DIGs), police commissioners, SSPs and commandants to ensure that the practice is stopped immediately. “The administration wing or the headquarters will not encourage and accede to such requests in the future. Any such request must be approved by the DGP office,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stop-taking-subordinates-along-to-new-place-of-posting-punjab-dgp-to-senior-cops-101621885450509.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||163 cases pending against MPs, MLAs in Punjab, high court told||At least 163 cases are pending against sitting or erstwhile Members of Parliament (MPs) and Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) in Punjab. This was stated in an affidavit submitted by Arun Pal Singh, inspector general of police, litigation, bureau of investigation, Punjab, during the resumed hearing of a suo motu plea initiated upon apex court orders on monitoring trials against sitting or erstwhile MPs and MLAs. The data has been compiled by the director, bureau of investigation, Punjab, after obtaining information from the commissioners of police and senior superintendents of police of various districts. Satya Pal Jain, additional solicitor general of India, has sought more time to seek information from the Enforcement Directorate on the said matter. The case will now come up for hearing on May 27. 21 cases in Haryana In an affidavit by Sanjay Kumar, inspector general of police, administration and law and order, Haryana, it was submitted that a total of 21 cases – eight against ex-MLAs of the state and two against former legislators of Himachal Pradesh – are still under trial and three out of these have been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation in Chandigarh. The high court was appraised that 15 out of the 21 criminal cases are pending before trial courts, whereas, six cases are pending before the appellate/revisional courts. Pandemic delaying probe in 7 cases in Chandigarh An affidavit filed by Sanjay Baniwal, director general of police, Chandigarh, stated that seven cases are pending but all these are in investigation stage. None of these have reached the trial stage. Kuldeep Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, told the high court, “Investigation in these cases has been slightly delayed due to the Covid-19 situation and an effort shall be made to conclude the same at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/163-cases-pending-against-mps-mlas-in-punjab-high-court-told-101621885449402.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||SIT arrests two dera men for pasting derogatory posters at Bargari in 2015||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases on Monday arrested two dera followers for pasting derogatory posters near a gurdwara at Bargari village in 2015.After the police remand of dera followers Shakti Singh and Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, in Bargari sacrilege case ended on Monday, the SIT arrested them in another sacrilege case in which two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24-25, 2015. They were presented before the court of judicial magistrate Ajay Pal Singh, who sent them in two-day police custody. Besides from Shakti and Ranjit, the SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar last week arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village in a case registered on October 12, 2015, in connection with a sacrilege incident at Bargari village in Faridkot district.Sukhjinder, Baljit and Nishan are in judicial custody and are undergoing treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, after they were tested positive for Covid-19. Sukhjinder and Baljit will also be arrested in derogatory posters case once they recover from the Covid-19, said an official of the SIT.However, Pardeep was sent in judicial custody till June 1 after his police remand ended on Monday. The Parmar-led SIT is probing three interlinked sacrilege cases. The first case pertains to the theft of the bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village near Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. The second is putting up of derogatory posters at Bargari village on September 25, 2015, and the third is the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the bir were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-arrests-two-dera-men-for-pasting-derogatory-posters-at-bargari-in-2015-101621885448299.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab asks vaccine makers to speed up deliveries to private hospitals||The Punjab government has requested the vaccine manufacturers in the country to speed up deliveries of doses to private hospitals in the state. Officials said though private hospitals deal directly with the vaccine makers, the state government has decided to play the role of a mediator to expedite the process. Principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal said the department is communicating with the manufactures through the central government. “They have assured to deliver around 2 lakh doses of Covishield soon,” he said. Of the 2 lakh doses, Sohana Hospital in Mohali alone has booked 50,000 shots, said an official privy with the development. “All we want is to increase the availability of vaccine in the state. We had sought requirement from private hospitals and have tied up with the manufacturers,” Lal added. On Monday, vaccine jabs were administered at 23 sites of Fortis, Max Medcentre, Matshya and Suri Jeevan Jyoti in Mohali, Oswal and Fortis hospitals in Ludhiana, Amandeep Hospitals in Amritsar, Pathankot and Tarn Taran, Reliance Industries staff in Hoshiarpur and Columbia Asia Hospital, Patiala. The state government is also expected to start booking of Sputnik vaccine by month- end. But some officials said the bookings may take couple of more weeks. “We have written to Dr Reddy’s who have distribution rights of Sputnik vaccine in India. But for the time being, they have expressed inability to commit to us,” said State vaccination nodal officer Vikas Garg. Drive for 18-45 group to stay suspended for 2 more days The resumption of the inoculation drive for the 18-45 age group may take two more days as 1,14,190 doses of Covaxine are likely to arrive in the state by Wednesday (May 26). “At present, we are left with only 20,000 doses for this category and that was the reason why the drive was suspended for the last three days,” said director (health) Dr GB Singh. The delivery of around 2 lakh Covishield doses is also scheduled to reach the state by the month-end. For the vaccine drive for those aged above 45, the state has around 1.50 lakh doses left and is expecting delivery from central pool by May 28. Now, Pfizer refuses to supply shots directly The state government on Monday issued a statement that vaccine manufacturer Pfizer has also refused to send supply vaccine directly to the Punjab government citing its policy according to which it only deals with the federal government concerned. The development came a day after Moderna refused to supply its vaccine to the state government on similar grounds. Citing a communication from Pfizer, state vaccination nodal officer for Vikas Garg said the firm is only working with the federal governments across the world to supply its vaccine as part of the national immunisation programmes. Garg said besides Pfizer, many vaccine manufacturers such as Moderna and Johnson & Johnson were approached for direct purchase of jabs as per the directions of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to explore possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of vaccine. He said now the state is still hoping for a positive reply from Sputnik V and Johnson & Johnson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-asks-vaccine-makers-to-speed-up-deliveries-to-private-hospitals-101621885389172.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital reports 208 deaths in a week||Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital has reported 208 deaths in the past one week. Of these, 84 victims belonged to Patiala, while 124 were from other districts.Since the second wave hit the state, Rajindra Hospital, a tertiary healthcare institute of the Malwa region, has recorded over 2,100 Covid deaths.Medical superintendent Dr HS Rekhi said though the number of admissions in the isolation ward has come down by 10-15%, critical patients are still admitted in level-3 wing of the hospital.“This is the main reasons behind the high mortality rate as at least 150 level-3 beds are still occupied. The patients were admitted to the hospital in a critical stage,” he said.Patients from other parts of Punjab and neighbouring states, including Haryana and Delhi, approached the hospital for treatment due to shortage of beds and oxygen supply in their respective areas.“Most of the patients are coming with 30-40% oxygen saturation level. We are hopeful that their condition will improve in the coming days,” Dr Rekhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patialas-rajindra-hospital-reports-208-deaths-in-a-week-101621885208296.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Woman arrested for killing son with aide’s help in Gurdaspur village||GURDASPURA woman and her lover have been arrested for killing former’s son at Balwanda village, 26km from the district headquarters. The half-burnt body of the victim, Randeep Singh (26), of Balwanda village was found from Jhanda Labana village drain on Sunday. While Rupinderjit Kaur (45) and Sukhwinder Singh (27) have been arrested, their associate Gurjit Singh of Chak Sharif village is on the run.Police said Rupinderjit and Sukhwinder developed illicit relations six months ago. They duo hatched a conspiracy to kill Randeep, who opposed their relationship. Rupinder’s husband Kulwant Singh and her younger son are in the army. Addressing a press conference, Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh said: “A case under Section 302 (murder) and 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC was registered at Kahnuwan police station after Randeep’s body was recovered.”He said a team under the supervision of DSP-detective Rajesh Kakkar was formed. During the investigation, the body, which was half-burnt, was identified. When the body was taken to the victim’s home, his mother refused to identify it. Later, police grilled Rupinderjit and her lover and they confessed to the crime.”“Rupinder started giving sleeping pills to her son two days before executing the crime. They used a hammer and a knife to kill Randeep and also tried to burn his body, which was later dumped into the drain, said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-her-lover-arrested-for-killing-son-in-gurdaspur-village-101621885148998.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 178 deaths, 4,539 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Monday reported 178 coronavirus-related fatalities, taking the toll to 13,468, while 4,539 fresh cases raised the infection count to 5,43,475, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped from 57,505 on Sunday to 54,996, the bulletin said.The state’s single-day recoveries of 6,803 were also in excess of the daily infection count on Monday.Seventeen deaths were reported from Patiala, 16 from Sangrur, 15 from Ludhiana and 14 from Bathinda.Ludhiana registered 507 new cases, followed by 401 in Mansa, 340 in Amritsar and 334 in Jalandhar.The state’s Covid-19 positivity rate stood at 6.51%, according to the bulletin. The recovery count rose to 4,75,011, it said.There are 387 critical Covid patients who are on ventilator support, 1,011 other critical patients and 6,743 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 87,75,622 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-178-deaths-4-539-fresh-covid-cases-101621884910530.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cong may suffer if 2022 polls are fought under Capt: Pargat||Amid attempts by the Congress leadership to sort out the rift in the state unit, Congress MLA Pargat Singh on Monday said the party’s prospects could take a hit if it goes into the 2022 assembly polls under the leadership of incumbent chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. “There is resentment against the state government among the people. The chief minister should get his own survey done and he will know,” the Jalandhar Cantonment MLA told reporters after a meeting with cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi at his official flat here. The state polls are due early next year. While he downplayed the meeting calling it “routine”, both Randhawa and Channi have been discontented with the chief minister lately. They are among half-a-dozen dissenting leaders, including former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who are trying to regroup. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat has asked the state leaders not to air their grievances in public. Another Congress general secretary KC Venugopal had also on Friday said the party leadership was watching the developments in Punjab and will take a call on the situation. Pargat also endorsed Amargarh MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman’s call to fellow legislators on Saturday to come together and resign en masse from their seats due to the state government’s failure to fulfil the expectations of the people. “Dhiman did the right thing and others should also speak up,” he said, prodding other MLAs to also come out and express their feelings. Pargat, who had last week accused the chief minister’s political secretary of making a threat call to him, again spoke in Channi’s defence in the harassment allegation by a woman IAS officer. “The matter is being raked up after a gap of two years without any complaint. Why is a lady officer’s name being dragged in all this now?” he questioned, insinuating attempts to arm twist the minister. Meanwhile, Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati, who last week threatened to go on hunger strike if the state government fails to apprise her of its stand in the harassment allegation against the minster, said the chief minister had called up to assure her that the state government would give its reply soon. “Therefore, I have postponed the protest for now,” she told reporters. The chairperson said she was not scared of the consequences of taking up the issue and those who were accusing her of acting under the influence of the state government. “The commission is not under pressure from anyone. I am being trolled by some people, but I do not care. There are some who are asking why it is being taken up after two years. I want to state clearly that there is no delay,” she insisted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-may-suffer-if-2022-polls-are-fought-under-capt-pargat-101621884789048.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three Covid patients diagnosed with black fungus die in Amritsar||Three Covid positive patients, who were also diagnosed with mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, died at Amritsar hospitals on Monday.While one patient belonged to Amritsar district, the others were from Tarn Taran and Jalandhar districts. A 65-year-old Amritsar resident died in a local private hospital while two patients, 62-year-old man from Patti, Tarn Taran, and other 75-year-old man from Phillaur, Jalandhar, died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, on Monday,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh.GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh said, “Two Covid-19 positive patients, who were also found infected with black fungus, had died at the hospital but the fungal infection was not the main reason behind their death. They died due to Covid-related complications.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-covid-patients-diagnosed-with-black-fungus-die-in-amritsar-101621884668840.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 1,949 fresh infections, 61 fatalities||Himachal Pradesh recorded 1,949 fresh coronavirus infections on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 1,80,983 while the death toll mounted to 2,813 after 61 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 545 were reported in Kangra, 215 in Mandi, 194 in Shimla, 163 in Bilaspur, 162 in Una, 159 in Hamirpur, 132 in Chamba, 125 in Sirmaur, 116 in Kinnaur, 84 in Kullu and 10 in Lahaul-Spiti. At 23, the highest 23 fatalities were reported in Kangra, followed by seven in Sirmaur, five each in Shimla and Solan, four each in Chamba, Hamirpur and Mandi, three in Kullu and two each in Bilaspur and Una. Recoveries reached 1,53,964 after 3,686 people recuperated. The active cases have come down to 24,181. Meanwhile, Kangra remains the worst hit district with 40,992 infections and is followed by Mandi with 24,308 cases and Shimla 22,969 cases. Solan has 20,580 cases, Sirmaur 13,924, Hamirpur 12,840, Una 11,735, Bilaspur 11,403, Chamba 8,118 , Kullu 7,943, Kinnaur 2,738 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,493.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-1-949-fresh-infections-61-fatalities-101621884128367.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury again set to breach 40°C in Chandigarh||With the maximum temperature reaching 37.4°C in Chandigarh on Monday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that mercury is likely to cross 40°C on Wednesday with a further rise in the following days.The maximum temperature breached the 40 degrees-mark last on May 17 (40.7°C) and dropped thereafter amid cloudy weather and rain.Speaking about this, the IMD officials said, “With dry weather conditions prevailing in the city, the temperature is likely to soar to 41°C in the next three days. While rain seems unlikely in the coming days, dust raising winds blowing at a speed of 30kmph can be expected.”The maximum temperature of the city went up from 33.8°C on Sunday to 37.4°C on Monday, while the minimum temperature dropped from 23.6°C degrees on Sunday to 20.5°C on Monday. In the next three days, mercury will hover between 39°C and 41°C, while the minimum temperature will remain between 22°C and 23°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-set-to-breach-40-c-in-chandigarh-again-101621884068326.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus declared an epidemic in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday declared mucormycosis, commonly called black fungus an ‘epidemic’ and notified the J&K Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations that make it mandatory for all government and private health institutions to report suspected and confirmed cases to the health department. The UT had reported its first death due to the fungal disease, which is increasingly affecting recovering coronavirus patients, on May 21. The victim had been a 40-year-old man of Poonch. The move comes days after the Centre directed all the states and UTs to make black fungus a notifiable disease.According to the notification, all the government and private health facilities and medical colleges are required to follow the guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of the disease issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and J&K government as amended from time to time.The guidelines make it mandatory for all such facilities to report suspected and confirmed cases to the health department through district-level officers and Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP).The notification also mandates that no person, institution or organisation will spread any information or material for management of mucormycosis without prior permission of the directorate of health services in Jammu and Kashmir. The DHS will constitute a committee headed by Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of the concerned district, which will have specialist of internal Medicine, Ophthalmology, ENT and Epidemiologist as members to review any violations. The violators will be punished under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-declared-an-epidemic-in-jk-101621883948408.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor units busted in Ambala, Panchkula raids||Two illicit liquor units were busted in Panchkula and Ambala, police said on Monday.A Panchkula police arrested a man for running an illegal liquor factory at his house in Barwala on May 23. During their raid, police found drums of ENA (extra neutral alcohol), the primary raw material for making alcoholic beverages, hidden in a tempo traveller parked inside the house. The police also recovered 1,800 empty bottles from the premises.A case was registered against the accused under sections 61 (1), 4 and 20 of the Excise Act; sections 188, 269, 270, 51-B of the Disaster Management Act; and sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of IPC.In a similar case, the Ambala police seized large quantities of country-made liquor from an illicit liquor facility in Saha area on Sunday night.The police arrested three labourers — as Ankit, Arvind and Ankur, all from Uttar Pradesh’s Muzzafarnagar. A local resident, identified as Ankit of Barara, was among the four persons booked under relevant sections of IPC and Punjab Excise Act.As per a police statement, 115 boxes of country-made liquor, 15 drums of chemical, six containers of ready liquor, 50 boxes of phenyl, empty drums, bottle caps, labelled stickers, plastic bottles and other raw materials were recovered.Deputy excise and taxation commissioner Alok Pasi said contents of some other drums will also be tested, while investigation is on trace the supply chain.In March too, the police had unearthed a similar illegal facility in Saha after getting a tip-off from the CIA unit of Kurukshetra Police.Pasi said, “We are also trying to understand why this location is being favoured for such criminal activities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-units-busted-in-ambala-panchkula-raids-101621883828240.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh hospitalised after testing Covid+, stable||Four days after testing positive for Covid-19, sprint legend Milkha Singh, 91, was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali on Monday. His condition is stated to be stable.So far in isolation at his house in Sector 8, Chandigarh, he was moved to hospital as a “precautionary measure”, according to his son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh.“He was weak and not eating well since yesterday; so we had to hospitalise him. We thought it is safer to have him under supervision of senior doctors,” said Jeev, who returned from Dubai on Saturday. “Mr Milkha Singh was admitted at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, in the intensive care unit on May 24 with Covid pneumonia. He is stable and presently on low flow oxygen and medical management,” stated a hospital release.Milkha had contracted the infection from one of his staff members at home, though none of the other family members tested positive. The PGIMER had provided him an attendant along with oxygen facilities. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion, but his greatest performance was the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-hospitalised-after-testing-covid-stable-101621883648262.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh caps CT scan rates at ₹1,800||Following the Punjab and Haryana high court’s directions, the Chandigarh administration on Monday capped the charges for CT and HRCT at ₹1,800. It had earlier told court that the rates are to be reduced from ₹2,000 to ₹1,900.Computed tomography (CT) scan and its high-resolution (HR) variant are medical imaging techniques used in radiology to get detailed images of the body non-invasively for diagnostic purposes. Chest CT scan is being widely used by Covid-19 patients to assess the extent of infection in lungs. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said no private diagnostic centre should charge more than ₹1,800 for CT/HRCT scan, which is inclusive of all taxes. Earlier, the Mohali administration had also capped the price at ₹2,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-caps-ct-scan-rates-at-1800-101621883528172.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees lowest daily Covid cases in 4 weeks||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday clocked the lowest daily Covid case total in four weeks with 2,237 fresh infections. It also registered 45 coronavirus-related deaths. The overall death toll in the UT has reached 3,609 and the total cases 2, 72,858. Officials said that 36,272 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, a reduction of 20% against the average 45,000 daily tests carried out in the week. The overall number of tests has reached 8.27 million. However, a similar number of tests (36,700) eight days ago, had returned positive for 4,100 persons. The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Monday was 3,999, including 2,509 from Kashmir and 1,490 from Jammu. The overall number of people who recovered reached 2, 23,619, pushing the recovery rate to 81.95%.Of the 45 deaths in the UT, 29 were reported in Jammu division and 16 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,383 are from Kashmir while 854 are from Jammu, while 16 are travellers.Covid cases have reached peak levels in May, touching 96,775 cases and fatalities 1,327 on Monday. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 78,178. Officials said with 441 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by 309 in Srinagar district, 204 in Kupwara and 169 in Kulgam. The number of active cases stands at 45,630. Dr Sanjeev Kumar Digra, professor, department of paediatrics, SMGS Hospital, Jammu said irrespective of the hype over the third wave, young children have always been at risk of contracting the infection.“As more of the population is infected with the virus, young children become more vulnerable. Thus, the onus of protecting children is on adults. If they religiously follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, they can ensure that the infection does not reach their kids at home,” he said.Dr Sanjeev said Covid symptoms in children include fever, throat pain, cold, cough, dysentery. “In the second wave, it has been observed that children also tend to develop rashes and redness in eyes. If a child is suffering from high grade fever for four to five days, is not eating well, starts vomiting, not breathing naturally, has bluish discolouration of body parts, has sunken eyes or dry lips, and his/ her oxygen saturation level dips below 94, one must immediately consult a doctor,” he said.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.10 lakh cases and 1,713 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 976 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 737 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-lowest-daily-covid-cases-in-4-weeks-101621883471325.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||62 being treated for black fungus in Chandigarh hospitals||A total of 62 patients are undergoing treatment for mucormycosis in city hospitals, out of which only 10 are from Chandigarh.Mucormycosis or black fungus is a rare disease caused by fungi that has affected thousands of Covid-19 patients across India.While the number of black fungus cases is on the rise, there has been no improvement in the supply of Amphotericin-B, a key drug to treat the deadly fungal infection.Even the 50 vials of the injection allotted by the Centre will arrive after Thursday. According to officials, these would be enough to treat the patients.“To ensure early arrival of the drug, we have followed Punjab tender rates, and placed an order for urgent supply of 2,000 injection vials to pharma company Mylan. The supply cost is around ₹1.2 crore,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Officials said the drug is being procured from different sources on a day-to-day basis. On Monday, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) loaned 50 vials of the injection to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.Among the black fungus patients, two are undergoing treatment at PGIMER, six are admitted in GMCH-32 and two are in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/62-being-treated-for-black-fungus-in-chandigarh-hospitals-101621883468278.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Audit raises objection to ₹21cr spending by Chandigarh forest dept||Auditors discovered irregularities in the ₹21.42 crore spent by the Chandigarh forest and wildlife department between April 2019 and March 2020, an RTI reply has revealed.The audit was carried out by the office of principal director of audit (central) which had sent a report to the department on October 28, 2020, seeking the latter’s response in six weeks.As per the audit report, an unauthorised payment of ₹47.77 lakh was made to a security agency for outsourcing its services without executing a legal contract with it. Moreover, in case of some eight tenders, where the total bid amount was ₹18.89 crore, the minimum turnover condition was not met by any of the three bidders. Execution without fulfilling the prescribed terms and conditions led to void contracts, the report stated.Against 10 sanctioned posts, the department employed 33 people, including four extra clerks, two peons, eight drivers, four supervisors and five security guards, with their wages amounting to ₹46.94 lakh in excess expenditure. Due to the planning of an unrealistic budget, excessive saving of ₹1.32 crore was done. The report stated that excessive savings or underutilisation of funds led to parking of funds which could have been utilised for other government functions.While the procurement of goods and services by ministries or departments is mandatory through the government e-marketplace (GeM), it was found that an all-in-one pc, a sofa set, RCC pipes and outsourcing of some other services totalling to ₹11.78 lakh was done outside of the GeM portal. It was also found that one employee, an accountant, was drawing two conveyance allowances per month and an amount of ₹31,000 had been wrongfully paid.Non disposal of unserviceable items which had been lying unused for over nine years in the stores also cost the department ₹14.90 lakh. This included various items like bicycles, barbed wires and lawn mowers among other items, the report stated.Apart from the fiduciary irregularities, the report pointed out that there was a non-deduction of uncommuted pension from hired ex-servicemen, improper maintenance of form number 7 and service books; non-physical verification of consumables and fixed assets; and some other general irregularities.While the report mentions that a response to these objections is awaited, deputy conservator of forests Abdul Qayum said a brief reply had been sent by the department already. “If it is not deemed satisfactory, a detailed response will be prepared and sent,” he said without elaborating on what had been said in the brief reply.Social activist RK Garg, who filed the RTI, said, “The department frequently violates the rules, and the authorities must take strict note of this. How were contracts worth ₹18.89 crore were voided and ₹2.44 lakh spent just on a sofa set needs to be examined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/audit-raises-objection-to-21cr-spending-by-chandigarh-forest-dept-101621883408241.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn puts water tariff hike on hold till next year||The Chandigarh administration on Monday stayed the hike in water tariff till March 31, 2022. The charges were increased by 200 times in September last year.A detailed notification regarding the stay is awaited. It is expected to bring more clarity on the date from which the decision would be applicable, and if the hiked charges that were paid by the residents would be adjusted.After public outcry and criticism from the opposition, the MC general house had passed a resolution in October last year, asking the administration to withdraw its September the notification and stick to the existing rates till the pandemic was over.In response, the UT administration in February this year had asked the MC to reconsider the resolution, and then in May sought some clarifications.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore took the decision in view of the MC resolution and pandemic situation, it is learnt. MC commissioner KK Yadav had opposed the MC resolution on rollback of the hiked tariffs, contending major loss to a financially struggling civic body.The MC collects ₹90 crore per annum as water charges, but the expenditure incurred to maintain supply to its 1.8 lakh consumers is ₹225 crore, said an official. Struggling to even pay salaries to its employees because of a severe financial crunch, the civic body was expected to earn an additional ₹60 crore from the hike.Political slugfest The administration’s decision has come days before the Congress had planned a major city-wide protest against the hike.Facing resistance from various quarters, the top BJP leadership, including city president Arun Sood and mayor Ravikant Sharma met the UT administrator a few days ago and pressed for a rollback.Sharma said, “We always deliver on our promises. Just after my election, I declared that the rollback would be one of my priorities.”Meanwhile, even though Congress welcomed the decision, it questioned its timing. “Why put the hike on hold till March 2022 only? Is it because the MC elections are due in December this year,” asked HS Lucky, chief spokesperson of city Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-puts-water-tariff-hike-on-hold-till-next-year-101621883351380.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Remdesivir row: FIR recommended against Mohali’s Mayo Hospital||Finding Mayo Hospital (now Mount Star Hospital) in Mohali’s Sector 69 guilty of black-marketing 83 remdesivir injections in the past one month, a four-member inquiry committee has recommended penal and legal action against it. Remdesivir is used for the treatment of Covid patients and is being provided to private hospitals at controlled rates by the state government. The inquiry was initiated after allegations of irregularities at the private hospital.In the report submitted to Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, the committee has recommended an FIR against the hospital management, chief financial officer (CFO) Mukesh Sharma, his son Kshitij Sharma and the pharmacy on its premises. The hospital changed its name to Mount Star about 10 days ago due to an ongoing litigation.The committee found that bills for the injection were issued in the name of a prominent cement manufacturing firm besides the CFO and a few doctors of the hospital. One bill was also issued in the name of a woman on March 17 even as she was admitted on March 18. While doctors reportedly denied getting any injections, the reply to the show-cause notice issued to the hospital was also unsatisfactory, the committee stated in its report.When the controversy erupted, the three directors of the hospital — Deepak Tyagi, Virender Dhankhad and Dr Manoj Sharma — had accused the CFO and his son of illegally procuring remdesivir injections and selling them at a premium to patients outside the hospital. The CFO, on the other hand, has alleged that the directors had fabricated documents pertaining to the drug sale to frame him. Both allegations are being probed by police.Subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Jadgeep Sehgal, who was part of the inquiry committee, said: “When the management was aware that the CFO is selling injections illegally, then why did they not inform the administration? Also, how come the pharmacy gave an injection to the CFO’s son? It is clear the hospital made huge profit by selling the injections in the black market.”According to sources in the administration, the hospital procured the injections from the state government for ₹1,800 each and sold them for nearly ₹40,000, pocketing over 2,000% profit, even as private facilities are required to sell remdesivir at the same rate at which it is procured under the National Health Mission. Its current price varies between ₹1,150 and ₹2,500, depending on the brand.“I have received the report, on the basis of which strict action will be taken against the hospital,” said the deputy commissioner. An FIR will be registered against the guilty under the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and other relevant penal provisions.The inquiry committee also included deputy superintendent of police Deep Kamal, senior medical officer Dr Vijay Bhagat and drug inspector Jai Jai Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/remdesivir-row-fir-recommended-against-mohali-s-mayo-hospital-101621883228673.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP extends corona curfew till May 31||The Himachal Pradesh Cabinet, which met on Monday, decided to extend the corona curfew in the state for another week till May 31. In the meeting, which was presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, it was decided that private hospitals in the state will be encouraged to conduct vaccinations. It was suggested that members of legislative assembly (MLAs) along with sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) review the treatment being provided to Covid patients in home isolation in their respective areas. The Cabinet also approved the excise policy for the financial year 2021-22, which envisages a collection of ₹1,829 crore – ₹228 crore higher than the financial year 2020-21, thereby registering an increase of 14%. Considering the present situation, the excise year 2020-21 has been extended by one month up to June 30. The new excise policy will be operational for nine months from July 1 to March 31, 2022. Approval was also given for renewal of retail excise vends in the state for the year 2021-22 for a renewal fees of 3% of the value of unit or vend. This has been done to augment the government’s revenue, reduce the price of liquor and curb its smuggling from neighbouring states. The Cabinet also decided to extend the year’s toll leases by one month up to June 30. The leases for 2021-22 will be valid till March 31, 2022. It approved a new scheme for implementation of a project on fodder development as per the announcement of the chief minister in the 2021-22 budget. The project envisages propagation of planting stock of perennial high-yielding grass species, fodder trees and their further dissemination on farmer’s fields as well as gausadans in the state. The Cabinet approved 33 posts of different categories, 11 each in newly created municipal corporations in Mandi, Solan and Palampur for smooth functioning of these corporations and 20 posts of drivers in agriculture department. It also decided to open a new sub-tehsil at Thakurdwara in Kangra and Telka in Chamba district. A sub-tehsil Nagrota Surian in Kangra district will also be upgraded to tehsil along with creation of requisite posts. The ministers gave the nod for opening a new division of the public works department at Sarahan in Sirmaur district at Gagal Shikor along with two new sections at Sarahan-II and Gagal Shikor. They also decided to open a new Government Pharmacy College in Sulah Vidhan Sabha area of Kangra district. Around 34 vacant posts of associate and assistant professors will be filled at Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan; Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba; Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk; Dr Radhakrishanan Government Medical College, Hamirpur; IGMC, Shimla; and RPGMC, Tanda. A new post of assistant professor in the rheumatology cell in the department of general medicine in IGMC, will be created, it was decided. Five vacant posts of professors, assistant professors and associate professors will be filled in the department of nephrology in IGMC Shimla and RPGMC, Tanda, it was decided. The cabinet also accorded its approval to procure a CT Scan 128 Slice machine at a cost of ₹4.28 crore for RPGMC, Tanda. The community health centre in Dharampur, Solan will be upgraded from a six-bedded unit to 50-bedded unit. The ministers also agreed to shift the health sub-centre Tatapani in Mandi district to Sanwidhar Khanderi. Legislators can now use flags on vehicles Himachal Pradesh legislators in can now use flags on official, private and hired vehiclesso that they can get their due recognition.The Cabinet has authorised Vidhan Sabha speaker to specify the design of the flag, said urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj. Most legislator had been yearning for permission to hoist flags as the government has allowed bureaucrats and police officers to use flags on their vehicles. After the government had limited the use of the red beacons in 2017. The Vidhan Sabha in 2019 issued stickers from the Assembly for legislators’ vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-extends-corona-curfew-till-may-31-101621882868431.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s single-day Covid count drops to 611||The number of new Covid-19 cases dropped to 611 in the tricity on Monday, even as 20 more people succumbed to the virus.After crossing the grim milestone of 600 on March 19, the daily infections had peaked at 2,612 on May 10 and have been on the decline since then. However, even as the second wave is receding, the number of deaths has been piling up.On Monday, Mohali and Chandigarh reported seven casualties each while six patients succumbed in Panchkula. In terms of cases, Chandigarh recorded 245 cases, followed by 218 in Mohali and 148 in Panchkula. Recovery rate across the tricity remained over 90% while positivity rate dropped to 5% in Mohali and 7% in Chandigarh. Panchkula saw a spike in positivity rate to 15.7% after dropping to 6.9% on Sunday. With more people being cured than those testing positive, the active case load has dropped to 11,059 from 12,223 the previous day. As many as 687 patients were discharged in Mohali and 684 in Chandigarh on Monday.Dr KK Talwar, former PGIMER director and health adviser to Punjab Government, said the death toll is expected to stay on the higher side for at least three weeks after the cases see a decline. “We should see an improvement in the situation in early June,” he said, adding that lockdown curbs should be eased in a gradual manner to ensure that cases do not see a jump again. Meanwhile, Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed serious concern over the number of fatalities. He directed the social welfare secretary that children orphaned due to Covid-19 should be taken care of at government welfare homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-single-day-covid-count-drops-to-611-101621882809969.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown curbs relaxed; all shops to open in Chandigarh||After three weeks of closure, all non-essential shops will be allowed to open in Chandigarh from Tuesday, but with restricted timings.In the Covid review meeting on Monday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore decided to give some relief to traders, who have been protesting the closure. All shops dealing in non-essential items will be allowed to open from 9am to 3pm, except on Saturday and Sunday, when the weekend curfew will continue. Meanwhile, shops selling essential items, such as vegetables, fruits, milk and grocery, will remain open till 5pm on weekdays and 2pm at weekends. However, chemist shops can operate 24x7.All shop premises must be sanitised, and all workers and customers should wear masks. Market associations are to ensure availability of masks, both at shops and entry points to markets. They will also have to ensure that there is no congestion or crowding inside shops or in open areas of the market.The decision was taken keeping in view a substantial reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases, the loss of livelihood for daily wagers and financial setback to traders, shopkeepers and other commercial organisations, said a UT spokesperson.Welcoming the move, Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “The decision is in right direction and will provide relief to all traders.”The administration had on May 3 decided to impose a weeklong lockdown in the city, wherein all shops, except those selling essential items, were shut down. The lockdown was twice extended keeping in view the continuos rise in Covid-19 cases.Other restrictions to continue till 5am on June 1Meanwhile, the administration decided to keep all shopping malls, cinema halls, theatres, museums, gyms, libraries, spas and salons closed. Sukhna Lake and Rock Garden will also continue to remain closed, though parks will remain open from 6am to 9am for morning walk.Night curfew from 6pm to 5am will continue, and weekend curfew will also be imposed from 6pm on Friday to 5am on Monday.Restaurants will not be allowed any in-room dining. However, home delivery (till 10pm) and takeaway (till 5pm) will be allowed. Though Sampark Centres will remain open from 9am to 5pm, they will have to strictly follow Covid protocol.As far as possible, private sector employees should work from home, the administration has decided, though no action will be taken against private offices remaining open, wherever necessary. Sport centres will remain open for national players and those preparing for Olympics and national games. While other gatherings remain banned, marriage functions and funerals will be allowed, with a cap of 20 and 10 attendees, respectively.Badnore said the restrictions will be reviewed and reimposed if the pandemic situation does not improve in the city. He also decided that the traders’ demand for rent exemption in government-owned/allotted shops will be separately examined along with a similar demand for relaxation in electricity and water charges and property tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-curbs-relaxed-all-shops-to-open-in-chandigarh-101621882628921.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU to hold week-long free milk adulteration testing camp||To create awareness regarding milk adulteration among residents, College of Dairy Science and Technology (CODST), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), will be organising a week-long free milk adulteration testing camp from May 26, which will continue till June 1, observed as World Milk Day.During this camp, milk will be tested free of cost for adulterants, and residents from across Punjab can participate. As per officials, residents may bring a minimum of 100ml chilled raw milk samples in clean and dry glass or plastic bottles to CODST between 8am and 1.30pm on these dates. The milk sample bottles should be labelled with name and contact number of the person bringing them. The milk samples will be analysed at the college and the quality results will be conveyed through WhatsApp or text messages on the following day.For any query regarding the camp, residents can contact 0161- 255-3308.CODST dean Ramneek said adulteration of milk by unscrupulous persons was usually done for increasing the quantity of milk, extending shelf-life, maintaining SNF, and avoiding detection of sour milk. GADVASU vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh said the camp was being organised to spread awareness among residents regarding milk adulteration.He stated that the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) established June 1 as World Milk Day, which celebrates the contributions of the dairy sector to sustainability, economic development, livelihoods, and nutrition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-to-hold-week-long-free-milk-adulteration-testing-camp-101621881908520.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||FIR against Khanna hospital for overcharging Covid patient||Taking stringent action against fleecing of Covid-19 patients, police have lodged an FIR against Jain Multispeciaty Hospital, Khanna.The hospital was found charging 259% more than the rates fixed by the state government from the family of a Covid patient, who eventually succumbed to the virus.A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code; Sections 51 (B) and 58 of the Disaster Management Act; and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act has been registered against the hospital management following a complaint by Sagar Verma, a resident of Yamunanagar, Haryana.In his complaint to the Ludhiana deputy commissioner, Verma alleged that the hospital handed them a bill of ₹8.45 lakh for the treatment of his father, Ashwani Verma, 50, who eventually died. The family managed to pay ₹4.08 lakh, but the hospital demanded full payment.After the deputy commissioner ordered a probe by a committee, it was found that as per government rates fixed for Covid treatment, the actual bill should have been ₹2.35 lakh. On its part, the hospital claimed the huge bill as a “clerical mistake” and the total was actually ₹4.86 lakh, still 106% higher than the government’s guidelines.The inquiry report also established that due to the malpractice of overbilling by the hospital, the complainant shifted his father to another health institution, where he succumbed later.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said complaints against malpractice by hospitals can be filed on health department’s 104 helpline or to his office. He added that in this hour of distress, the administration will not spare anyone breaching the capped charges for Covid treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fir-against-khanna-hospital-for-overcharging-covid-patient-101621881068235.html
