26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s global vaccine bid may get response from Sputnik||The global tender floated by the Haryana government on Wednesday to purchase 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses is more likely to get a response from Russian manufactured Sputnik V than any other global manufacturer.This is because Sputnik V is the only vaccine besides Covishield of Serum Institute of India and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech which has been granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), officials said.The two dose Gam-Covid-Vac combined vector vaccine, popularly known as Sputnik-V, has been developed by M/s Gamaleya Institute, Russia and is approved in 30 countries across the globe. US manufactured Pfizer BioNTech Covid vaccine which had also applied for EUA had withdrawn after the DCGI decided not to approve it.Haryana’s tender document though has allowed manufacturers who have applied for DCGI approval to bid for the Covid vaccine though their purchase orders will be issued only after an approval by the DCGI. The Covid vaccine storage condition of 2-8°C stipulated in the bid document also covers all available vaccines.While Dr Reddy’s Lab has an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to sell 250 million doses of Sputnik V, the RDIF has entered into partnership with six companies to collectively contract manufacture more than 850 million doses.CHINA STANDS DEBARRED FROM BIDDINGChina which manufactures Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines stands debarred from participating in the global tender.“Bidder or manufacturers of Covid vaccine should not belong to countries sharing borders with India,” said a clause in the tender document for the Covid vaccine.Officials said the clause debarring China is in line with the restrictions imposed by central government in public procurement from bidders of certain countries on grounds of defence or national security.As per the notice inviting online bids floated by the Haryana Medical Services Corporation Ltd (HMSCL), Covid vaccine manufacturers, their Indian partners or direct importers are eligible to participate in the tender.The bidding will be conducted through open competitive bidding following a two-bid process - technical and financial bid. The bids close on June 4 and technical bids will be opened the same day.The bidder should have a valid license to manufacture and export the vaccine to India as per specifications mentioned in the tender from the competent authority or the food and drugs administration.PRICE FALL CLAUSEA price fall clause in the tender document said that if at any time during execution of the contract, the controlled price becomes lower or the contractor reduces the sale price or sells or offer to sell vaccine at a price lower than the price chargeable under the contract, then the price payable under the contract for the vaccine supplied will stand correspondingly reduced.“The quantity mentioned is only indicative and may be increased or decreased as per requirement. Bidders can also quote items under any of Indian, British or United States or European Pharmacopoeia but should clearly mention the same at the time of bidding the same,” the tender said.The bidder should have manufactured and supplied satisfactorily vaccines either directly or through authorised dealer to any national government of which at least 30 million doses should have been supplied in the last one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-global-vaccine-bid-may-get-response-from-sputnik-101622051118343.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Damage to property law comes into force in Haryana||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said that with the implementation of Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property Act in the state, any damage done to people’s shops, vendor carts, houses, government offices, vehicles, buses and other public property in the guise of any movement will be recovered from the protesters.Vij said the state government has issued the notification of this Act after which this law has been enforced in state.“Thus, any such movement in future will hamper the intention to damage people or public property,” Vij said. He said that carrying out agitations and movements is part of the democracy but it is incorrect to damage public property in guise of such movements.Vij said that a tribunal will be set up in this regard, which will take up such complaints and take action against the offenders. He said that the parties, who are opposing this Act, should clarify whether they are in favour of those who burn shops, houses, government offices, trains, buses and other public property or are in favour of those who have been harassed in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/damage-to-property-law-comes-into-force-in-haryana-101622050889925.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh Covid cases dipping, fatalities rising in Haryana||In the last 16 days till May 25, fresh cases of Covid-19 in Haryana had been receding every day.After logging 13,548 new cases on May 9, new cases came down to 2,817 on May 25. As the new Covid cases being recorded every day are lesser than the previous day in this period, hope is dawning that the state is back on the path of recovery.On Wednesday, contrary to this trend, the state recorded 3,138 fresh cases, 321 more than the previous day.Nonetheless, in another positive indication of the second wave finally receding, the daily caseload of fresh Covid cases dipped below 5,000 after 39 days on May 24.Haryana on May 4 had logged 15,786 new cases in what was one of the highest single-day surge in the infection, according to official data.Even as the new cases are steadily coming down, the rising fatality rate (1.05%) remains a cause of concern.The number of active cases came down to 31,644 on Wednesday from 34,088 on May 25. Hisar has the highest 3,277 active cases and Nuh the lowest of 163 active cases.Sirsa has 3,041 active cases and Gurugram 2,961. Among other districts with over 2,000 active cases are Rewari 2,104, and Karnal 2,223.On Wednesday, at least 9,657 oxygen beds (other than ICU) were available in government and private hospitals across Haryana of total 14,415 oxygen beds. At least 4,758 beds were occupied on Wednesday against 5,175 on Tuesday, as per the data.Faridabad had maximum 2,047 oxygen beds available, Gurugram 1,975, Hisar 458, Panchkula 196, Rohtak 576 and Karnal 234. Karnal did not have a single bed available as all 285 oxygen beds in the ICUs are occupied.As per data, the combined number of ventilator/ICU beds in medical colleges, government hospitals and private hospitals is 5,422. On Wednesday, 2,073 beds of this category are vacant and 3,349 are occupied.The officials said the state is witnessing a respite from the once sky-rocketing medical oxygen demand.“Under oxygen at the doorsteps initiative, the state government till May 25 had delivered oxygen cylinders to 14,053 applicants in home isolation,” said an official.Under the ‘test, track and treat’ policy underway in villages, the 4,344 field teams of the health department had covered 5,291 villages and screened 22.37 lakh household, covering 1.21 crore people.Of the 6,582 villagers tested on Wednesday, 135 positive cases were detected.106 FATALITIES, 3,138 NEW CASES ON WEDNESDAYHaryana on Wednesday recorded 106 fatalities, 3,138 new cases of Covid and 5,476 recoveries, according to the health bulletin.Against 50,545 samples taken on Tuesday, 52,762 samples were taken in the last 24 hours. The fatality rate rose from 1.04% on Tuesday to 1.05% and the death toll stood at 7,841.Hisar registered 16 fatalities, Jind 14, Sirsa 13, seven each in Gurugram, Bhiwani and Jhajjar, five in Panipat, four each in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh and Fatehabad, three each in Rewari, Palwal and Charkhi Dadri, and one each in Yamunanagar and Kaithal.Among the new cases, Sirsa recorded the highest 547 new cases, followed by Rewari 305, Hisar 264, Gurugram 187, Sonepat 163, Karnal 144 and Faridabad 135.There were 31,644 active patients and the recovery rate rose to 94.72%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-covid-cases-dipping-fatalities-rising-in-haryana-101622050520011.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Law to recover for damage to property during violent protests comes into effect in Haryana||A law which allows the authorities to recover compensation from violent protesters who cause damage to property has come into effect in Haryana.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday that the Act was notified by the state government earlier this month.Also Read | Haryana passes recovery of damage to property Bill amid Opposition protest"With the implementation of the Act in the state, any damage done to people's shops, houses, government offices, vehicles, buses and other public property in guise of any movement will be recovered from the protesters," he said, as per an official statement.Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya had given his assent to the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021 last month after it was passed by the state Assembly in March.The law allows the authorities to recover compensation for damage caused to both public and private properties.When the bill was brought in the Assembly in March, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Vij had denied the Congress' charge that the decision to bring it was linked to the farmers' agitation against the Centre's farm laws.For adjudicating upon pleas for compensation for damage to properties, the new law provides for the government to set up claim tribunals in the state.These tribunals will be headed by Haryana Superior Judicial Services officers, to be appointed in consultation with the chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The tribunals will determine the liability, assess the claims for compensation and decide the monetary value of damages, and on such determination, award suitable compensations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-law-to-recover-for-damage-to-property-during-protests-comes-into-effect-101622038607427.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Strawberry growers worried Covid could upset applecart in J&K||The strawberry harvest season is on in Kashmir and the cherry crop will follow suit soon, but growers are concerned about the prices their produce will fetch amid a prolonged lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19. Though the administration has assured people of easing Covid curbs if the number of coronavirus cases shows a steady decline over the next few days, the growers of these cash crops are keeping their fingers crossed. Also read: ‘A new weapon’: Dr Naresh Trehan on Covid-19 antibody cocktail“We had a good crop this year but if we aren’t able to sell the produce in the market, it is worrying. Last year, we suffered losses due to the stringent lockdown,” says Irfan Khan, who grows strawberries on six kanals at Gussu on the outskirts of Srinagar. “We used to sell most of our crop to local dealers as the consumption is good here itself,” he says. Relaxation sought for selling strawberries Horticulture director Ajaz Ahmad Bhat has written to the divisional administration, seeking marketing facilities for the strawberry growers during the lockdown. “Being a perishable fruit, strawberry needs immediate marketing. The fruit lasts only for 15 to 20 days after plucking,” Bhat wrote in his letter to the Kashmir divisional commissioner recently. He sought relaxation of a few hours for street vendors to sell strawberries. “Strawberry are full of antioxidants and rich in Vitamin C so they are good for immunity-boosting, especially for Covid-19 patients,” he said, adding that due to non-relaxation of the pandemic restrictions the growers could suffer losses. Shift to strawberries recent Strawberry farming is a recent practice in Kashmir. Most farmers in Srinagar and parts of Ganderbal who shifted to strawberry farming used to grow vegetables earlier. Gussu has the highest number of people growing strawberries and it was a profitable venture till the pandemic struck. Some farmers grow other fruits on their land to make more profit. Bhat said that due to less production, almost all the strawberries get sold in the local markets itself. “Due to the lockdown, we are looking to open sales points so that the growers won’t suffer losses,” he said. Inter-cropping, high-density apple advised Bhat visited Gussu village and interacted with strawberry growers and advised them to adopt inter-cropping and to go for high-density apple as well. “This will help growers earn even better,” he said. Officials said that strawberries are grown on more than 250 hectares in Kashmir and most of the cash crop is grown in villages of central Kashmir, especially on Srinagar’s outskirts. “The annual strawberry production is more than 2,000 to 2,500 metric tonnes and the growers earn more than ₹15 to 20 crore,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/strawberry-growers-worried-covid-could-upset-applecart-in-jk-101622030053695.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||SIT of women cops to probe Bathinda rape, extortion case against ASI||The Punjab and Haryana high court has constituted a three-member special investigation team (SIT), comprising women officials led by additional director general of police (ADGP) Gurpreet Kaur Deo, to probe the role of staff of the crime investigation agency-1 (CIA) of Bathinda police in two criminal cases. Justice Arun Monga pulled up the Bathinda police administration for forming an all-men’s team to investigate charges of rape and extortion against cops by a 38-year-old woman. Also read: In a pandemic, the power of the rumourHe directed Prabhjot Kaur, the deputy superintendent of police, Budhlada, Mansa, to investigate two cases of rape and extortion by cops to absolve the woman’s son in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) case. Prabhjot will report to Muktsar SSP D Sudarvizhi, while Deo will head the investigation, the court ordered on Tuesday. An assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Gurvinder Singh, was caught on camera while allegedly raping a widow at her house on May 11. The woman petitioner alleged that her ailing son was implicated in a criminal case after she turned down sexual favours sought by Gurvinder, posted in CIA-1. The ASI arrested the woman’s son, who she claims is suffering from Covid-19, with 400gm of opium and booked him on May 6. After the son’s arrest, the woman was sexually assaulted by the accused cop twice. The accused cop was caught on camera in a compromising position with the woman at her house at a village under the Nathana police station area. After the matter was reported to the police, Gurvinder was arrested and dismissed from service on May 12. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk formed a three-member SIT under SP (headquarters) SP Singh. After dismissing the ASI, Virk said that the SIT will look into allegations that the woman’s son was implicated, and money was demanded. Alleging a shoddy probe, the aggrieved woman approached the court on May 18, demanding a probe against the other seven members of the CIA-1, who allegedly planted the contraband at her home after which the police personnel demanded sexual favours. In her petition, she alleged that CIA team extorted ₹1.6 lakh on two occasions after her son’s arrest. But the Bathinda police avoided recorded statements on these charges and thus refrained from collecting evidence, she said in her petition. The court observed: “It is deplorable to see the insensitiveness with which the (Bathinda) district police officials have acted in constituting the SIT having all male members.” Accepting the plea, the court ordered the Bathinda chief judicial magistrate (CJM) to get the forensic science laboratory (FSL) report with regard to the audio and video recordings made by the petitioner from her cell phone. It shall be treated as part of the case property, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-of-women-cops-to-probe-bathinda-rape-extortion-case-against-asi-101622027653318.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six months on, farmers in Punjab, Haryana hold black flag protest||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana put up black flags on their houses on Wednesday, joining a black day call given by protesting farmer unions to mark six months of their agitation at Delhi borders against the Centre’s three farm laws. Opposition parties, including the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party, have extended support to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call of observing the day as a black day. The morcha is an umbrella body of protesting unions. Also read: Black Day: Farmers mark 6 months of stir, Tikait says protest will be peacefulShiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal raised a black flag at his house in Badal village in Muktsar district and urged the Centre to accept the demand of protesting farmers. INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala followed suit at his Teja Khera farmhouse in neighbouring Sirsa district in Haryana. Former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda had on Tuesday urged the Centre to restart the dialogue with protesting farmers. Effigies burnt at protest sites At some places in Punjab, farmers took out a protest march, raising slogans against the Centre and burning its effigy. Carrying black flags, hundreds of protesters burnt effigies of the central government. BKU (Ugrahan) Sangrur block chief Gobinder Singh asked farmers to join the three-day dharna in Patiala against the Punjab government from May 28. Farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders, demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the three laws. A government panel had met farmer leaders on January 22. There have been no talks between the two sides since January 26 when the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital turned violent. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-months-on-farmers-in-punjab-haryana-hold-black-flag-protest-101622022253362.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Telemedicine gets good response in Himachal during pandemic||In view of the Covid-19 lockdown, the telemedicine service being provided by the state health department is evoking a good response with people seeking medical advice via the virtual mode. Himachal Pradesh has emerged among the top three states to provide teleconsultations of eSanjeevani OPD, Dr Nipun Jindal, the state director of the National Health Mission, said on Wednesday. Also read: 2.08 lakh new Covid-19 cases reported in 24 hours, declining trend maintainedThese services assume significance given the spike in Covid-19 infections in the state and the restriction on movement to curb its spread. Himachal has seen 83,695 new Covid-19 infections in May so far. Dr Jindal said 1,381 consultations were held through e-Sanjeevani OPD in May. Kangra performed the best in the state by conducting 384 consultations, followed by 230 in Shimla, 159 in Hamirpur, 156 in Solan and 152 in Mandi. He said that the recently added AIIMS Bilaspur, e-Sanjeevani OPD service attended to 60 patients on their opening day on May 24. Since its launch in April last year, Dr Jindal said, 80,062 consultations have been done. The highest 18,470 consultations have been done in Solan, followed by 14,888 in Mandi, 13,524 in Kangra, 7,805 in Chamba and 7,213 in Shimla. He said 36,702 consultations have been done for non-specialist treatments, 16,001 for medical treatments, 7,914 for paediatrics, 7,586 for obstetrics and gynaecology and 4,907 for psychiatry. Medical officers at primary health centres have supported health and wellness centres for 23,811 consultations. The services are being provided by specialist hubs at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla; Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda; and Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk. One more specialist hub will be set up at Dr Radhakrishnan Government Medical College, Hamirpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/telemedicine-gets-good-response-in-himachal-during-pandemic-101622005633945.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||CBSE class 12 exams: Need to vaccinate students, teachers, Punjab minister Singla tells Centre||Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Tuesday said the central government should provide required Covid vaccines to all states before taking a decision on Class 12 board examinations. Conveying the state government’s feedback to the Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Singla said there is a dire need of vaccinating the students appearing in the board examinations and teachers as their health, safety is of utmost importance. The school education minister said the examinations of only selected and essential subjects may be held in each discipline and question papers may be of lesser duration. “Due consideration may also be given to pre-board examinations and internal assessment,” he wrote in a letter to the Union minister. Raising the concerns of students and parents, Singla said the examinations should not be conducted until the safety of all stakeholders is ensured. “As there is every possibility that the students appearing in class 12 would be late in getting admission in the higher educational institutions, the Union government should issue directions to all universities and colleges to cope with the time loss of students,” he said. Singla said the higher education institutions should be asked to reduce the syllabi of the courses which would also reduce the mental pressure on students. “The students taking admissions in the higher education institutions after undergoing class 12 examinations would not be required to undergo all the semesters in the next course. For example, 8 semesters course may be reduced to 7 semesters which would help in reducing mental pressure on students and will also motivate them to perform with more confidence in higher education,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbse-class-12-exams-need-to-vaccinate-students-teachers-punjab-minister-singla-tells-centre-101621975878113.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Free Covid treatment at private hospitals under Sarbat Sehat scheme for beneficiaries in Punjab||In a major reprieve to weaker and underprivileged sections of society, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday announced that the state government has decided to provide free treatment to Covid-19 patients falling under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (SSBY) in empanelled private hospitals. Sidhu said the facility will be available in the hospitals equipped with offering Covid-19 treatment at rates ranging from ₹8,000 to ₹18,000 per day. The state government will bear the entire differential treatment cost derived after deducting the cost payable by the insurance company from the capped charges, he said in a statement. The minister said that cap rates are all-inclusive, that includes bed, PPE kits, medicines, consumables, monitoring/nursing care, doctor’s fee, investigations, oxygen, etc. “The SSBY beneficiaries can directly visit empanelled private hospitals without any need for referral from the public hospitals for Covid-19 treatment,” he added. Earlier, the treatment available in these empanelled private hospitals was payable as per SSBY scheme rates fixed by central government that range from ₹1,800 to ₹4,500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-covid-treatment-at-private-hospitals-under-sarbat-sehat-scheme-for-beneficiaries-in-punjab-101621975511713.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shun indifference, hold talks with farmers: Sukhbir Badal to Modi||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold unconditional talks with the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three contentious agriculture laws. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, the former Punjab deputy chief minister said the PM should shun an indifferent attitude towards the farmers and accept their demands. On the completion of six months of the farm agitation on Wednesday, Sukhbir said he had urged the party rank and file to hoist black flags to demand repeal of the laws and show solidarity with the protesting farmers. Accusing the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab of cheating the farmers who lost their lives during the protests by not giving their families compensation and jobs, the SAD chief said the process be initiated. “At least 400 people died during the protests and most of these families are awaiting compensation,” said Sukhbir. He also urged chief minister Amarinder to speed up vaccination to fight Covid-19 and make a special allocation of ₹1,000 crore to purchase vaccines for inoculating the entire state in the next 6 months. “The CM should give a monthly pension of ₹6,000 each to all families who had lost their breadwinners to the virus. Also, provide free education to those left orphans by the pandemic and waive power and water bills for all sections of society for six-month period,” he added.Also, Sukhbir inducted Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member and former Congress secretary Surjit Singh Tugalwal into SAD. Party leaders Bikram Singh Majithia, Sikander Singh Maluka, Daljit Singh Cheema and Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shun-indifference-hold-talks-with-farmers-sukhbir-badal-to-modi-101621974913918.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||PUSA-44 paddy variety an environmental hazard, need to discontinue its sowing: Punjab to Centre||The Punjab government has told the Centre that the PUSA-44 variety of paddy should not to be sown in the upcoming kharif season in the state, terming it an environmental hazard as it matures late and it produces more stubble. In an action plan sent to the Union ministry for environment on the steps initiated by the state to curb stubble burning and better in-situ management of paddy residue, the Punjab Pollution Control Board and the state agriculture department have proposed that the sowing of the paddy variety which comprises 15-16% of total cultivated area should be stopped immediately. Of a total paddy area of 77 lakh acres under paddy this kharif season, the premium basmati is cultivated over 12.5 lakh acres and the PUSA-44 over 12 lakh acres. Besides, the PR-121 is sown over 17 lakh acres and PR-126 over 12-13 lakh acre land. Five to six other varieties of paddy are also sown in the state. The PUSA-44, developed by Delhi-based Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), commonly referred to as PUSA Institute, is one of the oldest varieties grown in the state. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice chancellor BS Dhillon said the variety has the longest duration (145-150 days) of maturity and leaves a shorter window for wheat sowing after its harvest. “Also, it is sown and transplanted before the onset of monsoon, leading to more consumption of groundwater. On the other hand, the PR-121 variety matures two weeks early (in 135 days) while the PR-126 ripens four weeks early in about 110-115 days,” he added. The PR varieties were developed by the PAU. “Also, the PUSA-44 leaves more crop residue, one tonne more on 1 hectare. On 1 hectare, the PUSA-44 produces 7-8 tonne stubble while the PR varieties produce 5-6 tonnes of residue. It’s (PUSA-44) shoot is also 6-7 inches taller than other varieties,” Dhillon added. Variety preferred by farmers, millers The PUSA-44 is largely grown in Sangrur, Barnala and Mansa districts of the Malwa belt due to its high yield and the fact that it is preferred by rice millers. “Its yield is 5-6 quintals higher than the PR varieties. The per acre yield is 35 quintal against 28-30 quintals of the PR varieties,” said Nek Singh, a farmer from Khokh village in Patiala district’s Nabha sub-division.“So why would a farmer lose ₹9,000-10,000 per acre?” he asked. Bal Krishan Garg, a rice miller, they prefer the PUSA variety as it has lesser quantity of broken grain when shelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pusa44-paddy-variety-an-environmental-hazard-need-to-discontinue-its-sowing-punjab-to-centre-101621974913035.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu hoists black flag atop Patiala house to support farm stir||Congress MLA and former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday hoisted a black flag atop his Patiala house in support of the farmers’ protest against the central government’s new agriculture laws. Later, in a social media post, Sidhu asked every Punjabi to support farmers. The MLA, who was accompanied with his wife, said the black flag is a symbol of rejection of the farm laws. He said that Punjab government has to provide an alternate method of assured minimum support price (MSP) and procurement. Also, his daughter Rabia hoisted a flag at their Amritsar residence. His appeal to unfurl black flags met with a lukewarm response as not many people didn’t come forward in Patiala to put black flags on their residences. “We are aware that Navjot Sidhu is raising the farmers’ issues, but he should come out in the open instead of making his presence only on social media. One has to match their words with action, if they are serious about the cause”, said Thakur Singh Mann, a farmer from Sanaur. ”It is a decisive battle for farmers and we won’t follow any politician and go only with our union leaders. The development came a day after chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh appealed to farmers to not to hold a three-day protest in Patiala, saying it will lead to rise in Covid-19 cases even as he reiterated his support to their agitation against the contentious agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-hoists-black-flag-atop-patiala-house-to-support-farm-stir-101621974912002.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jakhar urges Sonia to lead campaign against Modi govt||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday urged All Indian Congress Committee (AICC) chief Sonia Gandhi and former party president Rahul Gandhi to launch a nationwide campaign to democratically oust the “insensitive” Modi government. Terming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government as a death knell for democratic system, poor people and farmers, Jakhar said the entire state and Congress stood by farmers who were observing “Black Day” on completing six months of their historic struggle on May 26. “We salute their spirit for not only fighting to save their livelihood but also protecting democracy by vehemently opposing the unholy BJP-corporates nexus. Congress has always believed that this battle, based on principles, will last a long time, so we must plan accordingly to win it,” he said. Jakhar said it was imperative for all political parties to launch a massive campaign to democratically remove the Narendra Modi government. May 30 marks completion of the second year of the Modi government and hence this day would be the best time to launch such a national campaign, he said, describing Sonia Gandhi as the most suitable personality to lead the campaign. He urged all parties to unite and work on such a campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jakhar-urges-sonia-to-lead-campaign-against-modi-govt-101621973111547.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab releases ₹100 crore to clear cane growers’ dues||The cooperative sugar mills have released the balance amount of ₹100 crore due towards the cane growers for financial years 2019-20 and 2020-21. Announcing this, cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the amount would be credited into their accounts on Tuesday itself. The state government released the amount at its own level despite the Union government withholding the subsidy of ₹31 crore for export and ₹10 crore for buffer stock for 2019-20, he said in a statement. He said the state government was also undertaking measures to increase the income of cane growers and cooperative sugar mills had provided 16 lakh saplings of high yielding varieties of sugarcane to cane growers with the active assistance of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, and Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-releases-rs-100-crore-to-clear-cane-growers-dues-101621972871791.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||4,798 fresh cases, 176 deaths in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday witnessed a slight increase in daily infections and positivity rate with the figures standing at 4,798 and 7.28%, respectively. Also, 176 people lost their lives to the virus on the day.On Monday, the state had registered 4,539 fresh cases and a 6.51% positivity rate. 6,451 patients had recovered on the day. Among Tuesday deaths, maximum 19 were reported from Ludhiana, followed by 17 in Sangrur, 16 in Amritsar, 14 in Bathinda, 13 in Patiala, 12 in Jalandhar, nine each in Muktsar and SAS Nagar, eight in Ferozepur, seven in Kapurthala.Jalandhar registered maximum of 536 fresh cases, followed by 461 in Ludhiana, 376 in SAS Nagar, 352 in Amritsar, 344 in Bathinda, 334 in Fazilka, 300 in Muktsar, 275 in Patiala, 243 in Pathankot, 233 in Gurdaspur, 229 in Hoshiarpur, 196 in Mansa, 140 in Faridkot, 132 in Sangrur, 114 in Ferozepur, 104 in Kapurthala, 81 in Barnala, 73 in Tarn Taran, 58 in Ropar, 50 in Moga and 35 in SBS Nagar. The number of patients on oxygen support in the state is 6,357 whereas 386 people are on ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4798-fresh-cases-176-deaths-in-punjab-101621971253709.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Five private hospitals put on notice for overcharging in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh health department has issued notices to at least five private hospitals for overcharging Covid-19 patients for treatment during the peak of pandemic.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health department, said the notices have been issued as part of an ongoing inquiry into overcharging complaints received from patients.The hospitals allegedly found fleecing the patients are Eden, Healing Touch, Apollo, Kare Partner and Mukut, said officials. In the notices, the hospitals have been asked to respond as to why the treatment rates prescribed by the administration were not followed.“The hospitals have been given a period of one week to respond to the notices. We had previously asked them to refund the excess amount charged from patients,” said Dr Kang.According to the complaints, private hospitals were allegedly charging extra for oxygen and medicine even as these are part of the package notified by the UT administration.Dr Sanjay Bansal, owner of Eden Hospital, said that at the time of crisis, they were receiving the life saving drugs at a high cost. “Our main motive was to save the life of patients, and it can be due to this reason that the rates were not in line with packages prescribed,” he said. Despite the authorities in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali capping the charges for private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, they have been receiving complaints of fleecing. While the owner of a Zirakpur private hospital was booked and the 104 helpline number was launched to complain in Mohali, a state-level probe was ordered against a Panchkula-based hospital after the Haryana speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta cited three such cases and wrote to Haryana health minister Anil Vij. Private hospital owners in Chandigarh have also demanded a hike in Covid treatment charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-private-hospitals-put-on-notice-for-overcharging-in-chandigarh-101621969151671.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Positivity rate recorded below 10% across Chandigarh tricity||Amid a receding second wave, the daily positivity rate was recorded below 10% across the tricity on Tuesday.Positivity rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is the proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled. It was recorded at 8.6% in Chandigarh, 9% in Mohali and 9.6% in Panchkula, which means of every 100 people tested for Covid-19 less than 10 were found infected on Tuesday. During the peak of the second wave, it had remained around 20-25%. Meanwhile, recovery rate has jumped above 90% across the tricity, while cumulative active case load stands at 10,548, down from the peak of 24,201 couple of weeks back.In terms of cases, the tricity saw an uptick from Monday’s 611 to 808 on Tuesday, while there was a minor decline in daily fatalities from 20 to 17. Mohali, which has been the worst hit, reported 376 cases and nine deaths, followed by 285 cases and five casualties in Chandigarh, and 174 infections and three deaths in Panchkula.“Positivity rate has seen a steep decline after a steep rise in May. It is expected to come down further by the end of the month,” said Chandigarh health secretary Arun Gupta. “Even though there is a fluctuation in the number of tests due to low demand now, we are not seeing a rise in positivity rate, which suggests that infection spread has declined.” While testing levels have been in the range of 3,000 to 4,000 daily, positivity rate has been between 8% and 10% in the past four days in Chandigarh, having touched 28% on May 12. In fact, the central government had time and again flagged Chandigarh’s high positivity rate.Even Mohali has recorded less than 10% positivity rate four times in the past five days. It had once touched 25%. “Sampling in the district has not decreased and we have ensured round-the-clock availability of a team at the district hospital with two dedicated mobile teams for the needy,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan attributed the downward trend to the lockdown and night curfew. “We are hoping it will continue. I urge people to follow the Covid-19 guidelines by wearing masks and maintaining social distance.” Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said the second wave, which started in March, is moving towards an end as the district has started seeing a decline in cases in the past four days. “People should not lower their guard as the behaviour of the new mutant variants is not easy to predict.”“In epidemics we have lull and stormy periods. We have passed this stormy period once again and reached the lull period,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and school of public health, PGIMER. “As a society, we are learning to remain afloat during the lull periods by taking precautions and in the stormy period by imposing restrictions. The longer we are able to take corrective steps, the longer the lull period remains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/positivity-rate-recorded-below-10-across-chandigarh-tricity-101621968792290.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic cops rescue two labourers buried under soil heap in Chandigarh||The traffic police rescued two labourers, who were buried under a heap of soil, while working near the Airport Light Point on Tuesday. The workers were working underground when the heap of soil fell on them around 6:30pm. The labourers were facing difficulty in breathing. A team of four traffic cops, including constable Sukhbinder Kumar, constable Subhash, assistant sub inspector Bhoop Singh and head constable Karambir reached the spot and rescued them. The UT police, Police Control Room and fire brigade also reached the spot. The labourers were rushed for treatment and are now stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-cops-rescue-two-labourers-buried-under-soil-heap-in-chandigarh-101621968671451.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t pay charges to informal garbage collectors, says Chandigarh MC||The Chandigarh municipal corporation on Tuesday asked the city residents to pay garbage collection charges only to its representatives and not to informal cart-based waste lifters. The civic body in a public notice stated: “If any resident pays the waste collection charges to the door-to-door collector, then it will be sole liability of the resident and the amount paid will not be adjusted by the municipal corporation.”The MC started door-to-door garbage collection project through motorised vehicles in Sector 1 to 30 in December last year, and extended it to other areas in March and April. The civic body is presently collecting waste collection charges through its drivers using point-of-sale (POS) machines, and plans to add the charges to water bills in a couple of months. Residents have repeatedly raised concerns over the issue, especially in areas where both MC vehicles and cart-based collectors are turning up. “There is total chaos because the MC is not doing its work. If cart-based collectors are coming and collecting garbage in place of MC vehicles, then why shouldn’t residents pay them? The MC should make it clear on the ground and not just on paper,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh, adding that the MC vehicles don’t come regularly.RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association, said: “It is the responsibility of the MC to resolve this issue rather than put all the burden on residents. It is between the MC and collectors. Residents will pay to the service provider.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-pay-charges-to-informal-garbage-collectors-says-chandigarh-mc-101621968611466.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh water tariff hike: Stay notified, no arrears for bills paid already||The UT administration on Tuesday notified the stay on hiked water tariff and said no arrears will be given for already paid inflated water bills.The UT order, issued by principal secretary (local government) Arun Gupta , states that the administration is “deferring the implementation” of the September 11, 2020 notification, under which water charges were hiked by 200%.The order has come into effect prospectively, that is, from the date of issuance – May 25.“The order only covers the period from May 25, 2021 to March 31, 2022, and not the period from September 11, 2020 to May 24, 2021. So, there is no question of paying arrears to residents who have already paid the inflated water bills,” said a senior UT official, on condition of anonymity.Since September 2020, residents have paid inflated water bills for eight months in four cycles. The latest bills for April and May are due to be paid, which as per administration officials, will be based on the September 11 notification.Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairperson Hitesh Puri said, “We welcome the immediate relief. But, the municipal corporation should give arrears to residents for the eight months already paid.”Residents complained that the latest order does not clarify what will happen to the tariff after March 31, 2022. “We do not know whether the September 2021 notification will be applicable or the administration follow the MC resolution passed in February, under which tariff was reduced, particularly the exorbitant sewer cess. The administration and MC should clarify this,” added Puri. “It is simply a face-saving U-turn taken by the ruling dispensation in the MC in view of the upcoming elections in December. Public anger was simmering for last eight month and the Opposition jumped to make most of the situation. It is nothing to welcome as the water tariff issue still remains,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-water-tariff-hike-stay-notified-no-arrears-for-bills-paid-already-101621968131994.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||1st death anniversary: Mohali hockey stadium named after Balbir Singh Senior||The Mohali International Hockey Stadium was officially renamed after three-time Olympics champion and Padma Shri recipient Balbir Singh Senior on the occasion of his first death anniversary on Tuesday.Dedicating the stadium to the legendry Olympic gold medallist who had died at the age of 96 on May 25 last year, Punjab sports, youth services and NRI affairs minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, said, “From now on, the stadium will be known as Olympian Balbir Singh Senior International Hockey Stadium.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also paid tributes to the legend on Twitter: “Fondly remember legendary hockey player Padma Shri Balbir Singh Senior. On his first death anniversary today, Mohali International Hockey stadium is being dedicated to him.”Sodhi announced that an international hockey tournament will be organised at the stadium to commemorate the stalwart’s journey. As a tribute to the hockey wizard, a scholarship for outstanding sports persons will be initiated and named after him and his statue will be installed on the stadium’s entrance. Balbir Singh Sr’s world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men’s hockey final of the Olympics still remains unbeaten. He had scored five goals in India’s 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games.Balbir Singh Sr’s three Olympic gold medals came in London (1948), Helsinki (1952) as vice-captain, and Melbourne (1956) as captain.Balbir Singh Senior’s grandson Kabir Singh presented a book, Golden Goal penned by Sarwan Singh, to the minister on the occasion. Four Olympians — Rajinder Singh Senior, Rajinder Singh Junior, Ajit Singh and Prabhjot Singh — secretary sports Raj Kamal Chaudhary, director DPS Kharbanda and joint director Kartar Singh were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1st-death-anniversary-mohali-hockey-stadium-named-after-balbir-singh-senior-101621967891635.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||1971 war hero Col Panjab Singh dies of post-Covid complications||Col Panjab Singh (retd), a 1971 Indo-Pak war hero and recipient of the third highest gallantry wartime award Vir Chakra, passed away at the age of 79 at Command Hospital, Chandimandir. Having successfully recovered from Covid-19, he died on Monday evening due to some post-Covid medical complications. His elder son Anil Kumar had also succumbed to the disease on May 21. Born in 1942, he was commissioned into the 6th Battalion of Sikh Regiment in 1967 and went on to command it from 1986 to 1990.In the 1971 war, during Operation Cactus Lilly, the battalion occupied 13km frontage on the heights above Poonch, covering two strategic points. Col Panjab Singh was commanding a company deployed at Tund, which had been limited to a platoon, when the enemy attacked the position with more than a battalion, supported by artillery and mortar fire, on December 3.“Col Panjab with complete disregard for his safety moved from trench to trench and ensured that all weapons under his command engaged the assaulting force till the attacking force retreated, leaving behind their dead and weapons. The enemy attacked the position nine times over two nights, which were similarly foiled. For this brave act, he was awarded the prestigious Vir Chakra on December 24, 1971,” an official release stated.Post retirement, Col Panjab Singh was the director of Sainik Welfare, Himachal Pradesh, and dedicated himself to look after the welfare of veteran fraternity. He was also the vice-president, Indian Ex Service League, Himachal Pradesh of Southern Area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1971-war-hero-col-panjab-singh-dies-of-post-covid-complications-101621967653038.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||NGO launches free oxygen concentrator bank in Ludhiana||NGO Round Table India has set up an Oxygen Concentrator Bank with 50 devices that Covid patients can borrow for free.After inaugurating the bank on Tuesday, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said oxygen concentrators were of immense help to patients in home isolation and also helped reduce the burden on oxygen cylinders supply.NGO’s Ayush Jain said under their Project Saah, the concentrators will be provided for a week against a refundable deposit of ₹50,000. Patients can contact 78884-95654 with their Covid report, doctor’s prescription and Aadhaar card. He said the project was sponsored by Punjab Kings cricket team and Dr Shubha Jain from California, US.A similar service is already in place by Red Cross Society, against a daily rent of ₹200 and refundable security of ₹25,000. Patients can apply for a concentrator through the society via www.ludhiana.nic.in or contact 94173-76655, 98784-50219 and 81465-55493 with a doctor’s prescription. The applicant will be informed through phone within 12 hours if the application is accepted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngo-launches-free-oxygen-concentrator-bank-in-ludhiana-101621967591550.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||₹68 lakh collected in fine for violations amid lockdown in Ludhiana||Amid the unprecedented Covid cases and deaths in Ludhiana in May, residents’ defiance towards the curfew continues, as reflected in the 156 FIRs lodged in the past 15 days.Another 6,836 people were challaned for not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing – an average of 455 a day – fetching the police a whopping ₹68.36 lakh in fine.Worse, these numbers are far higher than those of the previous lockdowns imposed in the region amid the first wave of Covid-19.As many as 1,622 FIRs were registered for violations between March 23, 2020 and May 10 this year when the 17-hour curfew was imposed, while the number of challans was 1,59,525 – an average of 387 a day.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said that apart from issuing challans and lodging FIRs, the police had established four open jails at New SD School, Bahadurke Road, Indoor Stadium on Pakhowal Road, Guru Nanak Stadium and Valmiki Bhawan in Moti Nagar.Additional deputy commissioner of police-level officials have been deputed as assistant superintendent of jail at these four locations, where people found roaming without a valid reason are held for up to four hours.He added that the police had also initiated a free ride scheme for the elderly to take them for vaccination. They were also providing food to Covid patients in home isolation with the help of NGOs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/68-lakh-collected-in-fine-for-violations-amid-lockdown-in-ludhiana-101621967411833.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury touches 40°C again in Chandigarh; set to rise further||The mercury once again touched 40°C in Chandigarh on Tuesday, and is likely to rise further in the coming days. Earlier this month, the maximum temperature had peaked at 40.7°C on May 17, before dropping amid cloudy weather and rain.“Due to clear skies, the maximum temperature went up to 40°C from Monday’s 37.4°C. Similar conditions are likely to continue till at least Friday and temperature can go as high as 42°C,” said an India Meteorological Department official. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature also went up from 20.5°C to 22.6°C. It is expected to go up further to 24-25°C in the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-mercury-touches-40-c-again-will-rise-further-101621966091412.html
