27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: With private units backing out, govt hospitals become Shimla’s lifeline||With the lethal second wave of the pandemic raging across the ‘queen of hills’, private players have refused to admit and treat coronavirus patients, making the two primary government hospitals in Shimla, the state capital, the lifeline of the masses in this hour of crisis. The two hospitals — Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital — have been shouldering the Covid burden of the state. While IGMC has been admitting patients from Sirmaur, Kullu, Kinnaur and Solan apart from Shimla, DDU only admits patients from Shimla. Despite limited resources and heavy caseload, the staff, comprising doctors, paramedical staff and Class-4 workers, has been working round the clock to tackle the pandemic.102-year-old woman beats CovidA 102-year-old patient, Dharamdasi of Kinnaur district, who had tested positive for Covid on May 14, was discharged from IGMC, where she was admitted after complaining of headache, fever and difficulty in breathing, on Thursday.An IGMC spokesperson said, “None of her family members were present with her at the hospital. She was looked after by the hospital staff. It is a matter of pride for us that she has made complete recovery as it a challenge to treat people her age.” Another almost centenarian, 99-year-old Suvdha Devi Bhimta who contracted the viral disease recovered after a month-long stint at DDU. “The two private hospitals in Shimla were not admitting Covid patients so we had no option but to admit her to DDU. However, we were pleasantly surprised as she was looked after properly and made a full recovery at her advanced age,” said her son-in-law Jaisi Ram Jodhta,“There was shortage of nurses, but oxygen supply was sufficient. We were also provided with an ambulance on our way home after my mother-in-law’s recovery. Medical superintendent Dr Ravinder Mokta and his team were very vigilant,” he said.‘DDU Covid ward was like a high-end hotel’Another family had a close brush with death after everyone, except two children, tested positive for the virus and had to be hospitalised. Suresh Chauhan, his wife, mother and elder brother had to be hospitalised at DDU as their oxygen levels dipped. Chauhan and his wife’s oxygen level had plummeted to 80 and their lungs were severely damaged. As their health deteriorated, they were put on ventilators. As they battled the virus, neighbours stepped in to look after their children. Unfortunately, his mother succumbed to the infection and had to be cremated by relatives. Chauhan attributes his family’s recovery to the efficiency and kindness of the hospital staff from the specialists to the sanitary staff. “Surprisingly, the food quality and hygiene standard in the Covid ward was like a high-end hotel,” Chauhan said. “The credit goes to the entire staff, they have been putting in relentless efforts,” says Mokta.2% mortality rate at IGMC IGMC, the state’s premier health institute, which treats the most critical patients, and has a mortality rate of around 2%. As many as 2,025 patients admitted at the hospital since the outbreak have recuperated, 241 are undergoing treatment and 568 patients have succumbed.“As per the World Journal of Death and Dying, the Covid death rate world over has been estimated to be 2-3%. In many countries it has been as high as 5%,” says medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj Pakhretia.The hospital has also provided dialysis to 235 Covid patients. It is the only hospital in the state, which has continued non-Covid OPD even during the peak of the virus.In 2020, the IGMC held 4,24,788 outpatient departments (OPDs) on non-Covid patients while this year 2,00,536 patients have been attended.Six lakh liters of oxygen has been used at IGMC since the outbreak. No shortage was reported despite heavy caseload.Jai Ram visits Virbhadra in IGMC SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur visited Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, on Thursday to enquire after the health of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who was hospitalised on April 30. Congress’s octogenarian leader and former chief minister Virbhadra Singh had been admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College’s (IGMC’s) cardiac unit ICU on April 23 after he complained of difficulty in breathing. He had just been discharged from Max Hospital in Mohali where he was being treated for Covid. He had been brought to Shimla in the state chopper. The 86-year-old leader had tested positive for Covid on April 13. The CM was accompanied by urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, IGMC principal Dr Rajneesh Pathania, senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj and other senior officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-with-pvt-units-backing-out-govt-hospitals-become-shimla-s-lifeline-101622135700720.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 2,322 fresh cases, tally over 750,000||Haryana on Thursday reported 98 Covid-related deaths, taking the cumulative toll to 7,939 while 2,322 fresh infections pushed the total case count to 750,062.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the latest deaths include 12 from Hisar, 11 from Jind, eight from Sirsa and seven each from Karnal, Panchkula and Bhiwani districts.The fresh infections reported from various districts include Hisar (213), Sirsa (193) and Gurugram (171).The total active cases in the state were 28,189, as per the bulletin.So far, the total recoveries were 713,934 and the recovery rate was 95.18 per cent.The cumulative positivity rate was 8.48 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-haryana-records-2-322-fresh-cases-tally-over-750000-101622134365938.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 restrictions in Punjab extended till June 10||The Punjab government on Thursday extended the coronavirus restrictions till June 10 but removed the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles and allowed the resumption of elective surgeries and OPD operations in hospitals.The state government had imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like a weekend lockdown and a night curfew to check the spread of the infection.The decision to extend the curbs was taken at a review meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh here, according to a government statement.Earlier, the state government had extended the Covid curbs till May 31.The CM directed the resumption of elective surgeries in both government and private hospitals besides the restoration of outpatient department (OPD) operations in view of the improvement in the coronavirus situation, the statement said.The state government had stopped elective surgeries on April 12 to ensure adequate availability of beds and medicine oxygen for serious infection cases.The CM has now allowed these to be resumed, subject to the condition that there shall, for the present, be no reduction in beds for Level-3 coronavirus patients in hospitals.The CM also said while the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles is being removed, the limit on commercial passenger vehicles and taxis will continue to be in place.Earlier, the government had announced that not more than two persons could travel in a car.Pillion riders on a two-wheeler were also not allowed, except for those belonging to the same family and living in the same house.The deputy commissioners may make any adjustment for the opening of shops dealing in non-essential items as are merited by local conditions, the CM said.According to the statement, given the comfortable oxygen situation currently, the CM directed that it now be allowed to be used for essential non-medical purposes, with a three-day buffer stock of it, however, to be maintained at all times.He said oxygen concentrator banks have been created in every district for post-covid care patients who have a doctor's prescription.The control room had ensured that there was no shortage of oxygen in any hospital, he said, adding that the demand in the state had come down from 304 metric tonnes to 236 MT in the past 10 days.The CM directed the Health and Medical Education Departments to continue strengthening the Covid care infrastructure to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic.He asked them to invest in augmenting paediatric care and to seek 500 ventilators for it from the Centre.It was told at the meeting that all 809 ventilators received earlier under the PM Cares Fund have been distributed and 136 of them were not working.The CM also ordered the creation of more technical and specialist posts to meet the demand of the possible third wave.All mid-level IAS/PCS transfers in all departments should be put on hold till the Covid crisis continues, directed the CM.The CM also warned that profiteering and fleecing of patients by private hospitals amid such a crisis will not be allowed at any cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-restrictions-in-punjab-extended-till-june-10-101622122656289.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer, son shot dead over land dispute in Punjab’s Patran||A farmer, Balbir Singh, 58, and his son, Charanjeet Singh, 30, were murdered at Hamcheri village in Patran, 60km from Patiala, over a property dispute on Wednesday night. Police said a case has been registered against Balbir’s brother Karnail Singh, his mother Balwinder Kaur, his nephews Khuvinder Singh and Gurpal Singh besides his friend Jaspal Singh under Sections 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Also read: Red Fort violence was ‘well-planned conspiracy’: Charge sheetThe family was at loggerheads over the ownership of about two acres of farmland. Deputy superintendent of police Bharpur Singh said the incident occurred around 11pm on Wednesday when Balbir’s nephews, Khuvinder and Gurpal, barged into his house and fired multiple shots with their .12-bore gun. “The two died on the spot, while the accused fled,” the DSP said. The accused had entered the house on the pretext of asking Balbir of the dates on which he would be going for the farmers’ protest at the Delhi border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-son-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-punjab-s-patran-101622107037780.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||San Jose mass shooting: Tarn Taran village mourns Sikh youth’s death||Taptejdeep Singh, the 36-year-old train operator who was among the eight people killed in the mass shooting at San Jose in California on Wednesday, belonged to Gagrewal village in Khadoor Sahib sub division of Punjab’s Tarn Taran district. Taptejdeep is survived by two children, aged eight and two, besides his wife and elderly parents. He had migrated to the United States with his father, Sarabjit Singh Gill, and uncles more than two decades ago. Also read: Drug peddler, accomplice shot dead in Punjab’s border town of PattiA former sarpanch of Gagrewal, Kashmir Singh, who lives in the neighbourhood of the grieving family’s locked house, said: “Taptejdeep had been living in the US for 20-25 years. His parents, uncles, namely Inderjit Singh, Ranjit Singh and Amarjit Singh, are also settled there. Though the family members rarely visited the village, we share deep ties with them. The death of the young man is a loss for us. We are in grief.” A media portal quoted Taptejdeep’s cousin, Bagga Singh, who also lives in the US, as saying, “My cousin was a train operator. He was one of several relatives, all immigrants from India, working for the transit agency, Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, but my cousin was the only one on duty on Wednesday morning when the shooting occurred.” On April 15, four members of the Sikh community, including three women, were killed in a shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, Indiana, in the US. A total of nine people were killed, including the shooter, a 19-year-old former employee named Brandon Scott Hole, who committed suicide. Expressing concern over the incidents of violence, in which members of the Sikh community were also targeted, US-based Punjabi community activist Sameep Singh Gumtala said, “The country is suffering from an epidemic of gun violence”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/san-jose-mass-shooting-tarn-taran-village-mourns-sikh-youth-s-death-101622104277270.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Drug peddler, accomplice shot dead in Punjab’s border town of Patti||Two car-borne assailants shot dead a drug peddler and his accomplice in the border town of Patti in Tarn Taran district on Thursday morning, police said, adding that the third person accompanying them was injured in the firing. The deceased were identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Aman Fauji, and Prabhjit Singh, alias Pooran, while their accomplice Dilbagh Singh, alias Shera of Patti, was injured. Also read: New rules to prevent abuse and misuse of social media: Ravi Shankar PrasadAll three were riding a scooter and returning after paying obeisance at a peer dargah (saint’s tomb) when the assailants opened fire at them at Nadohar roundabout in Patti town at 6.45am, the police said. Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said that a case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons at Patti city police station. A senior police official said Amandeep Singh was involved in heroin peddling. “We have traced his links to gangster Bhagwan Kazikot,” he said, adding that efforts were on to catch the accused, who had fled in a Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-peddler-accomplice-shot-dead-in-punjab-s-border-town-of-patti-101622101877285.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats operated for black fungus||Kuldeep Vats, the Congress MLA from Badli, has been successfully operated after he contracted black fungus infection, his family said on Thursday. The 46-year-old MLA’s son Jatin Vats said over phone that his father had undergone the surgery for mucormycosis at Medanta hospital in Gurugram on Wednesday and is in a stable condition. Also read: Zydus Cadila seeks human trial approval for Covid-19 antibody cocktailJatin said that Kuldeep Vats had suffered from Covid-19 twice since the outbreak last year. “My father returned home from Medanta on May 20 after being cured of coronavirus infection for the second time. Three days later, his condition started worsening and we rushed him to the hospital where doctors found he was suffering from black fungus. The infection was scraped off from near his forehead on Wednesday. He is fine now,” Jatin said. Kuldeep Vats, who had defeated BJP’s OP Dhankar in the 2019 assembly elections, had tested positive for Covid-19 last year, too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-congress-mla-kuldeep-vats-operated-for-black-fungus-101622099597539.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala jailbreak: 2 assistant jail superintendents, a warder suspended for lapse||The Punjab prisons department has suspended two assistant jail superintendents and a warder for negligence in the Patiala jailbreak case. Additional director general of police (prisons) PK Sinha ordered suspension of assistant jail superintendents Tarlochan Singh and Kuldip Singh and warder Sant Singh on the basis of an inquiry report submitted by IG (prisons) who found them prima facie guilty in the jailbreak incident. Three prisoners — Inderjit Singh, Sher Singh and Jaspreet Singh — fled from the quarantine ward of the Patiala Central Jail on the intervening night of April 27 and 28 by scaling the prison wall. An FIR under sections 223, 224, 225, 225-A, 427, 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, section 4 of the Damage Public Property Act, and section 42 of the Prison Act was registered against the escapees at the Tripuri police station. The police had constituted a special investigation team (SIT) besides six other teams to track and nab the accused. Eight days later, the SIT managed to nab Inderjit, a former army trainer. The police also arrested a person who allegedly gave shelter to Inderjit when he was on the run. Sher Singh and Jaspreet are still absconding.“The IG in his report found that the officials did not ensure surveillance. They were also found negligent as per the jail manual. A stern action should be taken against officials as the incident has dented the image of the prisons department,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-jailbreak-2-assistant-jail-superintendents-a-warder-suspended-for-lapse-101622061015139.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fake currency racket busted in Patiala, 4 arrested||Police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a gang involved in manufacturing of fake currency and arrested four persons, including a woman, with counterfeit bills to the tune of ₹1.99 lakh. The accused were identified as Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and Ravi of Sangrur district and Piarjeet Kaur of Patiala city.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Kumar Garg said they also recovered printers, a computer and laminators from their possession. “Acting on a tip-off, a police team conducted a raid and arrested the suspects from the spot. During interrogation, it came to the fore that Jasvir, who was earlier involved in such cases, had formed the gang after coming out on bail last year,” he said.Garg said the fake currency seemed to have been prepared using very high-quality equipment.“There is little difference between the notes they made and the genuine ones. Shopkeepers are liable to be easily cheated with such bills,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-currency-racket-busted-in-patiala-4-arrested-101622060955915.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moga villagers to install statue of IAF pilot who died in MIG crash||Residents of Langeana Nawan in Moga district have decided to install a statue of Squadron Leader Abhinav Choudhary (29), who died after his MIG-21 fighter jet crashed near the village on May 21, as a tribute. The statue will come up in the vicinity of the village. The locals said the Indian Air Force pilot died in an attempt to save the lives of hundreds of residents of Langeana Nawan and adjoining Langeana Purana village as the fighter jet could have crashed into residential areas. The two villages have a population of nearly 5,000. They have already approached sculptors to make the statue of Choudhary. Also, an akhand path (non-stop recitation of Guru Granth Sahib) started at Langeana Purana on Wednesday in the squadron leader’s memory and a bhog ceremony will be held on Friday. Choudhary, whose body was found from fields nearly 2km from the crash site, was on a routine training sortie and was returning to the IAF base in Suratgarh, Rajasthan. He hailed from Baghpat district in Uttar Pradesh.Langeana Nawan sarpanch Jagsir Singh said, “He averted the crashing of the fighter jet in the residential area. He could have survived by crashing the jet in the residential area but chose to save others’ lives. The statue will be installed with the contribution of villagers. Once the IAF completes formalities pertaining to the death, we will start the work on the installation of statue.”Langeana Purana sarpanch Sukhdev Singh said, “We lost a brave young warrior in the unfortunate incident. Senior IAF officials were also informed and they may also join us in the bhog ceremony on Friday.”Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans, said, “It is a good initiative. They just have to inform us where they want to install the statue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-villagers-to-install-statue-of-iaf-pilot-who-died-in-mig-crash-101622060954982.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh’s wife tests +ve, admitted to hospital||Two days after 91-year-old Olympian Milkha Singh was admitted to Fortis Hospital in Mohali with Covid pneumonia, his wife Nirmal Kaur, 82, tested positive on Wednesday and was admitted to the same hospital.Like Milkha, Nirmal also has Covid pneumonia. The hospital in a statement said, “Milkha Singh continues to be stable on oxygen support. However, he is weak and we are trying to persuade him to increase his food intake. Today, we have stepped him down from the ICU to a room, which he is sharing with his wife Nirmal Kaur. She was admitted earlier in the day with Covid pneumonia.” Last week, Milkha, Nirmal, his son Jeev Milkha Singh’s wife Kudrat and son Harjai had taken an RT-PCR Test. While Milkha tested positive, others came out as negative. Since Milkha has been admitted to the hospital, his food intake has been quite low. Meanwhile, Milkha’s daughter Mona Milkha Singh, who is a doctor at the Metropolitan Hospital Centre in New York, arrived in Chandigarh on Wednesday. His son Jeev also arrived from Dubai on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-s-wife-tests-ve-admitted-to-hospital-101622060595315.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt reviews Patiala devp works, asks DC to push canal water supply project||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday asked the Patiala deputy commissioner to speed up the ongoing ₹468-crore canal-based water supply project to ensure potable drinking water supply to the city residents. He also directed to formulate a plan to cover all colonies in and around the city under this scheme.Reviewing the progress of the ongoing development works in Patiala, the chief minister asked the DC to personally monitor the progress of these projects and update him regularly to ensure their timely execution. He also directed all the line departments to work in tandem for speedy completion of the projects, including canal-based water supply, new bus stand, sports university, rejuvenation of Chhoti and Badi Nadi, besides sprucing up the heritage street. Earlier, making a detailed presentation on the development works, the DC informed the CM that 60% of the work on the water supply project will be completed by March 2022. Regarding the status of new bus stand and workshop with an outlay of nearly ₹60 crore, the principal secretary public works said the bus stand will be ready by November 2021 and the workshop by March 2022. He also informed the CM that for direct entry of buses into the new bus stand, the PWD has already got an approval from Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) for construction of a flyover at a cost of ₹7.7 crore. The CM also asked principal secretary (transport) to clear PRTC proposal to purchase 255 new buses. For the upcoming Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University at Sidhuwal village, the CM asked the finance department to immediately grant sanction for filling requisite post of teaching faculty so as to make the university fully functional besides approving ₹60 crore for the construction of the varsity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-reviews-patiala-devp-works-asks-dc-to-push-canal-water-supply-project-101622060176107.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Row over ‘missing content’ from SGPC’s new website||A controversy has erupted over the new website of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) with voices being raised over removal of important content related to the Sikhism from the portal. The SGPC unveiled its new website www.sgpcamritsar.org in January this year, which earlier was was www.SGPC.net. Urging the Akal Takht to take action against the SGPC, Sikh Federation activist Prof Sarchand Singh said the gurdwara body has deliberately removed old and new kirtan (devotional singing), hukamnama sahib (hymn from the Guru Granth Sahib which is an order to Sikhs) pages from the new website. He said, “The panth (community) has yet not got the plundered treasure of the Sikh Reference Library and the SGPC president Jagir Kaur has removed important content related to Sikh customs and history from the website under a deep-rooted conspiracy. Instead of using Punjabi, the new website is decorated with the English language. Instead of uploading the pictures of Sikh martyrs, the SGPC has uploaded pictures of celebrities and political leaders.” He said, “It has been around four months since the new website was launched, but there is no information about the Sikh history, the life of Sikh gurus and Sikh ideology. If there had been any issue with the old website, the SGPC chief could have taken suggestions from Sikh scholars and technicians. No permission was taken for changing the website from the executive committee.” Terming the allegations as “baseless”, SGPC’s additional secretary Sukhminder Singh said the work to transfer data from the old portal to the new is still underway. He said the domain name of the old website gave an impression of a network whereas the SGPC is a large organisation. Therefore, the domain name was changed to ‘sgpcamritsar.org’. “The new portal will contain the entire data which was available on the old website. As per the need of the hour, modern technology has been adopted in the new website,” he said. Sukhminder said Jagir Kaur had constituted a committee of Sikh experts, including Dr Balwant Singh Dhillon, Dr Paramvir Singh, Principal Prabhjot Kaur, Dr Inderjit Singh Gogoani, Dr Amarjit Singh, and Dr Jogeshwar Singh for reviewing the content on the website. Not only this, many historic, as well as new books related to the Sikh faith, will also be a part of this new website. “Sarchand Singh can approach the SGPC with his suggestions, which will be welcomed. It is not good to create baseless controversies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-missing-content-from-sgpc-s-new-website-101622059997396.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab transfers 58 IAS and PCS officers||Chandigarh Punjab on Wednesday transferred 58 IAS and PCS officers. According to the order, Manvesh Singh Sidhu will now be holding the charge of Roopnagar divisional commissioner in addition to this posting as secretary, revenue and rehabilitation, while Gurpreet Kaur Sapra, divisional commissioner, Jalandhar, has also been given the additional charge of secretary, finance. Malwinder Singh Jaggi will now be commissioner, municipal corporation, Amritsar, whereas Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal will also hold the charge of chief administrator, PUDA, at SAS Nagar. Vipul Ujjawal will also be holding the charge of director, social justice and empowerment. Vishesh Sarangal will now be ADC, Hoshiarpur, whereas Harbir Singh will now be ADC, urban development, at SBS Nagar. Komal Mittal has been posted as ADC (urban development), Amritsar whereas Ruhee Gugg will now be ADC (General) at Amritsar. Other IAS officers transferred include, Jaspreet Singh as ADC (development), Jalandhar, Himanshu Aggarwal as ADC (general), SAS Nagar, Abhijeet Kaplish as ADC (general), Fazilka, Aaditya Uppal as ADC (general), Kapurthala, Paramvir Singh as ADC (development), Bathinda, Palavi as ADC (urban development), Amritsar, Aashika Jain as ADC (urban development), Hoshiarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-transfers-58-ias-and-pcs-officers-101622059649079.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University may put annual fee hike on hold again||Panjab University (PU) is likely to put on hold the annual fee hike for the upcoming academic session in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.A recommendation in this regard was given by a special panel constituted by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to discuss the fee structure of the university teaching departments, regional centres and constituent colleges for 2021-22 academic session.The 16-member panel, headed by dean university instruction VR Sinha, has recommended that the varsity should put the annual fee hike on hold for the upcoming session in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. It is learnt that the members of the panel were of unanimous view that the fee hike should be deferred. However, these recommendations are subject to the approval of the vice-chancellor.Sinha said, “The recommendation has been made keeping in view the hardships faced by the students amid the pandemic.”This will be for the second year in a row that PU will not hike the student fee. Also, there will be no hike in the examination fee in the upcoming session.PU syndicate last year had deferred the 7.5% fee hike for self-financed courses and 5% for traditional courses for new entrants to the 2020-21 academic session.Moreover, last year the varsity also allowed students to pay the semester fee in instalments and helped many students who were not able to pay the fee. A member of the panel said that they also discussed the possibility of allowing the students to pay the semester fee in instalments this year as well.Students for refund of miscellaneous charges Student body Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar seeking the refund of all the miscellaneous charges imposed on the students. It has said that no offline activity took place during the past one year due to the Covid pandemic and the miscellaneous charges were not utilised. They have requested that these charges be refunded to the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-may-put-annual-fee-hike-on-hold-again-101622059648120.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Work on automated vehicle inspection hub set to kick off in Chandigarh||The construction of Chandigarh’s first automated inspection and certification centre (AICC) is all set to begin at Raipur Kalan.The UT engineering department has already started the demarcation of the land in the village.The centre will be used for testing the fitness of all commercial motor vehicles registered in the city. It will also be a regional driver training hub.With little human intervention, the sensor-based machines at the state-of-the-art facility will inspect, test and certify whether a vehicle is fit for plying on roads.All commercial goods vehicles, taxis and public and school buses will have to visit the new facility for annual fitness certification.The facility will test each vehicle on more than 24 parameters as laid down in the Motor Vehicles Act before certifying its road worthiness. These parameters include components, parts and fixtures such as brakes, steering, suspension, emissions transmission, electrical systems and assessment of general condition of the vehicle including tyres etc. Failing to pass the stipulated tests, vehicles would be denied permission to plying on the road.The road-worthiness test ensures safety of passengers or other road users such as pedestrians. “These tests also help in keeping worst polluting, unworthy vehicles off the roads, and help protect the environment,” a UT official said.The entire inspection process will involve negligible human intervention. The current system involves state transport authority (STA) officials’ subjectivity, which encourages corruption. The manual inspection is not exhaustive. The new facility will eliminate the need for STA inspectors’ discretion.It will also make the process time-bound and transparent. During the tests, owners will be able to see the process through CCTV feeds and nobody will be allowed near the vehicle, including officials.“The centre will be spread over three acres of land. The construction will start within a month and is expected to be completed in a year’s time,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/work-on-automated-vehicle-inspection-hub-set-to-kick-off-in-chandigarh-101622059574938.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 4,124 Covid cases, 186 more deaths||Punjab’s Covid-19 caseload surged to 5,52,235 on Wednesday as 4,124 more people tested positive for the disease while the death toll climbed to 13,827 with 186 more fatalities, according to a medical bulletin.The positivity rate dipped to 5.44%, the lowest in two months.Ludhiana reported the highest number of fresh cases at 438, followed by 385 in Bathinda, 337 in Jalandhar and 318 in Mansa, it said. According to media bulletin, 20 deaths each, the highest in the state, were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala, followed by 15 from Sangrur and 14 each from Amritsar, Bathinda and Fazilka. The number of active cases dropped to 50,549 from 53,127 on Tuesday. There are 354 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 942 other critical patients and 6,007 patients on oxygen support, it said.A total of 6,397 Covid patients recovered in a day, taking the number of cured persons to 4,87,859. So far, 89,25,740 samples have been collected for testing in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-4-124-covid-cases-186-more-deaths-101622058255153.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||All ICU beds occupied, 47% ventilators still non-functional at Faridkot medical college||Even as the daily Covid cases in Punjab has seen a dip in the past fortnight, all level-3 beds are occupied at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot. Besides, 47% ventilators are still non-functional at the facility, which caters the south Malwa region of the state.Against a daily caseload of 8,668 May 11, the state reported 4,539 new cases on May 25. The positivity rate has also dropped from 15% to 6.51%.Of the total 119 ventilators, only 63 are operational at the Faridkot facility.With 450 isolation beds facility, the GGSMCH is providing care to critical Covid patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. As per official records, all 128 level-3 Intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators and 175 of the 320 level-2 beds are occupied. Following non-availability of beds, critically ill patients have to wait or go to another level-3 facility in other district. On May 11, 73 of the total 119 ventilators at the GGSMCH were found non-functional following multiple defects. Of the 73 non-functional ventilators, 71 were received under Prime Minister (PM) Cares Fund. Though engineers of a private company visited the facility to repair the ventilators, all of them are yet to be operational. Doctors have also refused to certify some ventilators due to snags.GGSMCH medical superintendent Dr Shilekh Mittal said they are facing a shortage of level-3 beds as patients from nine districts are visiting the facility. “Right now, all ventilators are occupied but engineers are working to repair the faulty life-saving machines. We are stuck in a cycle as 3-4 ventilators are being repaired everyday but the same number of these machines stop working due to some defect. We are not using some ventilators as their performance is not up to mark,” he added.Dr Ruhee Dugg, registrar, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), said initially the GGSMCH got 82 ventilators under the PM Cares Fund and nine from AvGa. Later, more ventilators under PM Cares Fund were shifted to the Faridkot medical college from other districts. But these were non-functional. The engineers are continuously repairing the faulty ventilators but some are yet to be certified doctors. We put the machines on a 24-hour trial run as we cannot test them on patients directly. We are witnessing problems in some ventilators even after repairs,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-icu-beds-occupied-47-ventilators-still-non-functional-at-faridkot-medical-college-101622058134882.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP slams Punjab govt for removal of doctors from villages||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on Wednesday condemned the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government’s decision to remove the MBBS doctors from villages during the Covid-19 pandemic.Cheema said the decision to remove these doctors from villages at such a crucial time is wrong. He also questioned the move to transfer about 489 subsidiary health centres in rural Punjab under the rural development and panchayat department to the health department. “These decisions will deprive the people of about 3,000 villages of medical services,” the LOP claimed in a statement, accusing the state government of betraying the people. He also alleged that the black marketing of Amphotericin B drug for black and white fungus was rampant.Cheema demanded the Punjab government stop the mistreatment of the people living in the villages and immediately appoint MBBS doctors in villages so that the people are not forced to go to cities for treatment of Covid and other diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-slams-punjab-govt-for-removal-of-doctors-from-villages-101622057955547.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six months of stir: Punjab farmers hold protest, hoist black flags atop houses||Farmers in Punjab put up black flags on their houses and burnt effigies of the Narendra Modi government on Wednesday, joining a “black day” call given by protesting farmer unions to mark six months of their agitation at Delhi borders against the Centre’s three farm laws.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal raised a black flag at his house at Badal village in Muktsar district and urged the central government to accept the demand of protesting farmers. Opposition political parties, including the Congress, SAD and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have extended their support to the farmers’ call of observing the day as “black day”.The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting unions, had announced that farmers will observe May 26 as “black day” to mark the completion of six months of their protest.Farmers carrying black flags while women wearing black ‘chunnis” held protests in villages and raised slogans against the Union government.Protesting farmers burnt effigies of the BJP-led government at many places, including Amritsar, Muktsar, Moga, Tarn Taran, Sangrur and Bathinda.Farmers, especially youth, put up black flags on their vehicles including tractors, cars and two-wheelers at several places in Punjab to register their protest.SAD leaders led by Bikram Singh Majithia and Daljit Singh Cheema hoisted a black flag at their party office in Chandigarh.Hundreds of farmers, including women and youths, holding black flags held tractor marches in Sangrur and Barnala districts.Sangrur block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) Gobinder Singh asked farmers to join a three day long protest against the state government in Patiala from May 28. Leader of opposition and Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema, Sunam Aam Aadmi Party MLA Aman Arora and Lehra SAD legislator Parminder Singh Dhindsa hoisted back flags atop their residences to oppose the farm laws.Covid norms violated Amid the second wave of the pandemic, a large number of farmers and their supporters gathered at various places of southern Punjab on Wednesday to observe the “resistance day”.Carrying black flags, scores of activists gathered outside the Bathinda district administrative complex. They later marched to Hanuman Chowk and burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Scores of the protesters did not adhere to Covid norms and social distancing was not followed.Reports of similar gatherings were reported from Muktsar, Mansa and other districts of southern Punjab. Women-led protests in various villages of the region.Bajwa demands scrapping of lawsCongress’ Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Wednesday demanded that the BJP government at the Centre should immediately scrap the three farm laws to pave the way for the return of protesting farmers to their homes. Bajwa, who paid obeisance at Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana, for safety of farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders for six months, said that he hoped the central government would listen to views other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann ki Baat. “Scrap these #BlackLaws so that our farmers can return to their homes,” he tweeted with photos of black flags at his residence here in support of the Black Day protest observed by the farmer organizations.AAP protests outside guv’s residenceThe AAP observed the “black day” by staging a protest in front of Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore’s residence in Chandigarh. AAP workers led by Kotkapura MLA and state kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Barnala MLA and state youth wing president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer carried black flags and raised slogans in support of farmers protesting against the three farm laws.“At a time when the entire country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic; what was the need for the Union government to bring three black farm laws?” Sandhwan asked, accusing it of neither consulting the farmer organisations nor the opposition parties before enacting the legislation. Sandhwan and Hayer demanded immediate repeal of the three laws.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-months-of-stir-punjab-farmers-hold-protest-hoist-black-flags-atop-houses-101622057595633.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||250 shanties gutted in Kapurthala fire||Around 250 shanties were gutted in a fire that broke out on Wednesday afternoon near the Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala. Police said there was no report of any casualty in the incident, but more than 1,000 dwellers have been rendered homeless. It took four fire tenders over two hours to douse the flames, they said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Eyewitnesses say after the fire spread across the shanties, commuters and local shopkeepers rescued those trapped inside. Kapurthala district administration officials said that they are making temporary arrangements for migrant workers at government school in Bhulana village. The administration has also arranged food for them, they said. Deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal said the administration will assess the loss caused by the blaze and will compensate the dwellers. Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema said that Punjab government will provide compensation to the affected families.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has asked the district administration to provide immediate relief and assistance to all the affected families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/250-shanties-gutted-in-kapurthala-fire-101622057355406.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor unit busted in Amritsar, 4 arrested||Police on Wednesday unearthed an illicit liquor manufacturing unit at Nangal Wanjanwali village falling under the Ajnala sub-division on Wednesday.Four persons have been arrested and police have recovered 105 tonne lahan (raw material used for producing illicit liquor), 500 litre illicit liquor, three stills and 35 tarpaulins.The accused have been identified as Malkiat Singh, Sunny, Kabal Singh and Bindu of the same village. Police have identified a few more members of the gang and raids were on to nab them.The liquor was being smuggled in various villages of Ajnala and its adjoining sub-divisions, said the police.Senior superintendent of police (Amritsar-rural) Dhruv Dahiya said they got a tip-off that the racket was being operated in the village. He said: “A team of 150 policemen, including DSPs and inspectors, was formed to conduct early morning search and cordon operation. We are also identifying the properties accumulated by the accused through the illegal trade, so that they can be attached.”This was the 9th operation of the Amritsar rural police under the state government’s “red rose” campaign in the past last three months. Earlier, such rackets were busted from Khiala Kalana, Lakhuwal, Chapa Ram Singh, Kotli Sakka, Jasso Nangal, Chak Mishri Khan, Jethuwal, and Fatehwal villages. During these operations, the police arrested 40 accused, besides recovering 850 tonnes of lahan, 60 stills and 4,000 litre of illicit liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-unit-busted-in-amritsar-4-arrested-101622057234986.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three national committee members of dera nominated in sacrilege case||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases on Wednesday named three absconding members of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s national committee as accused in the case relating to putting up of derogatory posters near the Bargari village gurdwara.Three Haryana residents Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kaler and Harsh Dhuri have been nominated as conspirators in the case. The SIT said two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24 and 25, 2015, by the accused dera followers on their directions. The SIT had on May 21 nominated the trio in another case of sacrilege wherein torn pages of ‘bir ‘were found scattered in Bargari . Remand of 2 dera men extended Meanwhile, the police remand of two dera followers, Shakti Singh and Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, arrested on May 16 in the Bargari sacrilege case, was extended by two days by the court of additional chief judicial magistrate Sanjeev Kundi.The probe has found that derogatory posters were put up by the dera followers and they also have a witness to prove this, the SIT told the court. “Gopal Das, who runs a stationery shop, identified the papers and markers that were purchased from his shop to make posters before the incident took place in 2015,” the SIT claimed, adding that two cars used in the crime were also recovered from the possession of accused dera followers.Dera committee members missing link in case The three absconding members of the dera’s national committee are the missing link in three sacrilege incidents that sparked off state-wide protests in 2015. The teams probing the cases claim that the instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari (Faridkot), Malke (Moga) and Gurusar (Bathinda) were given by Bareta, Kler and Dhuri to the district dera committee members.In July 2020, The SIT had named Breta, Kler and Dhuri as accused in a case relating to the theft of a “bir” (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the “bir” were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari village.Torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were also found at Malke village in Moga district in November 2015 and Gurusar (Bhagta) village in Bathinda district in October 2015. The SIT led by former IGP Ranbir Singh Khatra had nominated them accused in both cases in 2018. They have already been declared proclaimed offenders in these three cases. “The trio had met Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in Nabha jail in 2019, and instructed him to steal the bir. Similarly, in Moga sacrilege case, they gave instructions to dera state committee members Pirthi Singh and Jatindervir, alias Jimmy, after which sacrilege was done by a dera follower at Malke and Gurusar villages. Once arrested, the trio can reveal names of more people involved in the case,” said an SIT official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-national-committee-members-of-dera-nominated-in-sacrilege-case-101622057055151.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana YouTuber handed over to Arunachal police||The Arunachal Pradesh police on Wednesday got transit remand of YouTuber and social media influencer Paras Singh, alias Bunty, who was arrested in Ludhiana on Tuesday for his racial remarks against a Congress MLA from Arunachal Pradesh and for bearing ill will towards the people of the state.Paras, a resident of Janakpuri, was presented in court following medical tests and was handed over the Arunachal Pradesh police on transit remand, said commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal.Paras Singh, who goes by the name Paras Official on his YouTube channel, had in a video posted on Sunday termed Congress MLA Ninong Ering a non-Indian and apparently claimed that Arunachal Pradesh was a part of China, sparking furor among Arunchalees and people from other parts of the country.In another video, posted on Monday, he apologised for his comments. Paras Singh has 457k subscribers on his YouTube channel.Paras did not understand repercussions: MotherParas’ mother Chanda Devi said her son did not realise the repercussions such a statement would elicit. “We regret what happened. My son has also apologised. He had no clue that his foolish act would invite so much trouble. The government and people of Arunachal Pradesh should show kindness as my son is merely 22 years old,” she said.The family had migrated to Punjab from Bihar in 1998. Paras’s father had died a few years ago. The family lived in rented quarters and Paras’ mother did odd jobs to earn a living. However, a few years ago, Paras, who used to play PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds (PUBG), launched his YouTube channel and started live streaming the games. Soon his channel became a hit, and he began earning from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-youtuber-handed-over-to-arunachal-police-101622056754930.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cases continue to dip as 438 test positive in Ludhiana||The number of fresh coronavirus cases continued to dip in Ludhiana with the district recording less than 500 cases for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. The district recorded 438 fresh cases even as 20 more people succumbed to the contagion. Out of the 20 people claimed by the virus, 13 are men and seven women. The youngest to succumb was a 34-year-old man of Jagraon, while the oldest was a 77-year-old woman of Vikas Nagar. Six of the deceased were in their sixties, five in their seventies, four in their fifties, three in their thirties and two in their forties.The number of active cases now stand at 6,629. The figure has fallen below the 7,000-mark for the first time in a month. Since the Covid outbreak, Ludhiana has clocked 82,424 cases while 73,867 people have recovered. At present, there are 51 patients on ventilator support in different hospitals of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cases-continue-to-dip-as-438-test-positive-in-ludhiana-101622056514849.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, curfew relaxation in Ludhiana till 3pm||With the district witnessing a dive in the number of Covid cases and positivity rate over the last two weeks, the administration on Wednesday extended the curfew relaxation timings till 3pm on weekdays. In a major relief to the business community, which had been clamouring for relaxation in timings, all shops can now operate from 5am to 3pm, an extension of two hours. The permitted hours for home delivery of cooked food have also been increased till 9pm. The weekend curfew will remain in place. In his weekly Facebook live session, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said Ludhiana has been witnessing a slight respite in cases for the last two weeks after hitting an extraordinary scale amid the second wave of the pandemic in mid-April and May. He said the Ludhiana administration will be honouring health workers and officers of all departments that have been performing their Covid duties tirelessly. Traders had met DC earlier in the dayEarlier in the day, a delegation of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal had met Sharma and demanded that shops be allowed to remain open till 5pm. The meeting had been facilitated by MLA Rakesh Pandey, to whom the traders’ association had submitted a memorandum after staging an agitation on May 24. Citing losses due to the imposition of a 16-hour daily curfew and weekend lockdown, traders said they will be forced to raise an agitation and hand over their shops to the government unless the curfew relaxation period was extended till 5pm next month. Though the extension of timings have been welcomed, traders want further relaxation citing the low footfall during the relaxation hours in the morning and afternoon. Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra said, “Shopkeepers are struggling to pay rent, power bills and salaries as marginal sales are made between 5am and 1pm. Shops should be allowed to stay open till 5pm from next month as is being done in other districts of the state.” A garment store owner in Model Town market, Ashu Grover, said, “The decision to allow the shops to remain open till 3pm will certainly increase the footfall in the market. It is not possible to keep running businesses without profits. The move will also reduce chaos and traffic jams witnessed around 1pm as the curfew hour approaches.” On May 7, the administration had first imposed a 17-hour curfew from 12pm to 5am, which was relaxed by an hour on May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-curfew-relaxation-in-ludhiana-till-3pm-101622056274947.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three KTF activists booked for killing gangster Sukha Lamme||Moga police have booked three activists of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) for killing gangster Sukha Lamme in June last year. The accused have been identified as Arshdeep Singh, Lovepreet Singh and Kamaljeet Singh of Dala village of Moga. Lovepreet and Kamaljeet were arrested on Saturday for their involvement in several heinous crimes in the past. Arshdeep, who is living abroad, is yet to be arrested.According to the FIR, the accused were booked on the complaint of a 38-year-old resident of Moga. The complainant told police that in June last year, he was going to Moga from Loppo village and when he reached near the bridge of Daudhar canal, he saw these accused throwing something in the canal.He said recently he read in newspapers that the accused had murdered Sukha Lamme and threw his body into the canal. A case under Section 302 (murder) has been registered against them at the Badhni Kalan police station.Badni Kalan SHO Sandeep Singh said the accused are being interrogated by the CIA Moga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-ktf-activists-booked-for-killing-gangster-sukha-lamme-101622056215849.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||State suspends 18+ jab drive as stocks dry up||With no dose left to administer to people under the 18-45 year category, Punjab has suspended the vaccination drive for the next few days. Punjab has received 4,29,000 doses of Covishield vaccine out of 30 lakh booked with the Serum Institute of India (SII) this month, which have already been administered. “All these doses have been administered and rather, Punjab vaccinated 4,35,000 persons in the 18-45 category against the 4,29,000 doses as one vial of Covishield actually has 11 doses and whereas the company mandates it to have 10 doses,” said state nodal officer for vaccination Vikas Garg. He said the state has booked 1,16,000 doses of Covaxine for the 18-45 category but the schedule for the arrival of these does is not known yet. Senior officials said 3.8 lakh doses of Covishield are expected to arrive in the first week of June. A few days ago, US-based manufacturers Moderna Pfizer refused to deliver vaccines directly to Punjab citing policy decisions. The Punjab government had approached all manufacturers for direct purchase of Covid vaccines, including Sputnik-V, Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, to explore possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of jabs for early inoculation in the state.The manufactures said they can deal with the Government of India and not the state governments or private companies for delivering vaccines. The Punjab government on May 13 decided to join the COVAX facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines at the best price, but it also informed the government that it doesn’t deal directly with the state. But a spokesperson for GAVI, one of the three organisations that have set up COVAX initiative, said that since India is already a participating member of the facility, Punjab could not separately apply to access Covid-19 vaccines.These efforts to procure vaccines from manufacturers abroad were driven by an acute shortage of vaccine for beneficiaries in the age group of 18-45 years due to which the state government has had to first delay its start and then suspend the drive at several vaccination centres across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-suspends-18-jab-drive-as-stocks-dry-up-101622055975402.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi man held with 1kg heroin in Ludhiana||A New Delhi resident was arrested with 1kg heroin near the Food Corporation of India (FCI) godown on GT Road, national highway 44, in Doraha on Wednesday. Acting on a tipoff, a team led by sub-inspector Kuljeet Singh laid a trap in the front of the godown. A taxi coming from Khanna was stopped for checking and the passenger Gaurav, a resident of Mansa park in New Delhi, was held with the contraband, said Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal. Gaurav had hired the taxi from Delhi Bypass for ₹5,000 to deliver the consignment, which he had collected from a Nigerian, to a Zira resident. He had recently moved to New Delhi from Ludhiana. “Questioning is still on to find out who is the operator of the drug racket and to whom the accused was going to deliver the contraband,” said SSP Grewal. The SSP said, “ Traditionally, Punjab was used as a transit point for drug peddlers across the border for transporting contraband to other parts of the country. However, tight security measures have snapped the supply lines. Now, drugs are being smuggled through other parts of the country and are being supplied to peddlers in the state.” He said that it was the third such attempt to sneak huge quantities of drugs into the state in the last two months. A case was registered under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances ( NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-man-held-with-1kg-heroin-in-ludhiana-101622055915462.html
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Self-collected mouth samples a good option for Covid testing: PGI study||Self-collected buccal (cheek) samples are promising alternatives to nasal and throat swab culture for Covid testing, a study by researchers at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and Panjab University has noted.The researchers stated that nasopharyngeal (nose) and oropharyngeal (throat) swab sampling remains the gold standard for reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) tests as these methods have established track records for detection of respiratory viruses and have been widely used in pandemic situations. However, these pose unique challenges, such as requiring the healthcare worker to be in close proximity to the infected patient, which can be risky in the backdrop of a public health emergency. In addition, these induce discomfort and can stimulate the gag reflex (contraction of the throat that happens when something touches the roof of the mouth) in patients undergoing sampling. This can affect compliance and carries the risk of aerosol generation.Nasal and throat sampling also require the use of personal protective equipment (PPE). Researchers noted that although nasopharyngeal sampling remains the gold standard, it must be recognised that there are specific patient groups that are not amenable to this procedure. For instance, it can be difficult to obtain nasal and throat samples from children and adults with various health conditions.Compared with nasal and throat sampling, the sensitivity of tests from buccal swabs and saliva was 58.90% and 62.90%, respectively suggesting that the oral cavity and its fluids are of high relevance to the pathophysiology of SARS-CoV-2.“Results from nose and throat samples were used as the gold standard to gauge the diagnostic capability from buccal and saliva samples. Both asymptomatic (59) and symptomatic (14) patients, whose nose and throat samples were positive for SARS-CoV-2 by RT-qPCR, were included in our study. Of 73 buccal swabs, 43 (58.90%) were found positive for SARS-CoV-2 and of 62 saliva samples, 39 (62.90%) were positive for SARS-CoV-2.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/samples-collected-from-cheeks-alternative-for-covid-testing-pgi-study-101622050334027.html
