29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: SIT ‘picks up’ two dera followers from Covid ward||The defence alleged wrongful confinement after the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases picked up two Dera Sacha Sauda followers from the Covid ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, in a case relating to pasting of derogatory posters near the gurdwara in Bargari village. According to official sources, the SIT detained Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, of Kotkapura and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village on Friday and took them to the Bajakhana police station. The SIT, led by inspector general of police, border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, had on May 17 arrested the duo along with Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, Pardeep Kumar and Shakti Singh in a case registered in connection with a sacrilege incident wherein torn pages of “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) were found scattered at Bargari village in Faridkot district in 2015. The court had sent them to police custody till May 21. However, Sukhjinder, Baljit and Nishan tested positive for Covid-19 on May 19, after which they were admitted to the Faridkot hospital. A complaint was filed in the court of chief judicial magistrate Sanjeev Kundi on Saturday alleging that the SIT has violated the court orders, dated May 21, by wrongfully confining Sukhjinder and Baljit. Defence counsel Vinod Monga alleged that inspectors Dalbir Singh and Iqbal Hussain of the SIT had wrongfully taken the two from the Covid ward on Friday. “So, the necessary intimation is being given with request for the release of the accused from the wrongful police confinement and to get them in judicial custody,” the petition stated. The defence also requested for a report along with CCTV footage of the Bajakhana police station on the relevant dates and hospital records of the duo. The court has directed the SIT to file a reply by May 31. However, the SIT sought production warrants of Sukhjinder and Baljit, which the court issued for May 31.Faridkot judicial magistrate Tarjini in the order dated May 21 had said that since the accused are admitted at the Covid ward, they cannot be sent to further police remand and “are hereby remanded to judicial custody till June 1”. She had also directed the investigation officer to get their Covid tests conducted and produce the results on the fixed date.Meanwhile, a Faridkot court on Saturday sent their two co-accused, Shakti Singh and Ranjit Singh, to judicial custody till June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-sit-picks-up-two-dera-followers-from-covid-ward-101622297373825.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Both PM, CM failed to fulfil their duty: Sukhbir on vax shortage in Punjab||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday inaugurated a free Covid-19 vaccination camp at Golden Temple, which was organised by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.Announcing that the service will be extended to other Takhts, including Damdama Sahib and Kesgarh Sahib in the coming days, he said: “Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had failed to fulfil their duty to provide vaccines to the people.”Accompanied by SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, the SAD president said he was surprised as to why the Union government was dragging its feet on allowing companies such as Pfizer and Moderna to export their vaccines to India and said the process should be expedited. He also asked Capt Amarinder Singh to place direct orders with companies that are supplying vaccines in the country instead of waiting for the Centre’s “meagre” supply.“The Punjab government should follow the example of the Mumbai municipal corporation, which used ₹600 crore to purchase vaccines,” said Sukhbir, while demanding that vaccines worth ₹1,000 crore be purchased immediately. He also sought GST waiver on purchase of vaccines and life-saving medicines.Bibi Jagir Kaur said that while earlier the sangat, including NRIs, had donated oxygen concentrators, the SGPC hoped to receive 100 ventilators from abroad soon. She said since the people were not getting vaccines and the Punjab government had also failed to purchase them directly from companies, the Centre should allow the SGPC to import them.Meanwhile, the SGPC also launched its tenth Covid Care Centre at Gurdwara Janam Asthan Baba Buddha at Kathunangal village in Amritsar with a capacity of 25 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/both-pm-cm-failed-to-fulfil-their-duty-sukhbir-on-vax-shortage-in-punjab-101622297313367.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal weapon racket busted in Punjab’s Batala||With the arrest of two men, Punjab Police on Saturday busted an illegal weapon racket at Batala in Gurdaspur district. The accused have been identified as Sandeep Kumar and Sarwan Singh of Batala. Besides the kingpin, Joginder Singh, alias Jagga, who is already behind bars, four of their accomplices — Amrinder Singh, Lukas Masih, Robinpreet Singh and Sarabjit Singh — have also been identified.“We received a tip off that Sandeep and Sarwan were roaming at Dhir village in Batala with illegal arms. Led by sub-inspector Daljit Singh, the CIA team raided the spot and arrested the duo,” said senior superintendent of police Rachhpal Singh. Eight weapons, including two countrymade 32 bore pistols and a 30 bore pistol, were also recovered, he said. The SSP said Sandeep Kumar used to repair the gang’s illegal weapons at his father’s gun shop. Investigations also revealed that the racket was being run by Joginder Singh, who is a notorious heroin smuggler based in Batala and is presently lodged in the Amritsar jail. “Joginder Singh has 16 FIRs against him, of which 10 are related to drug smuggling. His properties worth ₹1.17 crore have already been forfeited,” said the SSP, adding that the gang had been procuring weapons along with heroin consignment from across the border and Uttar Pradesh. A case has been registered against the seven men under the Arms Act at the Civil Lines police station. Efforts are on to nab the four remaining gang members, said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-weapon-racket-busted-in-punjab-s-batala-101622297312121.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Under debt, three women of family end life in Sangrur village||Driven by poverty, three women members of a family committed suicide by consuming poison at Kuthala village near Malerkotla on Saturday, police said. The police recovered the bodies of a 42-year-old widow, her elderly mother and 19-year-old daughter from their house in the morning. The woman’s husband, who was a soldier, died a few years after his retirement. Also read: Bharatpur doctor couple killed for revenge, accused identified: PoliceThe woman, who was the village nambardar, is survived by a daughter and a son, aged 14 and 15 years. “Preliminary investigation shows that the two women and the 19-year-old committed suicide due to poverty. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and investigation is on,” said Yadwinder Singh, the station house officer (SHO) at Sandaur. Villagers said that the family, which was surviving on the soldier’s pension, was under debt as he had sold off their farmland. According to sources, the 19-year-old had done well in the IELTS test, and the mother was keen to send her abroad, but the Covid-19 lockdown had added to their problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/under-debt-three-women-of-family-end-life-in-sangrur-village-101622268989837.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Move to merge 489 rural dispensaries with health dept in Punjab raises eyebrows||The Punjab government’s move to merge 489 of the 1,183 dispensaries run by the state rural development and panchayati raj department with the health department has not gone down well with a section of doctors and other healthcare workers who are raising questions about the decision at a time when the pandemic threat is looming large in non-urban areas. The decision was implemented earlier this month. According to an order, these subsidiary facilities will now be run by the health department as health and wellness centres and won’t have MBBS doctors. Every centre will now be headed by a community health officer (CHO), a newly created post. A nurse, who has been given special training for the purpose, or a holder of bachelor of ayurvedic medicine and surgery (BAMS) degree will be posted as CHO, officials said. The government’s rationale behind the merger is that these centres, meant to serve far-flung and backward rural areas, were not having MBBS doctors (rural medical officers) and other staff for the past few years. Punjab Rural Medical Services Association president Dr Aslum Parvez said red tape has taken a toll on the rural healthcare system which has been systematically eroded amid the pandemic. “These dispensaries were without doctors for the past 9 years. When there was a need to fill the vacancies, the government decided to abolish the posts. We urge that chief minister to take back the decision and fill the vacancies of doctors in permanent rural health cadre under the rural development department,” he said. Now, these dispensaries will be run by nurses working as community health officers, Dr Parvez added. On Thursday, protests were held against the move in Patiala and Gurdaspur districts. “Our dispensary used to cater to a population of over 12,000,” said Jatinder Singh Mattu, convener of the Independent Labour Union, who led the protests in Ghagga village of Patiala. These centres were without permanent doctors as the last recruitment in the rural department was done in 2016. Doctors serving in the rural areas say a CHO won’t be authorised to prescribe any drugs. Principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal said the posting of doctors in these centres is under consideration of the government. Health minister Balbir Sidhu and his rural development and panchayati raj counterpart Tript Rajinder Bajwa were not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/move-to-merge-489-rural-dispensaries-with-health-dept-in-punjab-raises-eyebrows-101622233105448.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal sale of assets: Pearls Group owner Bhangu’s son-in-law held||The Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) on Friday arrested Har Satinder Singh Hayer, prime accused in the case involving alleged illegal sale of properties of PACL India Limited, also known as Pearls Group, worth hundreds of crores despite a Supreme Court ban. Officials said Hayer, son-in-law of Pearls Group owner Nirmal Singh Bhangu who is in jail in connection with a ponzi scam involving over ₹48,000 crore, was arrested from Mohali with some property-related documents. A SIT member said he will be produced in a court in Ferozepur district’s Zira town on Saturday. The SIT, constituted by Ferozepur range deputy inspector general (DIG) Hardial Singh Mann, comprises Tarn Taran superintendent of police (headquarters) and deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) of Zira and Jalalabad in Fazilka. In April this year, the SIT filed a chargesheet against multiple accused in a Ferozepur court, saying despite the SC’s 2016 ban order, the PACL and its associated companies started disposing of land worth hundreds of crores in and outside India. As many as 57 people, including company officials and family members of Bhangu, were booked on charges of cheating, criminal conspiracy and other sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Zira police station in July last year. Several arrests were made by the police on the complaint of one Pardeep Singh of Bhadson in Patiala district. In December 2015, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had ordered attachment of all assets of PACL and its nine promoters and directors for their failure to refund money to investors. A panel headed by Justice RM Lodha (retired) had initiated the process of refund to the investors. The SIT chargesheet The SIT in its chargesheet claimed that Hayer and his wife Barinder Kaur had given multiple powers of attorney to Australia-based Sarabjit Singh, alias Sebby Sanghera, a trusted aide of Hayer, to sell the company properties in Australia that were purchased through the money invested by the public. One of the powers of attorney was for a property worth 6-crore Australian dollars. These papers were prepared in Zira. Financial transactions were also detected between Hayer and Sanghera. Hayer along with other family members also sold illegally many PACL properties outside Punjab by giving power of attorney, it was found. It is also alleged that Hayer allegedly sold a prime company property in Banur town of Mohali district. According to the chargesheet, financial transactions were also made between Manoj Kumar, one the 57 accused in the property sale case who was arrested in April this year, and Barinder Kaur and others. Also, Dhillon Empire, an associate company of PACL, kept operating its accounts, it is alleged. “Another accused Munish Jakhar got registered land deeds of 112 flats of Nirmal Chhaya project despite the court ban and gave power of attorney of many commercial properties,” reads the chargesheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-sale-of-assets-pearls-group-owner-bhangu-s-son-in-law-held-101622232985295.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Patti shootout: Gangster wanted for killing Amritsar bouncer is key suspect||Wanted criminal Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon has emerged as a prime suspect in the Patti shootout incident in which two persons, including a history sheeter, were killed and their aide sustained bullet injuries on Thursday. Amandeep Singh, alias Aman Fauji (28), a gangster and a Shiromani Akali Dal worker, and Prabhjit Singh, alias Pooran (27) died on the spot when two unidentified car-borne men opened indiscriminate firing at Nadohar Chowk in Tarn Taran district’s Patti town.Their aide Samsher Singh, alias Shera (30) received a bullet injury. The accused fired a total of 18 rounds. Sekhon, who is wanted for shooting a bouncer dead in Amritsar in October last year, was also accused of killing his sister and her mother-in-law in 2011. A case was registered against him and came out of jail in 2018. He is also accused of killing one Harjit Singh in Amritsar in December 2019. Soon after the killing, two Facebook posts had surfaced — one from a user claiming to be a member of the Jaggu Bhagwanpuria gang and another from an account after Preet Sekhon’s name — claiming responsibility for the killing. Fauji had five criminal cases, including two of attempt to murder, registered against him while Shera is facing a drug case. “Our teams are working to nab Sekhon, who hails from Sangna village in Amritsar district,” said Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale.The police have procured closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage of a Swift Dzire car used by the accused for executing the crime. Nimbale, however, said they have not got anything concrete from the footage to identify the accused.Another senior police official said, “We have rounded up three persons in connection with the shootout. One of them is Harman Singh from Patti who nursed a grudge against Aman Fauji over the latter’s illicit relations with a woman. The two others are close associates of Sekhon— one is from Tarn Taran town and the other from Sarhali village.”He said, “As of now, we are focusing on Sekhon. The post that surfaced on Facebook from a purported Jaggu Bhagwanpuria gang member seems to be fake. Goli Kazikot, a Bhagwanpuria associate, claimed in another post that the gang had nothing to do with the episode.”Nimbale said they have not found Sekhon’s link with any notorious gangster as yet.Shera is still not in a position to record his statement, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patti-shootout-gangster-wanted-for-killing-amritsar-bouncer-is-key-suspect-101622232326945.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cash-strapped Punjabi University increases ‘transcript fee’ 40 times||The fund-starved Punjabi University, Patiala, has increased the ‘transcript fee’ for students residing in India by 40 times from ₹500 to ₹20,000. The decision will be effective from June 1.Required at the time of applying for work permit or permanent residence (PR) abroad, an academic transcript is a set of documents pertaining to an applicant’s educational records, including details of course, degree, subjects studied and marks obtained. It is issued by the parent university from where an applicant pursued their course. Besides ₹20,000, the applicant will have to pay 18% Goods and Services Tax (GST). Moreover, if a student requires additional transcripts, they will have to pay additional ₹5,000 per set.For applicants residing outside India, the varsity is charging $294 ( ₹21,700).Panjab University, Chandigarh, charges ₹525 as transcript fee each from those residing in India and $304 ( ₹22,000) from those based out of the country. The Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, charges between ₹800 and ₹1,200, excluding 18% GST, per document. “It is open loot by the Punjabi University administration which is trying to fleece students to fill its empty coffers. For instance, a student requiring transcripts for immigration purposes for two-year MBA degree earlier paid nearly ₹3,000 but now the varsity will charge ₹20,000 besides GST for the same,” said Rashpinder Singh, an activist of the Punjab Students Radical Union. “The union will protest against such fleecing of students and will raise the issue with varsity high-ups next week,” he added. Vice-chancellor Prof Arvind said the decision was taken to bring uniformity in issuing and sending transcripts for students residing in and outside India. “As per the present system, many of those applying for transcripts from outside India used fraudulent means to get their transcripts at cheaper rates. The decision will end corruption in sending transcripts and streamlining the whole process,” Prof Arvind said. A senior faculty member said the varsity is receiving nearly 150 applications for transcripts for immigration purpose on a daily basis and, therefore, has fond it process more lucrative to charge excessive fee from students. “The university completely failed to take note of the fact that most of the applicants residing outside the country are earning in hard currencies, while those in India are either dependent on their families or are working for meagre salaries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cashstrapped-punjabi-university-increases-transcript-fee-40-times-101622232325513.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong rumblings: 3-member panel set up by Sonia to meet today||Chandigarh A three-member committee set up by Congress president Sonia Gandhi under senior party leader and Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress will have its first meeting in New Delhi on Saturday. The committee, which has former Delhi Congress president Jai Prakash Agarwal and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat as members, plans to find a solution to the open sparring between chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the dissenting group, including former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi, through dialogue. Kharge, who became the leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha in February this year, is among the Gandhi family loyalists. The panel has also been asked to look at the party’s strengths and shortcomings and draw the strategy for strengthening the party for the state assembly polls due early next year after listening to the chief minister’s camp and the dissenters, according to sources. Rawat, who had tried hard for a rapprochement between Amarinder and Sidhu after becoming in-charge of Punjab eight months ago, spoke to the chief minister on Friday and sought his opinion on the modalities to be followed. “We will also talk to (Punjab Congress president) Sunil Jakhar, ministers, MPs and MLAs among others and seek their views for early resolution of these issues and draw the strategy for the Congress victory,” said Rawat, a former chief minister of Uttarakhand. The committee does not have any immediate plans to visit the state due to the coronavirus pandemic and is likely to meet the party leaders in the national capital. The committee has been constituted by the Congress leadership due to the internecine infighting among senior party leaders, particularly Amarinder and Sidhu, who are hitting out at each other over delay in giving justice in sacrilege cases ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the special investigation report (SIT) report in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. The politically sensitive issue has seen attempts by 9-10 ministers, MPs and MLAs to band together and take on the chief minister. Sidhu blamed Amarinder for the legal setback and failure to deliver on some key poll promises whereas the CM accused him of fuelling dissent, suggesting that he (former minister) may jump the ship. Also, seven ministers have demanded the cricketer-turned-politician’s suspension from the party. While Sidhu is said to be counting on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the two-time CM, who has led the party to a string of electoral successes in the state since the 2017 election win, seems confident that the Congress high command will listen to him on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cong-rumblings-3-member-panel-set-up-by-sonia-to-meet-today-101622232145352.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws: Fearing arrest in Red Fort case, Lakha Sidhana cancels rallies for 10 days||Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana has postponed all protests and rallies for 10 days amid fear of arrest in the Red Fort violence, confirmed his team members on Friday.On Thursday, Sidhana had launched a village-to-village campaign to mobilise people against three farm laws.One of the core members of Sidhana’s team Sukh Jagraon said over phone that the Punjab government was hand in glove with the central government and police could arrest Sidhana during protests in the state.“We have decided to cancel all programs for the next 10 days in the state. However, the campaign against black laws and mobilization of people for massive protests at Delhi borders will continue on social media and other platforms,” added Jagraon.Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted by Delhi Police in the Red Fort violence case, kicked off his campaign on Thursday from Sangrur district. Sidhana had to participate in protests at Shadihari, Chhajli, Daula Singhwala, Jakhepal and Ratta Khera villages in the district but his supporters alleged that a heavy police force was deployed to arrest him. They also claimed that Delhi Police was present in the area in civvies. However, Sangrur police denied the presence of Delhi cops or any orders to arrest Sidhana.“The state government tried to stop our campaign. We are waiting for Lakha Sidhana’s bail from the Delhi incident. If he gets bail, the campaign will be escalated. As of now, we will use social media to continue our campaign,” added Jagraon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-laws-fearing-arrest-in-red-fort-case-lakha-sidhana-cancels-rallies-for-10-days-101622231065244.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cops witness to Kotkapura firing appear before new SIT||Top police officials who were present on the spot during the firing incident at Kokapura on October 14, 2015, appeared before the newly constituted three-member special investigation team (SIT) led additional director-general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav on Friday.Then Ferozepur range inspector general of police (IGP) (now ADGP) Jatinder Jain, then Faridkot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sukhmander Singh Mann, then Kotkapura DSP (now SP) Baljit Singh Sidhu, DSP Maninder Singh Bedi and some junior cops appeared before the SIT at its camp office at Faridkot. United Akali Dal leader Gurdeep Singh Bathinda also recorded his statement before the SIT. Officials privy to the development said 16 persons, including top cops, appeared before the SIT on Friday, while 25 persons recorded their statement on Thursday. The SIT had summoned 42 persons, who had recorded statements to previous SIT in Kotkapura firing case as witnesses.Officials of the Faridkot medical college said a copy of the medical record of IG Jatinder Jain was also issued, which was sought by the SIT. The SIT has also summoned doctors of private hospitals, who provided initial medical assistance to the persons injured in Kotkapura firing incident. The Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9 had quashed all the reports filed by the previous SIT headed by the inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the Kotkapura firing. The state government constituted the new three-member SIT that has been directed to complete the investigation within six months. Expediting the investigation SIT head Yadav, along with other two members, Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh has been camping in Faridkot. While recording fresh statements of the witnesses, SIT is checking all the legal fact on record of the probe conducted by the previous probe team. SP Baljit Sidhu appeared before SIT on Friday after he was summoned. He was nominated as accused in Kotkapura firing case by Kunwar Vijay’s SIT. However, SIT has not summoned any other accused nominated by previous SIT so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cops-witness-to-kotkapura-firing-appear-before-new-sit-101622230645072.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 148 Covid deaths, 3,724 fresh cases||Chandigarh The daily Covid caseload further dipped in Punjab on Friday with the state registering 3,724 fresh cases as against 3,914 reported on Thursday. With this, the state’s infections tally reached 5,59,795, according to a media bulletin released by the state government.The positivity rate also dropped from 5.43% recorded a day earlier to 5.12% on Friday, while the death toll reached 14,180 with 148 more fatalities, the bulletin said. The number of active cases declined to 44,964 from 48,231 on Thursday, the bulletin stated. Twenty deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 19 from Amritsar, 13 from Sangrur and 10 from Jalandhar. According to the bulletin, a maximum of 497 cases were detected in Jalandhar, followed by 416 in Ludhiana, 278 in Fazilka, 247 in Bathinda, 223 in Patiala, 215 in Mansa, 200 in SAS Nagar, 192 in Amritsar, 192 in Ferozepur, 178 in Muktsar, 166 in Pathankot, 160 in Sangrur, 157 in Faridkot, 117 in Hoshiarpur, 111 in Gurdaspur, 85 in Kapurthala, 66 in Moga, 58 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 50 in Taran Taran, 36 in SBS Nagar and 31 in Barnala. With 6,797 recoveries, the number of those who recuperated reached 5,00,651, the bulletin said. There are 369 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 920 other critical patients and 5,302 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 90,74,280 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-148-covid-deaths-3-724-fresh-cases-101622230525666.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: Police remand of 2 dera men extended||A Faridkot court on Friday extended the police custody of two dera followers ---- Shakti Singh and Ranjit Singh --- for pasting derogatory posters near a gurdwara at Bargari village in 2015.After arrest in Bargari sacrilege, the SIT had arrested them in another sacrilege case, in which two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24-25, 2015. They were presented before the court of CJM Sanjeev Kundi, who sent them in one-day police custody. 6 dera followers file bail pleas Six followers of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda, who were arrested for Bargari sacrilege, filed a joint application in a court seeking bail.The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, had arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village in a case registered in connection with a sacrilege incident at Bargari village in Faridkot district in 2015.The SIT probe has found that the accused had scattered the torn pages of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib), which was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara on October 12, 2015, at Bargari. The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Sanjeev Kundi has sought report from jail superintendent regarding number of cases pending against accused and matter was adjourned to May 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-police-remand-of-2-dera-men-extended-101622230225148.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Grain gain: Punjab beats MP, regains top wheat producing state tag||Madhya Pradesh will lose the tag of top wheat procurer state in India to Punjab due to lesser procurement this year as compared to 2020, said an official of food and civil supplies department.Punjab has emerged as the biggest wheat producer state after a year, and it came amid farmers protesting against three central laws at borders of Delhi since November last year.Madhya Pradesh procured only 125.6 lakh tonnes wheat sown on 49 lakh hectare in 2021 while in 2020, it had procured 129.4 lakh tonnes of the grain sown on 45 lakh hectares, the food and civil supplies department data shows.MP had pushed Punjab to the second spot for the first time in 2020 with northern state producing 128.5 lakh tonnes of wheat. This year, the MP government set a higher target of wheat procurement after 27% increase in the registration of farmers for selling the rabi crop to the government.After an increase in registration of farmers, the food and civil supplies department arranged for extra space, gunny bags and transportation to procure over 135 lakh tonnes wheat. But, MP failed to achieve the target, whereas the Punjab government procured over 132 lakh tonnes of against the target of 130 lakh tonnes, officials said. “Over 16 lakh farmers sold their crop at MSP of ₹1,925 per quintal. This year, the yielding of crop has been decreased by 10-15% due to extreme weather condition. The average maximum temperature of winter was higher than last year and untimely rainfall led to low yielding of wheat. We were expecting procurement of wheat lesser than 100 lakh tonne but 125 lakh tonne is quite satisfactory for us,” said an official of the MP food and civil supplies department, who is not wished to be named. MP food and civil supplies corporation principal secretary Faiz Ahmed Kidwai said: “This target of procurement is just to support farmers, if they don’t get any seller in the market.” The farmers’ associations also admitted to the fact that it happened due to less yield of crop, but with weather, they also blamed the poor quality of seeds and fertilizers for that. Bhartiya Kisan Union MP president Anil Yadav said: “This year, farmers suffered a loss of 10-15% per hectare due to extreme weather condition and poor quality of seeds and fertilisers. With the decrease in production, procurement of wheat has also dipped. The state government needs to come up with better seeds and fertilizers to compete with Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grain-gain-punjab-beats-mp-regains-top-wheat-producing-state-tag-101622230045277.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s Mayo Hospital booked for black-marketing remdesivir||Following subdivisional magistrate’s report finding Mayo Hospital (now Mount Star Hospital) in Mohali’s Sector 69 guilty of black-marketing 83 remdesivir injections and fleecing at least 100 Covid-19 patients, police have registered a case against its management, including the chief executive officer and eight directors.The case has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Acts at the Phase-8 police station. Hindustan Times had first reported irregularities at the hospital on May 22.It is the second hospital in the district that has been booked for malpractices in the past couple of weeks. Earlier, on May 18, a case was registered against the management of New Lifeline Hospital of Zirakpur for overcharging and medical negligence. The four-member committee, comprising subdivisional magistrate Jadgeep Sehgal, deputy superintendent of Police Deep Kamal, senior medical officer Dr Vijay Bhagat, and drug inspector Jai Jai Singh, found that the Mayo Hospital had sold 83 remdesivir injections, which are used for treating Covid-19 patients, for ₹40,000 each in the black market after procuring them from the state government for ₹1,800 each.The committee found that bills for the injection were issued in the name of a prominent cement manufacturing firm besides the chief financial officer and a few doctors of the hospital. One bill was also issued in the name of a woman on March 17 even as she was admitted on March 18.Later, during the investigation, the district administration detected around 100 instances of overcharging of Covid-19 patients at the hospital. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said it had come to the fore that the hospital had been charging around ₹20,000 a day from Covid patients. According to rates approved by the Punjab government, a private hospital can charge ₹16,500 a day from a patient requiring ventilator support while for a bed without ventilator, the charges are capped at ₹14,500 a day. These include all expenses, such as room rent, visiting charges and PPE kits. “Mayo Hospital was found to be offering a package of ₹40,000 for the entire span of hospitalisation, but was adding ₹6,000 a day as visiting charges, which is illegal,” said Dayalan. The deputy commissioner said directions have also been issued to other private hospitals not to indulge in unethical practices. “Otherwise, strict action will be taken, which may even lead to the closure of the hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-mayo-hospital-booked-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-101622228665926.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC again stays Chandigarh admn’s power privatisation move||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday once again stayed the Chandigarh administration’s move to privatise the power department. Multiple lawyers associated with the case confirmed the development. However, the detailed order from the HC bench of justice Jitendra Chauhan and justice Vivek Puri is awaited.The order was passed on a fresh plea from the UT Powermen Union, which had approached court stating that opening and finalisation of the tender bids be stopped. It was argued that the administration is not justified in hurrying through the process amid the pandemic. “State being a ‘welfare state’ is expected to concentrate on the ways and means of saving citizens from the havoc being played by the Covid-19 pandemic,” the plea said, further underlining that the department has been revenue surplus for many years and is supplying 24x7 electricity to the satisfaction of the consumers.Earlier, on December 1, too, the HC had applied brakes on the privatisation process. However, the UT had approached the Supreme Court, which stayed the HC order and remanded back the case to it. When asked whether the administration would approach the SC again, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “Yes we will. We have enough ground.”The decision to privatise the department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre. The administration has assured the Centre to complete the process by the end of 2020. As many as 17 firms has expressed interest after the administration invited the bids in November. TimelineMay 12, 2020: UT decides to privatise the electricity departmentNovember 9: The bids for privatisation invitedDecember 1: HC orders stay on privatisation processJanuary 12, 2021: SC stays HC order paving way for privatisation processFebruary 9: SC remands back matter to HCApril 19: UT announces it will fast-track privatisation processMay 28: HC stays the process again||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-again-stays-chandigarh-admn-s-power-privatisation-move-101622228484973.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private schools to make balance sheets public||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday upheld the Chandigarh administration’s law mandating private unaided schools to upload balance sheets on their websites. Independent Schools’ Association Chandigarh, a body of 78 private schools, and Kabir Education Society, Chandigarh, had moved the high court last year, challenging various provisions of Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to the Union Territory of Chandigarh. The law was adopted by the UT in 2018. The plea was filed after the UT administration issued show-cause notices to schools, asking as to why penalties should not be imposed against them for not uploading balance sheets for the last financial year. The schools had also challenged the constitution of Fee Regulatory Authority. Schools had argued that asking schools for uploading balance sheets violated their rights. “The right to privacy is primarily for the individuals. Though the right to privacy is also available to artificial entities, but since the field of education is a charitable occupation, we do not find any reason to hold that uploading of the financial statements on the websites of the private educational institutions in any manner will breach the right to privacy,” the bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Sant Parkash said in its 107-page judgment on Friday. ‘Will help in achieving transparency’The court also wondered as to why schools are afraid of uploading the financial statements on their websites. “The intention of the institutions to not/resist upload(ing) the financial statements create(s) more suspicion. If the private institutes upload their financial statements on the websites, it will help in achieving the goal of transparency and accountability, which are essential features of a reasonable fee structure and it will also generate confidence in the parents,” the bench said, adding that the fee structure has to be disclosed in advance, at the beginning of the session, as it would help parents make appropriate arrangements or to look for alternative institutions. The court further observed that provisions of the law in no manner infringe upon the autonomy or day-to-day functioning of the institution and same can’t be termed as “restrictive” or unreasonable. “...occupation of education is not a business, but profession involving charitable activities. Therefore, it is well permissible to promulgate regulatory measures aimed for protecting the student community as the whole, and as well as to ensure maintenance of required standards of education, which are non-exploitative,” the bench observed, adding that educational institutions are vested with right to establish and administer an institution. However, the right is not absolute and such regulations are permissible. ‘Penal provisions not remediless’As of schools’ reservations on penal provisions, the HC said that the same is attracted only in case of violation and not otherwise and also is not remediless. “... if no penal clause is incorporated in enactment, the purpose to be achieved by such enactment will be lost. The enactment would be nothing but a toothless tiger. It is only with the sword of penalty that the mechanism provided under the Act for regulating fee of unaided educational institutions can be implemented,” the bench asserted. The court also said that no prejudice has been caused by not inducting members from schools in the regulatory body. Reacting to the judgment, Independent School Association (ISA) president HS Mamik said: “We will go through the detailed judgment and decide on the next course of action.” He maintained that uploading balance sheets will affect the governance of schools and compromise their privacy.Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents Association, said: “The education department should give schools a week or two to upload their balance sheets online, and take strict action against those who don’t comply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-private-schools-to-make-balance-sheets-public-101622228364832.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC panel wants plan for lifting horticulture waste||The sanitation committee of the municipal corporation (MC) on Friday directed officials concerned to get dry leaves and other horticulture waste removed from the road berms at the earliest.The committee was apprised that the MC has already ordered to hire tractor trailers for lifting of dry leaves and horticulture waste throughout the city and the backlog will be cleared within 15 days. The committee asked the medical officer of the health department to prepare a proper plan to lift horticulture waste from households and road berms in city. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma requested all the councillors to participate in the month-long Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, launched on May 20, and get their respective areas waste and malba-free by June 19.Directing the chief sanitary inspectors to submit the manpower requirement and current strength in their areas, the committee members said a balance of manpower should maintained throughout the city. The committee also discussed the issue of door-to-door waste collection in Sector 21 and asked the officials to bring agenda about this after seeking legal opinion into the matter. The committee decided that chairman of the sanitation committee and medical officer of health will hold meeting with the representatives of door-to-door waste collectors of Sector 21 and sort out the issue at the earliest. The committee members pointed out that the sub-inspectors of sanitation department will ensure waste collection from the first, second, third and fourth floors of households by waste collectors to avoid complaints of citizens. Road committee A meeting of MC’s road committee was also held on Friday. The committee members asked the officials concerned to check feasibility of parking in Sector 51 green belt. The committee asked the officials concerned to bring an agenda item regarding shortage of junior engineers and other officials required at the field-level. Rough cost estimate for construction of approach roads in Sector 29-A at an estimated cost of Rs. 7.32 lakh was approved. The committee also approved rough cost estimate for providing and fixing GI guard railing in front of the market in Sector 40 C&D, at an estimated cost of Rs. 5.74 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-panels-wants-plan-for-lifting-horticulture-waste-101622228004837.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid test rates slashed in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Friday slashed the rates of Covid-19 tests at private laboratories after the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana high court.While RT-PCR test will cost ₹450, rapid antigen test will cost ₹350. Earlier, the rates were ₹900 and ₹500, respectively.The high court on Thursday directed the UT administration as well as Haryana to bring them on a par with rates in Punjab in order to bring uniformity across the tricity. The direction came during the hearing of a plea wherein the court is monitoring the Covid-19 situation in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.Chandigarh health secretary Arun Gupta said no private lab can charge more than the prescribed amount, which is inclusive of all taxes and also includes charges for PPE kit, picking of samples, their packing and transportation as well as documentation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-test-rates-slashed-in-chandigarh-101622227764694.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||95% of black fungus patients in PGIMER have severe diabetes||Doctors treating cases of black fungus at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Chandigarh on Friday have observed that around 95% of the patients being treated here also have severe diabetes.The tertiary care hospital is witnessing a spike in the number of mucormycosis cases (black fungus) with 116 being reported in May alone, official data shows. Explaining the reasons, Dr Naresh Panda, head of otolaryngology department said that patients with compromised immunity are at high risk of developing these fungal infections due to a number of reasons and the recent one being excessive use of steroids among the Covid-19 patients. “We have observed that around 95% of patients having fungal infection also have uncontrolled diabetes and a few have a history of being administered steroids excessively. Covid-19 also impacts the immunity of a person which makes them susceptible for this infection as well,” said Dr Panda.Seeing the uptick in cases, PGIMER is also running a dedicated OT bed for black fungus cases where at least eight such patients undergo a surgery in a day. The treatment requires removal of the part infected with fungus. The dead tissues need to be removed so that antifungal drugs work better on such patients.“In around 50% of the patients, the infection reaches a level where it impacts the eyes after nose. If it reaches the brain through the eyes, then the chances of survival are less. Also up to 75% patients come with features of mucormycosis and when they are tested for Covid-19, they are found positive for the virus. Meanwhile, roughly around 15% are Covid cured patients,” doctors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/95-of-black-fungus-patients-in-pgimer-have-severe-diabetes-101622227045905.html
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on polls, Punjab cuts power tariff up to 20% for marginal consumers||Patiala Months ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) on Friday reduced the power tariff for domestic consumers with monthly consumption of less than 300 units by up to 20%. According to the PSERC order, the per unit tariff for domestic consumers with load up to 2kW and consumption slabs of 0 to 100 units and 101 to 300 units has been reduced by ₹1 and 50 paise, respectively. For domestic consumers having a load between 2kW and 7kW and for consumption slabs of 0 to 100 units and 101 to 300 units, the rates have been reduced by 75 paise and 50 paise, respectively. Initially, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had demanded a 9% tariff hike only to revise the petition, seeking a slash in the rate reportedly at government’s insistence. “This shall result in financial relief to the tune of ₹682 crore to these consumers. The new slabs will come into force from June 1,” reads the order issued by PSERC chairman Viswajeet Khanna. To provide respite to domestic consumers, the PSERC has passed on the burden on other segments of consumers. The non-domestic consumers will pay almost 24% of the subsidy. The tariff for above 7kW of load has been increased by almost 5%, which also includes a hike in fixed charges. Now, the average per unit power cost in Punjab is ₹6.41, the pooled purchase cost is ₹4.54. “The decision will bring relief to 69-lakh domestic consumers in the state,” chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said in a press release.“Once again the political face of the PSERC is out. The commission has given relief to the lower sections and put the burden on other sections including residential and industry,” said Badish Jindal, president of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations. No change for small, medium industries Small and medium industrial consumers and non-residential supply (NRS) consumers have not been burdened with any increase. The tariff for agricultural power (AP) consumers has been increased marginally by 9 paise. With this, the agriculture cross-subsidy has been reduced from (-) 14.41% to (-) 12.05%. The commission has worked out a power subsidy of ₹10,668 crore for the current fiscal. There is a shortfall of ₹7,117.8 crore of subsidy amount paid by the Punjab government by March 31, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-poll-year-power-tariff-reduced-by-20-in-punjab-101622200692602.html
