30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs eased in J&K but schools, colleges to stay closed till June 15||With coronavirus cases dipping across the Union Territory, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has started easing restrictions in a staggered manner, though the weekend and night curfew will continue till further orders. Outgoing chief secretary and chairperson of the state executive committee BVR Subrahmanyam, in an order, said weekend curfew will continue in all 20 districts from Friday 8pm to Monday 7am and the daily curfew will remain in force from 8pm and 7am. However, all stand-alone shops, liquor shops and saloons will open on alternate days, three days a week, except the weekend.Though malls will also open at 25% capacity, the government has not allowed gyms, spas, cinema halls, swimming pools, massage centres and bars to resume their businesses. Schools, colleges, coaching centres and universities will remain closed till June 15. Schools, colleges, technical education and skill development Institutes been asked to continue with online classes and not insist on in-person attendence for both staff and students. However, universities have been permitted to seek in-person attendance of minimal staff only for research, lab and thesis work. “Staff of educational institutions needed by the district disaster management authorities for official duties shall not be exempted from duties on account of this order,” the directions clarified. In the five districts of Kashmir — Pulwama, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam and Kupwara — that have been put in red category, public transport and malls will remain shut. However, auto-rickshaws will follow odd-even system.In the remaining 15 districts, which have been placed under orange category, outdoor bazaars and shopping areas will open on alternate days.“Restaurants can open on all weekdays but only for home delivery. No takeaways allowed,” says the order. Similarly, outdoor sports stadiums can open but indoor stadiums will remain closed. Public transport has been permitted to ply only at 50% of the authorised seating capacity. Taxis and cab aggregators are also permitted to operate at 50% capacity while auto-rickshaws are permitted to ply without any restrictions.Religious places and places of worship shall continue to remain open for public, subject to compliance to standard operating procedures already issued in this regard, read the order.The ceiling on the number of people permitted at social gatherings will be 20 in case of funerals and 25 for all other gatherings, be it indoors or outdoors. Canteens and eateries at bus stands, railway stations and airports are permitted to open on all days, it said.The existing guidelines and SOPs in place for compulsory testing of all incoming passengers and travellers to J&K will be strictly enforced, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/curbs-eased-in-j-k-but-schools-colleges-to-stay-closed-till-june-15-101622399384220.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal clocks 861 fresh infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 861 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday, pushing the state’s tally to 1,89,465, while the death toll mounted to 3,111 after 41 more patients succumbed. Of the new cases, 158 were reported in Kangra, 125 in Sirmaur, 102 in Hamirpur, 99 in SOlan, 91 in Una, 86 in Shimla, 80 in Chamba, 43 in Mandi, 29 in Bilaspur, 21 in Kinnaur, 19 in Kullu and 11 in Lahaul-Spiti. The highest 16 fatalities were reported in Kangra, six in Solan, four in Sirmaur, three in Hamirpur, two each in Chamba and Shimla and one each Bilaspur, Kullu and Solan. Recoveries reached 1,71,393 after 2,869 people recuperated. The active cases have now come down to 14,940. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 43,195 infections. It is followed by Mandi with 25,279 cases and Shimla with 23,756 cases. Solan has 21,487 cases, Sirmaur 14,573 , Hamirpur 13,416, Una 12,324, Bilaspur 11,937, Chamba 9,748 , Kullu 8,262, Kinnaur 2,926 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,562. CM inaugurates oxygen plants at IGMC, KNH
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||With 2nd wave on the wane, HP ups paediatric preparedness||With the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic subsiding in Himachal Pradesh, the hill-state is bracing for the predicted third wave, which may affect more children as per experts, by focusing on paediatric Covid management. Special newborn care units (SNCUs) ), paediatric high dependency units (PHDUs), newborn intensive care units (NICUs), and paediatric intensive care unit (PICUs) are being made functional on priority basis.National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said protocol for management of the paediatric group had been shared with districts and medical colleges on May 3. “All chief medical officers, medical college principals and medical superintendents have been directed to ensure the availability of paediatric ward and newborn units in dedicated Covid hospitals either by augmentation of existing facilities or earmarking beds in existing facilities,” he said, adding that the beds will be preferably supported by central oxygen supply.At present, there are 224 SNCU beds in 16 facilities across the state. Four newborn stabilisation units will be upgraded to sick newborn care units at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) Hospital in Shimla, Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala, community health centre (CHC) Nalagarh and CHC Nurpur, shortly.Also, there are seven paediatric high-dependency units in the state, which have 34 beds, he said, adding that directions have been given to make an appropriate emergency triage and treatment services available for newborn and paediatric patients at all levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-2nd-wave-on-the-wane-hp-ups-paediatric-preparedness-101622396202309.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid effect: Storm brewing in Shimla’s iconic coffeehouse||This is no storm in a teacup as Shimla’s iconic Indian Coffee House, equally famous for its piping hot political debates and brews, stares at closure amid piling losses over the last year. The beleaguered Indian Coffee Workers Cooperative Society, which manages the coffeehouse, has not been able to pay salaries to around 250 staffers in seven outlets across the country in 10 months. With the losses mounting to a whopping ₹3 crore, the society has called a board meeting to decide the fate of the outlet, which captured the zeitgeist of the queen of the hills. The first outlet of the Indian Coffee House franchise had opened in New Delhi on October 27, 1957, the coffeehouse on the Mall Road opened five years later in 1962 and went on to famously count distinguished leaders such as the late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, former deputy PM Lal Krishna Advani and former Afghanistan president Hamid Karzai among its customers. Even the incumbent PM of India, Narendra Modi, had vouched for the establishment’s coffee. Catapulting the unassuming coffeehouse to the limelight, PM Modi, who was in Shimla for the swearing-in ceremony of the BJP government in December 2017, had tweeted, “After two decades, the coffee of the coffee house of Shimla tastes great as before.” With the Indian Coffee House being one of the busiest businesses in town, the society had opened another branch in Shimla near the State Bank’s main branch around one-and-a-half years ago but it had to be closed in March amid accruing losses, the older branch seems to be resigned to a similar fate. The society operates two ICHs in Chandigarh, two in Jaipur and one Allahabad. No support from govt: Manager The earnings of Mall Road coffeehouse have dwindled to ₹2,000 to ₹3,000 per day, making it difficult for the society to pay salaries to its staff of 47. Manager Atma Ram Sharma says, “The situation is grim as we have received no help from the government. We have to pay an annual water bill of about ₹3.5 lakh, monthly electricity bill of ₹15,000 and garbage bill of ₹ 11,000. However, sales have dried down amid the pandemic.” “As such we are unable to keep employees on the payroll any longer. Struggling to make ends meet our employees have had to rain loans or dip into their provident funds. It has become impossible to keep the establishment running,” he said. The society’s general secretary Rana Kalam Singh, said he had written to the Union finance minister seeking aid but did not get any response. “Now, when the main office of the Delhi-based society opens, the management committee will call a meeting, after which the general council may decide to close all coffee houses.” The establishment was set up on the Mall Road on a ₹85,000 plot of land in 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-effect-storm-brewing-in-shimla-s-iconic-coffeehouse-101622396022396.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Corruption allegations against officer: Srinagar mayor, corporators end protest||The mayor and corporators of Srinagar municipal corporation (SMC) ended their indefinite hunger on Saturday after assurance from Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole that their demand for removal of joint commissioner, planning, in the wake of corruption allegations, will be looked into.The corporators led by mayor Junaid Azim Mattu had staged a protest and launched an indefinite hunger strike on Thursday.The mayor alleged that SMC’s joint commissioner planning Ghulam Hassan Mir, who is also the head of the task force against illegal constructions and deals with building permissions, was involved in corruption.Mattu, a leader of Apni Party, had written to the government seeking the removal of Mir and his repatriation to his parent department housing and urban development department (HUDD).On Saturday, the divisional commissioner had met the mayor, deputy mayor and corporators and assured to look into the matter.“Div Comm Kashmir, Pole visited SMC on behalf of chief secretary, J&K, and assured us the issues of the people we have raised would be addressed fairly and expeditiously. As we end our protest, I extend my humble gratitude to all fellow corporators for being so resolute,” Mattu said in a tweet on Saturday evening.The divisional commissioner’s office, meanwhile, tweeted, “On the assurance, mayor, deputy mayor and councillors have called off the protest.” Mattu said that in a special session of the general council of the Srinagar municipal corporation, a 3/4th majority of the corporation had unanimously passed a resolution seeking the removal of Mir and his replacement as deemed fit by the government.Denying the allegations, Mir had said that he will file a defamation suit against Mattu after speaking to his lawyers. “I will file a ₹5 crore defamation suit against Mattu. He can stage a protest seeking a person’s transfer but he cannot resort to character assassination,” said Mir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corruption-allegations-against-officer-srinagar-mayor-corporators-end-protest-101622395662168.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar hits out at Hooda for not appealing to farmers to call off stir amid Covid crisis||Stating that the farmers’ agitation was one of the reasons behind the spread of Covid-19 in villages, Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday hit out at former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda for not appealing to farmers to suspend the stir in view of the prevailing situation. Addressing a press conference through the virtual mode, the CM said the movement of those connected with the agitation to and from dharna sites had led to the spread of the infection in villages, some of which have seen “more deaths than the average” number. He said that though Hooda is seeking an all-party meeting on Covid, not once had he appealed to farmers to suspend their stir. Referring to Hooda’s open letter to the people of Haryana, Khattar asked why could he not make a similar appeal to farmers. “Can the dangers posed by Covid be ignored,” he asked. The CM Khattar said in the letter written to him by Hooda, it was apparent that his attitude was only to criticise the state government’s handling of the situation rather than extending cooperation. “I thought his letter did not deserve even a reply, I just ignored it. He wants to do politics more rather than extend cooperation,” said Khattar, hitting out at the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-hits-out-at-hooda-for-not-appealing-to-farmers-to-call-off-stir-amid-covid-crisis-101622395245437.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana allows people with property on rent over 20 yrs from civic bodies to become owners||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday announced that people, who have shops or houses on lease or rent from the municipalities for over 20 years, can become owners of the property by paying a price below the collector rate.He also said that for this, a scheme, which will be applicable for urban areas, will be notified on Monday.Collector or circle rate is the minimum designated price for land or property fixed for a locality, at which transactions have to be registered."We have formulated a scheme under which those who are in possession of such properties, be it houses or shops, for more than 20 years, all such will be given ownership rights," Khattar said while addressing a virtual news conference."Once the eligible people apply, they will be given relaxation in collector rate—if they are in possession of the property for more than 50 years, they will get a rebate of 50 per cent on collector rate," he said.Likewise, if it is under possession for 40 years, the rebate will be 40 per cent, 30 per cent in case of 30 years, and 20 per cent for 20 years, which is the minimum period required to avail the scheme, Khattar said.However, the upper ceiling for rebate on collector rate is 50 per cent, he said.The person should have completed 20 years of being in possession of the property as of December 31, 2020 to avail the scheme, according to a policy.The chief minister said after applying under the scheme, the applicant will have to deposit 25 per cent of the collector rate charge within 15 days and the remaining 75 per cent in the next 45 days."Once full payment is made and subject to fulfilment of all laid down conditions, the ownership of the property, which is the house/shop, will be transferred in their name," Khattar said.He said if a municipality has leased or rented any house or shop to one or more persons, then the amount will have to be paid as per the fixed floor-wise formula under the scheme.While announcing another scheme, he said in cities, there are small chunks of land belonging to civic bodies, which have been unused or their way has been blocked by an adjacent piece of plot belonging to a private person.The chief minister said that "a provision has been made where municipalities can now sell such unused land to either the adjoining plot holders or to anyone else who is willing to buy such land".This will also reduce the possibility of illegal encroachment of such property, Khattar said.The money earned by the municpalities against sale of such land will kept in a separate account for the purpose of asset creation, he said.The chief minister said that the state government has restructured and redesignated the Command Area Development Authority (CADA) as Micro Irrigation and Command Area Development Authority (MICADA).This has been done to promote micro-irrigation and for effective implementation of the works pertaining to canals, he said.The main objective of MICADA is to ensure maximum use of available water in irrigation and an amount of ₹3,700 crore will be spent on pavement of canals, Khattar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-introduces-new-ownership-rights-for-civic-body-leased-properties-101622385626966.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: A beacon in the bleakness||Patram Sharma lays no claim to a cultivated interest in bird watching. All he knew were pahari names of common birds and snatches of conversation the affable general-store owner overheard while serving tea and snacks to photographers from the tricity touring the birding hotspot of Chakki Modh in the Solan hills. But beneath Patram’s mofussil modesty, an infectious toothy grin and a balding visage lay a heart of gold. Two birds had died while pecking and banging their heads at the reflective glass windows Patram recently installed in his residential quarters constructed above the store. The razzle-dazzle of the glass was quite a novelty in Patram’s modest neighbourhood. As horrified birders watched, an Indian Golden oriole would go hammer and tongs at the windows, hell-bent on ending up in a sad, crumpled sheaf of feathers in the drain below. A concerned birder, Jatinder Vijh of Chandigarh, was having his customary tea at Patram’s last month. Vijh gently suggested to Patram that he should somehow discard the vanity of his flashy windows and save the suicidal oriole. “Birds peck at windows ferociously mistaking their reflection for a rival bird’s presence in the area during breeding season. Covid curfews kicked in and I could not visit his shop for a month. I got a Covid e-pass and reached his shop last week. Patram had nailed curtains from the outside and covered the windows. The oriole had stopped pecking at the windows, had calmed down and was at a nearby nest. Patram developed an interest in birds and photographed the Indian paradise flycatcher and Asian barred owlet with his cellphone during the April-May lockdown. Birds have begun to excite his curiosity, he engages us passionately and is eager to learn their English names,” an elated Vijh told this writer. It was by no means an easy decision, a ‘charity of convenience’ for Patram to veil his windows from the outside and disfigure the architectural aesthetics. The windows were installed to lend privacy to his family as the reflective surfaces were limited to a one-way view. “My new residential quarters are on the main road, so privacy is an issue. The builder recommended the windows and they cost ₹12,000 for six sheets. But birds started dying and Vijh planted the seed of understanding and compassion in me. I was troubled and cast my thoughts into the future: here I was building a house and if deaths (of birds) occur at the start, it would not be a good omen for my family,” Patram told this writer. Patram’s benevolence for birds can partially be traced to sub-conscious influences exerted by traditional pahari cultures. He vaguely remembers the grannies putting out grains and water for small birds that expressed an accommodation of creatures in human lives. Shopkeepers around him still allow barn and wire-tailed swallows unfettered access to their buildings as they feel a nest serves as a good omen. Grateful swallows construct pot-shaped nests of scraped mud clinging to ceiling corners in shops, where their chicks remain relatively safer. However, environment-friendly structures and cultures of the Himalayas are unravelling at the seams due to allurements such as cement, air-tight buildings and reflective glass. Canny builders hard sell such glitzy, ultra-modern lifestyle choices to the simple, hardy folk. Millions of birds die globally by crashing into windows, especially in glittering cities protruding into the skies like sore thumbs. Various measures (via a Google search) can be adopted by householders —at some sacrifice to their comfort, purse and lifestyle dazzle — to remedy gardens and windows to more bird-friendly modes. The simple, benevolent soul of Patram shines in the hills above us like a beacon of inspiration. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-a-beacon-in-the-bleakness-101622373462474.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Conquering Covid in rural areas||As the coronavirus continues its ravenous march, the infection has started rapidly spreading in rural areas as well. This is a worrisome development as 70% of India’s population of 1.36 billion, lives in 6,64,369 villages, where medical facilities are scarce. The fight against Covid in villages has to be fought on a war-footing since the rural health infrastructure is weak and collecting information is problematic. India has around 23,390 primary health centres (PHCs) and 1,45,894 sub-centres. The disease will be harder to manage in villages as compared to cities. While combating the virus in the villages, the health departments should involve the headman and local panchayats, the five-man committee that administers the village. Villagers have to be briefed sensitively about the dangers of Covid and how to manage it. The panchayat should maintain records of infections and recoveries in the village. Since data collection is weak in the villages, it is possible that we may not know the extent of the problem in the rural areas in time. Doctors will not be easily available in villages even on phones. Thus, the panchayats will have to liaise closely between the villagers and health departments. Local governing bodies should form an auxiliary volunteer force ‘Covid Warriors’, comprising youngsters who will brief people of the precautions to be taken. Medical students from the state should lead this exercise. Social distancing should be practised in weekly markets, which attract hundreds of villagers. Opinion leaders Opinion leaders in villages — school teachers, priests, and doctors — should be roped in to raise awareness. These opinion leaders have credibility and thus should take the responsibility of educating villagers. This awareness is vital for many afflicted persons may not even know they have Covid. They may mistake it for an ordinary cold. The key message should be that the disease is curable and patients should report any symptoms at the earliest. The facilities in the primary health centres in the villages need to be augmented to conduct Covid tests. It will be a challenge to get vaccines, oxygen, oximeters and drugs such as Remdesivir in adequate quantities to primary health centres in the villages due to the current shortages. Nevertheless, district authorities need to establish robust supply chains at the earliest. Doctors and scientists have underscored the importance of face masks in the fight against Covid. Yet, many villagers do not use masks. Some just wear it around the chin. Many people find it inconvenient to wear a mask, because it reduces the oxygen intake. Research is needed to improve the mask, so that it protects and also ensures adequate oxygen. Free distribution of masks by the governments can also help fight Covid. The corporate sector can also produce masks and distribute them free of cost in villages, as part of their corporate social responsibility initiatives. They can print the names of some of their brands on the masks for advertising mileage. One out of every three 4G subscribers lives in villages in India, as per a study by CyberMedia Research. With the use of smart phones and internet leapfrogging in villages, advertising agencies should prepare special Covid rural campaigns for mobile phones. Mobile phones, television and radio can be aggressively deployed by state governments to guide villagers on fighting Covid. Vaccine distribution A major challenge being faced by the authorities is the transportation of vaccines to the 2,36,004 small villages, with a population of 500 or less. It will be an enormous undertaking, to transport the vaccine to tiny villages. Governments should network with companies such as Nestle, Unilever and Colgate to distribute the vaccine. These companies have distribution reach even in villages with a population of 1,500 or less through their vans. Companies engaged in products such as frozen foods and ice-creams can assist in logistics of vaccine distribution in villages. Health departments can deploy vans with freezers to transport the vaccines to villages. It will also be useful to create songs, based on the local folk music, incorporating fight Covid messages. The song can be played during mask distribution and demonstrations on social distancing. There is an urgent need to augment health facilities in primary health centres in terms of beds, health facilities and oxygen. The battle against Covid in villages should commence right now. We should not be caught unawares.(The writer is a Mumbai-based management consultant)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-conquering-covid-in-rural-areas-101622373280092.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Pigeon pair or two of a kind?||Change is the only constant. As I transition from the hustle-bustle of my residency in Bangalore to life as a consultant in a government hospital , I see change everywhere. A self-confessed Chandigarh aficionado, a particular pattern ticks me and compels me to write this piece. Recently while on call, I was told that an emergency caesarean section had to be performed and the mother had been diagnosed with postpartum haemorrhage (complication of a placenta position). Being a paediatrician, I reach the scene, that is, the operation theatre, early to take history and ensure safe delivery of the newborn . The mother was a 28-year-old Kharar resident with two healthy daughters and no other complications. Our team, comprising an anaesthetist, a gynecologist and nurses, stabilise the evidently nervous patient. As the baby let out its first cries (the best moment for any paediatrician), the mother even more panic-stricken, kept asking the gender. Her disappointment was palpable when she saw the baby. Even semi-conscious, she kept mumbling that the baby needed to be a boy.Confused, I kept thinking of the incident throughout my rounds. Later, I checked on the baby and ended up asking the inevitable: Why do you not want a girl child? I hear about the pressure she is under to provide her husband with a male heir. Saddened, I finish and head home thinking where are we wrong as a society? A lady gave birth to a healthy female child, in a OT full of female staff still feels vulnerable to these pressures? Born in a home where my mother, an only child, had two daughters, and my elder sister also has two beautiful girls, I do not understand where this school of thought stems from. My mom, the driving force behind us, tells us that we are her entire world and that if there is a place for us with no entry or exit time, it is hers. Is a family not complete with two daughters ? We are the sugar and the salt of our family. My sister is known for her sound advice and literary skills and I for a solid vote, sharing a laugh and lightening the mood. The four of us neatly fit into each other’s lives. Is this the norm in business families? It does not resonate, seeing as my nieces are the darlings of the family and my mother-in-law longs for a daughter. I sit down as a doctor, daughter, granddaughter, wife and daughter-in-law to understand why investment in ‘my clan’ is ‘zero investment’? Why right to breathe, celebrate and educate is a tribulation . Everything today is as an asset or liability but education, values and love to your girl is a long-term investment with 100% return. Equal division of tasks between children, irrespective of gender, in the south is responsible for their high sex ratios. With Punjab’s ratio being 895: 1,000 we are far behind states like Kerala. Blame the government ? Negative stereotypes surrounding the girl child make people do cruel things but organisations such as Nanhi Chhaanprovide basic education, healthcare and livelihood opportunities . With schemes like Mai Bhago for education and Bebe Nanki Ladli to curb female foeticide. Where are we failing? My father says, “No one can love you in this world as much as daughters.” They are a ray of hope and sparkle of sunshine. From miles away, they can tell your mood is off by the way you sound. Carrying your legacy forward, your values to another household, they will make someone’s house a home, while still making yours their home for life. So why stop them? Let them live, give them wings, and allow them footprints in the map of the world. Educate them instead of investing in dowry. Yet to start a family, I do not know whether we will have a pigeon pair or two of a kind, but we will value and cherish the healthy baby not the gender. bubbutir@yahoo.com( The writer is senior resident at civil hospital in Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-pigeon-pair-or-two-of-a-kind-101622372920011.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 7 with some relaxations||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar extended the lockdown in the state till June 7 while allowing relaxations such as reopening of malls with curbs on attendance and a one hour extension of operating hours for retail shops. The corona curfew will remain in place from 10 pm to 5 am.When the government last week extended the lockdown till May 31, it allowed the shops to operate between 7am and 12 pm by following the odd and even formula. Now, from Monday onwards, shops can stay open between 9 am and 3pm.“We had received representations from market associations after which we decided to change the timings. However, the shops will continue to open as per the odd-even system,” Khattar said addressing a virtual press conferenceThe CM said malls in the state will be allowed to open from 10am to 6pm, but only one person per 25 square feet area of space will be allowed in malls and owners will have to prepare a mechanism for implementation of the regulation and get it approved from district authorities.“For example, in a 1,000 square feet mall, 40 people will be allowed at a time, and if it has an area of 2,000 square feet, the number of people allowed at a given time will be 80,” Khattar said. He added that those allowed entry can stay inside for a limited duration, and entry of others will be permitted based on how many are inside the mall at a particular time.The government offices will be allowed to function with the presence of 50% employees. This is the fourth extension of the week-long lockdown which was first imposed in Haryana for a week from May 3 in the face of rising Covid-19 infections in the state.Haryana has 23,094 active Covid-19 cases currently. While the positivity rate and the death count due to the disease have come down significantly following the imposition of the curbs, the cases of black fungus infections continue to cause concern.Khattar said 50 people have died due to black fungus in the state so far, while 650 more are undergoing treatment for the infection in various hospitals.“There have been over 750 cases of black fungus in Haryana so far. Fifty-eight have been cured while 50 people have lost their lives and 650 patients are seeking treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-7-with-some-relaxations-101622369139864.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||High-velocity storm uproots trees, disrupts power supply in Chandigarh||A high-velocity storm swept the Union Territory of Chandigarh and its surrounding areas late Saturday night uprooting trees and disrupting power supply at many places.The storm, with a wind speed exceeding 60 kmph, was accompanied by heavy rains, the weather office said on Sunday.Trees were uprooted and electric poles damaged in some places, officials said.Some residents complained that power supply in many southern sectors of the city remained disrupted for nearly 10 hours. Morning water supply was also disrupted in some parts of the city.In the morning, municipal corporation workers were seen clearing several roads of uprooted trees and branches.There were reports of a few vehicles getting damaged as trees or heavy branches fell on them during the storm.The sudden change in weather was caused by a weather system which had built up due to an upper air cyclonic pressure, a Meteorological Department official said.He said that rains were also reported from Mohali, Panchkula, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highvelocity-storm-uproots-trees-disrupts-power-supply-in-chandigarh-101622354328203.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ola subsidiary told to pay ₹10,000 for failing to deliver cab on lease||For failing to provide a cab on lease despite receiving payments, Ola Fleet Technologies Private Limited has been directed to pay ₹10,000 as compensation and litigation expenses to a Kurali resident. The leasing arm of ridesharing company Ola Cabs was penalised by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Chandigarh, for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. While disposing of the complaint filed by Deepak Kumar, the consumer forum also directed the firm to refund ₹5,000 paid by him while booking the cab. If the amount is not paid in 30 days from the date of the receipt of the order’s certified copy, the company will have to pay an additional cost of ₹10,000. Deepak in his complaint said that the firm had launched a scheme under which a person could get a cab on lease for four years by depositing ₹21,000. Accordingly, Deepak applied under the scheme and booked a cab on lease by paying ₹4,000 on March 5, 2019, and the balance was to be given after the delivery of the cab. As the firm had assured him the delivery within a week, Deepak also booked a driver for the cab on daily wages of ₹500, starting from March 12, and deposited ₹1,000 for his driving test. He said Ola Fleet Technologies Private Limited on March 20 also got his police verification done, for which he paid ₹50. Despite having made all the payments, the cab was not delivered even though he made repeated visits to the firm’s office in Hallomajra. After making one excuse after the other, the firm ultimately refused to provide the cab, he alleged. Delivery rejected post verification: Firm The firm, seeking dismissal of the complaint, said that Deepak had been told that the cab would be delivered after the clearance of his verification. According to the company’s terms and conditions, which had been shared with him, ₹4,000 was a non-refundable fee for the verification of documents, address and other procedures, the firm said, adding that Deepak’s verification had been rejected due to negative remarks of his references. The firm also admitted that Deepak deposited ₹1,000 for his driver’s test, which is mandatory before handing over the cab. Justification is bald assertion: Forum “The justification put forth by Ola Fleet Technologies Private Limited in its reply for not delivering the cab is a bald assertion and devoid of any document in support. The company only relied upon the verification report briefing negative remarks of the complainant’s references, which has not been made part of the record for the reasons best known to it. Thus, it failed to prove its stand and hence found guilty of resorting to unfair trade practice,” the consumer forum ruled The order further states: “The absence of any verification report itself acclaims that no verification, as alleged, has been carried out by the (firm) and thus no question arises for forfeiting the amount, which remained unutilised by the company for the purpose it was deposited for. Thus, the unfair trade practice adopted by the (firm).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ola-subsidiary-told-to-pay-10-000-for-failing-to-deliver-cab-on-lease-101622322934616.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jaipal’s 2 aides wanted in ASIs’ killing arrested from Gwalior||Police have arrested two of the main accused in the sensational killing of assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh who were gunned down in Jagraon grain market on May 15. The suspects, Baljinder Singh alias Babbi of Moga’s Mahla Khurd village and Darshan Singh of Sahauli village in Ludhiana district, were carrying a cash reward of ₹2 lakh each on their head. They are associates of gangster Jaipal Bhullar, and were nabbed from Dabra in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, on Friday evening. Another associate of theirs, Harcharan Singh, who had allegedly given shelter to them, was also arrested. Giving details, Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta said preliminary questioning of the suspects has revealed that on the fateful day, Baljinder had come to Jagraon grain market in his mini-truck to pick Jaipal and Jassi and drop them at a hideout outside the state. Darshan turned up there with some clothes for the gangster and his associate. Gupta said the ASIs who were on duty confronted Baljinder on suspicion of drug smuggling and Darshan opened fire from his .32 revolver. Darshan, Jaipal and Jassi then fled in their I-10 Hyundai car, while Baljinder drove off in his mini-truck and joined them after some time. They all fled towards Rajasthan. Gupta said intelligence inputs were received that the suspects could be in and around Gwalior. A team from the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) led by inspector Pushpinder Singh was despatched to Gwalior. After much effort, the OCCU team managed to track the suspects and arrested them from Dabra railway station, 40 km from Gwalior, on Friday evening when they were planning to board a train to Maharashtra, Gupta said. He said the arrested duo has a criminal past and both had been convicted in two different murder cases. They had come in contact with each other while serving jail term. Darshan was granted remission while undergoing his sentence, Baljinder was released on bail by the high court. Darshan reportedly has two more criminal cases pending against him and was also involved in opium smuggling, he said. Meanwhile, the accused were produced before a Ludhiana court on Saturday that sent them to 10-day police custody for questioning. Six aides of the gangsters, including Darshan’s wife Satpal Kaur alias Noni, were arrested by Jagraon police on May 20 with a cache of weapons and ammunition. The DGP said Jaipal is one of the few gangsters who has managed to elude arrest, so far. While he remains at large, his close associate, Gavi, was arrested by Punjab Police from Jamshedpur last month. Gavi was wanted in the case of recovery of 11-kg heroin in Jalandhar district. Jaipal’s another associate Jaspreet alias Jassi, who is also absconding since the Jagraon shootout, was earlier arrested for heroin smuggling in Mohali and is also wanted in a kidnapping case. Gupta said a manhunt is still on for the absconding suspects and he was confident that they too will be arrested soon. Jaipal and his aide Jaspreet carry a cash reward of ₹10 lakh and ₹5 lakh, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jaipals-2-aides-wanted-in-asis-killing-arrested-from-gwalior-101622322754266.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases drop to lowest in 74 days||The pandemic’s downward trend continued in the tricity on Saturday as 467 fresh cases were recorded, the lowest in the past 74 days.However, 14 more people lost their lives to the contagion, a still worrisome number.It was on March 16 last when the tricity had logged 435 cases, following which the daily count climbed vigorously, hitting the all-time high of 2,612 on May 10. But, in the 19 days since, the daily cases have dropped by 82%.The daily deaths, however, still remain in the double digits in the absence of a consistent decline.On Saturday, Mohali led the daily case tally with 233 people being found positive, followed by 163 in Chandigarh and 71 in Panchkula, far lower than their peaks of 1,382, 895 and 654, respectively, recorded earlier in May. On the deaths’ front, five people each died in Chandigarh and Mohali, and four in Panchkula.On the bright side, tricity’s active cases came down to 4,418, 38% lesser than Friday’s 7,168. The recovery rate of all three cities also remained over 90%, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 5% in Panchkula, 5.6% in Chandigarh and 6% in Mohali.The latest fatalities pushed Chandigarh’s toll to 740, while the total cases reached 59,740. As many as 56,534 people in the city have successfully beaten the virus.In Mohali, the worst-hit in tricity, total fatalities reached 947. Of the 66,224 people testing positive till date, 3,414 are still under treatment and 61,863 have been cured.Among Saturday’s cases, majority at 78 were from Mohali city, 38 from Dera Bassi, 36 from Kharar, 35 from Dhakoli, 17 from Gharuan, 10 from Lalru, nine from Banur, eight from Boothgarh and two from Kurali. Panchkula’s caseload stands at 29,853, of which 28,508 patients have recovered and 341 have died. At 1,004, its active cases are the lowest in tricity.The fatalities on Saturday include a 68-year old woman from Raipur Rani, a 67-year-old man from Kalka, a 54-year-old woman from Sector 17 and a 48-year-old man from Sector 9.“Moderate to serious patients take more time to recover than those with mild symptoms, which is why the number of fatalities is still high. Now, as there is steep decline in the number of new cases as well as the positivity rate, the fatalities will also come down gradually,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.However, Dr VK Nagpal, UT joint director, health, cautioned residents against lowering their guard. “Even though the restrictions are being eased out, residents should adhere to safety guidelines because with increased movement of people, chances of the case count rising also increase,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-drop-to-lowest-in-74-days-101622322575043.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to conduct practical exams online from June 15||In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and interrupted academic activities, Panjab University (PU) will be conducting practical exams of even semesters of undergraduate and postgraduate courses online from June 15.After the practical exams, the semester examinations are scheduled to start on June 28 and are also most likely to be held in online mode again this year. A communication regarding this has been sent to all chairpersons of university teaching departments and principals of affiliated colleges.“The university authorities have allowed to conduct the viva-voce/ presentation of the candidates of UG, PG, vocational, diploma courses from June 15 to 26 through online mode,” stated the communication issued by the office of the controller of examinations, PU.The varsity has directed the chairpersons and principals to make necessary arrangements for the smooth conduct of online practical exams. According to the academic calendar, the exams for the ongoing batches will be held from June 28, while the first-year postgraduate students will sit for the exams from July 12. The varsity is also considering to defer the PU-CET (PG) entrance exam, which is scheduled on June 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-to-conduct-practical-exams-online-from-june-15-101622322454748.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s positivity rate dips to 3.88%||The Covid infection rate in Haryana came down further on Saturday with the state reporting 1,868 new cases and 3,752 recoveries. The number of active infections stood at 23,094. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said the seven days moving average of daily new infections during surge was around 14,000 which has come down to around 3,000 cases per day in last week of May. The daily positivity rate had increased to about 25-30% during the peak of second wave which has now declined to 3.88 %, the ACS said. The state on Saturday reported 97 deaths. At 15, Hisar had the highest number of fatalities. The district also has the highest cumulative count of deaths at 850 followed by Gurugram (796) and Faridabad (705). Hisar also continued to have the highest number of active cases at 2,249 followed by Rewari (2,117), Sirsa (2,055), Gurugram (1,976), Karnal (1,610) and Faridabad (1,317). The ACS said the seven-day moving average of the number of Covid-19 deaths has also declined from 160 deaths per day to around 100 deaths a day. Arora said they now have 11,690 isolation beds with oxygen support, 3, 172 intensive care beds with oxygen facility and 1,563 intensive care beds with ventilator facility. “The government has bought 106 ventilators in addition to 430 received from central government under PM Cares Fund,” the ACS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-positivity-rate-dips-to-388-101622318374217.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||58 more recover from black fungus in Haryana||Haryana has reported complete recovery of 58 patients from mucormycosis (black fungus infection). The state has so far reported 756 cases of mucormycosis, out of which, 648 are under treatment. An official spokesperson said the technical committee appointed to approve and distribute Amphotericin injections to treat black fungus on Saturday approved 975 injections for 515 patients. The spokesperson said that out of 577 patients (442 males and 135 females) whose clinical data has been analysed, 508 were found to be diabetic. It was also found that about 86% had a proven history of infection with Covid-19 virus. The spokesperson said that 498 patients had tested positive for Covid-19, while 79 had no history of Covid infection. There were 462 patients who were administered steroids, 254 had been given oxygen therapy and 61 patients had other immuno-compromised conditions. The spokesperson said that Gurugram has 216 black fungus cases followed by Hisar which has reported 179 cases and Rohtak which has reported 145 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/58-more-recover-from-black-fungus-in-haryana-101622318074542.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialist booked for selling attached property||A city-based industrialist has been booked for allegedly selling a chunk of land which was seized by the Mumbai Enforcement Directorate (ED) in 2014. The accused, identified as Kailash Agarwal of Gurdev Nagar, Ludhiana, had not told the buyer that it was an attached property. The FIR has been lodged on the statement of Ram Dikshit, assistant director, ED, Zonal Office, Mumbai. In his complaint, Dikshit said the ED had seized 19 properties of the accused’s company in 2014 after economic anomalies were detected. The matter is still sub judice. Dikshit said they came to know that the accused had sold a chunk of land, which was seized by the directorate, to someone in 2020. Following this, they filed a complaint with the Ludhiana police commissioner to lodge an FIR. The police chief marked a probe to the additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, headquarters) who recommended an FIR. Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 421(dishonestly or fraudulently removes, conceals or delivers to any person, or transfer or causes to be transferred to any person), 465 (forgery), 467 (Forgery of a valuable security, will or authority to make or transfer any valuable security, or to receive any money), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any 1[document or electronic record] which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged ) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. The police found that the accused had not only sold the property but also managed to transfer ownership of the property in the name of the buyer even as the ED had already sent information regarding the attached properties to the revenue offices. Police suspect the involvement of revenue department officials. However, the deal has now been cancelled by the authorities. The SI added that police will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialist-booked-for-selling-attached-property-101622317714756.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Industry, opposition slam govt over hike in power tariff for commercial units||With the state hiking fixed and energy consumption charges for large scale and power intensive units, pandemic beleaguered industrialists and Opposition parties have slammed the government and Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission. The hiked tariff will come into effect from June 1. Terming the announcement anti-industry and the relief to domestic consumers an eyewash ahead of the 2022 assembly elections, industrialists said they are in dire need of relief amid the pandemic. They added that fixed charges for large-scale consumers have been increased by upto ₹20 per KVA and energy consumption charges have been hiked by seven paise. Gurmeet Kular, president, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation, said, “The recently approved power tariff is an election stunt by the state government, for which the industry will have to bear the brunt. As per the new tariff, for a unit with a power connection of 500 KW, an additional ₹15,000 will be charged per month.” Furnace Alliance president Mahesh Gupta, Federation of Punjab Small Industrial Association president Badish Jindal, and Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings general secretary Pankaj Sharma slammed the move. Punjab BJP chief spokesperson Anil Sareen, said, “The government has tried to get votes by announcing ₹ 0.50 to ₹1 relief for residential consumers. But, it has still failed to provide power at ₹5 per unit to industry, which was promised in elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/industry-opposition-slam-govt-over-hike-in-power-tariff-for-commercial-units-101622317713592.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||At 343, Ludhiana clocks lowest new Covid cases in 2 months||The latest novel coronavirus infection figures indicate that the second wave is on a downward trend, with the district clocking 343 new cases — the lowest in two months — and 14 virus-induced casualties on Saturday. The last time the single-day infections in the district were below 350 was March 31 when 328 residents had tested positive. The fatalities also seem to be subsiding as the district had last reported a figure in the ballpark of the day’s tally on April 27 with 13 deaths. After consistently swelling in the beginning of the month, the active cases are also on the decline. The district has 5,226 active infections. Encouragingly, the daily cases have been below the 500-mark for the fifth consecutive day. Nine men and five women lost the battle to the virus on Saturday, the youngest being a 24- year-old man and the oldest a 75-year-old man. Four of the victims were in their 50s, three in their 60s, three in their 70s, two in 30s and one each in the 20 to 40 age bracket.Of the 83,594 people who have contracted the virus till date, 76,389 have successfully beaten the virus. The district’s recovery rate stands at 91.38%. At present, there are 46 patients on ventilator, of which 27 are from Ludhiana and 19 from other districts and states.Two more succumb to black fungus (BOX)Two more patients succumbed to black fungus in the district while five fresh cases were reported on Saturday. So far, the district has logged eight deaths due to mucormycosis, of which six are from other districts. As many as 69 patients are undergoing treatment for the formerly rare fungal disease in different city hospitals, of which 27 are from Ludhiana and 42 from other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-343-ludhiana-clocks-lowest-new-covid-cases-in-2-months-101622317658674.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rumours deterring villagers in Ludhiana from getting tested: Survey||Two days after a man who did not want to be tested for the coronavirus disease attacked a health department staffer, a Mission Fateh-2 survey has revealed that rampant misinformation being spread through social media was hampering the testing and vaccination process in villages. The first six-day long survey, which was conducted by Asha workers, covered 1,65,314 households and 7,66,452 people in the district. Of the 16,564 people tested, 193 were found positive. Mission Fateh kits were provided to all patients in home isolation.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said, “There is a misconception prevalent among villagers that if they were to test positive, they will be sent to the hospital. We are assuring people that a positive diagnosis does not necessarily lead to hospitalisation.” “Efforts are also on to dispel misinformation regarding deaths of Covid patients in hospital. Sadly, social media is doing more harm than good as people are increasingly falling prey to fake news,” Ahluwalia said. With fake news, misinformation and disinformation abound, the matter was raised during the interaction between city-based NGOs with the administration.During the meeting, Congress councillor Mamta Ashu, the wife of Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, urged women volunteers to be harbingers of social change in villages.“Women social activists living in urban areas could mobilise their womenfolk living in rural areas. Once women in rural areas shun hesitancy and come forward to get themselves tested and vaccinated, the men and elderly will also follow suit. If NGOs start adopting two to four villagers, we will get encouraging results in testing as well as in vaccinations,” she said.Dayanand Medical College and Hospital senior cardiologist at Dr Bishav Mohan, who is also a member of the Covid task force, said people living in villages were indulging in self- medication and reaching at a very late stage when the saturation had dropped significantly.Dr Sandeep Kaur, senior medical officer (SMO) of community health centre (CHC), Pakhowal, where the healthcare worker was attacked said that the health staff was facing numerous challenges. “Each day health department teams carrying out the drive have to dispel fake claims linked to tests and vaccination,” said Dr Kaur.Tejpal Singh, state committee member of the multipurpose health employee union, said sampling could not be carried out in the Rachhin village of Pakhowa where the health department team that was carrying out sampling was attacked. “The situation is more or less the same in most of the villages,” said Tejpal Singh.On May 27, a villager had attacked Suraaj Mohammed, 47, a multipurpose health worker, who along with two women employees, was encouraging residents to take Covid tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rumours-deterring-villagers-in-ludhiana-from-getting-tested-survey-101622317656433.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reaps record wheat production but per hectare yield goes down by 3%||Punjab may have emerged as the biggest wheat producing state again a year after losing the tag to Madhya Pradesh, but the average per hectare yield of the rabi crop in the state has gone down by nearly 3% or 143 kg/hectare. According to the crop cutting experiment (CCE) undertaken by the state agriculture department, Punjab has surpassed the past records by producing 171 lakh tonnes of wheat in the 2020-21 season and a record 132 lakh tonnes of the grain was procured by the state and central agencies.According to the CCE, which was conducted at 2,338 sites across 22 districts, 15 districts of Malwa and Majha regions saw a dip of up to 10% yield in the 2020-21 rabi season.Wheat was sown over 35.1 lakh hectares in the state this year as compared to 35.21 lakh hectares in the previous rabi season. In 2019-20, Punjab had an average per hectare yield of 5,004 kg that dipped to 4,861 kg this year. According to the CCE data compiled on May 21, Faridkot saw a dip of 10% in the yield (from 5,570 to 5,070 kg/hectare as compared to last year), the maximum in the state. Yield in Barnala and Sangrur yield also dropped from 5,257 to 4,805kg/ hectare and 5,767 to 5,257 kg/ hectare, respectively.However, seven districts, including Fatehgarh Sahib, Pathankot and Gurdaspur, witnessed an increase in per hectare yield, the CCE study shows. Unfriendly climatic conditions to blame: ExpertFarm experts differ on the reasons behind the dip in the yield. Punjab’s joint agriculture director (field extension) Gurvinder Singh said besides unfriendly climatic conditions, weeds resistant to chemicals were responsible for a slump in yield. “The overall season was good and Punjab registered a production of 171 lakh tonnes of wheat. Of the total produce, nearly 80% foodgrain was sold by farmers in the mandis. Nearly 40 lakh tonnes of the wheat was kept by farmers for sowing and personal consumption,” he said.‘Lesser moisture in grains got reflected in weight’ GP Singh, director of the Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR), an Indian Council of Agricultural Research laboratory, in Karnal, denied the claim of lesser resistant weedicides for adverse impact in the yield. “Crop varieties recommended in Punjab led to impressive rabi results and the state recorded a bumper yield. There is no input to substantiate that weedicides were ineffective. Moreover, this year, the average moisture content of wheat grains was 7-8% whereas in the previous season the same was about 13%. Lesser moisture in grains gets reflected in the weight,” said the head of IIWBR, the nodal agency for wheat research activities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reaps-record-wheat-production-but-per-hectare-yield-goes-down-by-3-101622317293853.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyer shoots man dead, injures 2 over land dispute||A 50-year-old man died and two of his family members were injured after a lawyer opened fire at them following a land dispute at Khokhar village of the district on Saturday morning.Police said the incident took place when Balwinder Singh and his nephew Gurpreet Singh were working in a field. Their relative Amrik Singh, a lawyer, came on a tractor and started ploughing the field to take its possession. When Balwinder and Gurpreet opposed, he fired four gunshots killing Balwinder on the spot. Gurpreet and Balwinder’s wife Manjit Kaur were injured and were rushed to a hospital, said Dalbir Kaur, sister-in-law of the deceased.DSP Sukhpal Singh said: “Balwinder had sold his three kanal of land to Amrik, who wanted to take its possession. But Balwinder was giving him land elsewhere. The dispute turned ugly on Saturday and Amrik shot dead Balwinder.”“A case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC has been registered against Amrik, who is on the run,” said Jatinderpal Singh, station house officer, Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lawyer-shoots-man-dead-injures-2-over-land-dispute-101622317113809.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal sale of assets: Bhangu’s son-in-law remanded in 3-day police custody||A Ferozepur court on Saturday sent prime accused in the illegal sale of PACL India Limited, also known as Pearls Group, properties, Har Satinder Singh Hayer to three-day police custody. Hayer, son-in-law of Pearls Group owner Nirmal Singh Bhangu who is in jail in connection with a ponzi scam involving over ₹48,000 crore, was arrested from Mohali with some property-related documents on Friday. Jalalabad deputy superintendent of police Palwinder Singh Sandhu said the SIT will question Hayer during the police remand. In April this year, the SIT filed a chargesheet against multiple accused in a Ferozepur court, saying despite the SC’s 2016 ban order, the PACL and its associated companies started disposing of land worth hundreds of crores in and outside India. As many as 57 people, including company officials and family members of Bhangu, were booked on charges of cheating, criminal conspiracy and other sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Zira police station in July last year. Several arrests were made by the police on the complaint of one Pardeep Singh of Bhadson in Patiala district. In December 2015, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had ordered attachment of all assets of PACL and its nine promoters and directors for their failure to refund money to investors. A panel headed by Justice RM Lodha (retired) had initiated the process of refund to the investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-sale-of-assets-bhangu-s-son-in-law-remanded-in-3-day-police-custody-101622316933805.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police ASI, three others held for extortion in Jalandhar||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police and three others, including two women, have been arrested for allegedly trying to extort ₹10 lakh from a Nakodar resident on Saturday. The accused have been identified as ASI Kashmir Singh, head constable Paramjit Singh, Ravi Nahar, Prabhjot Kaur and Gurwinder Kaur of Jalandhar district. Paramjit is yet to be arrested. According to the FIR, Harjinder Singh of Eida village near Nakodar filed a complaint that he received a call from Prabhjot Kaur through one of his acquaintances on May 5. She demanded money for her mother’s treatment. Harjinder met Prabhjot at Lambra bus stand and gave her ₹2,000 in his car. Meanwhile, Kashmir and Paramjit, along with Ravi Nahar and Gurwinder Kaur, forcibly took him out of car and took him to Lohra village gate on the Jalandhar-Nakodar highway. The cops said they will frame him in a criminal case if he fails to pay them ₹10 lakh. The deal was struck at ₹2.5 lakh and Harjinder give them two cheques. “I received calls from Kashmir Singh and Paramjit Singh to collect my cheques and give them money in cash,” added Harjinder. Police said that the complaint was probed and legal action was recommended against the accused. A case under Section 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC was registered at the Sadar police station, Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-asi-three-others-held-for-extortion-in-jalandhar-101622316694596.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rumblings in Cong: Three-member panel to meet Punjab leaders from Monday||The three-member Congress committee headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge will start meeting party leaders from Punjab from Monday to try and resolve factionalism in the state unit. The committee, which includes All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi Congress president Jai Prakash Agarwal as members, held its first meeting in Delhi on Saturday and has decided to call all ministers, present and former state unit chiefs, MPs, MLAs and other senior party leaders one by one in the first week of June. The three senior leaders, who have been tasked with finding a solution to squabbling in the state Congress, will start by talking to Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Monday and then meet others over the next one week to comprehend the situation and hear their suggestions and grievances. “The committee will have one-to-one meeting with each one of them to find a solution to their doubts and differences. We have to bring all the state leaders together to present a united face to strengthen the party for the 2022 assembly elections,” Rawat told HT after the meeting. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s detractors, particularly Amritsar East MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, have been suggesting that the party leadership should have one-to-one meetings with party legislators and others so that they can speak freely. On some dissenting leaders’ demand for a change of leadership in the state unit and the government, Rawat said this was not in the purview of the committee. “There is no rebellion. There are differences among some leaders over the sacrilege-related cases and other poll promises. We will see how this can be sorted out, but everything will depend on their feedback and suggestions,” he said, trying to play down the open sparring between Amarinder and Sidhu in recent weeks. While party MLAs have already started getting messages for their audience with the committee at a party office on Gurdwara Rakabganj Road in New Delhi, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi reportedly phoned three party leaders, including one minister, on Saturday for first-hand feedback from them. “Rahul ji spoke to me today and asked about the government and the goings-on in the state party. I told him my views,” Urmar MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian said, refusing to divulge the details. Asked about the continued rumblings and meetings of dissenting leaders, Rawat said they were all senior leaders and would express their views before the committee. “I am hopeful that since the Congress president has respected their sentiments and set up a high-level committee, they (party leaders) will display due regard for the committee and the conclusion it arrives at even though not everyone can be satisfied,” he said. The committee was constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi after Sidhu and a few other party leaders in the state targeted the chief minister for the legal setback in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. Amarinder and his loyalists also hit back equally hard. The rift got worse when the state agencies started to dig up dirt on some of the detractors and one of them even alleged a threat call from an aide of the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rumblings-in-cong-three-member-panel-to-meet-punjab-leaders-from-monday-101622316274270.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 125 deaths, 3,102 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Saturday recorded 125 Covid-related fatalities taking the death toll to 14,305, while 3,102 new cases took the infection count to 5,62,831.The state’s positivity rate dropped from 5.12% on Friday to 4.56%. The number of active cases dropped to 42,177 from 44,964 on Friday, according to a media bulletin released by the state government. Ludhiana and Bathinda reported 14 deaths each, followed by 12 in Amritsar, 11 in Fazilka and nine in Sangrur, the bulletin said. Ludhiana reported a maximum of 343 cases, followed by 291 in Bathinda, 254 in Jalandhar and 233 in Mohali, it said. With 5,698 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 5,06,349, it said.There are 326 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 4,918 are on oxygen support and 878 other are critical patients, the bulletin said.A total of 91,42,425 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-125-deaths-3-102-fresh-covid-cases-101622316034204.html
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Four youths drown in Sutlej in Punjab’s SBS Nagar district||Four youths, aged between 17 and 21 years, drowned after jumping into the Sutlej for a bath in Punjab’s SBS Nagar district on Saturday evening. They have been identified as Hardeep Kumar, Sandeep, Happy, and Nitin of Balachaur town in the district. Senior superintendent of police Alka Meena said their bodies were recovered with the help of divers. The four were among dozen youths who had gone to the river at Aauliyapur village near Balachaur around 3pm. As the four ventured into the deep waters, they got stuck and drowned. The other youths rushed back and informed police.Lal Bahadur, a local councillor, said all the victims belonged to families of labourers. Happy was the only child of his parents. Police have initiated inquest proceedings. Bodies will be handed over to family members after postmortem on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-youths-drown-in-sutlej-in-punjab-s-sbs-nagar-district-101622314113514.html
