31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 restrictions in Chandigarh extended till June 9||The Chandigarh administration on Monday extended the coronavirus-induced restrictions till the morning of June 9, but allowed more relaxations such as reopening of barbers and salons.It also extended the shop opening time by an hour. All shops will now be allowed to open from 9 am till 4 pm, from earlier till 3 pm."After detailed discussions, it was decided to continue the existing restrictions until 6 AM on 09/06/2021 (Wednesday),” according to an official release.The decision was taken in a Covid-19 review meeting chaired by Chandigarh Administrator and Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore here.All sports facilities will be opened for sportspersons who can utilise the infrastructure by strictly following Covid protocol, according to the release.However, swimming pools and gyms will continue to remain closed.The administration also allowed reopening of barbers and salons in the city. Spa and massage centres will continue to remain closed.Night curfew in the city is in place from 6 pm till 5 am on weekdays. The weekend curfew starts at 6 pm on Friday and continues till 5 am on Monday.The city has been witnessing a decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 infections for several days.In the review meeting, the administrator expressed concern over the plight of the children who lost their parents to Covid-19.He directed that the school fees of all such children be waived and if any child needs accommodation in the administration's welfare home, it will be provided free of cost.He also directed the Social Welfare Secretary to prepare a comprehensive scheme in consultation with the sub-committee of the Administrator's Advisory Council so that the affected could be fully rehabilitated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-restrictions-in-chandigarh-extended-till-june-9-101622469733645.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Techie from Andhra repatriated by Pakistan via Wagah border||A 32-year-old Indian software engineer, who was arrested for entering Pakistan illegally in 2019, was repatriated through the Attari-Wagah border on Monday. Software professional Prashant Vaindam, a resident of Rajam town in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh, went missing in 2017. Vaindam along with one Vari Lal of Madhya Pradesh was arrested in Pakistan on November 14, 2019. Also read: Denmark helped US spy on European politicians, claims reportSources said the techie wanted to go to Switzerland to meet his online girlfriend but surfaced in Pakistan after having gone missing for two years. “Prashant was handed over to the Border Security Force (BSF) by Pakistani Rangers at the border at 3pm,” said a BSF official at the border. He will be quarantined for 14 days after his immigration formalities and Customs checks are done at the integrated check post (ICP) Attari, sources said. Soon after his arrest, a video clip of Vaindam was widely circulated on the internet. In the video, Vaindam was seen speaking in Telugu, informing his parents that he has been arrested in Pakistan. He tried to assure his parents that after completing formalities, he will be released. The sources said Vaindam, who was working as a software engineer in a Bengaluru-based company, fell in love with an Indian woman in Switzerland. He wanted to go to Switzerland but was caught in Pakistan while crossing the Cholistan desert in Bahawalpur district, the sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/techie-from-andhra-repatriated-by-pakistan-via-wagah-border-101622463769061.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kinnaur’s forest man leaves behind an evergreen legacy||At 74, Anand Dhawaj Negi, the forest man of Kinnaur, has left behind an evergreen legacy by developing a lush forest spread over 100 hectares in the cold desert of the high-altitude border district of Himachal Pradesh. Popularly known as AD, Negi died after suffering a brain stroke on May 23. He created the forest at Thang Karma 50km uphill from Pooh, a small town in Kinnaur. It’s a tall order considering the district is spread over 6.24 lakh hectares of which 5.76 lakh hectares is non-cultivable and only 9,355 acres is cultivated land. The district has 38,563 hectares of forest land. The natural vegetation at this altitude is limited to grass and shrubs. But Negi had different plans. “He was an inspiration to me just like many others. His way of educating people through ground action must reach millions. His way of demonstrating a transformation must be included in the books. I wish to carry forward his legacy and our upcoming waste collection centre at Pooh is going to be named after him,” says Pradeep Sangwan, the convenor of NGO Healing Himalayas. Inspiration behind transformation A native of Sunam village in Kinnaur, Negi worked with the finance wing of the desert development programme. When government efforts to turn the barren land into green fields did not yield results, he took permission from the authorities in 1998 to start a volunteer service for developing a forest at Thang Karma. The Centre had already launched a scheme to mitigate the adverse effects of desertification when in 1999, Negi, who was the deputy comptroller, took it upon himself to develop the desert and implement the biggest cold desert programme. He took leave that year and in 2003 opted for voluntary retirement to spend all his time at Thang Karma. Between 1998 and 2008, Negi planted whatever he could in the cold desert. Local wisdom helped him as he trekked to villages to seek advice from the elderly on plants and crops that could be grown in the forest patch. “My uncle worked with the desert development programme but when he realised that lots of money was being wasted without any tangible results, he quit the job,” says Negi’s 36-year-old nephew Virender Sappa. Sappa is a postgraduate in anthropology from Panjab University but was so inspired by his uncle’s initiative that he took up traditional farming, too. Contour planting method worked It wasn’t long before Negi realised the Herculean task on hand as the land had no source of water. With the help of villagers, he tapped water from a nullah 6km from Thang Karma. The nullah originates in China-occupied Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR). The irrigation and public health department, now known as the Jalshakti department) would only supply water in summer and that too for a limited duration. “But seeing my uncle’s resolve, the department supplemented his efforts to provide water for the forest project,” says Sappa. Initially the survival rate of the plants in his nursery using the seeding method was only 20%. He blended local practices along with scientific ones to plant the right trees. He adopted the contour planting method that is irrigated by small dug-up water channels. Contour plantation provided enough moisture to the plants. “At first, he achieved success with contour planting in a small patch. Later, he replicated it in the entire 100 hectares,” he says. Fixing nitrogen deficiency in soil Another challenge before Negi was that the soil lacked nitrogen. Soil in the cold arid region is mostly sandy loam. To fix the nitrogen in the soil, he planted clovers along the irrigation channels; they retain water and also divert hare that destroy crops. He chose the vegetation wisely as he grew plants that have roots that decompose and help the soil become more fertile with time. The bark of tree saplings was covered with scrap wood to protect them against the freezing cold. Saplings were planted a little below ground level, in pits, to shield them from the wind. Negi went on to rear 300 chigu goats, known for high-quality Cashmere wool and meat quality. The goat dung was added to the soil to raise nutrients in the soil. 200 farmers join hands, transform landscape In 60 hectares, he planted and nurtured 30,000 trees, most of them deciduous trees such as poplar, wild apricot and Rubinya. Negi inspired more than 200 farmers in the region to transform their arid land into a cultivable patch. “We took inspiration from Negi ji, he showed us the way to develop orchards in the cold desert,” says Roshan Negi, 39, of Chango, a village along the China border known for its high-quality apple production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kinnaurs-forest-man-leaves-behind-an-evergreen-legacy-101622461070165.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kangana Ranaut pays obeisance at Golden Temple amid tight security||Actor Kangana Ranaut paid obeisance at Golden Temple amid tight security on her first visit to the holiest shrine of the Sikhs on Monday morning. Accompanied by her family, Kangana arrived in Amritsar by air and reached the shrine for a brief visit at 7.30am. Though she avoided speaking to the media, she later wrote on Instagram: “Today, I visited Sri Harmandir Sahib Golden Temple. Even though I grew up in the North and almost everyone in my family has already visited the temple many times, only for me it was first the time…speechless and stunned with Golden Temple’s beauty and divinity.” Also read: Confident of vaccinating all above 18 by 2021 end: Govt tells Supreme CourtKangana returned after paying obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum. Apart from her personal security, Punjab Police deployed tight security with the deputy commissioner of police (law and order) overseeing arrangements. Office-bearers of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which manages the shrine and usually felicitates VIPs during their visit, stayed away in the backdrop of Kangana’s controversial tweets in December about an elderly woman participant of the farmers’ agitation against the BJP-led Centre’s farm laws. The SGPC had issued her a notice for calling the octogenarian woman from a farmer’s family a daily-wager. Though she deleted the tweet, the SGPC demanded an apology. Kangana has also had a bitter social media spat with popular Punjabi actor Diljit Dosanjh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kangana-ranaut-pays-obeisance-at-golden-temple-amid-high-security-101622442587868.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Akal Takht slams state govt for not providing vaccine to SGPC||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday flayed the Punjab government for not providing vaccine to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for organising free vaccination camps at gurdwaras. Speaking to mediapersons in Amritsar, he said, “The step taken by the SGPC to get people vaccinated on its own is a good initiative. It is a service to humanity. I would like to ask the Union government to provide vaccine to the state governments. It should also import vaccine from other countries. It should also allow religious organisations to import the vaccines directly so that maximum people are inoculated.” If a dera is converted into a vaccination centre, why not provide such facilities on the premises of gurdwaras which are already helping people since day one, he questioned.“The SGPC and DSGMC have already converted congregation halls of gurdwaras into Covid-care centres. Discriminating with the SGPC and other Sikh institutions is not good,” he added. Such arrangements with deras are aimed at garnering votes. This is not a good trend, he said. “Deaths of lakhs of people prove that the governments have failed to contain the virus infection across the country. They could not even provide oxygen to Covid patients,” the acting jathedar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akal-takht-slams-state-govt-for-not-providing-vaccine-to-sgpc-101622405986176.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab kinnow growers worried as production likely to dip by 60%||Kinnow growers in Punjab are apprehending losses this year as the production is likely to go down with 60% decline in plant flowering. The state witnessed bumper crops in the last two seasons. An estimated 8 lakh metric tonne kinnow was produced in the state in 2020-21, it is learnt. Punjab leads the country in the cultivation of kinnow, with Fazilka district’s Abohar belt alone contributing up to 60% to the state’s total production. The fruit is cultivated on over 37,000 hectares in Punjab with a concentration in Fazilka and pockets of Muktsar, Bathinda and Hoshiarpur districts. HS Rattanpal, principal horticulturist, Punjab Agriculture University (PAU), said alternate bearing is common but this time inclement weather hit orchards at the flowering stage. Pardeep Dawra, a leading kinnow grower from Gidderanwali near Abohar, said the state would witness such a sharp decline in kinnow production after 18-20 years. “The last two seasons were encouraging when Punjab saw bumper crops. It is common that fruit yield drops after 1 or 2 bumper crop seasons, but this is exceptionally worrying. Climatic conditions in March were non-conducive for trees at flowering stage,” said Dawra. Balwinder Tikka, a progressive farmer from Muktsar’s Abul Khurana village, said more than 30% of his 100-acre orchard had no flowering at all while a sizeable area recorded less flowering in the rest of the farm. Tikka said most kinnow farmers would face losses as even higher rates in the coming season may not be able to compensate them for the drop in production. “At the flowering stage, a kinnow tree needs temperature between 25 and 30 degrees Celsius. But this year, the flowering window period in February and March was warmer, leading to a decrease in flowering. When fruit sets in the rest of the crop, storms in March and April caused fruit shedding,” he added. The kinnow rates are mainly determined by the production of the orange crop. Kinnow trader and grower Surinder Charaya said despite a fall in production, farmers may expect higher prices for their produce. “Kinnow has a major market in the states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Gujarat. Market rates of kinnow may escalate significantly than the 2020-21 season’s average ₹9 per kg at farm gate if its availability remains limited. It is a wait-and-watch situation as most will depend upon the orange crop yield in Maharashtra’s Nagpur belt,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-kinnow-growers-worried-as-production-likely-to-dip-by-60-101622405924018.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||High-velocity winds damage 150 feeder lines in Punjab||High-velocity winds coupled with rain damaged nearly 150 feeders of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on Saturday, affecting nearly 15 lakh consumers. Mohali, Kharar, Dera Bassi, Bassi Pathana, Sirhind, Amloh, and Rajpura were the worst-hit, officials said. Most of the damage was caused as trees got uprooted and fell on electric wires. “Mohali and Fathegarh Sahib districts are the worst-affected. PSPCL teams are working since midnight and nearly 130 feeders were restored. We will restore the remaining lines soon. The squall caused a damage to the tune of ₹2.5 crore to the corporation,” said PSPCL director (distribution) DS Grewal. He said due to a massive speed of wind, some poles of high-tension wires were also damaged in Amloh and Fatehgarh Sahib, with a sizeable number of industrial units. “It will take time to repair inner city supplies where the damage was massive. The field staff from neghbouring districts was called to restore the lines,” said a PSPCL official. ‘Ready to provide 8-hour uninterrupted supply’ PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said the corporation is committed to ensure 8-hour uninterrupted power supply to agricultural tubewells daily in the upcoming paddy season and has made all the arrangements for the same. “We are prepared to meet the expected demand target of 14,000 megawatt (MW) power during the paddy season. Due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, labour migration and diversion of industrial oxygen, many industrial units in Punjab and elsewhere have either temporarily shut down or scaled down their production capacities. Appropriate measures are being taken to advance supplies and purchase orders to ensure that distribution of power remains smooth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highvelocity-winds-damage-150-feeder-lines-in-punjab-101622405504607.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Barring Rewari, all Haryana districts report recovery rate above 90%||Haryana on Sunday recorded 1,452 new cases of Covid-19 and 89 fatalities while 42,589 samples were taken in past 24 hours, according to the health bulletin. There were 16,675 Covid positive patients in home isolation across the state and the active cases count came down to 21,087. At least 3,370 patients recovered from the infection on Sunday, pushing the recovery rate to 96.12%. Barring Rewari district where the recovery rate is 88.75%, all other districts recovery rate is well above 90%.However, the fatality rate that has been rising stood at 1.09%. Among the 89 deaths, Hisar had the highest fatalities, 10, followed by Gurugram and Panipat with eight deaths each, and Bhiwani and Fatehabad with seven deaths.Just five districts recorded over 100 new cases on Sunday with Gurugram detecting 110 cases, Faridabad 114, Hisar 140, Yamunanagar 121 and Sirsa 117. The new cases in at least 10 districts were over 50 and below 100. On Sunday, the state vaccinated 22,274 people, increasing the cumulative tally to 56.60 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barring-rewari-all-haryana-districts-report-recovery-rate-above-90-101622403703364.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Grains brim Punjab godowns, stock crosses all-time high||Godowns meant for food grain in Punjab are full to the brim and the wheat procured recently is lying in the open, vulnerable to the vagaries of weather. The state has all-time high stocks — 290 lakh tonnes (180 lakh tonnes wheat and 110 lakh tonnes rice) — for the three seasons from 2019-2021. Apart from this, 42 lakh tonnes of paddy need to be shelled and once that’s done, 28 lakh tonnes rice will require covered godowns for storage. Two years ago, the state stocks touched 320 lakh tonnes and this time, the state has 10 lakh tonnes more grains. Rice is stored in covered godowns and wheat can be stored in open plinths. The cause of worry for Punjab government is monthly movement of food grain from the state to consumer states has come to an all-time low of 10 lakh tonnes last month (April) against the average 18 lakh tonnes. More than one-third of the total (850 lakh tonnes) food grain stocks in the country is stored in Punjab (300 lakh tonnes) and there is no space in state godowns to store more. The state government has decided to urge the Centre advance disbursal of grain under the public distribution system (PDS) for six months. At least 110 lakh tonnes (out of total 132 lakh tonnes) wheat procured in the recent rabi season that earlier this month, is stored in open plinths, vulnerable to the vagaries of weather. The state government is not very happy with the pace of movement and wants the Centre of expedite, as it happened last year when the Centre started distributing food grain under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyaan Yojana (PMGKY) in advance for six months, keeping in view the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. It peaked to 1.25 lakh tonnes on a single day last year, when 40 special good trains, took away grain from the state. “We want to expedite movement of food grain from the state and have written to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to increase the movement so that our godowns have more space for the future procurements,” said secretary, food and civil supplies, Rahul Tiwari. State can store 280 lakh tonnes Punjab has a total storage capacity of 160 lakh tonnes in the covered godowns and 110 lakh tonnes in the open plinths. “We store up to 170 lakh tonnes in covered godowns and stocks in open plinths vary,” said an officer in the state food and civil supplies department. Nation’s monthly requirement for food grain under the PDS is 50 lakh tones. Punjab’s yearly requirement for PDS is 4.3 lakh tonnes. As the state food and civil supplies is pushing the Centre’s food and public distribution ministry to lift the grain from the godowns, the central agencies moved 15 lakh tonnes grain in May. Out of the wheat procured this rabi season, 8 lakh tonnes wheat has been kept for distribution in the state and 12 lakh tonnes sent outside the state under the PMGKY.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grains-brim-punjab-godowns-stock-crosses-all-time-high-101622403643486.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown till June 7, malls allowed to open||Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown--termed as Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana-- till the morning of June 7, allowing the reopening of shopping malls with curbs on gathering and permitting shops to open from 9am to 3pm from Monday. During the current lockdown that was to end at 5am on May 31, the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party coalition government had not allowed shopping malls to open while shops were running their businesses from 7am to 12noon by following the odd and even formula (shops with even numbers opening on even dates and shops with odd numbers on odd dates). As per the latest lockdown order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, the state will be under curfew from 10pm to 5am. Though malls will be allowed to open from 10am to 6pm, these will have to regulate the entry of public. Cinema halls, restaurants and bars located inside the malls will, however, remain closed. “Hotels are allowed to open with the condition that no banquets/conferences will be permitted. Restaurants and bars in hotels will also remain closed. Room occupancy will be allowed,” the chief secretary said in his two-page order about extending the lockdown.Earlier, addressing a digital press conference here, chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar said shopping malls will have to follow the prescribed visitor and time limitations. The number of people inside the malls at a given time will be fixed on the basis of one person per 25 square feet area. Hence, the number of people getting entry in a mall will depend on the built-up area of the shopping complex. The CM said mall owners have to develop a mobile application to check the entry and exit of people. They will have to formulate regulations for crowd control and get it approved from the deputy commissioners concerned, said Khattar. The CM said in view of the requests made by shopkeepers, vendors and businessmen, from Monday onwards shops can be opened from 9am to 3pm on odd-even basis.Government offices will continue to function with 50% staff strength. This is the fourth extension of the week-long lockdown which was first imposed in Haryana from May 3 morning in the face of rising Covid-19 infections in the state. Educational institutions, such as all colleges, coaching institutions, ITIs, libraries and training institutes (whether government or private), will remain closed till June 15. Anganwadi centres and creches will remain closed up to June 30. Industries will continue its operations following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The recovery rate improving from 78.70% on May 1 to 95.86% on May 29 is a testament of the lockdown helping Haryana to effectively deal with the devastating second wave. However, the number of black fungus cases is on the rise. At least 50 people have succumbed to black fungus out of about 750 cases detected so far. On the other hand, 58 people have also recovered from the fungal infection while 650 people are still under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-june-7-malls-allowed-to-open-101622403223391.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt adopts child with special needs who lost his adoptive parents to Covid||Moved by the story of a 16-year-old child with special needs, who lost his adoptive parents to Covid-19, chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday announced that the Haryana government will adopt him.The child, who suffers from mental disabilities as well as visual and speech impairment, was orphaned in childhood and adopted by a couple from Faridabad. However, Covid-19 snatched away his adoptive parents, leaving him all alone once again. While his adopted father succumbed to the virus on May 14, his adoptive mother lost her battle on May 21.After their death, the child was shifted to Deep Ashram from Faridabad after clearance from the Child Welfare Council. “On Sunday, CM Khattar was apprised of the child’s plight during his visit to Deep Ashram. He immediately announced to adopt the child on behalf of the government. The state government will bear all the expenses of the child’s upbringing and care,” an official spokesperson said. Khattar also met other children with special needs who are living in the ashram and receiving special education. The CM said children who have lost both parents to Covid-19 will be looked after under Mukhyamantri Bal Sewa Yojana and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also announced a financial package to be given through PM Cares Fund for securing the future and better upbringing of such children till the age of 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-adopts-child-with-special-needs-who-lost-his-adoptive-parents-to-covid-101622402743381.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K logs lowest daily deaths in 30 days||With the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic ebbing, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 29 Covid-induced fatalities on Sunday, the lowest daily death-toll in 30 days. The 2,256 fresh infections took the overall cases in the UT to 2, 88,940, while the death toll now stands at 3,870. This month, the UT recorded the highest deaths (73) on May 17. As many as 3,805 patients recovered on Sunday — 2,351 from Kashmir and 1,454 from Jammu. The active positive now stand at 37,677 against a high of 52,848 cases recorded on May 13.In an all-time high, J&K had 1,12,857 infections and 1,588 fatalities in the month of May while 1 lakh patients successfully beat the virus. The second wave, which peaked in teh first half of the month, has now hit a plateau in the second half. So far, 2,47,393 people have recovered in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 85.62%.Of the deaths, 20 were reported in Jammu division and nine in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,433 are from Kashmir while 823 are from Jammu and 37 are travellers.Dr Imran Hafeez, consultant cardiologist and associate professor, Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, said patients suffering from heart disease such as Ischemic disease or heart failure, are at high risk and stressed on the need of vaccinating such patients.The officials said that 41,791 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests reaching 8.53 million. Officials said with 350 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 339 in Jammu district, 190 in Ganderbal, 170 in Budgam and 164 in Baramulla. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed around 1.15 lakh cases and 1,821 deaths of the total. Jammu has the highest number fatalities at 1,055 fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 766 deaths .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-logs-lowest-daily-deaths-in-30-days-101622402205326.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||13-year-old boy nabbed for raping four-year-old in Ludhiana||A 13-year-old boy was apprehended for raping a four-year-old girl at the labour quarters in Gopal Nagar, Tibba, on Saturday evening.According to police, the children are distant relatives and the girl addresses the boy as her brother. The accused was nabbed following a complaint by the girl’s father, who caught him red-handed. In his complaint, the father said his and the boy’s families lived in the same labour quarters on rent.On Saturday evening, he was alarmed on not finding his daughter home. While looking for her, he heard her cries coming from the roof and rushed upstairs, where he was shocked to find the teenaged boy raping his daughter.As he raised the alarm, the boy fled the spot. He immediately sounded the police, who reached the area and nabbed the accused.Inspector Pramod Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Tibba police station, said they had booked the boy under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.He added that the accused was a school drop-out and his mother worked as a domestic help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13yearold-boy-nabbed-for-raping-four-year-old-in-ludhiana-101622401903357.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh, Hindu refugees in Punjab elated as Centre opens doors for citizenship||Sikh and Hindu refugees living in Ludhiana have hailed the Union government’s move to invite applications from immigrants belonging to minority communities from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh for Indian citizenship.There are around 40 such families living in Ludhiana and 24 in Khanna. A majority of them sell fruits, vegetables and clothes.They expressed happiness and thanked the government for enacting a law that makes them eligible to be citizens of the country. Among them are widows of Shanker Singh and Jeevan Singh, who were killed by terrorists in the Kabul gurdwara attack on March 25, 2020. Both Paramjeet Kaur, 45, and Harpreet Kaur, 40, are living life in penury after the death of their husbands.While Paramjeet, who lives in Chhawani Mohalla, has three daughters; Harpreet, who is staying in a one-room rented house in Kara Bara, is doing odd jobs to feed her two children.Paramjeet said for the past several years, she was desperately trying for a ration card. “As the government has started formalities to grant citizenship, it will ease the documentation process,” she said.Similarly, Harpreet Kaur said: “The case pertaining to the compensation in lieu of killing of my husband was hanging fire as he was an Afghan national and his file for citizenship was pending. Now, I will be able to pursue the matter.”Amreek Singh, a Sikh refugee, who had come from Kabul and has been living in Ludhiana since 2013, also expressed happiness over the move. “As terrorists were flushing out minorities from Afghanistan, I took refuge in India. As we were not citizens of this country, we were not eligible for an Aadhaar card. Nowadays, everything is linked to Aadhaar and one cannot avail any benefits being offered by the government without this document.”Shammi Singh, who came to India in 2012 from Afghanistan, said: “Once we get Indian citizenship, all our problems will be resolved. We will be able to apply for Aadhaar card, ration card and other documents to live life with dignity.”Running a vegetable vend in Khanna, Pujari Lal, 41, who till now was living as an illegal immigrant, is heaving a sigh of relief. He was among 25 people from Kohat city in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan, who had overstayed in India after being targeted by Islamic fundamentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-hindu-refugees-in-punjab-elated-as-centre-opens-doors-for-citizenship-101622401663083.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers slam central, state govts for labelling them Covid super-spreaders||Patiala Farmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugarahan) concluded their three-day protest in Patiala on Sunday against the Punjab government for its alleged failure in tackling Covid crisis and imposing restrictions across the state.Senior leaders of the union and Samyukt Kisan Morcha addressed the gathering of around 2,000 farmers. Slamming the central and state governments, Joginder Singh, state president of the union, said it is shameful that the authorities are targeting and labelling farmers as Covid super-spreaders. “Farmers are fighting for their rights against the three farm laws. Instead of resolving the matter, the central government is hell-bent on putting the onus of Covid spread in rural areas on farmers,” Joginder said.The farmer union also asked the state government to take private hospitals under its ambit to provide Covid treatment to patients at controlled rates.On the three farm laws, morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said despite writing to the Centre to resume talks, farmers have not received any invite as yet.“The farmers are sitting at Delhi borders for past over six months, holding guard against centre government, which is testing our patience. We will sit and protest till the government rolls back these acts,” Rajewal said.He said the central government should give compensation of ₹10 lakh each and government job kin of those who died while protesting at Delhi borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-slam-central-state-govts-for-labelling-them-covid-superspreaders-101622401185756.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyer’s assistant robbed of car for not defending jailed gangster Rajiv Raja||An advocate’s assistant was robbed of his car at knifepoint after they refused to defend jailed gangster Rajiv Raja, police said on Sunday.The victim, Gagandeep Singh, 31, of Indrapuri, Tajpur Road, was robbed of his Maruti Suzuki Zen near Khwaja Kothi Chowk in Old City area on May 23. However, he filed a complaint only on Saturday, as the accused had threatened him to stay mum.Following his statement, police have booked the accused, Rajan, and his two unidentified accomplices and initiated investigation to trace them and the car.Singh told the police that he worked as an assistant with an advocate at the district courts. He knew Rajan, who is an aide of hardcore criminal Rajiv Raja, for the past couple of years. Rajan was facing trials in different cases of NDPS Act and robbery. He was also arrested in 2019 for hatching a conspiracy to help Raja escape from jail, and had now been extorting money from people with the help of Raja, who was still active behind the bars.“My senior at work is handling a court case for Rajan, who had been pressuring him to also help Raja secure bail. But after my senior refused to take the case, Rajan started threatening me,” Singh alleged.On May 23, he was on his way to pick up something to eat, when Rajan waylaid his car near Khwaja Kothi Chowk. He threatened him with a sharp-edged weapon and sped away with his car after warning him against revealing the matter to police.ASI Jagdeesh Raj, who is investigating the case, said they had booked Rajan and his accomplices under Sections 379-B (snatching), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is underway to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lawyers-assistant-robbed-of-car-for-not-defending-jailed-gangster-rajiv-raja-101622401122905.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||In patriarchal society, it’s common to cast aspersions on woman’s character, says HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that in a patriarchal society, it is fairly common to cast aspersions on the moral character of a woman.“More often than not, these allegations are made without any basis or foundation. Even assuming a woman is or has been in an extramarital relationship, the same by itself cannot lead to the conclusion that she would not be a good mother to deny her the custody of her child,” the high court bench of justice Anupinder Singh Grewal said, while granting custody of a minor girl to an NRI woman.The woman had approached high court seeking custody arguing that the child is, at present, 4 ½ years of age and the mother is the natural guardian of the child as per the Section 6 of the Hindus Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956, wherein the custody of a child under 5 years would be with the mother The husband had alleged that the woman was involved in a relationship with one of his relatives and the relationship led to a marital discord between them. It was also argued that the minor child is residing with the father and grandparents in a cordial family environment for almost a year and the change of the custody at this stage would not be in the interest of the child, especially when the woman is living alone. The court observed that no supporting material has been brought before the court by husband and the allegations against the woman being wholly unsubstantiated are not considered relevant to adjudicate the issue of custody of the child. “Modern times are replete with the instances of children raised by a single parent having grown as responsible adults contributing to nation building in various fields,” the bench said, rejecting the argument that the child raised by the single parent would be at a disadvantage.The court also took note of the fact that there is an order of the Australian court in the woman’s favour, who is settled in that country and earns well. “I am of the considered view that it would be in the best interest and welfare of the child if her custody is handed to the mother,” the court said ordering the transfer of custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-patriarchal-society-it-s-common-to-cast-aspersions-on-woman-s-character-says-hc-101622401064398.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s daily Covid cases drop to 298, lowest in 72 days||For the first time in 72 days, Ludhiana’s Covid-19 cases fell below the 300 mark, as 298 people tested positive for the virus. The fresh cases were in line with the second wave’s downward trend since May 9 when the district had logged a record high of 1,729 cases. Since hitting this peak, cases have dropped by 82% in the following three weeks.The last time Ludhiana recorded single-day cases below 300 was on March 19 when 292 residents were found positive. On the deaths’ front, 12 people succumbed to the virus, down from 14 on Saturday. Sunday’s death count was the lowest since April 26 when 10 people had died. In the 34 days since, the daily fatalities have remained higher, reaching the peak of 30 twice, on May 10 and 11.The latest fatalities included nine men and three, with the youngest being a 27- year-old woman and the oldest a 71-year-old man. On another positive note, the active cases slipped below the 5,000 mark for the first time in 41 days. Now, 4,740 people are under treatment – 5.6% of the 83,892 cases till date. Among them, 25 patients are on ventilator supportWith 77,161 people being cured so far, the district’s recovery rate stands at 91.98%. No drop in case fatality ratio Still worrisome is the rising case fatality ratio. Though cases have dropped steadily on a weekly basis through May, the case fatality ratio – proportion of Covid patients that died – has been on the uptick.This could be attributed to most deceased losing the battle after a long hospital stay, said civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill. “A lot of patients also report to the hospital only in a critical stage. As cases have been receding for weeks, the CFR should also come down in the next fortnight,” she said.Three more cases of black fungusThree fresh cases of mucormycosis or black fungus cropped up in Ludhiana on Sunday. The fungal infection has claimed seven lives in Ludhiana so far, including five from other districts. As many as 72 patients are undergoing treatment for the disease in different city hospitals. Among them 44 are from other districts. On Saturday, the health department had stated that eight people had succumbed due to black fungus so far. But, a committee formed to examine the cases found that one of the deaths was not due to black fungus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-daily-covid-cases-drop-to-298-lowest-in-72-days-101622401063213.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Be courageous, answer call of conscience: Bajwa to Congmen||Chandigarh A day before the three-member committee is scheduled to start meeting leaders from Punjab to try and end factionalism in the state unit, Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday urged his party colleagues to be courageous and answer the call of their conscience. Bajwa, who is among the party leaders carrying out anti-Amarinder tirade over the sacrilege-related cases and other poll promises, said the Almighty and people of Punjab were watching. “Be courageous and answer the call of your conscience. The almighty and people of Punjab are watching,” he tweeted even as more than two dozen party ministers and MLAs reached Delhi to meet the panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi Congress president Jai Prakash Agarwal are the other members of the committee constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to resolve the rift in Punjab unit where Bajwa, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and half-a-dozen other leaders have been targeting chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the legal setback in the Kotkapura police firing case. The committee, which has decided to meet the chief minister, ministers, present and ex-state unit chiefs, MPs, MLAs and other leaders one by one, will start the exercise with Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and then meet two dozen ministers and MLAs, half of them from Malwa region, on Monday to hear their suggestions and grievances. Several cabinet ministers, including the two who are discontented with the CM’s handling of sacrilege cases, are among those scheduled to meet the panel on day one. Former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, both among Amarinder’s most strident critics in the state Congress, are scheduled to meet Kharge and others on Tuesday. “We will meet MPs, former state unit chiefs and other senior leaders thereafter followed by the chief minister on Thursday or Friday in all probability,” Rawat said. While former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has called up a few party leaders, including ministers and MLAs, for first-hand feedback, some MLAs and MPs have made request for an audience with him while they are in Delhi to meet the three-member panel. The state assembly polls are due in the state early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/be-courageous-answer-call-of-conscience-bajwa-to-congmen-101622400942905.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Missing Sikh man in Pak found after three months||A Sikh man in Pakistan, who was missing since February after being abducted from his home, has been found by the police in a village in the country’s northwest Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.Avinash Singh, in his 20s, went missing from the Gulberg area of Peshawar Cantonment on February 28.According to police, Singh was found on Friday night from a village near Laachi Tehsil of district Kohat.He has been admitted to Lady Reading Hospital Peshawar as he was severely tortured by the abductors, they said.Four accused, including a woman, who were named in the case filed by Singh’s father have been arrested.The family members of Singh said he was tortured by the abductors during his captivity.SSP Operations Peshawar Yasir Afridi and SP City Attique Shah visited Singh in the hospital and enquired about his health.All the legal formalities would be fulfilled in the case, Afridi said.Last month, members of the Sikh community protested in Pakistan’s Peshawar city, demanding the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provincial government find the missing youth.Speaking at the protest outside the Peshawar Press Club, community leader Sardar Parvinder Singh had said the missing youth was well-educated and his family had no ill-relations.Scores of protesters, including women and children, had demonstrated, holding banners and placards. They alleged Singh had been kidnapped by the anti-social elements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-sikh-man-in-pak-found-after-three-months-101622400522841.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 2,627 fresh Covid cases, 127 deaths||Punjab on Sunday registered 2,627 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 127 more fatalities.With Punjab witnessing a decline in fresh cases for the past several days, the number of active cases declined to 39,263 from 42,177. The state recorded 3,102 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday.The total number of Covid-19 infections reported in Punjab so far has reached 5,65,415 while the death toll has risen to 14,432 with 127 more people succumbing to the disease, according to a medical bulletin.Nineteen deaths were reported from Amritsar, 13 from Bathinda, 12 from Ludhiana and 10 from Gurdaspur. Among the fresh cases, Ludhiana reported 298, Bathinda 295, Jalandhar 195 and Mohali 182.The case positivity rate dropped to 3.92% as against 4.56% on Saturday, the bulletin stated.With 5,371 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,11,720. There are 310 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 861 other critical patients and 4,740 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 92,09,841 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-2-627-fresh-covid-cases-127-deaths-101622400283001.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC plans to take over 4 sectors, 8 villages||The Mohali municipal corporation plans to expand its jurisdiction by including four more sectors and eight villages under its ambit. The agenda will come up for approval in the General House meeting next month. At present, the MC covers a population of 2.5 lakh, which will go up to 3.5 lakh if it gets the nod.The new areas include Sectors 82, 90, 91 and 117, which have many private housing projects such as TDI City, besides Balongi village, which has two panchayats, Bariyali, Ballomajra, Mauli Baidwan, Chilla, Laknaur, Chappar Chiri and Chappar Chiri Khurd.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said it has been a long pending demand of residents of these areas to be included in the MC’s limit for better development. “We will table the agenda in the House meeting next month for approval,” he said.Deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said most of these areas are under panchayats, and bringing them under the MC limits will facilitate their planned development.Mohali was conceived after the trifurcation of Punjab, and its capital Chandigarh becoming a Union Territory in the 1960s. In 1967, the area around Mohali village was initially developed as an industrial estate, and was broadened with residential areas to meet housing demands. On November 1, 1975, then Punjab chief minister Giani Zail Singh laid the foundation stone of Mohali township and named it Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar. In 1984, a notified area committee was formed with 25 wards. In 1996, a municipal council was formed with 31 wards, which remained in existence till 2011, when the municipal corporation was formed. The MC was provided with 50 wards following a rapid growth in the city. Its first elections were held in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-plans-to-take-over-4-sectors-8-villages-101622400106957.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sprint legend Milkha Singh discharged from hospital||After being hospitalised for six days, sprint legend Milkha Singh, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged from Fortis Hospital, Mohali, on Sunday.The 91-year-old Olympian is said to be in a stable condition and will be in home isolation with oxygen support at his residence in Sector 8, Chandigarh, under supervision of his daughter, Dr Mona Milkha Singh.Meanwhile his wife Nirmal Kaur, who was being treated alongside her husband, had to be shifted to an intensive care unit on Saturday night owing to requirement of more oxygen. While Singh was admitted to the hospital on May 24, his 82-year-old wife, a former Indian volleyball team captain, was admitted on May 26 after she, too, tested positive for the virus.A statement issued by Fortis Hospital said: “On request of the family, Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital today in a stable condition. He is on oxygen and nutritional support. Nirmal Kaur had to be shifted to the intensive care unit last night due to increased oxygen requirement. She continues to be stable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sprint-legend-milkha-singh-discharged-from-hospital-101622400103280.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||High drama as 4 Covid patients succumb within 1.5 hours at Chandigarh hospital||A high drama was witnessed on Saturday night at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 after four Covid-19 patients, admitted in its two intensive care units (ICUs), died within a span of one-and-a-half hours.Attendants of the deceased alleged that the deaths occurred because of a power cut during the thunderstorm. The authorities, however, have denied it.At 10:30pm, there was a power cut in the hospital because of the thunderstorm that struck the city. Almost two hours later at 12.20am, one patient died in the ICU; at 1.15am another died; the third death was reported at 1.30am and the fourth at 2am.While one patient was from Chandigarh, others were from Punjab. As the attendants, sitting in the dark, got the news of the deaths, one of them started alleging that the patients were dying because the ventilators were not functional due to the power cut.As per sources, a lot of hue and cry was raised following which medical superintendent Dr Sudhir Garg and sub-divisional magistrate (south) Satish Jain reached the spot.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, the director-principal of GMCH-32, said: “There is no link between the power failure and the deaths that occurred in the Covid ICUs. All ventilators have automatic backup, and electricity supply was being provided to all critical areas, including ICUs.”She said ventilators were functional in the case of all four patients, and they died because of medical complications.On Saturday, there were a total of 116 patients on oxygen support and 38 patients admitted in four Covid ICUs.The medical superintendent, who visited the spot at night, said: “All ventilators connected to Covid patients were functional. Sadly, four very sick patients died in two different Covid ICUs at night.”“Mortality rate is quite high in the ICUs across India, and similar is the case at GMCH-32. Over 50% patients are from other states, who reach the hospital at a very critical stage. During the second wave when the fatality rate is so high, it is not abnormal if 5-6 Covid-19 patients die in a day,” added Dr Garg.He said that last week also, some attendants had created ruckus when five patients had died within a short span.According to sources, in the last 15 days, 110 Covid patients from Chandigarh and other states have died at GMCH-32.Garg said that the ventilators installed in the three ICUs, which were supplied through PM CARES fund, have their own battery backup of 30 minutes. “As an additional backup measure, a high dependency unit in C block with 12 ventilator beds was vacated and prepared for receiving these patients if required,” he said.Meanwhile, police confirmed that the families of three victims had complained to the cops stationed at GMCH-32, and these were forwarded to the Sector-34 police station. However, senior police officials privy to the matter said that no FIR had been registered and the complaints had been forwarded to the relevant authority.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said, “It is unfortunate that four deaths occurred at GMCH-32, but these had nothing to do with disruption in power supply. Hospital’s electricity generators were automatically turned on, and ventilators, too, have their own backup.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-drama-as-4-covid-patients-succumb-within-1-5-hours-at-chandigarh-hospital-101622399982897.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims 18 more lives, 412 test positive in Chandigarh tricity||The second wave of Covid-19 continued to recede with just 412 people testing positive in the tricity on Sunday, down from the previous day’s tally of 467 and the peak of 2,612 recorded on May 10. However, 18 more people lost their lives to the virus, up from Saturday’s death toll of 14, but considerably lower than the peak of 38 logged on May 5. Also read: High drama as 4 patients succumb within 1.5 hours at Chandigarh hospitalBoth Mohali and Chandigarh reported 182 fresh cases, while 48 people were found infected in Panchkula. In Mohali, it was after 75 days that the daily count went down below 200.In terms of deaths, Mohali recorded seven, followed by six in Panchkula and five in Chandigarh. Meanwhile, positivity rate dropped to 3.5% in Panchkula and stood at 4% and 5.5% in Mohali and Chandigarh, respectively. Positivity rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is the proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled. During the peak of the second wave, it had remained around 20-25%.With more people being discharged than those testing positive, the tricity’s active case load has plunged to 6,155 from the peak of 24,201 on May 12, and recovery rate has gone above 94% across the three jurisdictions. In fact, Chandigarh reported 509 recoveries and the number stood at 450 in Mohali on Sunday.Those dead in Chandigarh included two women, aged 42 and 52. The remaining three were senior citizens, aged between 61 and 65. In Panchkula, besides three women, aged 45, 55 and 64, three seniors in the age group of 79-85 succumbed to the virus. According to experts, the number of fatalities will take some time to decline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-18-more-lives-412-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-101622399923352.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Squall at 100 km/hr leaves Chandigarh powerless||A squall blowing at speeds up to 100 kilometer per hour accompanied by around 31 mm rain over an hour and a half left a trail of destruction in and around Chandigarh on Saturday night, with normal power and water supply still to be restored in some pockets till late on Sunday evening. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials, the squall began around 10:15pm on Saturday, and soon most parts of the city went into darkness. While the thunderstorm got over by around 11:30pm, light rain continued till the wee hours of Sunday. Also read: High-speed winds batter Mohali, PanchkulaAround 72 trees and 60 electricity poles were uprooted due to the high-speed winds, damaging property and blocking roads across Chandigarh. Several transformers also developed snags. “In many areas, an uprooted tree damaged the entire power line, taking down several poles with it. The horticulture department has removed these trees in a few areas, but a lot of work is still left before which normal power supply can resume in some pockets,” said an electricity department official, on the condition of anonymity, as he was not authorised to speak to media. While in some sectors, the electricity supply was restored by the afternoon, many southern parts, including Sectors 33-39, 45, 48 and 49, reported much longer disruptions. In parts of Sector 45, the supply was restored around 11am, but one-third of the sector was still without power till the time of filing of this story late evening. “Many residents have moved to the houses of their friends and relatives elsewhere,” said Sanjeev Bansal, president, resident welfare association (RWA), Sector 45. Covid patients sufferResidents also highlighted problems faced by Covid patients in home isolation due to the power outages. “Many patients and their attendants had a sleepless night as oxygen generators being used by them stopped working due to the power failure. We roped in an NGO, whose volunteers worked the whole night to ensure supply of free oxygen cylinders from their Covid Care Centre,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations. RS Dhillon, general secretary, RWA, Sector 34, said: “Power outages are seen each time there is a storm. When will the administration formulate a policy on weak trees that end up falling on electricity lines and creating havoc?” “We have restored power supply in most areas. There are still some issues in a few pockets within some sectors. These would also be resolved soon,” said UT chief engineer CB Ojha, adding that an emergency WhatsApp group was created for better coordination between the electricity department and MC officials. Water supply pangs Disruptions in power supply also hit water supply in most parts of the city during the day. Even though electricity was restored in parts of Sector 40, residents complained there was still no water. MS Rawat, president, RWA, Sector 40C, said: “There is no water supply to the first and second floors. On the ground floor, some houses got water, but at very low pressure.” “Water supply has still not resumed. The department does not even have any diesel to run the backup generator for the booster pump,” said Jatinder Mehta, former vice-president, RWA, CHB Flats, Sector 49. MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said: “The water supply was disrupted due to power disruptions. It will start in the evening, though the supply will be normalised only on Monday.” Birds fall prey tooIn Sector 37D, carcasses of around 200 parrots and 65 pigeons were found lying on the ground on Sunday morning. Inspector Dharminder Dogra and volunteer Prince Mehra of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals reached the spot after shocked residents called the authorities. “The birds had been sleeping on the tree branches, that fell due to the high-speed winds, killing them. We took the carcasses and handed them over to the forest department,” said Dogra.Weather outlookWith 31.8 mm rain on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, it was the highest recorded within 24 hours in May since 2014. According to the IMD, light rain and gusty winds are likely to continue from Monday to Wednesday.In fact, the weatherman had made no prediction of the thunderstorm on Saturday night. “The squall arose due to pressure differences and it is usually a short phenomenon. This is why the weather remained sunny on Sunday. However, a western disturbance will be active in the city from Monday onwards. Light rain up to 10 mm along with gusty winds at speeds up to 50 kmph and thunder can be expected to continue till Wednesday,” said IMD scientist Shivinder Singh. A squall is defined as a strong wind rising suddenly and lasting for at least a minute. It was last on June 3, 2019, that wind speed had gone up to 98.8 kmph. More recently, on May 7, it peaked at 80 kmph. Similar wind speeds are not expected in the coming days. Meanwhile, maximum temperature fell slightly to 34.9°C from Saturday’s 36.5°C. However, minimum temperature plunged by over 10 notches due to the squall, going down from 28.8°C to 18.5°C. In the next three days, the temperature is likely to continue to remain like this, with mercury oscillating between 21°C and 35°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/squall-at-100-km-hr-leaves-chandigarh-powerless-101622399805113.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||High-speed winds batter Mohali, Panchkula||A high-velocity storm on Saturday night caused widespread destruction in Mohali and Panchkula, damaging cars and two-wheelers, besides uprooting trees, electric poles and sign boards, and causing power outages lasting more than 14 hours.In Mohali, five cars and four two-wheelers were damaged. Power was disrupted for nearly 14 hours and was only restored by 1.30pm in the city on Sunday; at some places, power came back around 3pm. In some parts of Zirakpur and Dera Bassi, power was restored at around 11am on Sunday.Also read: Squall at 100 km/hr leaves Chandigarh powerlessMost of the internal sector roads were blocked with branches that fell from the trees. At Bhankapur village in Dera Bassi, traffic light poles were uprooted. The residents complained that even water supply was disrupted on Sunday morning. Mohali municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg visited the spot to supervise rescue operation.In Mullanpur, a library and tuition centre set up by NGO Open Eyes Foundation for children living in shanties was washed away, and books and stationery worth ₹40,000 were damaged.No loss of life reportedIn several parts of the city, overhead high-tension wires came down as electricity poles were uprooted. In several markets, glow sign boards were damaged, but no loss of any life was reported.A resident of Phase 11, Gurinder Walia, said, “Two cars were damaged in our area and power was only restored on Sunday afternoon. There was no water supply either.”Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that firefighters and medical teams were put on alert after the city experienced felling of trees due to the thunderstorm. Fire brigades were asked to be ready should any vehicles get stuck under fallen trees.When contacted, superintending engineer of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, Mohali, Mohit Sood, said, “Around 37 poles in Mohali city were uprooted and in most parts, we were able to restore power on Saturday night, but in other parts, power was restored at around 1pm on Sunday.”Protest outside power grid in Sector 80 The residents of Mauli Baidwan on Sunday evening held a protest outside the power grid in Sector 80 as the supply was not restored in their village. The protestors forced the grid to shutdown, which affected the supply of Sectors 77 to 80,MGF and Preet City in Sector 86 for nearly one hour.The grid became operational after the police reached the spot and pacified the protesters. Mauli Baidwan sarpanch Bal Krishan Goyal said, “There is no power in our village since last night, and they were only restoring supply of sectors and totally ignoring our village. We were forced to hold a protest.”7 cars damaged as wall collapses in Panchkula 
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: People with municipality property on lease, rent for over two decades to get ownership||People occupying municipality property, such as houses and shops, either on lease or on rent basis for the past two decades or more will be given ownership rights subject to the payment of fee as per the policy coming into force from June 1. Addressing a press conference, chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar said a policy has been framed under which the tenant will have to pay less than the present collector rate to get the ownership right. If anyone has taken a shop, house on the municipal land either on rent, lease basis, tehbazari or by paying license fee for 20 years or more, then all such occupiers will be given ownership rights under this policy. As per the policy, the occupant should have completed 20 years as of December 31, 2020. At least 20% rebate will be given on the current collector rate to the tenants who have been residing in the house or are running a shop for the past 20 years. Those with occupancy period of 50 years will get a rebate of up to 50%. The maximum rebate in payment of collector rate under this policy has been capped at 50%, said Khattar. The beneficiary will have to deposit 25% of the total fixed amount to the municipality concerned within 15 days after issuance of the notice, while the remaining 75% amount will have to be deposited within three months. The CM announced that if the municipality has rented or leased any land building to one or more occupiers in that case, the amount will have to be paid as per the fixed floor-wise formula. If only one person has been allotted the constructed building, the base rate will have to be paid for that. If the municipality has constructed two floors and each floor is given to two different allottees, then 60% of the base rate for the ground floor and 40% of the base rate for the first floor will have to be paid. In case of a three-floor building allotted to three parties, 50% of the base rate (ground floor), 30% of the base rate for the first floor and 20% of the base rate for the second floor will be paid. The roof rights will be given to the allottee owning the top floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/people-with-municipality-property-on-lease-rent-for-over-two-decades-to-get-ownership-101622395002251.html
