01-08-2020||Jalandhar||Kin of 4 booked in gold kitty fraud case in Jalandhar allege conspiracy||As the police teams, investigating the alleged gold kitty scam, have lodged FIRs against the four managerial staff employees of OLS Whizz company, their kin on Friday said that they had been wrongly booked by the police.The family members of Puneet Verma, Sheela Singh, Aditya Sethi and Aashish Sharma, who were booked by the police, said instead of trying to recover Rs 25 crore from the company directors – Ranjit Singh and Gagandeep Singh (already arrested) and Gurminder Singh (still absconding), the police were trying to harass them for no fault of theirs.Ashish Sharma’s father, Subhash Sharma, said, “My son had been working with the company on a commission basis for the last two and a half years. His job was like an LIC insurance agent. He deposited the investors’ money in the company’s account through bank and did not usurp anything for himself. Had he done anything of the sort, the company directors would have got lodged an FIR against him. Unlike the company directors who splurged and used all luxuries, we have been living in a simple house in Hoshiarpur which has not even been whitewashed for years now. My son had been mentally upset for the last few weeks. He has two daughters — one is 4 years old and the other is one and a half years old. I retired from a government job which is not even pensionable. I really wonder what the police were expecting from us.”Puneet Verma’s father JP Verma residing at Shiv Nagar here said, “Started in 2015, the company sold products through a chain system. My son became a distributor and began selling items like LEDs, CCTVs and other electronic gadgets that it launched through instalments. Whatever my son earned was on the basis of commission. The directors are the ones who have withdrawn the entire amount from the accounts, had been handling the company website and had attempted to remove all account details of the investors to fudge the records. My son was just a distributor and he was being falsely implicated in the case.”Balwinder Kumar, general secretary of the BSP, said, “It is unfair on the part of the police to suppress all low-rank employees while sparing the company bigwigs. How can the company directors, arrested in the case, say that they suffered losses when they had bought a new residential plot for Rs 30 lakh and started construction to raise a plush house. How come Gagandeep bought a Jaguar car for Rs 50-60 lakh and Ranjit owned a Fortuner worth Rs 40 lakh. They had a conspiracy in mind before absconding on July 14 as Ranjit sold his Fortuner to a Hoshiarpur-based person through a Jalandhar-based car sale-purchase agent just a day before. He sold it for Rs 29 lakh, getting Rs 19 lakh in account and Rs 10 lakh as cash. Have the cops, who arrested him, recovered Rs 10 lakh? Have they sealed his house in Shiv Vihar locality after the filing of an FIR? Ranjit issued post dated cheques to some investors before absconding as they had started raising hue and cry. Did the police not find it mala fide? The whole idea of the police in booking the low-rank managers is to divert attention from the main accused.”OLS Whizz Pvt Ltd has sister concerns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kin-of-4-booked-in-gold-kitty-fraud-case-in-jalandhar-allege-conspiracy-120653
01-08-2020||Jalandhar||Sanitation ad-hoc committee members seek more workers in Jalandhar||Two members of the Health and Sanitation Ad hoc Committee on Friday warned that if they were not given enough safai karamcharis for their wards, they would resign from the committee.A meeting of the committee members with the chairman was held in which two committee members — ward No.71 councillor Satinderjit Kaur and ward No.78 councillor Jagdish Samrai — told its chairman Balraj Thakur that if in 10 days, they did not get enough number of safai karamcharis for their own wards, they would resign.Jagdish Samrai said he had only five safai karamcharis for his ward which was a major hindrance in getting the ward cleaned. “Over the years, we have been asking them to introduce a beat system as per which the safai karamcharis will be given to every ward according to the area of the ward and there would be proper distribution,” Samrai said.Satinderjit Kaur said hers was the biggest ward in the city and still she had only 12 safai karamcharis. “Of them, only eight come to work. I have 37 colonies in my ward and for the last two and a half years, there has been no proper cleanliness in the ward. This is not the way to lead a ward,” she said.Both the committee members said the committee was formed so that they could raise the issues of the general public, but they would be able to help others only if they succeeded in getting a proper number of safai karamcharis for their own wards.Notably, unequal distribution of safai karamcharis in 80 wards of the city is a big issue among councillors these days. While some wards have more than 40 safai karamcharis, others have less than 10 and residents have been grappling with the problem of lack of cleanliness and garbage in wards where there are a fewer number of safai karamcharis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitation-ad-hoc-committee-members-seek-more-workers-in-jalandhar-120654
01-08-2020||Jalandhar||Info on availability of Covid beds, ventilators to be updated online||To help people track availability of beds of Level 2 and Level 3 category and ventilators, the district administration will start providing real-time status of beds and ventilators on its website www.jalandhar.nic.in. This was stated in a release issued by the district administration on Friday.According to the release, people can also call on 0181-2224417 helpline and seek information on availability of beds at government and private hospitals in the district.The release stated that Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, along with SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, apprised CM Capt Amarinder Singh of preparedness to combat Covid-19 and the plan to update information on availability of beds and ventilators on its website.The Deputy Commissioner said Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal has been appointed in-charge of territory hospitals and PUDA Estate Officer Navneet Kaur Bal has been deputed as Covid Patient Tracking Officer to ensure coordination and expeditious response by consistently tracking patients from the time they test positive till the completion of treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/info-on-availability-of-covid-beds-ventilators-to-be-updated-online-120655
01-08-2020||---||Virus claims 3 more lives, Jalandhar toll 55||Jalandhar, July 31In the past 24 hours, the district reported three deaths and 101 cases that took the numbers of Covid cases and deaths to 55 and 2,327, respectively. A 70-year-old resident of Model House, 66-year-old resident of Attari Bazaar and a 55-year-old man from Paddi Jagir village succumbed to the disease. Both the 70-year-old and 55-year-old patients had diabetes. The 66-year-old deceased suffered from a heart-related ailment and hypertension.A photo journalist and a businessman were among the 101 new cases that were reported from Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Noormahal Road, Gopal Nagar, Preet Nagar, Basti Bawa Khel, New Gujral Nagar, New Sodhal Nagar, Sanjay Gandhi Nagar, Gujja Peer, Tagore Nagar, Basti Gujan, Basti Danishmandan, Basti Sheikh, Sangat Nagar, Jaswant Nagar and Kabir Nagar Avtar Nagar, among others.Meanwhile, Kapurthala reported three more Covid cases on Friday. A 57-year-old resident of Urban Estate, Pahgwara, 39-year-old woman of Mehli Gate and a 66-year-old resident of Saidowal, Kapurthala, tested positive.11 cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Of 558 Covid reports received by the district administration on Friday, 11 returned positive which took the number of cases to 551. A-95-year old woman of Shahpur village succumbed to the disease at Government Medical College, Patiala. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virus-claims-3-more-lives-jalandhar-toll-55-120656
01-08-2020||Jalandhar||Digital mode comes to rescue of friends to liven up lockdown||The coronavirus crept into everything a person can think of — hitting, knocking down establishments, spirits of people and what not. In these pandemic struck times, when going about freely is a luxury being missed dearly and ensuring sound mental health amidst the lockdown stress the only thing on agenda, friendship, a necessity being fulfilled over digital mode, is something that has been saving the day for many.People have been engaging, catching up with the long lost friends like never before. As the International Friendship Day was on Thursday celebrated across the world, an exceeding number of citizens spoke to The Tribune about how they have banked upon friends to share their thoughts and keep themselves from going insane during the restrictions. However, as video calls, Zoom chats, reunion videos and a barrage of other social media wishes for friends have flooded the internet.A bunch of teachers – hailing from India, Nepal, Malaysia, Indonesia and the US — came together to discuss the crisis their respective students faced during the sudden technological demands facilitated by transformation in education across the world. All of them faced with the challenge, began taking help from each other thus strengthening their bond. The group had met at a conference in Nepal last year. Professor Ramnita Sharda, who teaches English at the HMV College, Jalandhar, has been catching up with her fellows Tamas Kiss (Malaysia), Moti Kala (Nepal), Hendri Wonto (Indonesia), Anuja Busgeeth (US) discussing ways to teach students in these trying times of Covid.The doctors, the frontliners, who have been leading from the front, have also lighted up the occasion. Eight doctors, the college mates separated for years decided to shoot a video — an idea born out of leisure time during the Covid. That’s how they celebrated their camaraderie. Dr Sanjeev Lochan, psychiatrist, Civil hospital, Phagwara, Dr Sumesh Handa Neurologist (pvt), Dr Anu Kaushal, SMO, Civil hospital, Jalandhar, Dr Mandeep Dhesi ,medical officer, Nakodar, Dr Parvind Dhingra, pathologist, (pvt), Dr Manjula Singhal, gynaecologist (pvt), Dr Ajay Marwaha (urologist) got together to shoot a video during the times of the lockdown to liven up college memories.However, on Thursday, they came up with another video celebrating bonds with the song ‘ye Dosti Hum nahi chorenge’ playing in the background as they danced. They even included some of their other batchmates’ pictures, dug up from their personal archives.Campuses missing warmth of cordial relationsAs campuses, educational institutions continue to wear a deserted look, most of the action is happening on the Zoom calls. While exchange of friendship bands, cards, wrist bands and souvenirs used to rule in past, this year, unfortunately, the chain of events happened only on social media as the colleges and campuses went about their business without students. However, some of the campuses had little celebrations. At the CT Group campus in Jalandhar, working colleagues gathered to greet each other and shot a video of the on-campus revels. Some lucky chaps right there, right?The digital ageAs Prof Sharda says, “It takes three GB data for three Zoom video calls a day.” Internet connectivity and phones is a must. It is the new anthem for friends as they have to catch up with each other only through the internet. And as far as the importance of a cell phone is concerned these days, they are no less than a life partner. Friends chatting for hours with each other on the phone and social media is flooded with those reaching out to each other through poignant, emotional friendship messages. Video chats are the new order during the social distancing with friends unable to hug or meet. Not only this, the digital companions are the new workplace, the class room, recreation centre and even a shopping mall. Hefty phone bills have been reported as well.However, an unusual lot — away from the rat race – has also emerged who are worried over the onslaught of technology and believes in more traditional holistic means of upholding friendship. Also, they are believers in the asynchronous modes of teaching and believe in relieving students from the burdens of real time mobile calls and zoom chats to help their better growth and learning.We are a bunch of friends who were together during our studies in HMV College in the 1990 batch. During the lockdown we were hit by nostalgia and got together – started talking and doing video calls on the web. Our web reunion led to more brainstorming and eventually we shot a video film about our reunion from the comforts of our respective homes. It was welcomed by the batchmates and friends at our college and widely loved. — Beenu Rajpoot, filmmaker and artistSome of us who met at a Teachers’ conference in Nepal last year have formed lasting bonds during the lockdown. We were already in touch but began taking notes with each other on how to cope with the new technological demands during teaching and how to help students who don’t have access to technology. Apparently, this is a problem worrying teachers across the world. Discussing this, has opened up a world of experiences. — Ramnita Sharda, Prof, HMV College, JalandharWe were all batchmates at Government Medical College, Patiala, and have been working 24X7 during the pandemic. We decided to make a video after I came up with a concept that would provide cheer to heavy hearts burdened due to the drudgery of the lockdown. We shot slots from our drawing rooms, living rooms, gardens and porches and uploaded them. — Dr. Sanjeev Lochan, PsychiatristI would be paired with my friends before the lockdown. I pair up with one of my friends who is a colleague from the workplace. While socialising was normal before the pandemic, now we have routed our energies to videos. Unable to meet friends, we make up for the lost fun by shooting pandemic special videos with social messages and also catch up via video chat.  — Kanwarpreet Singh, media and PR professional||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/digital-mode-comes-to-rescue-of-friends-to-liven-up-lockdown-120673
01-08-2020||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiHoshiarpur||Where encroachments deprive pedestrians of their right to walk||Encroachments in marketplaces have become a common sight here. Besides, vehicles parked outside shops in a zigzag manner add to the woes of commuters and pedestrians.“There are no footpaths in most markets and wherever they are, they are mostly encroached. Teams of the municipal corporation sometimes carry out inspections, but to no effect,” says Akshay Prashar, a local resident.The already narrow roads and bazaars are encroached upon by shopkeepers, making it difficult for commuters and pedestrians to move around. Though officials of the municipal corporation (MC) carry out inspections infrequently and seize some of their articles kept on the road, such inspections hardly act as a deterrent as the shopkeepers start placing their goods back on roads as soon as the team moves ahead. Most of the main markets like Committee Bazaar, Kashmiri Bazaar, Bassi Khwaju Bazaar, Sheesh Mahal Bazaar, Kotwali Bazaar, Vakilan Bazaar, etc, have been reduced to narrow lanes by shopkeepers. Besides, haphazardly parked vehicles also leave no space for pedestrians to walk.Social activist Ashutosh Sharma says, “Mostly MC officials turn a blind eye to the encroachments. The display of goods on roads and in marketplaces by shopkeepers outside their shops deprives the pedestrians of their right to walk.”The road outside Old Sabzi Mandi, near Ghanta Ghar and Kamalpur Chowk and the bus stand road are encroached by street vendors and their rehris (carts). The rehris of fruit and vegetable and the cots laid by rags vendors and others encroach on around 15-20 feet of space on both sides of the roads during the daytime. These encroachments leave very little space for two-wheelers to drive, leave alone movement of four-wheelers here.The problem is compounded by haphazard parking of vehicles (cars and bikes). Though there are two MC and two private parking lots near these areas, commuters seldom use them and prefer to park their vehicles on the roadside, leading to accidents and frequent traffic snarls. Long queues of vehicles are witnessed many times during the day at Ghanta Ghar Chowk, Phagwara Chowk and the Gauran Gate market.The apathetic attitude of the MC is adding to the city residents’ hardships. Even the traffic police are doing nothing in this regard. The traffic police personnel deployed at various crossings in the city and check-points only challan traffic rule violators. They hardly pay attention towards regulating traffic. Further, the dysfunctional traffic lights at some important points in the city pose a risk to commuters.Balbir Raj Singh, Commissioner, MC, Hoshiarpur, said, “Anti-encroachment drives were being conducted before the lockdown, but due to various Covid-related duties and activities, such drives could not be conducted. But now we are going to start them again in a couple of days. The irony is that for whom we are conducting such drives they do not understand their responsibility.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/where-encroachments-deprive-pedestrians-of-their-right-to-walk-120674
01-08-2020||Jalandhar||Decision to reopen gyms ‘lifts’ spirits of fitness buffs||The decision to allow gyms and yoga institutions to reopen as part of the ‘Unlock 3’ has brought cheer to fitness lovers and gym owners.Excited to go back to their workout space after a period of over four months, fitness freaks have started booking their slots. However, the decision has left the fitness buffs wondering what would the reopening of gyms be like? The move has also sparked meme fest on social media platforms on how the new workout schedules would look like.The gym owners, who had been severely hit due to lockdown, started cleaning their building complex to provide a safe and hygienic workout zone to their clients. Several protests were held in the city, seeking its reopening as many owners were financially hard pressed during lockdown.Sumit Sharma and Vikram Dhiman, owners at the Gold’s Gym, said, they were eager to resume the routine workout sessions as their clients were craving to hit the gym to be back in shape. “Wash, spray, wait, wipe, repeat, is what we are going to do after opening the gym. As per the SOPs, we would greet the clients first with thermal scanners and sanitisers, followed by social distancing during workout and then a gap of 15-20 minutes would be there to re-sanitise the gym for the next slot of the clients. Only 20-25 people will be allowed to do their exercises in one slot. As we have the largest cardio room, we are planning to make partitions between treadmills, cross fits and cycles, with glasses, so that there is no contact between two persons. Besides, trainers will always cover their faces with face shields while training people.”“There will be no compromise with the health of the clients and the gym will function with just one-fourth of the capacity. Post ‘Unlock 3’, we have received online bookings from our usual clients,” Sharma further added. He said he suffered a loss of around Rs 20-25 lakh during lockdown.Bharat Rajput, who owns ‘Energy Max Gym’ at Pratapbagh said, “We have sanitised the premises of our gym today and disinfectants were sprayed on the equipment and machines.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/decision-to-reopen-gyms-lifts-spirits-of-fitness-buffs-120675
01-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Girl power: Reaching out to poorest of poor||Hoshiarpur, July 31Stepping up efforts to ensure employment for young poor girls under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission’, the district administration would launch a special drive to get the rural girls employed in different sectors in a few months.Ghar Ghar Rozgar Missione-rickshaws to womenNine more block-level job camps to be organised — DCSo far as many as 744 jobs in the last three months had been provided to the unemployed youthThe administration was contemplating to identify few villages on pilot basis to choose the deserving girl aspirants seeking jobs under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar, which would be further replicated in the district on its success. During a video conferencing, the performance of Hoshiarpur district administration under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission was declared the first in the state for placement of labourers as well as the educated youth.DC Apneet Riyait said so far as many as 744 jobs in the last three months had been provided to the unemployed youth besides securing placement for the 8,987 skilled labourers in Hoshiarpur district. She shared this information while participating in a video conferencing chaired by the CM’s Chief Principal Secretary Suresh Kumar to review the performance of 22 districts in lockdown under Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission. Riyait said efforts were afoot to further accelerate the pace under the said Mission by organising job camps in rural and remote areas.Riyait said the administration was making all-out efforts to identify the poorest of the poor jobless rural youth in villages for employment. The eligible candidates from the villages would be shortlisted soon for their placement in different private sectors.She further said the administration had chalked out a comprehensive plan to organise block level job camps as the rural belts were the focus area so as to take the said mission at the grassroots level. The first such camp was organised on Wednesday and 67 youths were provided job offer letters in it.The efforts being put in by DBEE under the leadership of its CEO & ADC (D) Harbir Singh were also appreciated and the local industry was thanked for facilitating the maximum employment to the youth of the District.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girl-power-reaching-out-to-poorest-of-poor-120676
01-08-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||2 women among five arrested with illicit liquor, drugs in Hoshiarpur||The district police have arrested five persons, including two women, and recovered narcotics and liquor from them in six cases.According to information, the Chabbewal police have arrested Surinder Singh, a resident of Lehli Kalan village, and recovered 13 bottles of liquor from him.The Bullowal police have arrested Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Nandachor village, and recovered a huge quantity of sedative pills and capsules from his possession.The Model Town police have arrested Akhlaspur, a resident of Mooni Devi, and seized 450 gm of poppy husk from her.Similarly, the Mahilpur police raided a house at Binjhon village and recovered 14.600 kg of poppy husk, while the suspect, Jaspal Singh, alias Kala, fled the spot. The Garhdiwala police arrested Lakhvir Singh, alias Kaka, of Jauhlan village and recovered 16,500 ml of liquor from him.The Mehtiana police stopped a woman riding a scooter near a religious place at Harta village and recovered 6 gm of heroin from her. The woman has been identified as Raj Rani, alias Razi, a resident of Harta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-women-among-five-arrested-with-illicit-liquor-drugs-in-hoshiarpur-120677
01-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||6 liquor bottles looted from shop in Hoshiarpur||Some unidentified persons decamped with 6 bottles of liquor and three boxes of beer on Thursday from a liquor vend in Jandoli village. The Chabbewal police have registered a case in this regard. According to the information Mangal Singh, a resident of Jandoli, has filed a complaint with the police. He said he was working as a salesman on the liquor vend. Some miscreants broke the locks of the vend on Thursday night and decamped with 6 bottles of liquor and three boxes of beer. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-liquor-bottles-looted-from-shop-in-hoshiarpur-120678
01-08-2020||Jalandhar||Month-long e-lit fest from today||Tributes paid to Udham SinghHoshiarpur: The government would construct a medical college here to be named after Shaheed Udham Singh, said Industry and Commerce Minister Sundar Sham Arora on Friday. Thanking the CM, Arora said he dedicated the college to Udham Singh. He reached the site of Shaheed Udham Singh Government Medical College and paid tributes to the martyr. DC Apneet Riyat, Vice Chairman of Punjab Industries Board Brahm Shamkar Jimpa and Chairman Improvement Trust Rakesh Marwaha also paid tributes to Udham Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/month-long-e-lit-fest-from-today-120680
