04-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Going gets tough as players try to find lost fitness levels||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 3Undeniably, the virus outbreak and the following lockdown have had consequences in the sporting world. The unprecedented times muffled all the ‘oohs and aahs’ witnessed in the stadiums as games across the globe shuttered. As time progressed, it took a toll on players’ fitness levels and many are still reeling from the effects as they strive to get back into the usual groove.Considering the scenario here, the sports city of nation was also numbed to the core. The pandemic took all the charm away as the vacant grounds became a common sight, players caged at homes, respective tournaments got cancelled or postponed. Meanwhile, same scenes were running parallel nationally and overseas as well.Locked in at home, confronted with ample of time and lack of actual training sessions coupled with fears of dwidling fitness levels, the players indulged in working out and training at home. Online sessions with coaches became the new hit and the only way to train. But somewhere in between, players did lose their steely side — or so the coaches feel as the bigger picture emerged after the unlocking phase. Though the high-profile players have somehow managed to cope, question mark hangs about the national-level players.Gagan Ratti, a badminton coach at a college here, says his was one of the few stadiums that got permission to reopen. “But I have seen that the players have lost their strength. It will take some time to bounce back,” he adds.Close contact games missing touch, online training on riseAs wrestling and boxing are contact games.The players aren’t able to do the technical training considered essential in these. The subtle nuances of technicalities in such games go a long way and in absence of partners it becomes almost impossible to grasp them. Though online sessions help to some extent but many things can’t be replicated on videos. Mandeep Sharma, an international coach from Jagjit Singh academy, says, “Since lockdown started, I have been sending in the videos of wrestling to the players so that they keep on practicing daily. And then the players also send in their videos of practicing at their homes.” However, online training seems to have taken over the method, “but some coaches have felt that it is of no use because of lack of discipline in some of the players.”Players from weaker sections upbeat, resumption on mindThe income source of families of many players has stopped amid the pandemic, but that isn’t holding them back from practicing. The players belonging to underpriveleged sections have shown moxie and are single-minded regarding practice. They are eagerly awaiting the resumption. Many don’t even have proper equipment such as mats at their home and training on the ‘katcha’ floor.Having lived in poverty for much of their lives, the budding players say that the fear of virus didn’t bar their spirits. They feel the current times are just another match of their lives.Sharmila, a Judoka, who had won a bronze medal in judo in the Khelo India Youth Games, a national-level competiton, organised by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, lives in one room rented house in Jalandhar. Although, she is not practicing but is upbeat and would resume as the school starts. “I study for most of the day and not practicing yet but would start again when the school starts,” the 15-year-old says. Her mother used to work as a domestic help, has no work now. She is the only bread earner in the family.Also, because of no proper work, such promising players don’t get a special diet. And for that to happen, the parents have to cut on their expenses.After the pandemic, everything had stopped. The sportspersons suffered a lot. Already a year has been wasted and it will require another year for them to get back in form. The road ahead is not smooth for the players. Rajni Bhalla, Women wrestling coachThe lockdown was imposed suddenly and I couldn’t even buy any equipment for my training. Practising at home is not easy at all. To maintain weight is another challenge these days. Though I do exercise at home, it cannot match that level. Ashutosh Bhagat, National-level boxerBoxing requires direct eye to eye and physical contact, but amid this situation, it is not possible to practise without a partner. Also, the majority of players don’t have equipment like punching bags, skipping rope, etc, in their homes. Arihant Kumar, a Boxing coachOn normal days, we don’t get to do power exercises to strengthen ourselves. But I am doing such exercises as give me more strength amid the lockdown. However, being a wrestler, I miss a partner and that training with a partner has actually been affected. Harpreet Sandhu, WrestlerThe outbreak has certainly changed the scenario of sports. However, I am ensuring that I always keep in touch with them and provide them online training, but, it is not that easy to have that level of communication during online training too. Paramjit Singh, Athletics coachThere were several promising players who were hardworking, but had troubles because of the pandemic at their homes. I made sure that I provided them all help. However, providing online training is not that easy. Sharandeep Kaur, Physical education teacherIt will take another two to three months for the players to regain what they lost in the last three months during the lockdown. I am witnessing changes among the players, they will require harder training now and more hard work will be needed. Gagan Ratti, Badminton coach||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/going-gets-tough-as-players-try-to-find-lost-fitness-levels-121713
04-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||Beware! Fake message promising Rs 2K Covid relief doing rounds on social media||Jalandhar, August 3A fake message claiming that the state government is giving Rs 2,000 to each citizen as Covid-19 relief package is doing the rounds on WhatsApp. Some residents have also received the fake information as an SMS.Shailja Sharma, a resident of Punjabi Bagh, told The Tribune that she and one of her colleagues had received a forwarded message in a WhatsApp group. She said the message read: “The government has finally approved and has started giving out a free Rs 2,000 relief fund to each citizen. Below is how to claim and get yours credit instantly as I have did just now — https://covid19-relieffund.com. You can only claim and get credited once and it’s also limited so get your account now instantly.”Shailja said though she was curious to open the link to check if the URL was valid and also know the procedure to avail herself of the relief. However, a friend of her told her that it could be a trap and her cell phone could be hacked.“These days, everyone is looking for aid. Despite being a graduate student and having knowledge of phishing attacks and other cyber crimes, I was elated on seeing the message. But I thank my friend who stopped me from clicking on the link,” she said, adding that there were many, especially the uneducated, who could fall into such scams and end up losing their precious money. So, the government must educate people about rising online frauds, she said.Palvinder Singh, a cyber security researcher and CEO and founder of Secuneus Technologies, said as the lockdown had confined people to their homes and given a big push to digital platforms, especially online transactions, cyber criminals, got an opportunity to defraud innocent people. He said fraudsters were spreading fake messages and hoodwinking them into transferring money to accounts that had no connection with Covid-19 relief operations.“Cyber frauds have become so common during the past few months that both banks and police authorities are forced to send out warnings to account holders, warning them to be careful of such fraudsters. Even the Digital Investigation Training and Analysis Centre (DITAC) of the Punjab Police State Cyber Crime Cell recently issued an alert regarding the phishing fraud. The DITAC, on its official social media handles, has made it clear that the government was not paying any such relief and the people must avoid clicking on such links,” Palvinder said.When asked how to recognise such fake messages in the first, Palvinder said: “Such phishing attacks can permit cybercriminals to assume control of the user’s device (mobile phone) or access data and money-related information and steal their money. Therefore, whenever a person receives such messages, especially those that promise jackpot or financial assistance, they must cross check the information on the Internet. If they have already clicked on the link, they must avoid sharing any personal or confidential information such as Aadhaar or their bank account number,” he added.Monika, in-charge, Cyber Crime Cell, Jalandhar, said no such case had been reported in the city so far. “However, we have received information that such fake messages are being circulated, so the residents must remain alert,” she said.Fact fileIn the supervision of Palvinder Singh, a cyber expert, when The Tribune correspondent clicked on the URL (https://covid19-relieffund.com), it took her to a page that showed the congratulatory message — “Get free Rs 2,000 instantly to your bank account. Please complete the survey to avail free lockdown relief funds. Then came a question asking ‘Are you a bona fide Indian citizen?’. After answering the question, it was observed that the link actually contained a questionnaire seeking more details such as name, address, email id, contact number, bank account number, Aadhaar number, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beware-fake-message-promising-rs-2k-covid-relief-doing-rounds-on-social-media-121714
04-08-2020||---||Go green: Families tie rakhis to trees, pledge to preserve them||Jalandhar, August 3On the occasion of Rakhar Punya, several families associated with environmentalist Balbir S Seechewal on Monday tied rakhis to trees pledging to preserve them always in their lives.Gurwinder Singh Boparai, a resident of Chak Chelan village here, said, “Over the years, all members of my family have been tying rakhis to trees. Even my sister who came to our place tied rakhis to trees. This activity helps us maintain our resolve to conserve the environment and will leave a deep impact on the minds of our children.”On the occasion, environmentalist Seechewal also launched a new app, ‘Rukh’, wherein the details regarding the availability of 46 different varieties of trees can be checked. These include mango, guava, jamun, lemon, pomegranate, etc, varieties. Even herbal trees like drumstick, Arjan, etc, are on the list.Seechewal said, “After downloading the app, the residents can book the trees and we will give them dates when they can come and collect it from us for free. Our experts will also guide the visitors as to how to take care of the trees. We will get a form filled from him and expect him to send us pictures of trees as they grow and how the owners are taking its care”.He said as many as 5.5 lakh tree saplings had been readied for free distribution to those who were ready to take care of them. He said the plants were already being distributed to panchayats, youth clubs and other social worker organisations from the nursery of Seechewal and using the app for the purpose would simply make things more convenient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/go-green-families-tie-rakhis-to-trees-pledge-to-preserve-them-121715
04-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Stinky affair: Garbage dumped along Jalandhar highways paints a sorry picture||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 3The highways usually are open to much delight. Most paint a picture of near perfect upkeeping and of course, are expected to be traffic-less. But, the Maqsudan bypass roadway is completely on the opposite end of spectrum of what one can think of a highway.There are heaps of garbage lying here. Multitudes of waste can be seen dumped at vacant plots adjacent to it. In addition, stray cattle after hovering about it hinder the traffic causing snarls. The road, one of the busiest in the city, leads to the Pathankot Chowk, Industrial area, railway station and other residential areas.A dhaba owner in the area said: “Garbage needs to be lifted soon. In morning and evening, huge traffic could be seen on the road due to stray cattle blocking the way of vehicles. Being one of the busiest roads in the city, it is necessary for the corporation to install a proper bin and ensure timely lifting,” a dhaba owner says. He also suggested that rag picking be curtailed as a lot of waste is spilled in that process.Owing to the Municipal Corporation’s (MC) apathy the problem is on the rise as is the the stench becoming unbearable day by day for everyone who happens to pass by the area. Though the officials concerned say the issue shall be resolved soon. “Nothing concrete is visible,” says Satish Kumar, a resident of Transport Nagar. “Rains only make it worse, the stink is killing!” he adds.The slum dwellers have also occupied sporadic spots, and in the absence of a bin are also doing their part to turn the land into a dumping ground. Which sooner or later, if immediate action is not taken, seems very likely to happen.The sanitary inspector of the area, says, “The road is common and leads to many residential areas.” Hence, on request of residents, he had appealed to the MC sanitation department many a times to install a high-capacity bin “but all in vain as they always get away with their responsibility by citing several reasons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stinky-affair-garbage-dumped-along-jalandhar-highways-paints-a-sorry-picture-121716
04-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Rendered jobless, woman sells fruits to afford 2 square meals||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 3The pandemic has many people’s lives in shambles. Just as large number of autorickshaw drivers have resorted to other ways of sustenance; many have taken up selling of fruits. Aarti, a former employee of the Sacred Heart hospital, too has joined the club.Presently, the only bread winner in her family of six, she is selling fruits near the hospital — where she was a housekeeper — to keep her family going amid these tough times. She was confronted with multiple problems even after she had got the boot. Her husband’s father was being treated already and then he met an accident.“After losing some saving, we were happy that at least my Rs 10,000 income was manageable for all our expenses,” she says. However, things went downhill after she was sacked in April.The wait for the lockdown’s ending never came. As it extended, so did family’s needs. The rent is there and stove had to keep on burning for her two sons and two daughters. But the times had come down hard on her. “Despite dialing on all my contacts and approaching previous bosses, I didn’t get any work,” she shares. Hence, vendoring was the best option as most of the drivers were doing the same.Therefore, she did the needful by mortgaging her gold earnings. “I took a vending cart on lease in May. In the beginning, I also suffered a loss of Rs 2000-3000 as I didn’t know to make deals and preserve the fruits,” the 42-year-old tells. Now, she’s earning Rs 200-300 daily.Striving to pay back the loaned money by standing in long queues of the Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi, she is optimistic of better times. “I want to provide better education to my children and clear all the dues from landlord and bank,” Aarti, a resident of Ravidas Nagar says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rendered-jobless-woman-sells-fruits-to-afford-2-square-meals-121717
04-08-2020||---||Man loses control of bike, dies||Jalandhar, August 3A 32-year-old man lost his life after he lost control of his motorcycle here on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Iqbal Singh, a resident of Ekta Nagar, Phase-2, Rama Mandi.Sub-Inspector Hardev Singh, who is investigating the case, said the incident, which was reported at around 11 pm, took place at the Khalsa College flyover when the victim was returning home after celebrating a friend’s (Ashok Kumar) birthday. Both of them were riding the bike. While Iqbal was killed on the spot, Ashok fractured his legs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-loses-control-of-bike-dies-121718
04-08-2020||---||Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner seeks infra boost for Civil Hospital||Jalandhar, August 3In a bid to further augment the medical facilities at Shaheed Babu Labh Civil Hospital for Level-III Covid patients, who need ICU care and ventilators, the district administration has decided to upgrade existing infrastructure from 28 to 52-beds for serious patients. Notably, Jalandhar being among the top three most Covid-affected districts on Punjab (along with Ludhiana and Amritsar) and in district – the Civil Hospital is the only frontline healthcare government establishment, which has been taking Level 2 and 3 patients from the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic.With the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has written to Secretary, Health and Managing Director, Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) for equipment and additional staff required for operating the upgraded infrastructure to tackle the cases efficaciously in Jalandhar.While the Civil Hospital has presently 28 beds for the Covid-19 ICU, it also has only 12 ventilators to treat serious Covid-19 patients. However, with the increase in Covid positive cases, and marked rise in the amount of serious patients reported in the district – the Civil Hospital needs an infrastructural upgrade to cope up with the marked rise in patients.Disclosing more details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the district administration was fully geared up to effectively deal with the further spread of Coronavirus. He said the administration had demanded 24 fowler beds, 22-bed side screen, five multipara monitor, 19 pulse oximeter, six syringe infusion pumps, three suction machines, six crash carts, three Laryngoscope, 10,000 glucometre strips, 30 non-re-breathing ventilation mask, one domestic refrigerator and water cooler, two instrument trolley, 100 face shields, 50 OT gowns, besides the list of the staff required for the upgraded infrastructure has been sent to the Secretary Health Department and Managing Director, PHSC.He said that these medical facilities for critical patients would be upgraded on the modern lines to ensure that the patients did not get any problem in availing of the best care treatment. He said the major focus was only on saving the precious lives of people from the pandemic. Thori said it was the moral duty of all of us to fight this war against Covid-19 effectively with better coordination with all key departments in this war.Gearing up to fight contagionAdministration has demanded 24 fowler beds, 22-bed side screen, five multi-para monitors, 19 pulse oximeters, six syringe infusion pumps, three suction machines, six crash carts, three Laryngoscope, 10,000 glucometer strips, 30 non-re-breathing ventilation mask, one domestic refrigerator and water cooler, two instrument trolley, 100 face shields, 50 OT gowns, besides the list of the staff required for the upgraded infrastructure at the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-seeks-infra-boost-for-civil-hospital-121719
04-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Jalandhar to have 4,450 new cattle sheds, says Deputy Commissioner||Jalandhar, August 3To promote dairy business among the small and marginal farmers for enhancing their income, the district administration has decided to construct 4,450 cattle sheds in 890 villages across Jalandhar during the current financial year.Five cattle sheds would be constructed in each village of the district. The construction of 600 cattle sheds has already been initiated in the villages with the help of workers registered under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).“The focus is being laid to help the needy people to get employment under the MGNREGA Scheme besides the construction of cattle shed would motivate the small and marginal farmers towards adopting livestock rather than traditional agriculture,” said DC Ghanshyam Thori.He further said earlier, under the scheme, individuals were contributing 40 per cent and rest of the 60 per cent was being paid by the government, but this year, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had abolished the condition of 40 per cent to help the small and marginal farmers as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the small and marginal farmers severely. He said the administration had identified 4,450 places in 890 villages where the facility of modern cattle sheds would be built. “The scheme has been divided into three parts for benefiting small and marginal farmers as those farmers who have two heads of cattle would get assistance of Rs 35,000, Rs 60,000 on four heads of cattle and those having six livestock would be eligible to get Rs 97,000,” he added.He said all BDPOs were directed to identify the beneficiaries as per the criteria fixed by the government, besides the details of the livestock must be checked properly so that shed of the required size can be constructed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-to-have-4-450-new-cattle-sheds-says-deputy-commissioner-121720
04-08-2020||---||2 more deaths, 63 fresh Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, August 3The district on Monday reported two deaths and 63 new Covid cases, taking the death toll and the number of cases to 64 and 2,580, respectively.A private doctor was among the new cases reported on Monday. One of the deceased is an 80-year-old woman.The reader of Kapurthala ADC (General) and a contact of Baba Daya Singh were among 16 persons who tested positive for Covid in Kapurthala district on Monday.12 cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Of 451 reports received by the district administration on Monday, 12 returned positive that took the number of positive cases to 587. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-more-deaths-63-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-jalandhar-district-121721
04-08-2020||---||Jalandhar administration to rope in 137 more private hospitals in Covid battle||Jalandhar, August 3In view of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, the district administration has readied to rope in 137 more private health institutions to increase the bed capacity, ensure best care to the Level-2 and Level-3 Covid infected patients under the Covid management policy.The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Ghanshyam Thori, on Monday constituted various committees headed by SDMs and the Deputy Director (Local Government), which would carry out inspections of these private hospitals in their respective jurisdictions and submit a comprehensive report on bed capacity and medical infrastructure to the DC.Notably, The Tribune on Sunday highlighted the pressure already being felt by a few private hospitals treating Covid patients. The administration is auditing these additional private hospitals to create a comprehensive list of facilities for patients.DC Thori said SDM-1 and SDM-2 were already in touch with 26 major private hospitals of the district which had joined hands with the administration in the Covid fight.At present, 11 private facilities with a capacity of 205 (155 Level-1 and 50 Level-2) beds are operations in the district. There are 31 ventilators available at private hospitals.ADC Vishesh Sarangal said: “There are 11 private facilities (excluding the Civil Hospital) operational. We have also begun providing real time information on bed capacity on the website of the district administation. Soon, the information will also be available on an app. Besides this, 44 more Level-2 beds and 14 Level-3 beds are expected to be available in the next 48 hours. Currently we have sufficient bed capacity according to the disease load and only about 40 per cent of the beds are occupied. More facilities are also being added to the list.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-to-rope-in-137-more-private-hospitals-in-covid-battle-121723
04-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Plastic curtains, acrylic sheets stand guard against Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 3As Covid cases are on the rise in the district, residents whose professions essentially involve public dealing, have started adopting ways to protect themselves from the infection. The newer means include creating a transparent wall of plastic curtains or acrylic or glass sheets to ensure social distancing and other Covid safety norms are implemented.Government officials, lawyers and doctors have all begun adopting the measure as a safeguard. Having got infected by Covid about four weeks ago, advocate Mandeep Sachdev who has rejoined practice after recovery has installed acrylic sheets of 7-feet high all around his desk and those of his assistant lawyers. “After I fell sick, doctors told me that there is no surety of me not contracting the infection again. I was told to continue with all protection measures and maintain a distance of 8-feet from my clients. Since my rooms at my office are small, maintaining the required distance was not possible. So we planned to make this set up for myself and my team,” he said.He said he had set up a 4-inch slot at the bottom of the sheet for movement of files which we sanitise before use. “We call one person well verse with the case in the room at a time. After he/she leaves, we disinfect the chair and the area and call the next person in turn after a gap of seven to eight minutes,” Sachdev said.SDM-2 Rahul Sindhu, too, has got plastic curtains installed in his court room. While he and his staff sits on one side of the curtain, witnesses and visitors are seated on the other side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plastic-curtains-acrylic-sheets-stand-guard-against-covid-19-121724
