05-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Remote location, absence of any check keep trade going||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 4The Excise and Taxation Department has intensified its drive to curb illicit distillation of liquor, as more than 100 people lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor in Punjab’s Majha region.The department has raided several areas adjoining Mand area along the Sutlej, including Phillaur, Mehatpur, Lohian and Bilga. A total of 25 FIRs have been registered in these areas and 11 accused have been arrested.OfficialspeakIn the past 20 years, no such case of spurious liquor was witnessed in Jalandhar district. To ensure that people here don’t suffer any tragedy like this in future, we have been rigorously checking the areas where such illegal activities take place. — Navjot Bharti, Excise Taxation OfficerThe Excise and Taxation Department officials spoke about why such malpractices existed the most along the Sutlej. They said the villages were situated far away from residential areas and there was an easy and free availability of water as well. “It becomes difficult for officials to reach there because of the location,” an official said.Raids were carried out early in the morning in these areas so that the accused could be nabbed easily.The department officials said although regular checking was being done after the liquor vends opened, for the past four days, we have now intensified our drive after the case of spurious liquor surfaced from the Majha region.As per the information, 3,96,750 ml of illicit liquor was recovered from Lohian in the past four days along with 91,320 kg of ‘Lahan’ and as many as 13 FIRs were registered.From Bilga, a total of 1,19,250 ml of illicit liquor and 63,000 kg ‘Lahan’ has been recovered. Three FIRs have been registered in Bilga.Four FIRs have been registered in Mehatpur and 51,570 ml of illicit liquor has been seized from here.In Phillaur, a recovery of 55,500 ml of liquor has been made and five FIRs have been registered.Navjot Bharti, Excise Taxation Officer (ETO) said in the past 20 years, no such case of spurious liquor was witnessed in Jalandhar district. “To ensure that people here don’t suffer any tragedy like this in future too, we have been rigorously checking the areas where such illegal activities take place,” the officer said.On the directions of Deputy Commissioner, Excise officials under the supervision of Navjot Bharti carried out the operation to nab the accuse.1 held with 54 boxes of smuggled liquorGarhshankar: The Garhshankar police on Tuesday seized 54 cases of smuggled liquor and arrested one person in this connection. Giving information, SHO Iqbal Singh said a police party led by Beenewal police post in-charge SI Satwinder Singh conducted a raid at the house of Vikas, alias Vicky, a resident of Beenewal village and seized 54 cases of smuggled liquor of various brands. The police have registered a case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remote-location-absence-of-any-check-keep-trade-going-122149
05-08-2020||---||Cops, excise officials conduct flag march over illicit liquor||Kapurthala, August 4In the wake of the hooch tragedy in the state, officials of the excise and police departments on Tuesday jointly conducted a flag march to make people aware of the adverse effects of illicit liquor in Kapurthala city.The flag march, which started from the Mohalla Mehtabgarh under the command of Kapurthala SDM Varinderpal Singh Bajwa, Assistant and Excise Taxation Commissioner Hardeep Bhanwra and DSP Jasbir Singh, almost covered the whole city in more than three hours.Addressing residents in worst-affected areas of the city, the SDM and the Excise Commissioner urged them, especially women, to come forward to inform the officials of the sale of illicit liquor to save their families.The AETC also announced that the department would take strict action against smugglers and bootleggers of illicit liquor by not only registering FIRs but also pursuing cases to get them behind bars.The flag march covered some of hotspot areas like Mehtabgarh, Sundar Nagar, Qilla Mohalla, Hathi Khana, Namdev Colony, Shahriyan Mohalla, Kottu Chowk, Kaimpura, Sadar Bazar, Jalokhana, Sarafa Bazaar, Machi Chowk and Shalamar Bagh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-excise-officials-conduct-flag-march-over-illicit-liquor-122150
05-08-2020||---||Private ambulance rates fixed in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, August 4The district administration has fixed the rates for private ambulances. The new fixed ambulance charges will be Rs 800 for upto a distance of 15 km and additional Rs 10 per km. This was announced by DC Deepti Uppal after chairing a meeting with officials and owners of ambulances here on Tuesday.Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Jasmeet Bawa said, “It is important that the ambulances will have to be equipped with necessary safety measures such as partition between the front half where the driver sits and the rear half, where the patient is seated or laid down. The driver will be compulsorily wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits.The driver will ensure enough stock of fresh PPE kits, N-95 face masks and gloves in the ambulance, and the patient and each of his or her attendant(s) must be provided with a PPE kit, N-95 face mask and a pair of gloves before getting into the ambulance. While the rate of a pair of gloves plus one N-95 face mask will be Rs 50, the PPE kits too will be provided at the fixed rate”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/private-ambulance-rates-fixed-in-kapurthala-122151
05-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Corona warriors to be honoured on I-Day||Corona warriors, including doctors, health, sanitation and other workers, who played a significant role to keep the Covid-19 under check, would be honoured in recognition of their immense contribution in this tough time.DC Apneet Riyait, while chairing a meeting of the civil and the police administration to take stock of preparations for I-Day function, said due to the Covid-19 restrictions, the gathering would be limited and the function would be a low-key affair.Riyait said the district-level function would be presided over by Industry and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, while flags would be hoisted by the respective SDMs at subdivisions level. Panchayats and sarpanches would be included at the block-level functions with strict adherence of safety measures. NGOs, who extended noble services in battle against the virus, would be honoured. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/corona-warriors-to-be-honoured-on-i-day-122152
05-08-2020||---||Yoga centres, gymnasiums open in Kapurthala today||Kapurthala, August 4All yoga institutes and gymnasiums will be allowed to open from tomorrow as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) announced by the Punjab Government.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal told gym operators that they should calculate the capacity of the place based on the criteria of 4 sq m or approximately 40 sq feet per person. For example, if the size of the gym is 1,000 sq feet then not more than 25 persons would be permitted at one time. She said special teams of civil and police officials had been constituted to ensure the compliance of the instructions by the owners of gyms.She said the staff members and visitors should maintain a physical distance of at least six feet. She also made it clear that all yoga institutes and gyms in the containment zones would continue to remain shut.Besides, an advisory has been issued for those persons who are above 65 years of age, person with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years that they should not use gyms in closed spaces. She said the use of face masks would be mandatory at all times. However, during yoga exercise or exercising in gymnasiums, only a visor may be used.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/yoga-centres-gymnasiums-open-in-kapurthala-today-122153
05-08-2020||---||6 private hospitals in Jalandhar to start Covid treatment from today||Jalandhar, August 4As part of its measures to ensure the requisite availability of medical infrastructure and treatment to novel coronavirus positive patients, the district administration is set to add another 48 beds for level-II patients, 23 beds for level-III patients and nine ventilators, as six private hospitals will start admission and treatment of Covid patients in Jalandhar from tomorrow.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said four private hospitals including Shrimann Medicity, Joshi Hospital, Gulab Devi Hospital, and New Ruby would start the operations in the building of Gulab Devi Hospital with 22 beds for level-II patients, eight beds for level-III and four ventilators.Thori said Shrimann Hospital would also begin admitting and treating Covid patients on the premises of Modern Hospital and has earmarked four beds for level-II patients, 12 beds for level-III patients and two ventilators.Besides, Sarvodya Hospital would also start Covid treatment from tomorrow and has listed 22 beds for level-II patients, three beds for level-III and two ventilators, he said. He said topmost priority was being given to upgrade medical facilities for critical patients to ensure that patients do not get any problem in availing best care and treatment.Thori said more private hospitals are also coming on board for offering treatment to Covid patients and facilities for level-II and level-III patients are being scaled up in Jalandhar with spike in Covid cases here.The DC said private hospitals would charge maximum rates as fixed by the Punjab Government for the treatment. He said taking care of the old and vulnerable population with co-morbidities and at high risk of developing severe illness was the topmost priority, appealing to people to not take flu like symptoms lightly and contact doctors soon. He said people should not get panicky as more cases were reported in the city due to aggressive testing.Hoshiarpur reports six fresh casesHoshiarpur: The report of 93 samples was received from the laboratory on Tuesday in the district, of which six persons were found positive, taking the total number of positive patients to 593 in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said the total number of samples taken in the district has increased to 29,695 by adding 480 samples taken on Tuesday. As per the reports received from the laboratory, 28,418 are negative, while 678 reports are awaited. Dr Singh said of six cases found positive today, two are from Mukerian, two from Hoshiarpur city and one patients each from Talwara and Phulgana village. As many as 55 samples have been found invalid in the district. The number of active cases is 64, recovered 512 and the number of deaths is 17 so far. OCVajra Stallions in fight against virusJalandhar: In view of the rising number of cases of Covid-19 in the city, Delhi Government requested for the assistance from the Indian Army. Seven ambulances from the Vajra Stallions Army Service Corps Battalion have been provided under the ‘Aid to Civil Authority’ at Delhi since June 27. Before the dispatch of the ambulances to Delhi, training was imparted to the drivers by Medical Officer from the local field ambulance unit and they were issued an appropriate set of personal protective equipment. The ambulances are deployed at different districts in the NCR as per notification by Government of Delhi and are extensively being utilised for patient evacuation, transfer of Covid-19 patients from quarantine centre/ hospitals and as mobile Covid-19 sample collection squads. The dedicated efforts of ‘Vajra Covid warriors’ and their spirit of ‘service before self’ has been appreciated by the Delhi government. TNS2 die of virus, 34 fresh cases in JalandharJalandhar: The district on Tuesday reported two deaths and 34 new Covid cases, taking the death toll to 66 and the tally of positive cases to 2,614. Seven elderly persons and five minors were among the new cases. The two men, who succumbed to the virus, have been identified as 31-year-old Nitin 31, a resident of Tara Singh Enclave, and 68-year-old Harjit Singh, a resident of Dhann Mohall here. The positive cases also include four members of a family in Adarsh Nagar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-private-hospitals-in-jalandhar-to-start-covid-treatment-from-today-122155
05-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Uncovered sewer lines along Jalandhar-Amritsar national highway a threat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 4The uncovered sewer lines and nullahs along the Jalandhar-Amritsar national highway and other service roads are posing a threat to the lives of commuters.During the rains, the filthy water from sewer lines overflows onto service roads, causing a nuisance to local residents and motorists. Instead of solution, the blame game on the matter continues between the highway authorities and the Municipal Corporation. The stagnant polluted water on roads not only hampers the movement of vehicles during the monsoon but also puts pedestrians to inconvenience. Besides, it emanates foul smell and becomes a breeding-ground for water-borne diseases and leads to accidents on the roads. In the absence of any divider, commuters feel scared to drive along the service road as they can fall into sewer lines or nullahs.Slum-dwellers are the most affected residents as they live adjacent to the highway, who always run the risk of contracting diseases spread by mosquitoes and other insects breeding in open sewers.Pankaj, a slum-dweller along the Maqsudan-Amritsar highway road, said, “Most sewer lines remain half-filled throughout the year, but during the rains, these lines overflow with dirty water. Though pipelines have been laid under the service road to allow sewage to reach the storm water drain along the highway, but the pipelines and the drain get frequently choked due to indiscriminate dumping of garbage, including plastic waste, in open nullahs.”Apparently, a waste dumping site near an open sewer line is being used by people for dumping garbage in it.Karanjit Singh, who resides in Transport Nagar, said, “He had complained to area sanitary workers and the Municipal Corporation on occasions, but was told that it was the responsibility of the highways authority.” He suggested that either the sewer line be covered permanently or it should be temporarily covered with the broken cemented covers.The area councillor says that the highway authorities are responsible for any damage along the highway.Instead of solution, blame game startsDuring the rains, the filthy water from sewer lines overflows onto service roads, causing a nuisance to local residents and motorists. Instead of solution, the blame game on the matter continues between the highway authorities and the Municipal Corporation. The stagnant polluted water on roads not only hampers the movement of vehicles during the monsoon but also puts pedestrians to inconvenience||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/uncovered-sewer-lines-along-jalandhar-amritsar-national-highway-a-threat-122159
05-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Ram Janmabhoomi kar sevaks felicitated||Hoshiarpur, August 4A felicitation ceremony was organised at Sri Lakshmi Narayan Temple in Roop Nagar on Tuesday by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad Bajrang Dal, to honour kar sevaks who participated in Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Andolan (movement) at Ayodhya.RSS’s Zila Sampark Pramukh Sandeep Joshi was also present. Kar sevaks, who had participated in Ayodhya in 1990 and 1992 in Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Movement were specially honoured. On this occasion, district president Harbhajan Pal congratulated the kar sevaks and said this movement had been going on for the past nearly 500 years.The Vishwa Hindu Parishad took the movement into its own hands and removed the Babri structure raised over the temple playing a key role in building the Shri Ram temple. The court’s decision came in favour of the temple, paving the way for the construction of the Sri Ram temple.The BJP national vice-president Avinash Rai Khanna said, All India Sah Pramukh of Sangharsh Vahini of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, Krishan Sharma, Ravinder Agarwal, Ramesh Khattar, Amit Joshi, Manoj Sharma, Rajesh Parashar, Sunil Dhawan, Ankush Walia, Dr Raman Ghai, Sudhir Sharma, Chittaranjan Jain, Bhishan Bhatia, Kamaljeet Setia, Ramesh Kumari and Om Prakash Shastri were honoured for their commendable participation and support the in movement.On this occasion, Krishan Sharma and Avinash Rai Khanna shared their personal experiences of the movement at Ayodhya. They said how they had reached Ram Janmabhoomi situated at Ayodhya from Hoshiarpur and that many of their comrades were shot at and many were arrested. The kar sevaks made a common appeal that on August 5, Wednesday, everyone should perform a “Deepmala” on the night and celebrate the day like “Deepawali”.District secretary Jasvir Singh, also appealed the entire society to contribute in the construction of Shri Ram temple. Rajvir Singh, Rajesh Bittu, Bajrang Dal district convenor Karan Passi, district Sewa Pramukh Nishikant, Raj Kumar, Rajinder Sharma and Pandit Om Prakash were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ram-janmabhoomi-kar-sevaks-felicitated-122160
05-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||13,472 LED lights added to illuminate Hoshiarpur||A total of 13,472 LED lights were added to the network of street lights in the city by the Hohiarpur Municipal Corporation. Providing details, Commissioner Municipal Corporation Balbir Raj Singh said: “As many as 11 high mast and 15 small mast lights have been installed on major squares of the city. A contract has been signed with Energy Efficiency Survey Limited by the Municipal Corporation to provide good street light services to residents. While the city has grown brighter than before, there has also been a huge cut in the electricity consumption.”The MC Commissioner said more LED lights were yet to be installed. He said: “People can file a complaint at any point of time on toll-free number 18001803580 or on complaint number set up by the MC at number(s) — 94787-15701 and 01882-220322. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-472-led-lights-added-to-illuminate-hoshiarpur-122161
05-08-2020||---||Jalandhar Civic body ad hoc committee inspects hotel, marriage palace||Jalandhar, August 4Balraj Thakur, chairman, Health and Sanitation Ad hoc Committee, along with member Jagdish Samrai, on Tuesday visited a marriage palace and a hotel that produce waste in bulk. The chairman said there was a list of 128 such bulk waste generators that were identified by the Municipal Corporation, and of them 43 have started processing the waste at their premises and are making manure from the waste.“We visited three areas on Tuesday and checked the process. We would visit the remaining 40 in the coming days and check if they were actually processing the waste or not,” Thakur said, adding that the notices will be sent to those who are not processing waste at their premises. The chairman said that because of the lockdown, there was no work and hence not much waste was generated. “But still, we are soon going to send notices to the defaulters.As per the rules, more than 50-kg waste generators must process garbage at their own site. “It has come to the notice that other big restaurants and marriage palaces too throw their waste at the site during night,” one of the officers had earlier said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-civic-body-ad-hoc-committee-inspects-hotel-marriage-palace-122162
05-08-2020||---||Jalandhar administration plans to set up 22 nurseries for shrinking green cover in district||Jalandhar, August 4To add to Jalandhar’s shrinking green cover, the district administration has decided to establish 22 nurseries, two in each block of the district, in the current fiscal.The administration will incur Rs1.35 crore for the development of these nurseries and the work on 14 nurseries has already started under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal said these nurseries would have saplings of kaler, gulmohar, sukhchain, pipal, sheesham, shahtoot, neem, dek and other plants and trees. He said earlier, the administration had to depend upon the Forest Department and other private agencies for saplings, but now, the saplings would be brought directly from these nurseries to be developed by the administration.Sarangal said plantation drives were being carried out in villages regularly, which was important, as the shrinking green cover was a major concern for everybody, which poses a serious hazard to the environment and human health. He said the gram panchayats concerned would be responsible for the maintenance of these nurseries with the technical support from the Forest Department.He said the work of the remaining eight nurseries would be started soon, as the work of identification of suitable land had been finished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-plans-to-set-up-22-nurseries-for-shrinking-green-cover-in-district-122163
05-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Lineman falls off pole, dies||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lineman-falls-off-pole-dies-122164
05-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Home delivery giants streamline services amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 4As social distancing became the call of the hour and residents became wary of dining out, several online delivery sites have come to their rescue. After the delivery of food was allowed, foodies have heaved a sigh of relief.Despite restrictions, several food delivery giants have been ensuring to deliver food to their customers in the shortest possible time after following all precautions. Vasu Arora, manager at city Zomato branch, said, “Apart from masks, sanitisers and gloves, the ‘Selfie sharing rule’ has become the new normal. The delivery boys have been directed to upload their selfies in the app after picking up the orders from the eateries and then after delivering the orders. The selfies ensure that the food was delivered safely to the consumers. At the beginning of the lockdown, when the online delivery of cooked food was suspended, we started delivering grocery and other essentials.When the lockdown was at its peak, we used to deliver essential services instead of food items.Even then we ensured safety to the fullest. We implemented contactless dining so as our users can stay home and get deliveries right at their doorsteps without any hassle,” he said.The restaurant owners are also ensuring that their food is delivered safely. Owner at the King Restaurant said,”After cleaning and disinfecting our whole premises, we have provided sanitisers, masks and gloves to our delivery boys. Moreover, they have been directed not to accept cash and just deliver food at the doorstep after informing them.“Face masks and sanitisers have become the new definition of essentials during these uncertain times. To confirm that the orders have been delivered safely, we click selfies at the customers doorstep with our mask and gloves on. Mostly, the customers have been asked to pay online but when it’s not feasible, we request them to pay the exact cash so that there is no exchange of money. The company takes care of our safety. Presently, we receive around 15-20 orders, said Rahul, a delivery boy working with Zomato.A thorough thermal scanning of delivery boys is carried out before they are asked to take away orders. They are asked to sanitise hands before receiving orders. Online delivery is picking up pace now. Our restaurant is back in service after it was closed earlier when one of our family members tested positive for the virus. Madan Lal, owner, Maddi Samosa restaurantOnline food delivery has saved me from hunger pangs. Hence, after the home delivery of food resumed, I was happy that I can finally order several delicacies from my favourite restaurant as the lockdown made me cautious about venturing out in crowded places. It is good that the food delivery sites have been following all safety guidelines while delivering food. Komal Sharda, a residentConsidering the safety of my family members, I have stopped ordering food online. I am aware of the fact that the food delivery giants are abiding by all safety protocols but considering the rising Covid-19 count, I cannot take risk. Instead, I prefer food takeaways. I consider them more safe. Sumit Kaushik, a residentThe work is definitely back on track now. Though our major chunk of customers — school or college students and youths residing in PGs — are still missing, we manage to get enough orders. After reaching any restaurant for any order, we are first thermal scanned and only after proper sanitisation are we allowed to take away the orders. Bir Tiwari, a delivery boy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/home-delivery-giants-streamline-services-amid-pandemic-122166
05-08-2020||VISHAV SHARMA (25)||‘Contracting virus not the end of the world’||There’s a collective prayer on everyone’s mind — they should not test positive for Covid. But unfortunately, some have. I don’t know how people, at present under treatment, are responding to this deadly virus, or what was the experience of others, who are now cured. But I bet nobody got to experience what I had to.On April 10, I got admitted to the Civil Hospital. The first 24 hours at the isolation ward were tough. It was like I have been imprisoned. But later, I adjusted or I should say I had to adjust because that's the only way to recover. Also, the staff at the hospital was very cooperative. — Vishav SharmaI am one of the two patients, who were mistakenly discharged by the Civil Hospital with the declaration that we have recovered even though both of us were positive. Not just this, after I was discharged, I went back home to a rousing reception and met my neighbours, family and friends, but who knew this welcome I received would turn into a nightmare and put at least 20 more lives at risk.Honestly saying, I never had any Covid symptom. I gave my samples on April 8 because I came in contact with Congress block president Deepak Sharma, who tested positive then. When I gave my sample, I was very much sure that my reports would be negative, as I was feeling absolutely fine, but to my surprise, my report came out positive. However, I am thankful to God that despite my reports being positive, my parents didn’t contract the virus from me and their reports came out negative.On April 10, I got admitted to the Civil Hospital. The first 24 hours at the isolation ward were tough. It was like I have been imprisoned. But later, I adjusted or I should say I had to adjust because that’s the only way to recover. Also, the staff at the hospital was very cooperative, I got my meals on time and they took good care of me. I have no idea how time passed. After 18 days, on April 28, I was tested again. It was then that the most interesting part of my Covid journey happened. I was sent back home on April 29 evening, saying I had recovered, only to be called back to the hospital again at 12:30am with the news that I was still positive.But as they say ‘jaako rakhe saiyaan maar sake naa koi’, I was, at that time, not worried at all about my health and came back to the hospital. However, all I was thinking was about my friends, neighbours and family members, who welcomed me with flowers and came to meet me. Also, the news of this incident was a major headline in all newspapers that day, but fortunately, it caused no damage and everyone who met me tested negative.After spending 15 more days at the hospital, I finally tested negative and went back home to have a fresh start.But interestingly, be it before giving my samples or during the treatment or even after getting cured, I never had any symptom. I stayed in hospital for 34 days and trust me, I was absolutely hale and hearty. I used to watch movies, listen to songs, talk to my family, friends and be in contact through video calls.Contracting Covid isn’t the end of the world but there will be issues if you do not adhere to the precautions. I would like to request everyone to eat healthy food and drink hot water after every hour. Covid has taught me a new lesson in life — if you have the right fighting spirit and positive attitude, you can definitely beat anything and emerge as a winner.— As told to Avneet Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contracting-virus-not-the-end-of-the-world-122167
