07-08-2020||---||Night curfew in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala from Saturday to check Covid-19 spread||Chandigarh, August 7Concerned over the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in the worst-affected cities of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala from Saturday while directing all big cities and towns to prepare an integrated management plan for treatment of the disease at both government and private facilities, a press release by the state government read.As cases in the state went up to 20,891, with 1,050 instances reported in one day on Thursday, the Chief Minister also announced a week-long trial of the enforcement of the mandatory mask-wearing rule by making offenders stand at the spot for an hour with a mask on.He was of the view that making the offenders sweat it out might help check the violations on this count, which had crossed 3.82 lakhs.Answering questions in his weekly #AskCaptain Live session on Facebook, which was advanced by a day to apprise the people about his visit today to the hooch tragedy affected Tarn Taran district, Captain Amarinder also appealed to the people to get themselves tested early and start treatment in a proper hospital, urging them not to rush to private tertiary care facility directly since good treatment was available in government hospitals.There were adequate testing facilities available in the state, he said, adding that four new testing labs would become operational on Monday.Delay in going for testing and treatment was the main cause for the increasing number of COVID deaths, he said while pointing out that with 26 persons succumbing to the virus on Thursday, the death toll in the state had gone up to 517.Expressing concern over the steady increase in COVID-19 infections and positivity in the state, which reported 8.50 per cent cases in the samples tested in the past one week, the Chief Minister said: “With the peak projected to come in Punjab by end of August or early September, one cannot be certain how high the peak of daily cases may go. Given the recent increase in cases in districts like Bathinda, Barnala, Ferozepur, we cannot afford to be complacent, he said, urging people to hold their nerve in these tough circumstances and fight the disease with strength and determination.”In response to a question, the Chief Minister directed an inquiry by the Vice Chancellor into the case of death of a non-COVID patient, Dr Parvinder, at GGS Medical College, Faridkot, as doctors refused to treat him till the file work was completed and the COVID test report came, even though he was suffering from low oxygen levels.Expressing his deepest sympathies with the deceased’s wife, Dr Neeta Pandhu from Abohar, he said this was not acceptable and the patient had to be attended first at all costs. Strict action will be taken against those found responsible, he added.In response to a question from a Tarn Taran resident regarding what the hooch tragedy affected families had told him during their meeting, the Chief Minister said they wanted strong action and punishment for the culprits. Though they did not demand it, he had announced financial help and had directed the DC to ensure that they got what they needed, in terms of even jobs and improving their houses, he added.“We will go beyond financial compensation for the families of the victims,” Captain Amarinder said. He reiterated his commitment to wiping out hooch problem from the state and said he had directed the DGP to crack down on the hooch smugglers.On long queues for payment of electricity bills, with no social distancing, the Chief Minister said he would issue instructions to the chairman of the electricity board to rectify the situation.On delay in issuance of heavy vehicle driving licence issuance/renewal in some districts, he said the delay was due to social-distancing norms but he would ask the department to find ways of expediting the process without compromising on the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/night-curfew-in-ludhiana-jalandhar-patiala-from-saturday-to-check-covid-19-spread-123450
07-08-2020||Kottayam (Kerala)||Nun rape case: Bishop Franco Mulakkal granted bail by trial court||A trial court here on Friday granted bail to Bishop Franco Mulakkal, accused of raping a nun in Kerala, with stringent conditions and directed him to be present on the dates of hearing of the case.The Additional Sessions Court had cancelled the bail granted to the Bishop on July 13 for failing to appear for the trial and issued a non-bailable warrant against him.Mulakkal was present in the court on Friday when it considered the matter.Granting bail, the court directed him not to leave the state till the charge-sheet is read out to him on August 13 and to be present court on the dates of hearing of the case.The court also directed him to offer fresh sureties and bail bonds.On July 13, Mulakkal’s counsel had informed the court that his client could not appear as he had been in self-quarantine due to his primary contact with a COVID-19 infected person.The next day, the former Jalandhar Bishop had tested positive for coronavirus.The prosecution informed the court that Mulakkal had not produced the COVID negative certificate, to which the court observed that the state Health Department can take necessary action on this issue.The Supreme Court on Wednesday had directed Mulakkal to face trial as it dismissed his plea seeking discharge in the rape case lodged against him by the nun belonging to a congregation under Jalandhar diocese, saying there was no merit in his petition.A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde, AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, had told the counsel for Bishop that the court was not saying anything on merit but was dismissing the plea on the issue of discharge from the case.Mulakkal, in his plea, had challenged the July 7 Kerala High Court order, dismissing his discharge plea in the rape case filed by the nun.The High Court had asked the deposed Bishop of Jalandhar diocese to stand for trial in the rape case, which was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the nun.The senior priest of the Roman Catholic Church had filed the revision petition following the dismissal of his discharge plea by a trial court in March this year.The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district.In her complaint to the police in June 2018, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by the bishop during the period between 2014 and 2016.The bishop, who was arrested by the Special Investigation Team, which probed the case, charged him with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nun-rape-case-bishop-franco-mulakkal-granted-bail-by-trial-court-123403
07-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Cooperative society scam swells to Rs8.5 cr||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6The Rs3-crore scam in a multipurpose agriculture society in Adampur, highlighted first by The Tribune in the month of April, has now swelled to Rs8.5 crore.The audit inspector had then revealed that the fraud amount could be more than Rs3 crore, as the secretary of the society had been allegedly committing malpractices since 2010.The secretary and salesman of the society and an audit inspector have also been arrested in the case. The audit is still on and the officials suspect that the scam amount might go up. They said there was more to it than meets the eye and the fraud could turn out to be even bigger.Hearing of the arbitration cases have already started, the officials said.Gurwinderjit Singh, Assistant Registrar of the Cooperative Department, said there was a fraud loaning of Rs6.5 crore and Rs2 crore scam was reported in deposits too.“People shown in the papers, who were given loans, did not even exist and their documentation was not in the society and that is how the crime of fraud loaning was committed,” Singh said.Complaints have been received by the department from NRIs, too, that have also been taken into consideration.Deputy Registrar Navneet Kaur said a special audit team has been constituted that is checking how long the fraud was going on in the society.The fraud was first highlighted by The Tribune when Itbari, a farm labourer, who was to leave for his native village in Uttar Pradesh for his daughter’s wedding, scheduled for April 17, went to the agriculture society to withdraw his savings in the month of March and was told that the secretary had committed a fraud and there was no money.The next day lockdown was announced. Neither he could get his hard-earned money, nor marry off his daughter because of the lockdown.Scam in other coop societies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cooperative-society-scam-swells-to-rs8-5-cr-123211
07-08-2020||Our Correspondent---||Ambassadors of Hope: Anshuman 1st, Bhavya, Ojas 2nd in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 6  Anshuman Arora, a Class II student of Government Elementary Smart School, Jhans, was declared first in the Ambassadors of Hope (AoH) competition from Hoshiarpur district. He will be getting an Apple iPad. Bhavya Sharma, a Class VIII student and her brother Ojas Sharma, a Class I student of St Joseph’s Convent School, stood second and will be getting a laptop.  Meanwhile, Mandeep Kaur, a Class X student of Government Senior Secondary School, Nangal Bihalan, came third and will get an Android tablet.  As many as 2,449 entries were registered from Hoshiarpur district for AoH competition. Announcing the names of winners of AoH from Hoshiarpur district, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla congratulated them for their marvellous performance in the online talent hunt competition. He assured every possible help to them in achieving future goals. Singla said it was a matter of pride that government school students clinched the title prize in Hoshiarpur district.  He said parents of Anshuman have also set an example by admitting him to their own school, as both his parents are teachers in Government Elementary Smart School, Jhans, in Tanda-1 block of the district. The first of its kind competition, AoH created a world record by receiving over 1.05 lakh entries from school students in just eight days and it played a major role in ushering positivity in the state through school students and their families during Covid-19 pandemic. Anshuman’s father Narinder Arora said his son was fond of Bhangra and wanted to be a professional actor. He said his passion for Bhangra helped him to bag the position in Hoshiarpur district. Meanwhile, Bhavya and Ojas’s mother Pulkita Sharma and father Ankur Sharma, who is also a government schoolteacher, thanked the Education Minister for engaging children in constructive activities during the lockdown by providing them a platform to perform. She said Bhavya wanted to be a teacher, while Ojas wants to be an engineer and their performance in AoH would definitely help them in achieving their dreams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ambassadors-of-hope-anshuman-1st-bhavya-ojas-2nd-in-hoshiarpur-123231
07-08-2020|| ---||Western Command chief pays visit to Jalandhar military station||Jalandhar, August 6                                                                  Lieutenant General RP Singh, Army Commander, Western Command, visited formations and units of Vajra Corps located at Jalandhar, Beas and Suranassi Military Stations on August 5-6. Lieutenant General Sanjeev Sharma, Corps Commander Vajra Corps, accompanied the Army Commander during his visit. Apart from reviewing the current security situation and operational preparedness, he also visited Army Public School, Beas; Army College of Nursing, Jalandhar, and Siramani Brigade Training Area. He paid homage to martyrs at Jung-e-Azadi Museum in Kartarpur. The Army Commander appreciated the efforts undertaken by formations of Vajra Corps towards maintaining operational readiness and excellent training standards. He commended all ranks of Vajra Corps for keeping their moral high and exhorted them to continue working with same zeal and enthusiasm.  Alka Singh, regional president, AWWA, HQ Western Command, interacted with military nursing officers and families of soldiers and complimented them for ensuring precautions and good practices for prevention of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/western-command-chief-pays-visit-to-jalandhar-military-station-123232
07-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||47 child labourers rescued||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6The Jalandhar Commissionerate police on Thursday rescued 47 child labourers, including 13 girls, from JK Rubbers Industry Private Limited and JK Polymer Industry at Wariana leather complex on the Jalandhar-Kapurthala road. The factory owners had employed these children even during the pandemic that too without following any norms.On a tip-off from NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, a team, set up under Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, headed by ADCP-1 Vatsala Gupta, Assistant Commissioner of Police Barjinder Singh along with the administration’s team headed by SDM-II Rahul Sindhu, and a posse of police, raided both factories around 2:30 pm.While the factory on first inspection was found to be empty, 37 children were found hidden on the roof. Ten more children were found from another block in the same factory. Until the filing of this report, the children were being checked at the Child Welfare Committee office in Jalandhar, where their medical as well as other formalities were being conducted.Between the age groups of 10 to 13, a majority of the children are from Bihar, UP and Nepal, while only a few are from Jalandhar.CP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a total of 37 children were rescued from JK Rubbers Industry Private Limited unit and 10 from JK Polymer Industry.Expressing concern over the exploitation of children, he said the erring people in this illegal act would face severe punishment for mistreatment of children.A case under Sections 3 (3) A of Child Labour Act; Section 79 of Justice Juvenile Act, 2015; Section 188 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against the owners of factories and contractors, who were behind supplying these minor children to them.With most of the children belonging to other states or Nepal, Bhullar said the Commissionerate was probing the angle of human trafficking in the case. He said the rescued children were being produced before the Child Welfare Committee and then shifted to protection homes as per guidelines.The NGO’s Chandigarh team had complained to ADGP Gurpreet Deo and IG Nageshwar Rao between 9 and 10 am this morning, following which the complaint was marked to the Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar. The NGO lauded swift action in the case.Activist Dinesh Kumar, who accompanied the police and administration’s team in the raid, said: “The police action is laudable because swift action has been taken on a complaint submitted this morning by the BBA, Chandigarh team. The children were hiding on the roof using a false wooden ladder. While there were many employees at the place, none were wearing masks and all children were being made to work without social distancing protocol. The children were living in vehras (common colonies) – some with parents and others with relatives, who brought them from different states and from Nepal.”The children were employed in folding and making chappals at the factory. Notably, rubber industry is included among the most hazardous occupations.Prominent among those present during the raid were Assistant Commissioner Harpreet Singh, Labour Assistant Labour Commissioner Jatinderpal Singh, District Programme Officer Gurminder Singh and Legal Probation Officer Sandeep Kumar Bhatia among others.Member CWC, Jalandhar Amarjit Singh Anand said: “The children are still at the Gandhi Vanita Ashram. While boys shall be shifted to a shelter home in Hoshiarpur, girls will be housed at a protection home in Jalandhar. One of the children had temperature when checked by the medical team. The rest of them are healthy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/47-child-labourers-rescued-123233
07-08-2020|| ---||Reaching out to farmers via web||Jalandhar, August 6  The Agriculture Department on Thursday held a webinar for the farmers wherein their queries were dealt with and the issues being faced by them amid the pandemic were discussed. The officials guided the farmers via video-conferencing. Around 10 farmers from the district attended today’s seminar.  Naresh Gulati, the agriculture officer, said that holding interactions with the farmers was only alternative and beneficial also. “Because the farmer could be sitting anywhere, he may be at his home or in the fields, the department can connect to them and they can easily join in too,” Gulati said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reaching-out-to-farmers-via-web-123234
07-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Alleging torture, ashram inmate refuses to accompany her in-laws||They claimed the woman had disappeared from her in-laws’ house and the family had also filed a complaint with the police on July 20 in this connection. However, SM Sidhu, a social worker and members of the Mahila Mandal who were also present there, said the woman had met them in a pitiable condition — a chain tied to her leg and she drenched with mud and cattle dung. }They took the woman to the ashram run by Guru Nanak Seva Society, they said. The woman also got her statement recorded with the police. In her statement, she stated that her name was Naseema Begum and she was married to Noordin, a resident of Chakkowal Sheikhan. Her maternal home is in Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir. She said her in-laws used to harass and torture her and she was kept in chains like a cattle. To get rid of her sufferings, she fled from the house. She said her sister-in-law and her husband used to beat her up. The victim woman said they used to threaten to kill her and her children if she protested. ASI Kulwant Singh said he had received a complaint from the woman, alleging assault and torture by her husband, sister-in-law and brother-in-law. “The case will be investigated and action will be taken against culprits accordingly. The woman has refused to accompany her in-laws and is staying in the ashram,” he said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/alleging-torture-ashram-inmate-refuses-to-accompany-her-in-laws-123295
07-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||80 suicides reported in Jalandhar during pandemic-induced lockdown||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6With mind full of aspirations to do everything possible to provide his 3-year-old daughter a comfortable life, a 26-year-old man ended his life on July 21, last month. Not only this, deceased Gurpreet Singh, went live on Facebook before taking the extreme step and narrated his ordeal on how he was being allegedly harassed and assaulted by his employer.Teary eyed, he said he never wanted to do this and loved his daughter. After losing his job in the lockdown, he reportedly started working as a caretaker at a property dealer’s house in Model Town. He accused the house owner of harassment and not paying salary on time, which pushed him to resort to take the extreme step.Similarly, furious over being scolded by his father for overusing phone and playing PUBG, 20-year-old BBA student Manik Sharma shot himself to death on July 30. He was the only son.Call it economic distress or limited access to mental healthcare, as many as 80 people in the district have committed suicide due to their helplessness or uncertainty during the pandemic-induced lockdown.As per the police, while some committed suicide over their shattered foreign dreams due to overseas travel curbs, others ended their life due to domestic disputes and financial woes. Maximum suicides (18) were reported in the month of May, from both rural and city areas, followed by 13 each in April, June and July and six people ended their lives in March. However, last year, nearly 60 suicide cases were reported in the city.Total 71 suicide cases were reported with the Police Commissionerate and around nine such cases under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC were reported with the rural police.According to an SHO, suicide notes were rarely recovered and the deaths were generally marked ‘unnatural’ in police records. Meanwhile, Dr Aman Sood, Assistant Professor, Psychiatric and De-addiction at the District Civil Hospital, said: “Undoubtedly, cases of mild, moderate and severe cases of depression and helplessness have surged in the past four months. People were found struggling with overgrowing financial burdens, psychiatric illness, anxiety, fear and other similar cases that pushed them to suicidal thoughts. In this hard time, anyone who has similar thoughts should remain united with family, focus on positivity and follow regular exercise and healthy diet. Besides, communication is the best medicine.”Recent incidentsJuly 30: Furious over being scolded by his father for overusing phone and playing PUBG, 20-year-old BBA student Manik Sharma shot himself to death. He was the only son.July 27: Upset over her low IELTS score, Harleen Kaur (19) committed suicide in Kapurthala.July 21: 26-year-old Gurpreet Singh ended his life and even went live on Facebook before taking the extreme step narrating his ordeal of how he was being allegedly harassed and assaulted by his employerJuly 16: A 35-year-old woman of Bajuha Kalan village in Nakodar committed suicide, alleging domestic violence. Victim was a mother of three children.June 28: After having failed to go back to his house in UP to marry his girlfriend, a 22-year-old migrant hanged himself.June 27: a 19-year-old girl of Lamma Pind hanged herself after her dreams to study abroad could not see the light of the day. She was staying with her family.June 3: 37-year-old woman Varinder Kaur of Johal village near Goraya, reportedly committed suicide by jumping into a village pond. She was married to Bahrain-based NRI Sulkhan Singh.May 13: A couple committed suicide over marital dispute. The deceased were identified as Ashima Rana (35), a former lecturer at APJ College and her husband Vikas Rana (38).April 21: After having failed to return to England, Amarjit Singh (72) an NRI residing at Kaki village, committed suicide.April 18: a 27-year-old girl from Anand Nagar, Jalandhar, hanged herself as she was upset after her dream to study abroad got shattered. She was to get married in the US||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/80-suicides-reported-in-jalandhar-during-pandemic-induced-lockdown-123298
07-08-2020||ACADEMICS IN PANDEMIC||‘We will wait for JEE Main result to start BTech admissions’||IN Covid times, educational institutes have had to evolve systems for admissions, conduct of classes, taking exams and declaring results while ensuring that these are in the interest of the students and do not affect the academic session as well. Director of the Centre-run Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology LK Awasthi discusses various related issues with Deepkamal Kaur. Excerpts:What is the admission scenario at NIT Jalandhar in the current Covid times?We will be starting admissions after JEE Main result through centralised counselling. We will have to wait till then as some students have already appeared in JEE in January while others have not. Some also are still waiting to try their luck for JEE (Advanced). So in any case, nothing can be done as of date. The only good thing that has happened for them is that the HRD Minister has removed the condition of scoring minimum 75 per cent marks in Class XII.If the entrance exam takes place in September and result is declared by the month end, the admissions will take another three weeks or so. In that case, how will you cope up with lesser time left for the semester which normally ends in December?We will hold classes for the freshers for six days a week to complete the required credit hours in a semester. We also may continue with classes on some Sundays. We will work on the methodologies so that the semester completes at the same usual time and will not alter the existing plan..While the HRD ministry is still to come out with fresh guidelines on conducting final year exams and declaring their results, the NIT is already through with the process. Is this not a violation of some kind?There is no violation. The ministry insists that examination have to be held for the final year and we have already done that. We had to wind up everything for the exit classes in time as their employers were waiting for them to join and we could not hold them back. In Covid times, opportunities of getting placements cannot be missed at all.How have the placements been for NIT students this year?Around 75 per cent of our students got placed before Covid, through the routine placement mechanism. We got 10-15 per cent more placements done for the remaining students through online placement fairs. We are also pleased to share that 20-30 per cent of our third year students who were doing internships have already got pre-placement offers.What is the status of the intermediate classes?We have conducted online exams for them, which will have 30 per cent weightage. We will also take into account their performance in the assignments and the mid-semester exams that had been before Covid. We will declare their results soon and start next semester online classes. There are some students who cited internet issues during exams. We will take re-exam, which we are ready to take even through pen-paper mode for them whenever possible.What changes are you making on the campus to run online classes?We have 16-17 departments. We will convert one classroom of each department into a studio from where the lectures can be recorded and relayed. Through our Board of Governors, we have sought Rs 1 crore grant from the Centre to make these changes. The studios will be equipped with required softwares and will be available to all lecturers of the department turn wise to take online classes.Another good thing that has happened recently is that we have signed an MoU with the NHAI. We will have to provide 40 UG/PG students mostly of civil engineering for internship periodically. They will pay Rs8,000 per month as stipend to all UG students and Rs14,000 to all PG students.Are you planning any changes in the courses keeping Covid in mind?The demand for courses in data sciences and data analytics have increased. So our students who are doing BTech in industrial production, chemical engineering and even textile engineering will have these courses as a part of their curriculum to enhance their employability and make them more IT-enabled. We are continuously evolving our systems by way of interactions internally as well as experts in the field. This month we will have an HR eConclave and a webinar on New Education Policy.What is your personal opinion about the New Education Policy?The New Education Policy will open doors for wider spectrum of courses. Students will get a chance to mix different disciplines and branches unlike the complete segregation system which was being followed earlier. The new policy should help develop better HR resources for our country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-will-wait-for-jee-main-result-to-start-btech-admissions-123300
07-08-2020||---||MLAs meet Mayor, raise issue of sewer overflow||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6Sushil Rinku, MLA Jalandhar West, along with Rajinder Beri, MLA Jalandhar Central, on Wednesday held a meeting with Mayor Jagdish Raja at the Municipal Corporation Complex on the issue of overflowing sewerage in some areas of their respective constituencies.Rinku said the areas like Basti Peer Dad, Basti Sheikh, and Basti Danishmanda were among the worst affected. “There are some issues troubling the residents for long, thus we held a meeting and apprised him of the problems,” he said.Also, the MC Superintendent Engineer Satinder Kumar has already been receiving complaints regarding the sewerage for a long time as majority of areas in the city are affected by the problem. Kumar also visited the affected areas with the MLA.Meanwhile, Beri said that for last three months there was a continuous problem of overflowing of sewerage at the Surya Enclave and also some of the slums in his constituency were suffering and the dwellers are having a hard time now that the monsoon had set in. “I have been told that a plan has been made where the water will be diverted to another plant, and the issue will get resolved then,” the MLA said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mlas-meet-mayor-raise-issue-of-sewer-overflow-123301
07-08-2020||---||Vigilance nabs ASI while taking bribe||Jalandhar, August 6A team of the district Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Thursday nabbed an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) posted at the city police station, Nakodar, red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000.An official spokesperson of the Vigilance Bureau said the suspect, identified as ASI Amir Singh, was nabbed red-handed on the complaint of Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Nakodar. In his complaint to the VB, Sandeep alleged that the suspect was demanding a bribe of Rs 5,000 to help him in a police case.After verifying his information, the vigilance team from the VB unit, Jalandhar, laid a trap and the ASI was arrested on the spot while taking bribe of Rs 5,000 from the complainant in the presence of two official witnesses.He informed that a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act had been registered against the ASI and further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vigilance-nabs-asi-while-taking-bribe-123302
