11-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||BTech students turn their dream of owning a luxury bike into reality||Jalandhar, August 10A modified Dracula S-800 motorbike belonging to two friends — Davinder Singh (20) and Harsimran Singh (18) — of Gehlran village in Bhogpur here, can give any luxury motorcycle or bike a run for its money.Both of them have meticulously converted an old Maruti 800 car into a motor bike within one-and-a-half months’ time. They said they started working on the manufacturing process i.e. the design, thinking and material specification in June, while they transformed their concept into reality just a few days ago.“After designing, it took us nearly one-and-a-half months (July 1 to August 8) to finally bring our Dracula (bike) on road and enjoy the luxury ride,” said Davinder.He said they have modified the bike in a magnificent way and have used accessories of four different cars and bikes. The accessories they used include the 800cc car engine of Maruti 800, radiator and cooling fan of Tata ace, differential of Maruti Suzuki, steel footrest of Mahindra Bolero, brakes, clippers, chassis, front shocker, handle and seats of Bajaj Pulsar 220, head light, mudguard of Yamaha FZ, rim, chain set, speedometer of Bullet Classic DD and back mudguard and indicators of KTM. Besides, the expected mileage is 20 km per litre and speed can go up to 200-220km/hr.Davinder said he was at present pursuing BTech in mechanical engineering from St Soldier’s Group of Institutions in Jalandhar, while his friend Harsimran was doing BTech in aeronautical engineering from Desh Bhagat University, Mandi Gobindgarh.When asked about the reason behind modifying the car into a bike, Davinder and Harsimran said they had a penchant for bikes since childhood. They said they have been good friends since long and often shared their personal feelings with each other. Davinder said: “I was since willing to buy a Harley Davidson, but couldn’t due to some personal reasons. During this lockdown, we got enough time to work on our creative side and it was then, that we decided to turn our dream of owning a luxury bike into reality. “In the first week of July, when our designing part was done, we rented a workshop at our village for Rs35,000 for a month. We spent all our days and nights in the last one month at that same workshop, working on our bike,” said Harsimran, adding that a total of Rs2 lakh has been spent in giving their bike the look they wanted.Vehicle modification banned in IndiaOn being questioned how they would get their bike registered, as all sorts of car and bike modifications are banned in India as per SC’s latest order, the duo replied that they were aware of the fact and have modified the bike out of their passion and were riding it inside their village only. They said they have a keen interest in modifying vehicles and have plans to move abroad, as vehicle modification business has a lot of scope in foreign nations.Specifications of Dracula-800||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/btech-students-turn-their-dream-of-owning-a-luxury-bike-into-reality-125012
11-08-2020||---||Soni opens city’s first Covid-19 testing lab||Jalandhar, August 10Ramping up the testing capacity of Covid-19 in the state, Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni today inaugurated the district’s first government Covid-19 testing laboratory established on the premises of Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory North Zone, Ladowali Road, here.Accompanied by the Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Science, Faridkot, Dr Raj Bahadur, Special Secretary (Animal Husbandry) Manpreet Singh Chhatwal, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, the minister said the laboratory would carry out 1,000 tests per day. He said with the opening of four labs today, the testing capacity in Punjab will touch the mark of 16,000 tests daily, which would further lead to containing the spread of contagion by ensuring timely detection and treatment. The minister said a dedicated team of the experienced doctors and scientists had been stationed here besides providing requisite medical equipment, lab staff and others for the Covid testing by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. Soni said with this facility starting here now there would be no need to send the samples to other places and would help the local health department for start testing, tracing and treatment at the earliest.Prominent among present occasion included DCP Arun Saini, SDM-II Rahul Sindhu, Joint Director Dr HS Kahlon, Dr Gomty Mahajan, scientists Dr Mukesh Mittal, Dr Gagandeep Bangar, Dr Charanjit Sarangal, Dr Gaurav Sharma, Dr Deepak Bhatia and Dr Parveen Kumar and others.156 +ve in JalandharIn Jalandhar, as many as 156 positive cases were reported on Monday, while only six positive cases emerged from Kapurthala. Nawanshahr had 14 new cases, including one pre-operative case and a cop.29 new cases in HoshiarpurThe district reported 29 positive cases on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases 673. Of the total cases, 94 are active cases. Civil Surgeon Jasveer Singh said out of 29 positive cases, eight were reported from Ransota village under the Mand-Pandher Health Centre, one from Ghogra, five from Chakkowal, two from Garhshankar, four from Hajipur, one from Mukerian, three from Dasuya, two from Tanda, one from Bhunga and two from Hoshiarpur (one from Nai Abadi and one from Bhim Nagar). OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soni-opens-citys-first-covid-19-testing-lab-125013
11-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Somehow bought phones for their wards, but recharging every month a concern!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 10The pandemic has completely changed the way of life. Online education replaced classroom teaching and when students and teachers, both, started getting the hang of it, parents and students belonging to economically weaker sections started facing other issues.First, such parents bought smartphones with great difficulty, and once they purchased it, recharging it every month started proving to be an extra financial burden for them.Ironically, students get free education up to Class VIII in government schools and even for boys, there is a negligible fee when they enter Class IX. But parents belonging to economically weaker sections of society have to spend money on recharging their phones every month amid the pandemic for online education of their wards.Pinki, a domestic help and mother of three, said just for online studies of her children, who otherwise study for free in school, she has to spend Rs250-400 for recharging the phone. A few parents are even seeking help from teachers to recharge their phones.They are cutting out on the expenses just to save money to recharge their cell phones.“I have to work in extra homes to earn more money because my husband was out of work for four months in the pandemic. He has just joined work as a waiter. But it is very difficult to spend money every month that, too, for recharging,” Pinki said.Geeta, another domestic help, is only working in two homes as others have asked her not to come. But this is the time, when she wants to work extra to earn more money so that she can recharge her phone and ensure her children get to note down the homework given on the smartphone by their teachers. A teacher from a government school in Shahkot seeking anonymity said several parents approach them and tell them that they are suffering from various problems because of the extra financial burden. “Some of them even seek our help to recharge their phones,” he said. There are several students in rural areas, whose parents cannot afford even proper ration for their family, but they are ready to borrow or buy a smartphone for their children’s studies.Parentspeak"I have to spend Rs 250 to Rs 400 for recharging the phone just for online studies of my children, who otherwise study for free in school. I have to work in extra homes to earn more money because my husband had been out of work for four months during the pandemic. He has just joined work as a waiter. But it is very difficult to spend money every month that, too, for recharging."—  Pinki, a domestic help and mother of three"I am only working in two homes as others have asked me not to come. But this is the time, when I want to work extra to earn more money, so that I can recharge my phone for my children’s education." — Geeta, another domestic help||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/somehow-bought-phones-for-their-wards-but-recharging-every-month-a-concern-125014
11-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Notification issued for BTech admission on Class XII basis||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 10Choosing not to wait for the results of the JEE postponed to next month due to rising cases of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state Technical Education Department has given a go-ahead to IK Gujral Punjab Technical University to start centralised admissions to BTech for this year on the basis of the Class XII exam results.A notification in this regard has finally been issued for holding admissions to the colleges affiliated with IKGPTU, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University and Punjab Agricultural University. A notification issued by Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Department of Technical Education, reads, “All those candidates who have passed Plus Two examination from a board recognised by the Centre/state government with physics and mathematics as compulsory subjects will be able to take admission.”The IKGPTU will also take admissions to BPharmacy in 39 colleges of the state without any entrance tests. However, admission in B Architecture will be conducted on the basis of the aptitude test in architecture conducted by the Council of Architecture.Officials of the department took a decision as all private universities, including Lovely Professional University, Chandigarh University and Chitkara University and even Thapar University, had decided to go with Plus Two results for B Tech admission. This had worried the managements of colleges affiliated with the state universities as they felt that by the time their admissions would start, a majority of the students would have already clinched a seat elsewhere.Dr Anshu Kataria, president, Punjab Unaided Colleges Association, and chairman of Aryans Group of Colleges, has hailed the decision of the state government to forego JEE results for B Tech admission.Would have led to holding up of admissionsThe JEE Mains had been put off between September 1 and 6 and JEE Advanced on September 27. This would have led to holding up of admissions to BTech in Punjab colleges till October. All private universities of the state had already been taking admissions since July and had enrolled thousands of students, whereas colleges affiliated with state-run universities could not conduct admissions. This would have led to a major downfall in admissions in engineering colleges of the state, which had already been suffering huge losses on account of less admissions in the past few years. A committee comprising Vice-Chancellors of IKGPTU, Kapurthala, and MRSPTU, Bathinda, had been formed by the Technical Education Department to take a final call on the matter. The VCs recommended taking admissions on the basis of Class XII merit. The dept officials accepted the recommendations and issued a notification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/notification-issued-for-btech-admission-on-class-xii-basis-125015
11-08-2020||---||City girls win accolades for movie on progressive farmer||Jalandhar, August 10‘Land of Hope’, a short movie based on the theme biodiversity and directed by young city-based film-makers Ishita Bhardwaj and Anuja Sharma, has been declared as the winner at Centre for Media Studies Vatavaran Environment and Wildlife International Film Festival (CMS VATAVARAN), a three-minute film competition held during the lockdown.CMS VATAVARAN is a pioneer in international film festivals and a forum on environment and wildlife in India. Using films as a window to delve into nature, the festival showcases the best of Indian and International films and documentaries.The girls made the film on a former lawyer, Kamaljit Hayer of Ferozepur, who left practice despite good income, after he saw two young deaths in his family. He sensed that there was a direct link between diet and longevity. So, he switched to organic farming and now grows various kinds of crops at his farm on his 20-acre land. There are 1,500 trees of 20 species and livestock.“We decided to make a film on Mr Hayer because his story was so inspiring and motivating for others. We understood his working, got to know about his background, and efforts he was making. We spent time with him and at his farm, too. That’s how we directed the short film,” said Ishita Bhardwaj.Anuja Sharma said getting an award from the prestigious platform was an achievement. “It has given a boost to our morale. It took a lot of hard work and eventually, it got paid. We couldn’t have wished for anything better, that too amid these depressed times of the pandemic,” Sharma told.About the festivalThe main competitive festival is organised in New Delhi, where the best entries from across the world are nominated and awarded. Public screenings are held and a vast range of conservation issues are deliberated among practitioners during interactive sessions.Excelled at 10th CMs VATAVARAN, tooLast year, too, the girls had brought laurels to the city after their movie was selected for the 10th CMS Vatavaran Environment and Wildlife Film Festival, which was held from November 27 to 30 in 2019. Their film ‘Indoor Deaths’ based on indoor air pollution was nominated to the competition out of 345 entries. Anuja and Ishita had then also got an invitation for the festival where the film was screened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-girls-win-accolades-for-movie-on-progressive-farmer-125018
11-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||325 self-help groups formed under PSRLM||As many as 325 self-help groups (SHGs) under the Punjab State Rural Livelihoods Mission (PSRLM), and a revolving fund of Rs 35.70 lakh has been disbursed to 238 SHGs through public finance management system to make different ventures operational ensuring financial benefits to group members.  This includes 200 SHGs at Talwara Block, 48 in Dasuya and 54 in Hoshiarpur Block two. These groups have at least ten female members so as to strengthen the financial position of needy and poor women in rural areas. DCApneet Riyait said, “These members may take refundable advances from administration for their basic needs before starting activities.” . Also, four members, including one in Talwara and three in Dasuya, of SHGs have been appointed at Bank Sakhis. They will assist and facilitate exclusively for bank-related works. Also, six women have been appointed at the Talwara Block and five in Dasuya for spreading awareness among village women for new SHGs to make them self-reliant. A 10-member ‘Ek Jot self-help group’ of Davakhari village in Dasuya is exemplary. Group head Manjit Kaur (50) mentioned that her group joined PSRLM in 2019 to manufacture phulkaris, handmade woollen clothes and embroidered chunnis.  Balbir Kaur, head of a newly formed 13-member handicraft SHG of Maruli Brahmnan village, told that they have identified a site in village where the members would start the manufacturing of four types of pickle and chatni. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/325-self-help-groups-formed-under-psrlm-125019
11-08-2020||Jalandhar||Construction of 1,562 pucca houses in sight||As many as 1,562 needy people are set to get their own pucca houses soon in Jalandhar with the district administration pushing the executing agencies to complete the construction works at the earliest. DC Ghanshyam Thori said that the district administration will meet the requirement in the coming months. He also revealed the administration had already constructed 229 pucca houses and 334 pucca houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna. Thori added that under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (Urban), an amount of Rs 1.50 lakh is being given for the construction of a house in four instalments, including Rs 50,000 as the first instalment, Rs 50,000 as second, Rs 20,000 as third and Rs 30,000 as the remainder.The third instalment has been provided to 296 beneficiaries and 866 beneficiaries have also received the second instalment till date. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/construction-of-1-562-pucca-houses-in-sight-125020
11-08-2020||Our Correspondent||‘District mentors play key role in digital mode of education’||Jalandhar, August 10With a view to further strengthen the digital mode of education, which has become inevitable in the present era of the Covid-19 pandemic, the State Education Department today constituted a team of district mentors (DM) (Computer Faculty). A webinar was also held to assign the roles to the newly-deputed DMs.While interacting with the DMs via webinar, the Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said, “The district mentors have a pivotal role to play in strengthening the digital mode of education, which is likely to remain in vogue, even after the pandemic is over.”Besides exploring innovations in computer education, skill development, vocational education, they would also provide technical assistance to the district and block mentors of different subjects at secondary level, to Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab coordinators (Primary) at district and block level, Zila Sikhiya Sudhar teams, district Smart School mentors, print and social media coordinators to equip them with latest know-how and the use of latest applications of information technology, said Krishan Kumar.He exhorted them to have brain-storming sessions to evolve innovations as well as strike proper coordination with other subject mentors in their respective districts.Responding to the suggestion of sensitising the students about the cyber security to ensure safe and proper use of latest applications of information technology, the Education Secretary mooted the idea of inclusion of chapter on cyber security in the syllabus. He also appreciated the suggestions put forth by the DMs during the webinar, he asked them to explore new ideas to formulate a uniform strategy for making the online education under the ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya’ project, currently under way, more effective.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-mentors-play-key-role-in-digital-mode-of-education-125021
11-08-2020||---||RMSA union to return manifesto to Cong MLA Beri||Jalandhar, August 10 In another unique protest, members of the RMSA/Midday Meal Daftari Mulazim Union will return the manifesto that was presented to them by the government in the run-up to the Assembly elections in 2017. The manifesto will be returned to Congress MLA (Jalandhar Central) Rajinder Beri on August 13. The manifesto reads, ‘Apna manifesto rakh lao, saade taan kamm nahee aaya’ (Take back your manifesto which was of no use to us). The union members said the manifesto deserved to be framed and hung on the wall because it was just a showpiece of no use. Ashish Julaha, one of the members of the union, said before coming to power, several promises were made by the government but the reality was that not even a single promised was fulfilled. Notably, the employees were demanding the regularisation of services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rmsa-union-to-return-manifesto-to-cong-mla-beri-125022
11-08-2020||Kapurthala||Cries of newborn echo in isolation ward||In an act of compassion and staying true to their call of duty, district health workers in the isolation centre carried out the delivery of a Covid-19 positive patient. She gave birth to a baby girl at 10.40 pm last night. Gayatri Devi, who belongs to Bholath, was admitted to the isolation ward a few days ago as she tested positive for Covid-19. Dr Sandeep Dhawan said the health workers were on high alert throughout her admission to the isolation centre as the patient was nine months pregnant. He said a team of health workers, under staff nurse Hardeep Kaur, carried out a complex pregnancy in a highly professional and humanitarian manner. Meanwhile, congratulating the Health Department Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said a new labour room with a capacity of two beds had been set up in the isolation centre. She also announced to provide special attention towards the pregnant ladies in the isolation centre. She said the administration would not only provide the suitable atmosphere, but also take care of their dietary habits, besides educating them about mother feed. Staff nurse Hardeep Kaur said handling the delivery case of Covid-19 positive pregnant woman was no less than a challenge but hospital’s dedicated medical, nursing staff and other supporting staff in the district made it possible by performing their duty with dedication. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cries-of-newborn-echo-in-isolation-ward-125023
11-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||The hunt is on, cyberdating taking the game to next level||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 10Plenty of things have changed during the lockdown, so has the dating game. Since stepping out and meeting new people is totally out of question youngsters these days are trying their hand at social media and digital applications to find companionship. Isolated at home, curbs apparently aren’t binding the long lost search for love as the idea of “Jab We Met” has turned into “Jab We FaceTime!”Love’s a drug?Online dating, a concept inherited from the West, is not new to the millennials here. And the pandemic has only thrusted momentum to the segment, which over the past few years, has seen the expansion owing to the availability of several applications. Besides, the only factor disappointing the app users is that they are not able to physically meet the person they have been seeing digitally. Obviously, how long can one share the emotions on a screen?Although, trust and long term commitments are up on the list of the singles before choosing their match, casual hookups, as always, have not gone off the table as well. Sans social activities and planned weekend outings with friends, satisfying their love interests seems to be the only option for singles, especially above the age of 25 years.Krishang Arora (26), a law graduate, who interning at a private law firm in Delhi, was initially happy that the lockdown has given him some quality time to spend with his family here. A resident of Urban Estate Phase-1, Sharma didn’t know that the lockdown would take a toll on his other relationships. He says: “When in Delhi, I had enough time to meet my girlfriend, who I met six months ago. But when he returned here after the announcement of lockdown, phone and text remained the only options to remain connected.” But the extended period of restrictions, the misunderstanding also stretched between them. The delay in replying and unattended phone calls soured their relation and trust issues added to the mix. “Subsequently, we preferred to give it a break and resume once the situation normalises. Later on, I started using Bumble to interact with different girls who would match my temperament. After selecting a bunch of girls and sharing my thoughts, I’m now clear in my head that what I’m actually looking for in my soulmate,” added Arora.Since march, computer dating ruling till dateNotably, apart from Tinder which was earlier seen as the only available app to find love, Ok Cupid (Find my Kind), Tantan, Bumble, Hinge, AndWeMet, Coffee meets Bagel, Aisle and other such applications are popular among locals here to catch up with singles like them.“As per my parents I’m now eligible for marriage and I should start looking for a partner, but I don’t know what would my partner be like,” chuckles Pooja, a teacher, the 23-year-old adds, “Hence, my friends suggested me to use dating apps as I will only get to interact with people. There won’t be any rule to meet and greet and it’s safe during lockdown to date virtually.”However, the use comes at a cost. “After a use of over 20 days, I feel I am getting addicted to these dating apps as there are a lot of people to share opinions with,” she says. But having met some people that match her needs and all, she cannot wait to meet them in person. ”I even met some eligible ones whom I’m surely going to meet when the virus’ wave settles!”, Pooja shares.As per the official statistics, Over 90 per cent of the Indians on online dating platform OkCupid stated that they would continue dating virtually during the quarantine. Indeed, there has been a 26 per cent spike in conversations on the platform and 12 per cent in matches in the country since March, the second-highest jump globally on both fronts. Similarly, the officials of AndWeMet, a matchmaking platform for singles above 25, quotes: “There has been a surge in number of users, but fake profiles increased too. However, with the help of strict signing up process that demands id proof, fake ID’s were weeded out.”Meanwhile, matches on other platforms increased by 10-20 per cent worldwide. Besides the swiping options, various new features were also introduced by the dating apps operators like digital calls, face time interactions, passport features and others to make them lockdown friendly.“The lockdown has changed the way of socialising and dating scenario is no exception. Gladly, online mode is here to see new people. You can see and chat with the people from all over the world. Also, to make it secure, a lot of popular dating apps have profile verification feature to prevent users from cat fishing and fake profiles,” says Karanvir Singh, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-hunt-is-on-cyberdating-taking-the-game-to-next-level-125024
11-08-2020||Jalandhar||Rainwater enters homes in Dada Colony||Transport Nagar area, Basti Bawa Khel, Preet Nagar, Railway Station, Cool road and other areas were left flooded, but Old Grain Market, Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi, Kalia Colony, Dada Colony and Focal Point were the worst hit. All major roads and residential areas of the town were inundated, following which local residents had to face a lot of problems. Owing to accumulation of rainwater, several shopkeepers closed their shops and markets wore a deserted look. Residents were seen wading through waterlogged roads.In Dada Colony, the rainwater entered the houses of some residents, thus damaging their property. Residents of the area under Ward No. 63 said the streets were flooded with water within 15 minutes. Bharat Bhushan, a resident said: “The rain again exposed the claims made by the MC about making sufficient arrangement for preventing water-logging. Due to poor arrangement made by the civic body, the road in front of our house submerged in rainwater.” Another resident, Vikas Kumar said, the major reason behind rainwater flooding the town was choked drains, which carry rainwater and sewerage of the entire town. Commuting through flooded roads was not the only problem bothering residents, as accumulated water acts as a breeding ground for mosquitoes and insects, which is more worrisome. “Most of the drains were cleaned and it was only due to excessive rain, that the rainwater got accumulated in some parts of the town,” he said. Area councillor Sushil Kalia said: “The construction of new drainage system and storm sewerage is in progress and hopefully the problem will be resolved shortly.” — Ajay Joshi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rainwater-enters-homes-in-dada-colony-125026
