13-08-2020||---||4 Covid deaths in Jalandhar district, 174 test positive||Jalandhar, August 12While four more victims succumbed to the virus, three workers from the Civil Surgeon’s office are among the 174 persons, who tested positive for Covid on Wednesday, taking the tally to 3,478.In addition, the Covid fatalities’ count reached 89.The infected persons, including both minors and the elderly people, were reported from areas including Jalandhar Cantt, Friends Colony, Maqsudan, Lohian Khas, Preet Nagar, Basti Bawa Khel and Wadala Chowk among others.27 +ve cases in HoshiarpurThe reports of as many as 1,257 samples were received in the district on Wednesday, of which 27 new positive cases of Covid-19 have been reported, taking the total number of patients to 760.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of 27 new cases reported today, two cases are of Block Posi and 2 of Hajipur, 1 each from Bhunga, Dasuya, Chakkowal, Tanda, 7 from Paldi, 6 from Garhashankar and 6 from Hoshiarpur city. The six cases of Hoshiarpur city are related to the Police Lines, Banjarbagh and Phagwara road. Civil Surgeon said the new samples of 1,159 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms, taken on Wednesday brought the total number of samples taken in the district to 35,968 so far. According to the reports received from the laboratory, 33,303 are negative, 1,917 reports are awaited and 57 are invalid. At present, the number of active cases in the district is 159 and 580 patients have been cured, while the number of deaths are 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-covid-deaths-in-jalandhar-district-174-test-positive-125906
13-08-2020||Our Correspondent||15 of 11,894 Class XII students get smartphones||Jalandhar, August 12On the occasion of International Youth Day and Janamashtami, Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi unveiled the first phase of ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’ and distributed smartphones to 15 Class XII students of government schools.The 15 students who received smartphones on Wednesday include 11 girls and four boys namely Meena Kumari, Bharti, Benuka, Saloni, Saloni Gogna, Prerna, Pooja, Lovepreet Kaur, Prabhjot Kaur, Navpreet Kaur, Pooja, Anshpreet Singh, Sahil, Rajivir and Dishant Chaudhary.While distributing the smartphones, Channi said this was a historic step taken by the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led government to equip all those students of government schools, who were facing difficulty in accessing online study material or other educational content in these trying situation of Covid.He said the pandemic had stalled routine classes in schools, which led to an adverse impact on poor and rural students, especially of government schools, who were facing several problems in getting equal opportunities like others in private educational institutions.Channi said this move would not only ensure students’ connection with education, but will also empower them digitally.He said under this scheme, phones would be given to total 11,894 students of government schools of Class XII comprising 5,509 boys and 6,385 girls. He announced that the remaining phones would be given in a phased manner following strict adherence to Covid protocols.Channi said youth would also get information about employment opportunities, job fairs and recruitment drives under Ghar-Ghar Rozgaar programme of the state.The Technical Education Minister was accompanied by Member of Parliament Chaudhary Santokh Singh, MLAs Sushil Kumar Rinku, Rajinder Beri, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and SSP Satinder Singh. Others present on the occasion were Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, SDMs Rahul Sindhu, Dr Jai Inder Singh, DEO (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh, Congress leaders Sukhwinder Singh Lalli, Baldev Singh Dev, Angad Dutta, Honey Joshi and others.Balachaur MLA distributes phones in NawanshahrDarshan Lal Mangupur, MLA, Balachaur, distributed 15 smartphones to Class XII students of government schools at the DC office in Nawanshahr on Wednesday. He said, 15 smartphones were handed over to students on Wednesday, while the rest of the distribution will be done by the DEO and DC in a phased manner. He said a total of 3,763 students of government schools of Class XII from Nawanshahr comprising 1,897 boys and 1,865 girls, will receive the phones.Commerce minister hands over smartphones in HoshiarpurIndustries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora handed over smartphones to 15 students of Class XII here at the Hoshiarpur District Administrative Complex on Wednesday. He said a total of 10,584 students, comprising 5,404 boys and 5,180 girls of Class XII in the district, would get phones.District Phones to be givenJalandhar 11,894Nawanshahr 3,762Hoshiarpur 10,584Kapurthala 4,306||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-of-11-894-class-xii-students-get-smartphones-125907
13-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Life turns dull for golden agers as curbs tarnish their rustic routine||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 12Perceived as the most vulnerable group in the Covid times, life has slowed down much for the senior citizens. With everyone repeatedly telling the elderly to be at home and exercise more precautions owing to lower immunity levels and co-morbidities, their routine is somewhat similar to that of a convict – being retired to the four walls, but some facilities have come to their rescue.While everyone confined can move about a bit in the city with some purpose or two and lively up their day, the senior citizens are on the receiving end. Their much-adored places like gurdwara or temples have been shut for long and a casual stroll in a park has been ruled out as well. Chit-chat with friends in the neighbourhood has become highly unlikely. In such a case, the only means of entertainment remains watching movies on TV and spending some time with their grandchildren, who are having it no different their older counterparts these days. Prabhpal Pannu, a realtor by profession, says, “I have aged parents and I really feel that these are challenging times for each one of us. My mother is bedridden for the past three years and we have to take extra care of her as we do not want her to be infected.”For a businessman like me who has had a very active routine for the past four months, it is very difficult to be at home at all times. However, the bright side is that now I have a lot of time to spend with my wife and grandchildren. These days we enjoy telling them about Sikhism, narrating them sakhis of Sikh history and making them memorise path. We are missing our gurdwara and walking routine a lot. —Harvinder S Juneja (75), Owner, Juneja Soap FactoryHowever, his father is still fulll of beans and often insists on going out, which Pannu has to object to. “When we tell him to restrict his movement, he gets irritated and we also get into small conflicts which have to be tackled in a way. Eventually, I have to tell him that I will take him in the car to the market but will not allow him to step down. This is how we have to manage things,” he adds.Several elderly businessmen feel that they have sort of retired now and their next generation has taken over. Barred from going to factories and offices which used to be their daily routine earlier, they now are finding it difficult to stay back home all of a sudden. Parkash Chander Sondhi, owner of sports goods manufacturing company FC Sondhi Pvt Ltd, and his philanthropist wife Neena Sondhi, say, “We are now living a retired life. Being told not to go to factory to be safe from the Covid, our son Anurag now handles the office. Initially, it was a little difficult to adjust to the new lifestyle but we have learnt to cope with the situation.”Tech tetchy for some, saviour for othersBored out of mind, technology has come as a saviour for the senior citizens. However, it is a mammoth of a challenge for the elderly to get used to technology so as to be able to handle their bank accounts or use phone for online shopping. “My children keep teaching their grandparents steps to manage bank accounts but they are finding it too difficult,” says Neetu Gupta, a resident of Green Model Town. She adds: They are not convinced with net banking and often insist on going to bank for all transactions!”For many like Vinay Mahajan, who had his aged parents in Jalandhar and were themselves living away in Dehradun, the lockdown had separated them. “It was two months after relaxation of norms that I could manage to get a pass to take them along to Dehradun so that they no longer faced boredom and loneliness. In all this time, we were connected on phone and were using video-calling to keep them going”, he shared.In the last four months, many NRIs who had their parents home alone used websites and social media groups to hire someone to take care of their aged parents and stay connected with them. Many NRIs used the Facebook page ‘NoticeBoard – Jalandhar by Tinu Luthra to contact their parents and check on their well-being.Owing to the coronavirus outbreak, I am venturing out as little as possible. All my cases in the forum, which are pending, are being represented by a young lawyer, as I am being told by everyone to avoid going to public places. My outing is limited to morning and evening walks in my locality. —KC Malhotra (86), Consumer court counsellerIt is not easy remaining confined to home for four months at a stretch. This week, when I went out for a lunch with my children and grandchildren, it was a feeling that cannot be described in words. However, hard as one may try to kill time at home, remaining indoors day and night is not easy for someone like me, who has remained socially active all his life. —DK Umesh (70), A senior citizenThough almost everyone has had psychological issues these days, it is the elderly who have suffered the most. They are under many restrictions from the family and it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to bear it all. Since many of them are unable to express their feelings, they have been silent sufferers. —Pallavi Khanna, PsychologistAs many as 50 per cent members of the Rotary Club in Jalandhar are senior citizens and we are trying to enthuse them by organising at least two webinars every month. The last we organised with the Rotary Club, Lahore, went very well as most of our senior citizens have had a Pakistani background and really enjoyed going down the memory lane and sharing that Pak connection. —Prabhpal Pannu, President, Rotary Club Jalandhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/life-turns-dull-for-golden-agers-as-curbs-tarnish-their-rustic-routine-125908
13-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Two die, 1 injured in separate accidents||Hoshiarpur, August 12Two people died, while one woman was injured in three separate accidents reported in the area.Jatinder Kumar, a resident of Chipran village, told the police that his uncle Naseeb Singh was hit by a car. He took his uncle to the hospital in an injured condition, from where he was referred to a specialty hospital in Jalandhar. He said his uncle died during treatment. The Garhdiwala police have registered a case against the accused car driver, identified as Vijay Kumar of Roop Nagar.In another case, Abhimanyu of Kainthan Mohalla, Dasuya, told the police that his father Dalip Chand was going towards the tehsil complex on his scooter. When he reached near SDM Chowk, a car hit him, which led to his father’s death. The police have registered a case against driver Rohit Sandal of Beh Nangal.In the third case, Tejaswi, a resident of local Mohalla Nai Abadi, lodged a complaint with the city police, alleging that she was hit by a biker, when she reached near the railway station, as a result of which, she got injured and her scooty got badly damaged. She said she was returning after tying rakhi to her cousin. The police have registered a case against the accused vehicle driver identified as Mohammed Nazir of Baddon village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-die-1-injured-in-separate-accidents-125909
13-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||I am strong-willed, will recover from the disease soon, says hockey player who tested positive||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 12Varun Kumar, Indian hockey team’s drag flicker who tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago, said being a sportsperson, he was strong-willed and would come out of this situation soon.Varun Kumar, who belongs to Mithapur village of Jalandhar, tested positive after he reached Bengaluru for the national camp. He said now he was desperately waiting to play for his nation again.“I don’t have any symptoms and am taking proper rest at this point,” he said. Kumar said his parents were also calling him daily and were concerned about his health. “They tell me to be strong, I know they are a little worried,” the star player from Punjab said.I don't have any symptoms and am taking proper rest at this point. My parents are also calling me daily and are concerned about my health. They tell me to be strong, I know they are a little worried. —Varun Kumar, Star Hockey player from PunjabHe said he would like to ask everyone to be strong and brave amid this situation even if they contract the virus. This is the only way they can overcome the situation, Kumar said.Varun had earlier shared that he was eagerly waiting for the lockdown to get over, as he would like to get back to the old routine and attend camps and play matches again.Brahma Nand, Varun’s father, shared that his son was never into any sports, but because of Harjeet Kaur, an Arjuna awardee, he thought of introducing his son to sports.Brahma Nand said he had faced a lot of difficulties in raising his children. On seeing his son’s name in the list of Indian hockey players, he shared that it gave him immense happiness.“I started playing as a child with an aim of getting selected in a prestigious hockey team one day. Now that I have made it, I have become more responsible and wish to play for my country with dedication,” Varun had shared when he was selected in the Indian team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-am-strong-willed-will-recover-from-the-disease-soon-says-hockey-player-who-tested-positive-125910
13-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||Having a home of their dreams nothing but a wild goose chase||Jalandhar, August 12The housing society Indra Puram, Master Gurbanta Singh Enclave, has turned virtually into a jungle. Wild growth of various types of weeds, almost 4-feet high, abound the society’s premises. Besides, there is no provision of basic amenities at the complex like electricity, roads, street lights and water and sewerage connections.According to Raman Kumar, president of the Indra Puram (flat owners) welfare and development society, in 2006, the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) had allotted 13.97 acres for the development of the Master Gurbanta Singh Enclave which was launched by then local bodies minister Late Chaudhary Jagjit Singh in the memory of his father late Master Gurbanta Singh and the trust promised two-storeyed apartments equipped with all basic facilities and good quality infrastructure. But, reality is harshly different. The trust has miserably failed to fulfill any of the promises.Photos: Sarabjit SinghThere are a total of 888 flats in the area, but none of the owners of flats are living there at present due to lack of facilities. “The JIT at the time of selling flats promised us a separate entrance of 40 ft wide road, but just 11 ft road was given which too is now blocked”, said Kumar, questioning how a person can live in a place that has no approach road.“We had been tired of complaining to the JIT officials about the complex turning into a jungle and hub of all anti-social activities, but we never received any response from them. Also, many allottees, despite having their own flat, are living somewhere else on rent due to the poor condition of the complex”, he added.KL Arora, secretary, coordination, of the enclave, alleged that the trust authorities had ditched the flat owners by giving wrong information about the site as the complex even did not have a proper sewerage or electricity system. “Moreover, the JIT officials never stayed trued. They had been fooling residents of Indrapuram for many years now. We had made several requests to them and even approached MP Santokh Chaudhary, demanding quick redress of our grievances, but all in vain”, he said.“At present, our flats have been illegally taken over by miscreants who entered by breaking the locks. We are not able to do anything as JIT officials are least bothered to entertain our pleas”, alleged Arora, adding that due to lackadaisical attitude of the JIT, the complex has turned into a living hell and the money they invested has no value now.Meanwhile, when contacted, JIT Chairman, Daljit Ahluwalia, said, “The main issue concerning the residents of the Master Gurbanta Singh Enclave is of approach road, which as per the terms and conditions should be 40 ft wide. I am in contact with the concerned officials and higher authorities, we are working on it and we assure to solve this issue at the earliest”, he said. Asked about the lack of basic facilities at the complex, the JIT chairman said: “All such allegations are false. Almost all the flats are sold out and there are many people living at the complex at present.”Fact FileIn the past, protests have been held by the allottees, demanding basic facilities and an approach road in the area. Also, as many as 68 allottees have filed their cases at the District Consumer Forum against JIT, demanding a refund of the amount paid by them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/having-a-home-of-their-dreams-nothing-but-a-wild-goose-chase-125911
13-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Passenger trains to remain cancelled till next orders: Railways||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 12Dispelling rumours of Indian railways extending the suspension period of regular passenger and sub-urban trains till September 30, the city railway station authorities on Wednesday confirmed that such rumours, being circulated largely on social media, were fake. However, the suspended train services would still not resume till further orders. The cancellation or discontinuation of the trains was earlier scheduled till August 12.Citing a copy of the orders released by the Ministry of Railways, Vikas Jaitley, an official at the railway station, said, “The regular passenger and other local trains that were running before the lockdown will continue to remain cancelled till further notice. Whereas occupancy in special trains is being monitored on a regular basis and additional trains may be run if the need arises. Therefore, at present only nine Covid special trains are operating from the city railway station.”The special express or mail trains running on long routes are — the Golden Temple Mail (02904/02903), Sachkhand Express (02716/02715), Saryu Yamuna Express (Amritsar to Jainagar) (04650/04649), Narasapur-Hyderabad special train (02758/02757), Karambhumi special train; Amritsar to New Jalpaigudi (02408/02407), Paschim Express; Amritsar-Mumbai (Bandra) (02926/02925), Amritsar- Haridwar Janshatabdi Express (02054/02053); Jammu Tavi-New Delhi Express (02426/02425); and Shaheed Express (04674/ 04673).Reportedly, after an SSE (C&W) at the city railway station was found infected with the virus on July 28, as many as 14 staff members at the station were asked to work from home. After the cancellation of trains, which was ordered by the Railways to avoid any physical contact between people, migrants and labourers are the worst affected. The waiting hall can still be seen occupied by a large number of passengers. While some even sit on floors, others keep waiting for their trains outside the railway station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/passenger-trains-to-remain-cancelled-till-next-orders-railways-125912
13-08-2020||---||Students flay NEP, submit memo to Guru Nanak Dev University varsity Vice Chancellor||Jalandhar, August 12Opposing the National Education Policy, city-based students, under the banner of the Punjab Students Union (PSU), submitted a memorandum addressed to the Vice Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, to the principal of Lyallpur Khalsa College here on Wednesday.Leaders of the union said the NEP introduced by the Centre entailed privatisation and commercialisation of the education system. “The education budget has also been reduced by one per cent this year,” said Varjit Kaur, district vice-president of the union. She alleged that the Modi-led Union Government, backed by the RSS, was spreading its fascist agenda and depriving students from marginalised sections of society of the Right to Education.“We strongly condemn the discontinuation of scholarships provided to students of aided schools and demand that the NEP be repealed. Topics such as democracy and secularism are being removed from the syllabus, which is against the Constitution of the country, said Varjit Kaur.The student leader said their other demands included boosting infrastructure for online education, smartphones to students, end to dual system for ITI students and rollback of decision to charge fees from SC/ST category students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-flay-nep-submit-memo-to-guru-nanak-dev-university-varsity-vice-chancellor-125913
13-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Brothers attacked by stray bulls, one dies||Hoshiarpur, August 12Two brothers, riding a scooter, were attacked by stray bulls, due to which one of them died and the other had a narrow escape.They were returning home from the factory where they worked on Wednesday morning, when the incident occurred.According to the information, Anurag Sood, son of Prabhat Sood of Mohalla New Model Town, Hoshiarpur, said he was returning home after his duty at Sonalika Company with his brother Alankar Sood (30), on a scooter around 6:15 am. When they reached near their house, two stray bulls, fighting on the road, came in the way and collided with their Activa. The raging bull pierced its horn into Alankar’s neck while he (Anurag) had a narrow escape. Alankar was admitted to Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, in a serious condition, from where he was referred to a private hospital.He, however, died on the way to the hospital. The body was handed over to the kin after the post-mortem examination. According to the police, proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure were being recorded. Alankar Sood has left behind his wife, a son and a daughter.Car collides with stray bullHoshiarpur: A newspaper agent had a narrow escape after his car hit a stray bull near the Islamabad area on Tuesday morning. The newspaper agent, Iqbal Singh Ghuman, was coming to his agency from Jattpur village in the morning. When he entered the city a bull came in front of his car all of a sudden. The car was completely damaged in the accident, while Ghumman suffered minor scratches. Passersby pulled him out from the vehicle. People demanded that the administration should control the increasing number of stray animals on the city roads. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brothers-attacked-by-stray-bulls-one-dies-125914
13-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Religious feelings hurt, one booked||Man on parole shot deadGarhshankar: Dharminder Singh succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday, while he was seriously injured in a shooting incident on Monday night. On the statement of deceased’s father, the Garhashankar police registered a case against five persons, while one of them has been identified as Gurjinder Singh, alias Sonu. After shooting Dharminder on Monday, the suspect (Gurjinder) on his Facebook post took the responsibility of killing Dharaminder. The police said an old rivalry was the possible reason behind the murder. Dharaminder was on parole in a murder case registered at the Phillaur police station. Victim’s father Jhalman Singh told the police that Dharaminder was taking soft drinks with his friend at Kalsi painter’’s shop on Nangal Road when five persons came on a Swift car and fired at him. Seriously injured Dharaminder was admitted to the Garhshankar Civil Hospital and later shifted him to a private hospital where he died during treatment on Tuesday. The police have registered a case under Sections 302 of the IPC, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. OCMan drowns in Vancouver lakeHoshiarpur: A pall of gloom descended at Sataur village of Hoshiarpur after the news 25-year-old Rajpratik Singh’s death was received from Canada by his family members over phone. He was living in Vancouver city of Canada and died after drowning in a lake. After getting the news of his death, a large number of people started reaching out to share grief with family members. Rajpratik Singh, son of Jasvir Singh, had gone to Canada in 2015 on student visa and was living there. While bathing, he went into the deep waters and accidentally drowned. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/religious-feelings-hurt-one-booked-125915
13-08-2020||---||Lack of facilities at Covid centres a matter of concern: Harpal Cheema||Jalandhar, August 12Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, while expressing deep concern over the spread of coronavirus in major cities of the state, said the overbearing attitude of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had been wreaking havoc with the lives of the people of Punjab fighting the big battle against the pandemic.Harpal Singh said this during a media interaction in the party office here on the issue of Covid-19 pandemic. Others present on the occasion were Dr Shiv Dayal Mali, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, advocate Kashmir Singh Malhi, Kartar Singh, Rajwinder Kaur and Lakhvir Singh Lakha.He said the unprecedented spike in the cases in some major cities of the state, including Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali was worrying while the condition of the government hospitals and coronavirus care centres was far from being satisfactory. He said it was a matter of shame for the government that patients in a Bathinda facility had to climb rooftop to ventilate their ire against the mismanagement and lack of facilities, including food, while eight had to run away from the centre for the same reasons.The Leader of Opposition said the number of new cases and deaths due to the virus had been increasing rapidly for the last 10 days, while the recovery rate had been at 65 per cent, which was quite disappointing. He said the virus testing was only 0.18 per cent of the total population of Punjab, which spoke of the poor arrangements of the government to combat the killer virus.He said the situation was getting out of control with the Chief Minister himself predicting the peak of coronavirus in September, which, he said, was a cause of grave concern. Harpal Singh said AAP had suggested to CM Amarinder Singh and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to replicate the Delhi model in the state, but had instead ridiculed the same owing to their arrogant and overbearing attitude, saying the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi had succeeded in controlling the virus with recovery rate of 91 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lack-of-facilities-at-covid-centres-a-matter-of-concern-harpal-cheema-125916
13-08-2020||---||Punjab to have its own scholarship scheme: Channi||Jalandhar, August 12As Dalit students are being denied free admission in colleges under the SC Post Matric Scholarship Scheme, owing to the prevailing Centre-state differences, Technical Education and Industrial Training Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said the state would ensure the maximum benefit to the SC students in pursuing higher education.The minister said a proposal to reintroduce the scheme through the state government would be brought up in the next Cabinet meeting.“We cannot let our Dalit students suffer, owing to the wrongs of the Centre. We are in the process of issuing suitable instructions to the colleges soon, to allow free admissions to the SC students from this year itself. We will try to cover the maximum number of poor SC students in the scheme,” he said.Channi was visiting the district administrative complex here for distributing 15 mobilephones to Class XII students of Government Senior Secondary School, Kartarpur, near here.Hitting out at the SAD-BJP alliance, Channi said, “They have always been anti-Dalit and we intend to launch a protest against their decision to withdraw from the scheme and leave the SC students in a lurch.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-to-have-its-own-scholarship-scheme-channi-125749
