14-08-2020||---||Independence Day function to be dedicated to Covid fighters||Jalandhar, August 13The district administration will commemorate the 74th Independence Day by dedicating the function to Covid fighters, who were invincible during their duties amid the pandemic.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said this on Thursday while reviewing the final preparations for the day, which largely includes guard of honour by a single contingent of the Punjab Police. There will neither be any march past nor any cultural show. The entire programme which will include unfurling of the flag by Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and his speech is slated to wind up in just 25 minutes.He said the celebrations would also include special honour of the ‘Covid Warriors’, who contributed wholeheartedly in this battle against novel coronavirus despite a spike in cases. He said the country would ever remain indebted to medical professionals, cops, sanitation employees and others who remained on the frontline and risked their lives in the battle against the pandemic by performing their duties zealously and fearlessly.He said due to the prevailing situation arising out of the pandemic, children and elders have not been invited.Those present were Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police Arun Saini, SDMs Rahul Sindhu, Dr Jai Inder Singh and Lt Col Manmohan Singh (retd.) among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/independence-day-function-to-be-dedicated-to-covid-fighters-126287
14-08-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar District reports three more deaths, 157 Fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-three-more-deaths-157-fresh-cases-126288
14-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur district reports five new positive cases, one death||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-district-reports-five-new-positive-cases-one-death-126289
14-08-2020||---||Missing man’s decomposed body recovered from Dhussi Bandh||Jalandhar, August 13  Having gone missing during the supply of jaggery to some bootleggers along the Sutlej this Monday, the body of a 60-year-old man from Poadharra village of Nurmahal was finally recovered from Dhussi Bandh on Wednesday evening. The deceased, Satnam Singh, had taken the supplies in his pick-up vehicle to the Mand area on August 10 evening, during which an excise raid took place. The family suspects that he was arrested by the raiding team, but as the police and the excise teams denied having detained anyone, they finally lodged a missing complaint.  The Bilga police traced Satnam’s mobile phone from the wild growth along the river banks on Tuesday, but his body was found on Wednesday evening. Today, nearly 150 residents of the village staged a dharna in front of the police station demanding registration of murder case and demanded a copy of the FIR to end the dharna. SHO Bilga police station Surjeet Singh finally registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC on the statement of deceased’s son Hardeep Singh. He alleged that bootleggers from Sanghowal village and a shopkeeper of Talwan village were responsible for his father’s death and action should be taken against them.  The SHO said the deceased had gone to Mand area to supply jaggery to bootleggers along with a shopkeeper, when the excise team conducted a raid. “All five, including three bootleggers, Satnam Singh and shopkeeper, fled from the spot. While four persons reached their places, Satnam remained missing. His family filed a missing complaint with us and we started investigations. We interrogated the excise team members also, but got no clue, as they only recovered the jaggery, but could not catch hold of anyone. We found the decomposed body yesterday. There was no injury mark on the body and we got the postmortem conducted today. On the statement of the deceased’s son, we have registered a case of murder, but a final call will be taken after we get the post-mortem report.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/missing-mans-decomposed-body-recovered-from-dhussi-bandh-126290
14-08-2020||---||35,000 people found having pre-existing diseases: Survey||Jalandhar, August 13To initiate early treatment and minimise the loss of lives due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori directed health officials to conduct the test of all symptomatic patients and those having co-morbidities, in Jalandhar.Jalandhar witnessed 91 deaths, of which 85 had several other co-morbidities. To complete the sampling within a few days, teams have been doubled to collect the samples.- Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy CommissionerParticipating in a video conference chaired by Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh to review the Covid-19 preparedness in districts, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, along with SSP Satinder Singh, said due to a surge in cases, the administration had planned to intensify the sampling for tests for treatment of Covid-19 positive cases, if any.The DC said during a door-to-door survey conducted by health teams, 35,000 people had been found suffering from pre-existing diseases and samples of all these persons will be taken by the teams. He said Jalandhar had witnessed 91 deaths of which 85 had several other co-morbidities. He said to complete the sampling within a few days; teams had been doubled to collect the samples.The DC said the main pillars of the Covid-19 preparedness strategy were segregation of micro-containment zones and screening of all those in high-risk categories to put them on treatment as soon as possible. He emphasised the need to trace and conduct test of all those who had come in the contact with infected persons within 72-hours, which could be immensely beneficial to contain the further spread of Covid-19.He said the healthcare infrastructure was being ramped up continually in the district, besides the availability of beds for level-2 and level-3 was ensured round the clock.The Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, who also joined the VC from his office and Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh said the Police Department had also initiated an awareness drive to sensitise people about preventive measures.They said the drive was already intensified against the violators in Jalandhar, to ensure strict compliance of medical protocols to stem the spread of Covid-19. Meanwhile, CM Capt Amarinder Singh lauded the efforts of the district administration in this war against the novel Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/35-000-people-found-having-pre-existing-diseases-survey-126291
14-08-2020||The pandemic has shifted the education landscape from classrooms to online teaching-learning at home. Yet||‘No practicals, hands-on experience in tech subjects a big concern’||How’s the teaching of different classes going on?Panjab University SSG Regional Centre (PUSSGRC), Hoshiarpur, is a multi-faculty off-campus establishment of Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh, running programmes in law, engineering and computer applications. All academic activities are as per PU’s norms. Due to pandemic, previous semester’s leftover syllabus was covered online. As per the orders of university’s dean, all classes have been scheduled online from September 1 onwards. Presently, teachers are engaging students through online mode to clear their doubts of leftover topics from previous semester in order to facilitate the understanding of the subjects of current semester.In case classes commence in September, it is sure to gobble up time for the semester ending in December. What’s your word on it?Revised academic calendar is being issued by the office of dean of university and instructions will be available soon. I would also like to mention that all Saturdays are working days since the start of semester.Are there any changes in courses or the curriculum in sight to cope with the present situation?The course curriculum is decided by the Board of Studies (BoS) of university where teachers of regional centre are also members. As of now, the focus is more on online courses.Can you expound on the arrangements for online classes? How is the faculty trained and updated for teaching?All the faculty members are taking online classes and have been given choices in teaching from home, department or campus. We have enough resources and staff to cater to the infrastructural needs of faculty. Not only the faculty but students also have access to different e-learning platforms — students also have online access to the central library at PU, Chandigarh. In addition to this, faculty and laboratory technicians have been asked to prepare e-contents to be delivered to students. The process for procuring e-books for all has also started. Since the lockdown, a number of webinars have been conducted by all departments and were attended both by teachers and students.How the PUSSGRC plans to conduct final year exams and declaration of results?It will be as per the notifications released by Panjab University, Chandigarh.What’s the status on placements for this year?PUSSGRC has a very good placement record. Our placement officer has an industrial experience of more than 20 years. In view of pandemic, placements will either be conducted online or as instructed by the company. In fact, some of the companies have already started getting students registered. The focus is also on training students to be entrepreneurs. We are planning to establish a satellite incubation centre for which modalities are being worked out.Share your plans for the academic session 2020-21.It will depend upon the situation. Presently, students will be taught online. Apart from this, two online international conferences, workshops and faculty development programmes are next in the line. As far as co-curricular and extracurricular activities of this session are concerned, situation shall rule its stars.Your biggest concern once the classroom teaching restarts?The conduct of practicals, especially in technical courses, is essential because unless and until a student has hands-on experience on equipment or a machine, he/she is sure to face problems later in life. Some of the topics, especially basic concepts, need a lot of discussion. My first and foremost priority would be to fill all the leftover academic gaps. Organising co-curricular and extra-curricular activities for their holistic growth — dearly missed amid the pandemic — will see increased focus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-practicals-hands-on-experience-in-tech-subjects-a-big-concern-126371
14-08-2020||While it is difficult to travel around amid the pandemic||Come, explore Science City, virtually!||It has key attractions such as the space theatre, laser theatre, 3D theatre, digital planetarium and dinosaur park among others, which were gradually added between 2008 and 2010, followed by galleries on evolution, birds and climate change theatre from 2014 to 2016.It started a mobile science exhibition in 2015 to raise awareness among masses about different concepts of science and technology. PGSC recently introduced robotic dinosaurs and had set up an innovation hub to motivate children for out-of-the-box thinking. As per information, the Science City has registered over 45 lakh visitors since its opening.Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle rocketThe PSLV model depicts India’s Chandrayaan-1 mission, which successfully inserted the spacecraft into the lunar orbit on November 8, 2008. It makes visitors aware about the great history India registered on November 14, 2008, when Moon Impact Probe (MIP) was separated, which then struck the lunar South Pole in a controlled manner and India emerged as the fourth country in the world to hoist its flag on the lunar surface.Technological TowerRight in front of the Central Plaza at PGSC, the technological tower has a DNA model placed on top and small airplanes below. It reflects digital life’s impact on our well-being explaining how people use digital tools to solve problems, enhance their lives and improve their productivity.The Health GalleryIt depicts information about human anatomy and physiology. Divided into three sections, the gallery reveals the intricate structures and functions of human body using large working human models and other interactive exhibits. A 12-feet high beating heart model demonstrates the working of the circulatory system from ‘within’ the heart.Life through agesEvolution from the Big Bang to the present day is shown in this dome-like structure. It has been divided into 16 sections through sensor-based 2D and 3D models that suddenly spring into action as one passes through. The gallery provides an experience with massive background paintings. The highlights include – origin of the solar system, evolution of multi-cellular life, invasion of land by plants and animals, coal deposits, extinction of primitive life, origin, growth and extinction of dinosaurs, rise of mammals and evolution of man among other things.Science of Sports GalleryThe gallery throws light on the nitty-gritties of scientific application in various sports such as cricket, volleyball, badminton, lawn tennis, basketball, football, hockey and rural sports through a playful, interesting and non-formal approach. The science of basketball (in pic) explains the scientific principles behind every action, construction of the ball, what common injuries are and what protective gears are available for players.Evolution of ManThrough this model, the emergence of modern humans, beginning with the evolutionary history of primates — genus Homo (in particular), and leading to the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of the hominid family, which includes the great apes, has been explained. It also depicts the four major steps involved in the evolution of modern humans from our hominid ancestor i.e. evolving terrestriality, bipedalism, a large brain (encephalisation) and civilisation.Space and Aviation GalleryThe gallery displays models of satellites and various applications of space technology. A section shows how astronauts live in space. A replica of space shuttle has been created in one such sections, depicting the life of both Kalpana Chawla and Sunita Williams. The model of Neil Alden Armstrong, the first person to walk on the Moon, explains the life on the moon and various other aspects involved. Bharat Swati Aircraft, after it retired, was gifted to PGSC by the Indian Air Force to keep it as a major attraction for visitors. This aircraft was used by the IAF to train the newly recruited pilots.Dinosaur ParkReal-sized reptiles get your adrenaline pumping at this park taking you to the era of dinosaurs. It showcases the evolution of dinosaurs on earth and also underlines probable reasons behind their extinction. Divided into three periods – Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous, the park houses 48 different dinosaur models in their natural habitat. As dinosaurs had become extinct after a massive volcanic eruption, a 35-feet high volcano structure comprising four moving dinosaurs with sound effects has also been created to give visitors an experience of environment on the earth millions of years ago.Life through agesEvolution from the Big Bang to the present day is shown in this dome-like structure. It has been divided into 16 sections through sensor-based 2D and 3D models that suddenly spring into action as one passes through. The gallery provides an experience with massive background paintings. The highlights include – origin of the solar system, evolution of multi-cellular life, invasion of land by plants and animals, coal deposits, extinction of primitive life, origin, growth and extinction of dinosaurs, rise of mammals and evolution of man among other things.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/come-explore-science-city-virtually-126372
