19-08-2020||Jalandhar||NRI’s murder: case registered||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nris-murder-case-registered-128298
19-08-2020||Hoshiarpur SDM Major Dr Amit Mahajan tested positive for Covid-19 on July 8 after he came in contact with a positive patient during a meeting in Mohali. The moment he learnt about it||‘No need to be afraid, fight hard and defeat the virus’||"I was informed that I had come in contact with a positive patient during a meeting and as soon as I got the message, I quarantined myself, as I have to deal with the public at large. I went into self-isolation in a separate room of my official residence in Hoshiarpur on July 8 and started following the isolation protocol and the health directives. It was a different experience to not be at home, while being at home. I utilised the time in reading, updating myself about the new laws, acts, rules and provisions that I have to deal with in routine office functioning. Being a medico, I took to reading more and more about Covid-19 and the ongoing research on the virus. Generally, people get melancholic on reading about the symptoms and ailments, but reading about the coronavirus gave me strength."I was completely asymptomatic and felt nothing else than boredom and general malaise associated with it that, too, for a couple of days. The official work continued during this period of isolation through online medium and I used to sign documents digitally. My office staff used to send even the drafts of official correspondence through email and WhatsApp and I used to approve or ammend it as required. I stayed connected with my family through voice chat and video calls. I helped my kids in their studies, as they were studying online."For the entire 17 days of isolation, my wife took due care of me by following all Covid protocols. I focused on good diet. My wife used to give me food and after having it, I used to keep the utensils in a disinfectant solution outside my room for at least an hour and then my wife would take these for cleaning. The same was with the clothes. Since my wife is also a doctor, both of us followed due precautions. I used to take a daily 6-minute walk test to check the capacity of my lungs. For that, I used to walk briskly for 6 minutes and then check the oxygen level with the help of an oxymeter and it was fine. I took steam daily, had my meals on regular intervals and kept my morale high. Following the complete protocol of 17 days’isolation that completed on July 25, I am back with more vigour and better health. What I felt and experienced during this period is that there is no need to be afraid of Covid-19, but we have to fight with it. That I did and finally won the battle against the virus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-need-to-be-afraid-fight-hard-and-defeat-the-virus-128299
19-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandharites miss nightlife, groovy music, disco lights||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 18Covid-19 has brought in tough time for the party freaks of the city. Not having donned the latest prom dresses with high heels and danced with friends to the groovy music being played by a DJ along a misty, pool side since long, it is making them feel sickening.The night life of the city came to a screeching halt in March end as all clubs, hangouts, bars, cafes, terrace gardens and lounges got shut in the lockdown. Almost five months on, the night curfew still persists and all hotels have to close down at 8.30 pm, which means that the last order cannot be placed after 8 pm.The city that used to party all night, especially around the weekends emptying champagne bottles, waiting for celebs to perform live for them at the clubs in the backdrop of flashy disco lights goes into complete silence as it begins to go dark.But this silence is getting too long for many who have been finding ways out to beat the prevailing monotony. Says Natasha Sahni, a frequent party reveller: “All this while, I had been feeling as if I was drained out of all energy and needed something to charge me up again. I discussed it all with some friends in metro cities and they told me that they were now using live streaming of DJs on FB or music apps to have the feel of those pulsating beats while staying at home. It was then that I decided to redo my balcony, deck it up with dim lights and have a casual set up with bean bags, couches and a good sound system. Now whenever there is a pleasant weather in the evenings, we ready some snacks and drinks, call in few friends and try to recreate the same club or dance bar kind of an aura.”Virtual parties are what many youngsters have tried out but to not much of a success. “We tried connecting through Zoom playing same music and dancing to it but to not much of a success. Even the farewell party that we had planned to organise at the end of our college was organised through Zoom. We played all the best numbers including Sidhu Moosewala’s ‘Dhakka’ or ‘Old Skool’ and even Justin Beiber’s ‘Cause I don’t care, as long as you just hold me near’ but the thrill of being together and doing fun somehow remains missing”, said Sakshi Juneja, a college passout. She exclaims it can in no way match the atmosphere that we see at the popular getaways in the city including De Neuvo, Peddlers, The Throwback Story or even Brew Master.A hub of activities for the crème-de-la of the town, even the Jullunder Gymkhana club had its gates shut for all activities since March end. But this nerve centre of the Jalandharites, which had since the lockdown turned to look like a haunted house, is beginning to buzz with activity once again. While sports arena including gym, badminton court, lawn tennis court, squash and billiards room had opened up few weeks back, the club is set to open its restaurant also from tomorrow. As of date, only 70 of the 4,270 members are coming to the club for availing gym and sports facilities. But the club administration hopes that the restaurant will add in some more life as members had been complaining that they were tired and sick of staying back at home and wanted to slowly get back to some socialising at the club.Honorary secretary of the club, Tarun Sikka, shared various measures that had been taken to maintain hygiene at the club. “We have sensor-equipped hand sanitisers at the entry of the club. The membership cards of the members will not be physically checked now as we have installed a digital system for this. The members will have to keep the cards in a slot after which a welcome message with their name and photograph will appear on the screen and then only the automatic gates will open. Other than warding off chances of contact, the system will ensure that no outsiders are able to take any services from the club”, he said.The gym-goers and sports facility users too are given proper timeslots and members have been asked to adhere to the given timing. After every batch leaves in an hour’s time, the gym and all gadgets are sanitised.Other than the Gymkhana Club, there are other active social clubs in Jalandhar including Rotary Club, Innerwheel Club etc. The golf clubs of the Punjab Armed Police, Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur, and the Border Security Force too have been other places for socialising. But with the highest footfall, the Gymkhana Club managed by the district administration has certainly remained to be the most frequented places of the city.Its women wing had been especially active with kitty parties, tambola, Ms Teej contests, car rallies, Holi and other celebrations and entertainment events held all throughout the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandharites-miss-nightlife-groovy-music-disco-lights-128282
19-08-2020||---||Jalandhar District reports one Covid death, 137 fresh cases||Jalandhar, August 18The district reported 137 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the Covid tally to 4,395.A 70-year-old man also succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 112. A resident of Ekta Nagar, Choggitti, the deceased was reportedly battling long illness. The infected persons include an HDFC Bank manager and a businessman.As many as 55,888 people have been tested in the district so far and reports of 51,130 people were negative. With the daily surge in positive cases, the administration has included more number of city as well rural areas in the micro and mini-containment zones.On Tuesday, the cases were reported from areas, including Model Town, Rasta Mohalla, Jawahar Nagar, Urban Estate Phase-1, New Santoshi Nagar, New Arjun Nagar, Guru Hargovind Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Basti Gujan, Basti Sheik and New Dasmesh Nagar among others.45 new cases in Hoshiarpur districtOut of 1,285 samples received from the lab on Tuesday, 45 new positive cases were reported in the district, taking the tally to 899. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 45 cases reported from Hoshiarpur district, 12 are from Hoshiarpur city's Dashmesh Nagar, Una Road, Purhiran, Dana Mandi, Shivalik Avenue, Lajwanti Nagar and Gautam Nagar areas. There are 11 cases of Ward Number 9 and 10 of Garhshankar. Apart from this, there are five cases from Paldi block and the remaining are from Tanda, Posi, Mand Pandher and Chakkowal blocks. Dr Singh said total 43,422 samples have been taken in the district so far as per the reports received from the laboratory, of which 39,406 samples are negative, while 3,141 reports were still awaited and 61 samples have been found invalid. The number of active cases is 173 and 701 patients have been cured. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-one-covid-death-137-fresh-cases-128283
19-08-2020||---||Students protest withdrawal of post-matric scholarship||Jalandhar, August 18 Protesting the New Education Policy introduced by the Central government and discontinuation of the post-matric scholarship, city-based students, under the banner of the Punjab Students’ Union (PSU), submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner here on Tuesday.  After conducting a protest march from the BMC Chowk to district administration complex, the students, mostly girls, holding placards, raised slogans against the government.  The student leaders of the union said the New Education Policy introduced by the Central government was directly linked to privatisation and commercialisation of the education system. “Moreover, the budget for education this year has also been reduced by 1 per cent,” said Varjit Kaur, district vice- president of the union.  She said the Modi government, backed by the RSS, was spreading its fascist agenda and was depriving the students of the marginalised sections of society of their Right to Education.  “We strongly condemn the discontinuation of the scholarships provided to the students of aided schools and demand that the New Education Policy be repealed. The concepts of democracy and secularism have been removed from the syllabus, which is against the Constitution of the country. Apart from that, our other demands include providing a better framework for online learning and helping students without smartphones.”  She said the decision to introduce a dual system for ITI students would eventually benefit private companies and it should be withdrawn. The decision to charge fee from the SC / ST students should also be withdrawn. Similarly, ban on public gatherings should also be lifted, said Varjit Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-protest-withdrawal-of-post-matric-scholarship-128284
19-08-2020||Sanjiv Bakshi||Rain-battered roads give tough time to Hoshiarpur residents||Hoshiarpur, August 18Traffic jams are a common feature in the city due to the poor condition of roads. The raised level of newly repaired and pothole-ridden roads poses risk to the life of commuters during monsoon.Premix over old layers has raised the level of roads to such an extent that shops and houses, which were earlier much above the level of roads are now lower. Shopkeepers and residents of Court Road, Suthehri Road, Government College Road, Phagwara Road, Naloiyan Chowk and several other areas are facing the brunt of it.During the monsoon, rainwater enters shops and houses. Aggrieved residents had been urging the authorities concerned to remove the old layer of road before laying a new layer, but to no avail.Situation of Rambha Sethi Marg in Ward No. 13 is such that one feels like driving a vehicle on a dirt road. Recently, former councillor Meenu Sethi got injured after her two-wheeler skidded on this stretch. Similar is the situation of New Fatehgarh Bazigar road, which connects Ward No. 13 and Ward No 14.Sethi said, “Rambha Sethi Marg was constructed in 2017. Due to substandard construction, the project was scrapped and action was taken against the contractor. The MC House passed the road project again and tenders were floated in June 2019, but nothing has happened on the ground. I have paid Rs 20,000 from my own pocket to get the potholes filled. The Municipal Council is dilly-dallying the road project.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rain-battered-roads-give-tough-time-to-hoshiarpur-residents-128285
19-08-2020||Jalandhar||Workers up in arms against Montek report||Students and contractual workers under the Naujawan Bharat Sabha protested in Kartarpur against the recommendations of an expert group led Montek Singh Ahluwalia to the state government to tide over financial crisis.  Protesters burnt an effigy of the state government for accepting the recommendations. The agitators alleged that the Montek report stands for privatisation of government departments. Jaskaran Azad, district president, Naujawan Bharat Sabha, said: “Proposals made by Montek Singh Ahluwalia, former Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission, are completely unacceptable. The state government has failed to fulfill its promise of providing ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’. The decision to abolish 40,000 posts is the powercom is unreasonable. The recommendations are disastrous and unrealistic.” Permanent workers of the Punjab Roadways in a state-level meeting condemned proposals of the Montek report and opposed 25 per cent deductions in salary of Punbus employees.  “Reducing the salary of employees as per the pay scale of the Centre, non-payment of DA and outsourcing of workers will lead to commercialisation of the Transport Department,” said Baljit Singh, district president, Punbus Permanent Workers’ Union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workers-up-in-arms-against-montek-report-128286
19-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Pandemic derails porters’ life||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 18With trains coming to a screeching halt, the pandemic-induced lockdown has thrown the life of railway porters off track. Sustaining on borrowed money, some of them are even graduates and post graduates.They wait for hours at the city railway station to get their daily share of work. While some have picked up alternate jobs, some are still relying on railway passengers to earn two square meals a day.Unable to deposit the school fee of his two sons, Shravan Singh (44), has pulled his children out of a private school and is now planning to get them admitted to a government school.Having borne the brunt of the nationwide lockdown, Shravan says, “Life has turned upside down after the Covid outbreak. Initially, we thought the lockdown would be over shortly but it kept on extending, so did our expenses. Dependent on a daily income of Rs 500-800 before lockdown, it became difficult for us to sustain post lockdown. Initially, my relatives aided us financially in managing the household expenses but as the lockdown was extended, we ran out of even our meagre savings.”“Now, even after the resumption of railway services, the footfall of passengers at platforms is less. I don’t think there’s any scope for our earning in the coming months. For the past two months, I have been earning only Rs 100-200. The livelihood of porters is dependent on the plying of trains and he believes that it will take a long time for his life to get back on track,” he added.Like him, a large number of coolies have no work after trains stopped plying. Another porter, Ajay Kumar, a resident of Rattan Nagar, the sole bread winner in his family of five, said, it is difficult to sustain themselves and their families. “On the brink of poverty, we have no hope of earning enough even though the railways have resumed services on key routes. In the absence of any work, I have started learning the skills of an electrician to keep afloat.Though many porters have sanitisers, masks and gloves, the fear of contracting Covid is still keeping people at bay. Many passengers prefer carrying their luggage, making a porter’s job redundant. Passengers remain scared of our services as they fear infection. We are taking full precautions though, added Ajay.Demand medical aidKashmiri Lal, president of the ‘All India Lal wardi Coolie Union,’ said, out of 29 porters, only eight were coming to the station. “In its previous tenure, the Modi government had given coolies the status of ‘sahayak’ (assistants) but they have been completely forgotten in the lockdown. No economic package has been announced for them by either the railways or the Central government,” added Kashmiri Lal.Recalling his days of recruitment, Kashmiri said, “I was inducted into the services in 2009 after clearing a 1600 mtr run, 200 mtr run with 40-kg weight on our shoulders and medical. ‘We were lured into the services for the post of ‘gangman’ as the government servants but were not given any regular salary. I have never seen such times in my entire service and we feel helpless. The only facility of free medical OPD service has also been snatched from us. The divisional railway authorities are reluctant to provide us the employee number to utilise free medical service,” added Kashmiri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-derails-porters-life-128287
19-08-2020||Jalandhar||Online job fair from Sep 24-30||Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal on Tuesday reviewed the arrangements of virtual mega job fair week to be held from September 24 to 30. Presiding a review meeting, Sarangal, who is also Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), said that this job fair week would help to connect the youths with the prospective employers through online medium. He said nearly 10,000 jobs would be offered in this week for which the district administration would make elaborate arrangements and no stone would be left unturned for making this virtual job fair week a huge success. The Additional Deputy Commissioner asked the officers of DBEE to ensure holding regular interactions with industrialists to know about the nature of the manpower they were looking for. He said this would ensure a pool of skilled and educated manpower to the industrialists as per their requirements. He called upon the youth to take benefit from this week by participating in it and register themselves on www.pgrkam.com for the jobs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-job-fair-from-sep-24-30-128289
19-08-2020||Jalandhar||Safety slogan drive raises awareness on Covid-19||Sewa Sankalp Society launched ‘Self Safety Slogan Drive’to spread awareness on Covid safety measures through slogans during the Independence Day function on Saturday. Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhry along with vice-president Sewa Sankalp Society Harpreet Sandhu, advocate, Phillaur Congress leader Vikram Singh Chaudhry launched the drive in Phillaur. A special event of mask distribution among the needy sections of society was also organised, wherein Jalandhar MP distributed masks. Advocate Harpreet Sandhu said the main aim was to spread the slogan “Self Protection is the Best Protection” through messages being spread within every section of society via social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp to encourage people to follow a few basic steps which will ultimately help stay safe and win the war against Covid19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/safety-slogan-drive-raises-awareness-on-covid-19-128290
19-08-2020||---||Cops collect Rs 1.5 cr in fine for not wearing mask||Jalandhar, August 18 The Jalandhar Commissionerate Police has collected Rs 1,50,84,600 from 31,478 persons for not wearing mask since March 23.   Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said on Tuesday, 237 persons without mask were challaned and a penalty of Rs 1,18,500 was imposed on them.    He said a fine of Rs 85,000 had been imposed on 45 persons for violating home quarantine guidelines and 453 persons had been fined Rs 1,16,100 for spitting at public places.   The Police Commissioner said a total of 53,611 challans had been issued to traffic violators and 2,322 vehicles had been impounded.  Bhullar said fine worth Rs 1,39,000 had been imposed on 72 overloaded four-wheelers, Rs 17,000 on 34 overloaded auto-rickshaws. He said a penalty of Rs 4.59 lakh has been imposed on 227 persons for not practising social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-collect-rs-1-5-cr-in-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-128291
19-08-2020||Jalandhar||Innocent Group students shine in university exams||Students of Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions brought laurels to the campus by attaining 87 merit positions in IKG-PTU November-2019 examination, the results of which have been declared. Dr Anup Bowry (Chairman, Innocent Hearts Group), Dr Shailesh Tripathi (Group director), Prof Deepak Paul (Principal) and all faculty members congratulate the students.  Dr Bowry said the achievement was possible because of involving students in quiz contests, group discussions, powerpoint presentation competitions that were organised on the campus regularly. To stimulate the students for effective studies, discounts in fees on academic score basis and free transportation up to 20 km were also provided. Out of 87 merit position holders, 29 toppers are from the hotel management department, 22 from the management department, 17 from agriculture, 15 from medical laboratory science and four from the IT department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/innocent-group-students-shine-in-university-exams-128292
19-08-2020||Talwara (Hoshiarpur)||‘Recovery of bullets’ puts police in a fix||Reported “recovery of more than 100 bullets” from a pond in Dhamian village has put the police and a sarpanch in a dilemma.  The pond was being cleaned under the MGNREGA Scheme during which “bullets” wrapped in a cloth were found.  Lomesh Sharma, Station House Officer, Hajipur police station, said they could not ascertain if the recovered items were bullets or something else as the sarpanch had thrown them into a canal. Sarpanch Shamsher Singh alleged that they had found nothing from the pond thus there was no question of throwing anything in the canal. He said his political opponents were spreading lies to settle personal scores.  The SHO said they were conducting a thorough investigation into the matter. The sarpanch said his rivals do not want him to do anything good for the village thus they were spreading rumors.  Shamsher said, “If I would have found anything, I would have given it to the police.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/recovery-of-bullets-puts-police-in-a-fix-128293
19-08-2020||---||Jagdish Samrai to raise safai sewaks’ issue with minister||Jalandhar, August 18 Members of the sanitation and health ad-hoc committee Jagdish Samrai said he would  meet Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra and apprise him of the dearth of safai sewaks in the city.  Samrai said he would take up the matter with the minister. “Jalandhar was once one of the cleanest cities of Punjab and now, no proper cleanliness is there, due to no proper safai karamcharis in the wards,” Samrai said.  He has done a detailed study on the number of safai karamcharis working in the city and how many more were required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jagdish-samrai-to-raise-safai-sewaks-issue-with-minister-128294
