23-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Home isolated, Jalandhar residents now opt for thali system||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22As the Covid-19 spread is increasing day by day and patients have been allowed to quarantine themselves at home, the business of door-to-door supply of meals in disposable thalis has seen an increase in the city.It is common to see the entire family catching the infection leaving no one able to cook food and manage the household chores. Since outside help becomes almost impossible, residents have found it more convenient to order thalis. This also saves them from the burden of washing utensils and carrying any infection to their kitchen.Pankaj Mehta, who recently started his business of door-to-door supply of readymade meals, said: “I have got a good market for clients in the city, who have placed orders for cooked meals for their families for a week or so at a stretch. Supplying disposal thalis is more convenient than the traditional tiffin system, as there are lesser chances of the spread of infection with no hassles involved in getting the tiffins back. Also, loading thalis in a big stack is convenient and safe even on a scooter.”Since thalis are sealed and packed, clients, too, are more satisfied. Urban Estate resident Aarti Sehgal, who along with all five members of the family caught the infection, said: “All of us got ill within two days and tested positive. We took permission for home quarantine, but soon realised that there was no one who could cook food for us as our servant and his family staying with us also tested positive. So, we all gave it a thought and placed order for eight thalis for all meals which the supplier would keep outside our house after calling us.”“There was no one other than my aged mother-in-law, who could cook food for us. Without any help, she got so much burdened as she had to manage the entire house by herself. So, we finally took to the thali system for about 8-10 days,” said Anju Sharma, a Model Town resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/home-isolated-jalandhar-residents-now-opt-for-thali-system-129893
23-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Cumbersome procedure takes toll on home-quarantined Covid-19 patients||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22It’s been six months and Covid cases are still being reported. Of late, the number of Covid cases hit an average of over 100 cases per day in the district. Unfortunately, testing positive for Covid spells bad news for more than just medical reasons.Recently, the milk and vegetable supply of a trauma staff member, who tested positive, was stopped by local vendors; a woman banker had to scurry for ‘approach’ to get permission from an SDM; a college teacher had to wait outside the Civil Surgeon’s office for over an hour for medical permission and many families faced stigma from the neighbourhood days after they tested positive.As per the Health Department’s list shared on Friday, 402 people were under home isolation on Friday. While the health and administration’s team work full time to provide permissions to an ever increasing list of people, the DC on Saturday issued guidelines that mandatory screening of asymptomatic people won’t be required from Meritorious School anymore. However, many argue that seeking permissions from SDMs was in itself a hefty process, which was posing trouble to many.While their relatives are already sick, the additional burden of seeking permission from officials was cumbersome for many due to fear, of which many shy away from even being tested.The basic formal procedure, which follows once a person tests positive, has forced many people to hide their cases in the district or in some cases, they have delayed testing until they get very sick.Ravi Sharma, Principal, DAV Public School, Bilga, said: “Residents, especially the underprivileged, face a lot of trouble in getting permissions from the SDM. Two of my friends have faced trouble when they had to go for last-minute jugaads to seek permission from the SDM, when they were unavailable. While health teams tell a person they are coming to take them, at that time there is usually a lot of anxiety about the disease already. On top of it, they have to seek the permission. SDMs are busy people and not always available. For the underprivileged, it is difficult to approach them. This permission for home quarantine shouldn’t be restricted to SDMs. The government should authorise the SMOs, school principals and/or sarpanches to grant it. It would ease the burden on both sides.”Lalit Mehta, whose neighbour’s son just had a home quarantine sticker put after he travelled home from another state, said: “I have witnessed it in my own neighbourhood. People lack awareness and tend to stigmatise those whose houses have a Covid sticker. Whether or not, they are positive or not. My neighbour’s entire family had to stay home for 15 days, while the milkman and vegetable vendor kept groceries at the gate. For the rest of the essentials, they had to depend on a few do-gooders, as their connection with the rest of the neighbourhood was cut off. People are otherwise roaming openly, but the moment someone tests positive, they totally stigmatise them.”A trauma ward staff member said: “After testing positive, health teams declare to a patient at 7 pm that they were coming to pick them if they don’t have the SDM’s permission for home isolation. How can one seek the SDM’s permission at 7 pm? It is an immensely stressful procedure, which puts the entire burden on the patient. While I got approval through the Health Department because of being a health staff member, the troubles added up as all our grocery and vegetable supplies were snapped by local vendors. Even for a health staff, my senior citizen father had no one to attend to him on several occasions. We work for months in high-risk wards, it is our duty, but the amount of inconvenience faced after one tests positive is huge. The procedures and mechanisms need to facilitate patients.”SDM-II Jalandhar, Sidhu said: “We give permissions to those applying for them as soon as our teams have checked their homes. The permissions are being given digitally. A patient first needs a health certificate (which is given by the Health Department) that they would be able to spend quarantine/isolation period at home. Then, they need the SDM’s permission. Since the Health Department doesn’t have such a huge amount of staff to check each person at their home individually, the certificate is provided by the Health Department after my team of patwaris etc. check their home and informs me. Based on the facilities available for home quarantine, the permission is granted. In the coming time, the process might be further eased with only a bona fide self-declaration required from the patient. We had a video-conference on the issue today.”Asymptomatic patients need not visit Meritorious School for home isolation nod: Deputy CommissionerDeputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday announced that Covid patients with asymptotic conditions need not visit the Covid Care Centre established in Government Meritorious School, Jalandhar, for mandatory screening to get home-isolation permission, as now, the screening would be conducted at their respective SMOs/SDM offices. Thori said those who are tested positive and are asymptomatic, can now get screened for seeking home isolation permission from SMOs in Community Health Centres (CHCs) or Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and then SDMs. He said the Health Department has its SMOs in Shahkot, Bara Pind, Lohian, Jandiala, Apra, Nurmahal, Phillaur, Kala Bakra, Adampur, Nakodar, Kartarpur, Mehatpur, Bilga, Bundala, Shanker and others areas. They have now been authorised by the administration. He said this would help in minimising unnecessary stress of Covid positive asymptomatic patients, who were facing problems in visiting the Covid Care Centre in Government Meritorious School. Meanwhile, the DC said the administration had divided the district into 469 zones and a team comprising a doctor, civil and police officials, has been set up in each zone for ensuring contact tracing on a war footing, besides monitoring home-isolated patients. He said MC Joint Commissioner Innayat would be the nodal officer for all teams besides the SDMs and senior police officials concerned would also supervise the functioning of the teams. He said due to spike in Covid cases, the health teams have been facing huge workload in terms of sample collection, data entry, reporting, contact tracing and these zone-wise teams would prove beneficial for ensuring immediate tracing of 10 contacts of each positive case, so that their testing could be undertaken at the earliest. TNSJalandhar sees nine deaths in a dayAs many as 110 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Saturday, taking the tally to 5,182 cases in the district. With a whopping nine deaths reported in the district, the district death toll reached 131. Of these, five people died at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital, while the rest succumbed at private hospitals. The five people who died at the Civil Hospital include a 40-year-old man from Garha, 47-year-old man from Padhiana, 80-year-old man from Basti Gujan, 48-year-old man from Sodal area and a 73-year-old man from Lamma Pind. Three of them were in their 40s in whom no co-morbidity was reported. Meanwhile, 47 positive cases were reported from Kapurthala on Saturday while a 50-year-old man from Begowal died. The man was admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar. TNSWith 49 new positive cases, Hoshiarpur breaches 1,000-mark With the death of a 73-year-old woman of Rampur village at a private hospital in Jalandhar, the district Covid toll increased to 27 on Saturday. The deceased was also suffering from a heart-related ailment. The district also reported 49 new cases on Saturday, taking the case count to 1,022. The number of active cases in the district is 199 and 796 patients have recovered from the disease. Of the 49 new cases, 10 surfaced in Hoshiarpur city, including one each from Krishna Nagar, Purihiran, Manavta Nagar, Bahadurpur, Bal Kishan Road and Premgarh and two each from Model Town and Dhobi Ghat. Similarly, seven cases were reported from Mukerian, one from Bagiari, four from Dasuya, two from Hajipur and three from Noorpur village of Hariana. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cumbersome-procedure-takes-toll-on-home-quarantined-covid-19-patients-129894
23-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Newborn’s abduction: Five gang members arrested||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22A woman sanitation worker, along with an organised gang, was found guilty of abducting a newborn from the Jalandhar Civil Hospital two days ago.The Police Commissionerate on Saturday arrested two women and three men (including a panchayat member and a sanitation employee of the Civil Hospital) for abducting the newborn baby from the hospital. The baby has safely been rescued and handed over to his parents.The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh Gopi (22) panchayat member of Maheru village, Gurpreet Singh Peeta (24), Ranjeet Singh Rana (25), Davinder Kaur of Khurshaidpur Colony in Nakodar and Kiran (28) of Lamba Pind. Kiran was working as a sanitation employee at the Civil Hospital for the past seven years. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused were to sell the baby for about Rs4 lakh and distribute the amount equally among them.A case under Section 363 of the IPC was filed on August 20 at division number 4 police station after a complaint by the parents.Expressing apprehensions of the gang’s involvement in previous crimes, the CP said the accused would further be grilled to know about more persons involved in this racket and also to whom they were going to sell the newborn. The CP said one of the accused, Davinder Kaur, used to arrange the deals of egg donation by women for the families having no child.Bhullar said the accused would be taken into police custody and grilled to know about more persons involved in the racket and to whom they were going to sell the newborn.As per the preliminary interrogation, accused Gurpreet Singh Gopi and Gurpreet Singh Peeta reached the rear side of the Civil Hospital in a Bolero (PB08-CG-2473) at 12.40 pm on August 20 and were constantly in touch with the three other accused — Ranjeet, Davinder Kaur and Kiran — over phone. They later came inside the Mother and Child Centre of the hospital.Once they entered, Kiran abducted the baby from the paediatric ward and gave him to Gurpreet Singh Gopi and Gurpreet Singh Peeta near the stairs, from where they quickly got to the Bolera and disappeared from the spot immediately. The CP said both accused handed over the newborn to Davinder Kaur and Ranjeet Rana at Gandra-Pandori Road. The police team carried out a detailed probe and arrested Gurpreet Singh Gopi from his office, while others were nabbed from their homes. The newborn baby was safely recovered from a room, where Ranjeet Rana and Davinder Kaur were living, he said.Police Commissioner said: “The crime was conducted in an organised manner and investigation is on to know the extent of the gang and its members. The investigation is at its preliminary stage.”Activist submits memorandumSocial activist and member of the District Health Planning and Monitoring Committee Surinder Saini has submitted a memorandum to the Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner on the issue seeking a high-level inquiry into the case. Saini said: “While the parents of the child were engaged in completeing the hospital formalities, the child was being stolen from the paediatric ward. The parents made the complaint to the police even though it is the duty of the doctor/MS concerned to report the case, as the mother and newborn hadn’t been discharged yet. The police immediately swung into action, but no CCTV camera was available in the ward and the police took the footage from the market in and around the hospital. We, the members of health and monitoring committee, request for a high-level inquiry in the matter and look into the role of the MS.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/newborns-abduction-five-gang-members-arrested-129895
23-08-2020||---||Weekend lockdown: Shops shut, residents stay indoors on Day 1||Jalandhar, August 22A majority of the city residents followed the weekend curfew norms as relatively fewer people were seen venturing out on the roads after the state government orders on restriction of the movement.Shops selling essential commodities were allowed to be open on Saturday while all other markets remained completely shut. In the new orders issued on Saturday, the district administration fixed days of opening of shops category wise. The orders will remain effective till August 31 and will not be implemented on essential service providers including health staff, transport companies, industry, construction companies, stock markets, ATMs, banks, insurance companies, milk vendors and mediapersons.Shops/malls dealing in essential commodities, religious places, sports complexes, stadiums and public complexes, restaurants, hotels, liquor vends, petrol pumps, sweets, bakery, juice bar, ice cream shops, meat and poultry, fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy shops, medical stores, grocery, photostat shops, auto garages and spare parts, car and scooter repair and puncture shops, all app based cabs daily and optical works were allowed to operate daily.Malls (other than those selling essential items) will be allowed to be open on Monday to Friday. Mobile shops, hardware, paints, sanitary, iron and steel, cycle sale and repair, electrical and electronic goods, utensils, automobiles, hair salons, spas, barber shops, beauty parlours will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Readymade garments, cloth, saree shops, handlooms, shoes and footwear, printing press and flex printing, IT services, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday.Books, stationery, stamps, photography shops, furnitures, bags, suit cases, jewellery shops will open on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Cosmetics, general stores, gift shops, dry cleaners, dyers, tailor shops, watch store repair Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. Shops not specified in the categories will be allowed to be opened on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.Hoshiarpur Police acting tough against lockdown violators, says SSP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/weekend-lockdown-shops-shut-residents-stay-indoors-on-day-1-129900
23-08-2020||---||Three-day Sodal Mela to go digital this year||Jalandhar, August 22 The three-day Sodal Mela, which was to start on September 1, would not be held this year, decided officials of the district administration and the managing committee of Sri Sidh Baba Sodal Temple here on Saturday.  The decision was taken following a meeting of Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori, Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Jasbir Singh and DCPs Gurmeet Singh and Naresh Kumar Dogra with representatives of the management committee of Sodal Temple. The DC, however, said ‘virtual celebrations’ would be allowed. The historic annual fair witnesses a heavy influx of pilgrims at the sacred place every year but due to the pandemic, the event has be cancelled. The officials reached concluded that it would not be possible to maintain the two-yard social distance at the programme. The Deputy Commissioner said to enable devotees from across the globe to pay obeisance at Sri Sidh Baba Sodal Temple, the administration would allow ‘virtual celebrations’ and also support the management in the organising it. He thanked the committee for their cooperation and support in the war against the novel coronavirus pandemic.  SDM Rahul Sindhu and ACPs BIS Kahlon, Satinder Chadha and were also present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-day-sodal-mela-to-go-digital-this-year-129901
23-08-2020||Our Correspondent||IMA Punjab demands abrogation of Punjab Clinical Establishment Ordinance||Jalandhar, August 22A delegation of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, called on the state Health Minister, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Principal Secretary Husan Lal on Friday and sought abrogation of the Punjab Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Ordinance-2020.The delegation comprised IMA, Punjab, president Dr Navjot Singh Dahiya, general secretary Dr Paramjit Mann and former IMA presidents Dr RS Parmar and Dr SPS Sooch. Dr Navjot Singh Dahiya and Dr Paramjit Mann said the minister appreciated the efforts being put in by the body to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Minister Sidhu said a dedicated hospital set up in Shahkot had treated 170 Covid patients. He said such facilities must be provided in other regions of the state.Dr RS Parmar urged the Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and the Principal Secretary to instruct district administrations not to compel each and every hospital to reserve beds for Covid patients. “Such orders will only facilitate the spread of the virus, rather than controlling its spread,” he said.Dr Sooch urged the Health Minister and the Principal Secretary to fulfill the commitment regarding abrogation of the Ordinance issued on May 14, 2020, failing which, he said, the IMA would be forced to take the path of agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-punjab-demands-abrogation-of-punjab-clinical-establishment-ordinance-129904
23-08-2020||---||PSPCL imposes Rs 15 lakh fine on 59 defaulters||Jalandhar, August 22Tightening the noose around power thieves in the district, officials of the distribution wing of the PSPCL on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 15.28 lakh on power theft defaulters. Under the supervision of Harjinder Singh Bansal, Deputy Chief Engineer, Distribution Circle Jalandhar, PSPCL workers conducted raid in areas of Model Town division and Phagwara division. A total of 1,247 connections were checked, out of this 36 were found with electricity theft, 19 with excess load and four with unauthorised use of energy. An amount of Rs 15.28 lakh was imposed as penalty.Similarly, the enforcement wing of the PSPCL conducted another raid and imposed a penalty of Rs 7.50 lakh on defaulters. A team of six enforcement officers, led by Additional Senior Engineer, Enforcement- 2, Jalandhar, carried out checking in Swaran Park, Bulandpur, Randhawa Massanda, Hargobindpur and Raowali areas of the city. More than 250 connections were checked in the early hours and 20 cases of power theft were detected, where in power was being stolen by bypassing the electricity meter or through kundi connection. Moreover, five meters were found tempered and were sealed on the spot for further testing in metering engineering laboratory.128 power theft casesdetected in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Under the ‘zero tolerance policy’ introduced by CMD A Venu Parsad to curb power theft, the Hoshiarpur circle of the PSPCL conducted a special checking drive here on Saturday morning.PS Khamba, Deputy Chief Engineer, said 23 checking teams comprising XENs and SDOs of the circle checked 1,683 connections of various categories of consumers and imposed a fine of Rs 25.72 lakh on defaulters. The Deputy Chief Engineer said fine worth, Rs 18.47 lakh was imposed in 16 cases of power theft and Rs 7.25 lakh was imposed in 112 cases of unauthorised loading. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-imposes-rs-15-lakh-fine-on-59-defaulters-129907
23-08-2020||Phagwara||GNA University holds virtual convocation||Even as competitions, examination, farewell and welcome parties in schools and colleges are being held online, on Saturday GNA University organised its first virtual convocation of 2015 batch of engineering students.On the occasion of the virtual academic event, Gurdeep Singh Sihra honoured 25 toppers of different engineering programmes bagging gold, silver and bronze medals. The names of students sitting at homes propped up on the screens as their names were announced on the online platform. Though their medals and degrees had been already dispatched at their places, the ceremony helped them take screenshots for memory. Nearly 240-plus students too received degrees at their places. The convocation was held for the streams of mechatronics and automation engineering, mechanical, aerospace, computer science and engineering, automotive, mechatronics, civil and electronics and communication engineering in the presence of chief guest-cum-Pro-Chancellor of the University, Gurdeep Singh Sihra.The Vice Chancellor, Dr VK Rattan; dean academics Dr Monika Hanspal; registrar Dr RK Mahajan; dean faculty of design and innovation Dr CR Tripathi; and dean faculty of engineering Dr Vikrant Sharma graced the occasion of virtual convocation-2020.Sihra emphasised that the degree recipients should constantly ponder over the possibilities for the application of the latest updates happening in their sector. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gna-university-holds-virtual-convocation-129909
23-08-2020||Keeping all kinds of fears aside and giving preference to their duties at the time of crisis||‘Exercise, inspiration from fellow cops kept me going ’||He goes on to share...."At the time I was being tested, I had no clue that I was infected. I contracted the virus through some local gambling accused. Before taking them to the court, we got their medical and Covid test done. Afterwards, when two of the six accused were found infected, orders came for us as well to get our Covid test done. Sadly, this came shocking, as I had no symptoms. But since I was infected, I immediately maintained distance from my colleagues and didn't go back home. I was directly sent to Meritorious School Covid isolation centre. Subsequently, after staying at the centre for two days, I noticed, I could no longer taste and smell. These were my initial symptoms followed by body aches and restlessness. This left my family worried, but my wife and children's positive attitude and support gave me strength to overcome the virus. In the next two days, I was joined by our inspector and two more associates. We remained determined to recover soon."The day I was admitted, I decided not to allow the fear of virus take control over my mind and keep the positivity levels up and running. Recovery process became easy after seeing my colleagues receiving treatment at the isolation as we were each other's cheerleaders."Fortunately, Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar also motivated us and made us realise that it was like any other disease. He took special care of our medication and ensured that regular meals were provided to us. The Police Department used to send fruits, juices and packed immunity drinks for us. While the Health Department was a bit negligent in treating us, the help from the Police Department made us feel like we were at home in the isolation centre.“Besides, we started doing yoga and breathing exercises that pumped our oxygen level and strengthened our willpower to fight the virus. As a badminton player, I kept my spirits high and was looking forward to join my duty back. Later, after spending 12 days at the centre, I was declared Covid free and was sent for home quarantine.“Despite recovering, I isolated myself for a few day from my wife and two teenaged boys. After 20 days of recovery period, I remain vigilant and carefully follow all precautions during duty hours.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/exercise-inspiration-from-fellow-cops-kept-me-going-130171
