25-08-2020||Avneet KaurKapurthala||This single parent & headmaster did not let cancer cripple his spirit||The last four and a half years in the life of Deepak Anand (46), who works as a headmaster at Government High School, Jawalapur, Kapurthala, have been dreadful. In 2016, he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma (a type of cancer in plasma cells), and since then, he has been grappling with pain, weakness and limitation of movement in his left leg. But what keeps him going all the while, he says, is his father’s advice that God has greater plans for him which will make up for the things lost.Discrimination must end, says headmasterPeople with disabilities are often looked upon differently, given sympathy and perceived as being incapable of doing everyday tasks or something big in their lives. “The perception needs to change. I, too, have faced such situations when I felt there is no life worth for disabled in the country,” he says. Narrating one such instance, Dr Anand says he once fell off from his wheelchair and people passing by started giving money, taking him as beggar. “We are no less and people need to understand this. We do not need any sympathy; what we want is empathy from society. After all, we have the right to live life with dignity and small efforts of others can make a huge difference in our lives.” he says.Anand, a resident of Sheikhupur village in Kapurthala, is quite versatile, hardworking and an experienced teacher. He holds a doctorate degree in social science and has done masters in various fields, including English literature, philosophy and education. Besides, he has done international diploma in guidance and counselling and is registered with the Rehabilitation Council of India (RCI) as special educator for specially abled children. But getting diagnosed with cancer turned his life around in ways he had never imagined.The fateful day‘What is multiple myeloma’ were his words when the doctors first told him about his ailing condition, he says. “I had always been healthy, had never been in the hospital, and never even broken a bone. I was in great shape and happily taking care of my wheelchair-bound mother, father and a son, who is now 12-year-old,” Anand says, adding that it was a mere sneeze in the early morning of February 13, 2016, that changed his life forever.“After the sneeze, I started feeling uneasy and felt acute pain. On the same night, I was taken to a private hospital in Jalandhar where I stayed for the next 20 days. The doctors performed tests which revealed that it was cancer that was causing me pain, but they recommended a visit to DMC hospital, Ludhiana, once,” he says.“By the time I visited the DMC hospital, damage had been done. The cancer had caused lytic bone lesions and fractures in my left leg, restricting my movement. Thereafter, doctors at the DMC hospital made the picture clear to me by telling me that I have multiple myeloma; since then, I have been undergoing treatment,” Anand says, adding that the tough times he faced while battling cancer made him stronger as a person, and now he feels fearless and ready to take any challenge that life will throw down to him.Embracing new challengesAnand says that at the time when he was diagnosed with cancer, he worked as a master cadre teacher. “I then took long leaves for treatment, but all I wanted was to resume my job for I love to impart education to others and also because I am the sole breadwinner of the family.”However, in February 2019, I again felt severe pain and underwent another surgery as I was again diagnosed with bone lesions. “After recovering from the pain that surgery caused, I decided to appear for a test for the post of headmaster conducted by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC). I passed the exam and in January this year and joined the job at Jawalapur village here,” he proudly says, adding that the past few years have transformed his outlook towards life and personality and has increased his self-belief. “There is no looking back now. I no longer feel I am disabled, rather I say I am differently abled,” Anand says.He has been enthusiastically taking online classes these days and has been participating in various webinars and training programmes being organised by the Education Department. “I really want to express my gratitude to Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, Arushi Jain of Indian School of Business and Parmod Bharti, spokesperson of the Education Department, for their constant motivation and support,” Dr Anand says, adding that he is still taking chemo sessions, and next year, will get bone marrow transplant done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-single-parent-headmaster-did-not-let-cancer-cripple-his-spirit-131098
25-08-2020||Jalandhar||New guidelines to check Covid spread keep traders on toes||Largely abiding by the new guidelines of the administration, various markets and shops opened as per the new formula planned to keep a check on the spread of Covid-19.District reports 204 fresh +ve casesJalandhar: With 204 fresh Covid cases, the district count reached 5,456 on Monday. With five more deceased, the death toll also reached 138. Those tested positive include patients from Nurmahal, Ghah Mandi, Model Town, Ganna Pind, Partabpura, Jandiala, Samrai, Bharago Camp, Urban Estate, JP Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Talwandi Madho, Talwan, Saghwal, Raj Nagar and PAP among other areas. It being Monday, the entire book market in Jalandhar near Mai Hiran Gate and the books, stationery and photograph shops elsewhere in the city remained closed. The furniture market on Nakodar Road, shops selling bags and suitcases, jewellery shops, tailor shops, cosmetics, general stores and gift shops, dyers and dry cleaners, too, largely followed the orders. All these shops would be allowed to open tomorrow.A mobile shop owner, who was allowed to open the shop today, said: “We will definitely have to follow the orders, as the administration has threatened us with Rs30,000 penalty if we fail to follow the roster. The penalty amount is huge and we cannot take any risk. We can only open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.” Amit Sehgal, president of the Phagwara Gate Market, dealing in electrical goods, said: “We will have to follow the guidelines of the government. I have circulated the roster to all shopkeepers asking them to follow the Monday, Wednesday and Friday schedule.”Shops/malls dealing in essential commodities, religious places, sports complexes, stadiums and public complexes, restaurants, hotels, liquor vends, petrol pumps, sweet shops, bakeries, juice bar, ice-cream shops, meat and poultry, fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy shops, medical stores, grocery shops, photostat shops, auto garages and spare parts, car/scooter repair and puncture shops, all app-based cabs and optical works shops remained open today as they have been allowed to operate daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-guidelines-to-check-covid-spread-keep-traders-on-toes-131099
25-08-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||1 dies, 35 test +ve in Hoshiarpur district||The reports of 1,433 samples were received in the district on Monday, out of which 35 patients tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of positive patients to 1,084.The death of a patient suffering from the coronavirus on Monday took the toll to 30. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 35 cases have come from Hoshiarpur district, of which four are from Hoshiarpur city’s Basant Vihar, Narad Hospital, Guru Gobind Singh Nagar and New Fatehgarh. Apart from this, two are from Dasuya, three from Mukerian, seven from Garhshankar, three from Chakkowal, three from Sikri, one from Tanda, six from Jhingar Kalan, one from Mehtabpur, one from Baghiadi, one from Bhawanipur and three from Saila Khurd. While the deceased, identified as Gorasia resident Harjinder Singh (45) was already admitted to Ludhiana hospital for some other disease, it was only after his death that he was found to be corona positive.The total number of samples taken in the district has reached 51,058 and according to the reports received from the lab, 46,745 were negative, 76 invalid and 3,246 reports were still awaited. The number of active cases in the district is 187 and 867 patients have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-dies-35-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-district-131100
25-08-2020||Jalandhar||Planting happiness: Retired banker finds solace in soil||Flowers combined with foliage, vegetable and fruits plants, medicinal plants, and what not! This retired bank manager has set up a sprawling green cover at his terrace. Adding beauty to his urban space, he took to this green hobby to make most of his ample time at hands.He has also hanged several plants in clay pots at various places of his home. While the plants enhance the beauty to his space, the greenery adds freshness to his a décor.Revti Raman Sharma got retired from the bank in the year 2016 and it was around two years ago, when he first planted his sapling at his rooftop, and since then his terrace is a home to more than 100 plants. With a sprawling garden on their terrace, they have been going all out to tending to their green cover. Both Sharma and his wife Swaranlata, who also got retired from Punjab National Bank, are looking after the plants like their own children.Sharma shared, “I was never into gardening or anything of that sort. My children are out for their jobs and studies, and I live here with my wife. After I got retired, I thought of having some plants at my home, but never knew that this would become an inseparable part of my life.”With a variety of medicinal plants such as ladyfinger, bitter gourd, brinjal, chillies, mint, coriander, turmeric, drum stick, stevia, lemon grass, Ajwain, aloevera, insulin, shatavar and ashwagandha and many more in his garden, tending to them has become his favourite pastime.Ask him about how gardening shaped his post retirement life, pat came the reply, “The feeling of seeing them grow makes me feel alive from inside. We do morning yoga in the company of these plants. Hearing birds like ‘Gauraiya’, which we don’t see often these days, chirp and be a part of your green space is an inexplicable feeling.”“Seeing buds growing out of a plant tended by you gives you hope,” he feels. Sharma also gives the useful plants to his friends and relatives too.He said it was after his retirement that he realised the benefits of staying close to nature. Providing respite from the regular hustle of life, gardening is a healthy retreat. Now, wherever he goes, he makes sure he gets new variety of seeds to add more variety to his garden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/planting-happiness-retired-banker-finds-solace-in-soil-131101
25-08-2020||Jalandhar||55 solid waste management plants to come up in Jalandhar this fiscal||To ensure clean, pollution and stink-free rural areas, the district administration is set to build 55 solid waste management plants across the city during the current financial year.Five solid waste management plants would be set up in each of the 11 blocks of the district.Divulging the information, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal said separate pits would be constructed under the solid waste management project where dry and wet waste would be dumped by the waste-collecting teams.He said for ensuring waste segregation, blue and green dustbins would be provided to residents.He said the waste would be collected door-to-door by the teams and would be dumped separately in the pits and compost would be manufactured.As per information, green and blue dustbins have already been received and would be distributed among the residents as soon as the work in Apra and Selkiana villages is near completion.The ADC said around 3.18 lakh was being spent on the construction of one plant. Of the Rs 3.18 lakh, Rs 2.66 lakh under the Mahatma Gandhi-National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and Rs 52,000 were being given by the village panchayat.He said the administration would also initiate mass awareness campaigns to make residents aware of solid waste management, the benefits of source segregation at their homes for proper disposal of the waste so that Jalandhar could be made clean, green and pollution-free.Block Development and Panchayat Officer Ranjeet Singh Khatra said organic manure would be manufactured in the pits as it is considered best for the plants.He solicited the support of the residents in making the project a huge success so that others could follow and keep the surroundings clean.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/55-solid-waste-management-plants-to-come-up-in-jalandhar-this-fiscal-131102
25-08-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||‘If Supreme Court won’t protect the right to speech, who will?’||The Judiciary is one of the four pillars of our democracy. Our Judicial system is duty bound to protect the fundamental and basic rights of people of India. But the way in which the Supreme Court has pinned down senior lawyer Parshant Bhushan for his tweet, has put a question mark. If the Supreme Court will not protect the Right to Speech and Expression, then it will be a failure of democracy, a challenge to our Constitution, said social activist and chairman of Atyachaar Virodhi Front Bhagwan Singh Chauhan.In a release issued here, Chauhan said: “I can’t understand why our judiciary is restraining citizens of the country from raising their voices.”“The judges of the Supreme Court should maintain their status and always work and act as role models, so that people’s faith in the judiciary system becomes stronger,” he added.Chairman of Atyachaar Virodhi Front Bhagwan Singh Chauhan said the Supreme Court should work independently with broad-minded approach to save the rights of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/if-supreme-court-wont-protect-the-right-to-speech-who-will-131103
25-08-2020||Our CorrespondentNawanshahr||25 students of Class XII get smartphones in Nawanshahr||In a subdued ceremony organised on Monday at Government Senior Secondary School (girls), Rahon, Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh distributed smartphones to as many as 25 students of class XII.The smartphones were handed over to 15 girls and ten boys of Government Senior Secondary School (boys), Rahon.While expressing his gratitude towards Capt Amarinder Singh for fulfilling the pre-poll promise of providing smartphones, the MLA said the smartphones had become indispensable as the Education Department in wake of pandemic has taken to online method of providing education with utmost dedication.“The students should make proper utilisation of the smartphones to avail maximum benefit of the online education,” he advised. The MLA added that he had been trying his best to bring in projects to ensure channelised youth energy towards constructive purposes.Education and sports remain his prime priorities. “A grant of Rs 5 crore has been released for augmentation and extension of infrastructural facilities at Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Nawanshahr. Works of a Government College at Jadla village for providing higher education facility to the youth of Bhait area has also been started,” he added.Presently, the college is housed in a private complex. “The building of Government College, Jadla, with a grant of Rs 11.89 crore is being constructed and the classes in the new building would be started in the next session,” he shared. Apart from this, a state of the art sports complex under Khelo India project has also been approved and construction work would start soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/25-students-of-class-xii-get-smartphones-in-nawanshahr-131104
25-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Work on 5,293 cattle sheds in full swing||To boost dairy and income of dairy farmers, the district administration has set a target to construct 7,025 individual cattle sheds in current fiscal through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), of which work on over 5,293 sheds were in full swing.Disclosing this here on Monday, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said under MGNREGA, funds to the tune of Rs1,376.13 lakh had been spent till August 10, 2020, with ongoing development works in 1,044 panchayats. She said the administration had already accomplished 318 development works through MGNREGA during the current fiscal.Riyait said earlier under the scheme, individuals were contributing 40 per cent, while 60 per cent was being incurred by the government, but this year, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had abolished the condition of 40 per cent to help small and marginal farmers amid the pandemic.The DC said the scheme had three components for benefiting small and marginal farmers, as those who have two cattle would get assistance worth Rs35,000, while Rs60,000 for four cattle and those having six livestock would be eligible to get Rs97,000 for the construction of cattle sheds. She said directions had already been given to the officers concerned to identify the eligible beneficiaries. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/work-on-5-293-cattle-sheds-in-full-swing-131105
25-08-2020||Jalandhar||Webinar on relevance of guru’s bani concludes||To commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master Guru Teg Bahadur, MGN College of Education organised a webinar on the topic of ‘Relevance of Guru Teg Bahadur’s Bani in the present scenario’.The resource person of the event was award winner Punjabi writer Dr Manvinder Singh, from the Department of Guru Nanak Studies, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. He said: “For Guru Teg Bahadur, the religious question was about the extent of one’s faith, beyond the externalities associated with the religion.” He emphasised that Guru Teg Bahadur preached love, charity, brotherhood and peace beyond mere tokens of religious faith. He further said that these days, religious freedom has become even more constricted and this is the best time to remember Guru Teg Bahadar’s sacrifice for greater good that lead us to follow the ideals of secularism and humanitarianism.Principal Neelu Jhanji said we need to follow the path of peace and contentment as shown by Guru Teg Bahadar by attaining ‘Jiwan Mukti’ that is making peace with every life situation. Dr Radha Arora, coordinator of the event, gave formal vote of thanks. Dr Meharban Singh hosted the webinar. Around 250 participants from various parts of the state were among the attendance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-relevance-of-gurus-bani-concludes-131106
25-08-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar Cantt MLA meets MC Commissioner||With residents of two wards (Nos. 28 and 31) under the Jalandhar Cantt constituency not allowing waste from other wards to be thrown at their garbage dump, Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh on Monday met Municipal Corporation Commissioner Karnesh Sharma and asked him to come out with some solution.The MLA told the Municipal Corporation Commissioner to ensure that there was at least one collection point in every ward. “I have asked him to call all 11 councillors of the wards so that the problem, which is troubling everyone, can be resolved soon,” he said, adding that there were some wards where there were heaps of garbage and then the issue arose.Notably, under the Jalandhar constituency, there are 11 wards. As there are no proper garbage dumps in the wards, the waste from four or five wards are thrown into one dump, creating problems for the residents living there.Residents of the adjoining Model Town crematorium area have been stopping the rag pickers from throwing garbage of wards other than 28 and 31 at the Model Town dumping site. This has been creating an issue in the city after which the MLA had to intervene and meet the Commissioner.“I have told the Commissioner to find a solution to the problem and the solution is within the ward itself. There must be at least one collection point at every ward,” said the MLA.The Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner had recently visited the spot when the residents had told him that waste of other than Ward Nos. 28 and 31 was being thrown at their dump yard.The Joint Commissioner had assured the residents of looking into the matter.Health and Sanitation Ad hoc Committee chairman Balraj Thakur said he would hold a meeting with the MLA in this regard tomorrow (on Tuesday).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-cantt-mla-meets-mc-commissioner-131107
25-08-2020||Nawanshahr||Govt school collects development funds from students, faces flak from BJP activists||BJP District President Poonam Manik, along with advocates Dheeraj Sehajpal, Vishal Sharma, Paramjit Bakshi of BJP Legal Services and District Secretary Jeevan Kumar have strongly condemned the management of Government School, Nawanshahar, in connection with the case of charging thousands of rupees from the students, in the guise of the school development fund.They demanded that the Punjab Government should take stern legal action against the school authorities. BJP activists alleged that the school authorities are charging Rs 1,500 from the each student of Classes IX and X and Rs 2,500 from the students of Classes XI and XII.They said while the school had already been made a smart school by the government and financial assistance of Rs 5 crore had also been given by the government for the school, the school authorities should not levy any additional charges from the students in the guise of the development fund, violating the instructions issued by the government. Referring to the letter dated August 14 issued by the Punjab government, they said that the students of Classes IX to XII of the government school are not entitled to charge any fee which is to be deposited in the government treasury. But the school authorities, irrespective of the government’s orders, are collecting development fund from the school students, they alleged.BJP leaders said the aggrieved parents had filed complaint against it to the authorities concerned but no action has been taken from the department yet, indicating that the school authorities have some political patronage.BJP workers said they had a strong evidence of charging of development fund and they said very soon BJP workers will collect the data from every nook and corner of the district to find as to how many students have paid the above said amount in the name of development funds.BJP workers said due to the slowdown caused by Covid-19, many students have shifted from private schools to government schools. BJP workers have demanded stern legal action against the school authorities and demanded immediate refund of the money collected against the government norms and directions from the parents of the students. The BJP leaders further warned the officials of the Education Department that if the government failed to take stern action against the school authorities, the BJP will intensify the stir and would not hesitate to knock the door of the civil court along with the struggle keeping in mind the interests of the students.Punjab Achievement Survey beginsJalandhar: With the aim to achieve distinction in ensuing National Achievement Survey (NAS), the Education Department has been dedicatedly gearing up to conduct its own Punjab Achievement Survey to enhance the learning outcome, reasoning ability of the students as well as capacity building of its teachers.To give students an experience of the quiz and type of questions asked, the department conducted a preparatory quiz on Monday via Google form for the students of classes VI to XII. The quiz was comprised of five Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) in the subjects English, Hindi, Punjabi, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies. Similarly, the quiz for the students of classes XI and XII was based on the subjects comprising English (general), Punjabi (general), Geography, History, Economics, Political Science, Hindi and Math. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-school-collects-development-funds-from-students-faces-flak-from-bjp-activists-131108
25-08-2020||Kapurthala||PSPCL levies Rs9.44 L penalty for power theft, excess load||In a drive against the electricity theft in the Kapurthala circle, a mass raid was conducted by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) early this morning for checking of connection in the areas falling under the jurisdictions of Kapurthala and Kartarpur.On directions of Director, Distribution, DPS Grewal and Chief Engineer North Janinder Dania, Deputy Chief Engineer, Kapurthala, Inderpal Singh, sent 22 checking teams comprising XENs and SDOs of the Circle. The teams checked 1,921 connections of various categories of consumers.Inderpal Singh said the teams found that a total amount of Rs 9.44 lakh penalty was charged.The teams found 47 cases of theft of power and imposed a fine of Rs 7.27 lakh. They also found 36 unauthorised load connections for which amount of Rs 2.17 lakh was also charged.He further said such type of checking would continue in future and consumers were requested not to indulge in theft of energy as this leads to heavy fines, police action and more over harassment to honest consumers.He also appealed to honest consumers to inform about theft cases to respective XENs/Deputy Chief Engineer on their nos. 96461-16017, 96461-16018, 96461-16021 and 96461-16005 on WhatsApp. He also made it clear that credentials of the informers shall be kept secret.Meanwhile, Chief Engineer (North Jalandhar) Janinder Dania also made an appeal to the consumers not to indulge in such kind of illegal activities of electricity theft.He urged the people to deposit their electricity bills in time to avoid for disconnection in case of default in making payment of electricity bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-levies-rs9-44-l-penalty-for-power-theft-excess-load-131109
25-08-2020||Dasuya (Hoshiarpur)||Siblings held for murder||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/siblings-held-for-murder-131110
