26-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Minister tests +ve for covid||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minister-tests-ve-for-covid-131649
26-08-2020||---||3.56 lakh saplings to be planted in 890 villages||Jalandhar, August 25Taking a major initiative aimed at enhancing green cover in the district, the district administration is set to plant 3.56 lakh saplings in 890 villages of Jalandhar in commemoration of the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur.The administration has initiated the process to identify suitable locations for this purpose. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said besides utilising panchayat land for this purpose, the strips around village ponds, roadsides, educational institutes, healthcare centres and others were used for enhancing the green cover.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal said the plantation of the saplings would be carried out under the MGNREGA and these would be procured from Forest Department.He said the district administration would also deploy two van mittars (forest friends) in each village of the district to ensure proper protection and watering of the saplings besides safety from animals. He said all BDPOs had been directed to ensure prepare a comprehensive report about identifying a major chunk of land measuring one acre to plant the saplings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-56-lakh-saplings-to-be-planted-in-890-villages-131648
26-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Cane farmers protest for pending dues||Mukerian, August 25A protest was held in front of the office Mukerian Sugar Mill by farmers’ organisations seeking the payment of Rs55.31 crore outstanding dues. The protesters warned to intensify protest if dues are not paid within 15 days. Farmers surrounded the office of the sugarcane mill management under the leadership of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti, Punjab, and Kisan Mazdoor Hitkar Sabha, Mukerian. The protesters raised slogans against the mill management and the state government and reiterated the demand for payment of dues.Farmers leaders Jasvir Singh Goraya and Omkar Singh Purana Bhangala said the mill management had been ignoring the demands. They alleged that the mill management did not keep up with its previous promises and instead of Rs25 crore, only Rs14 crore were paid to farmers. Officials of the mill said the balance amount was being paid by the mill according to their capacity and the current dues are Rs48.86 crore. They assured the farmers that all dues would be paid by October end.Sugarcane growers seek hike in FRPJalandhar: Sugarcane growers in the district have urged the state government to hike the prices by Rs50 per quintal. The Union Cabinet had announced to increase the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP), by Rs10 to Rs285 per quintal, but farmers want the state government to hike the prices by Rs50 per quintal.Gurpreet Singh Atwal, a member of the Doaba Kisan Union, said, “We still haven’t received the pending amount of the crop sold to the government and the private mills. While the amount pending with the government mills is Rs125 crore, the private mills owe Rs185 crore. As per the revised prices, now the sugarcane price per quintal stands at Rs310 in Punjab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cane-farmers-protest-for-pending-dues-131647
26-08-2020||---||Report within 48 hrs if contacted a +ve patient: DM||Nawanshahr, August 25District Magistrate and district disaster management authority head Shena Aggarwal said according to the new rules, it was necessary for those coming in contact with positive patients to get them reported with local health authorities or call 104 within 48 hours.She said residents who live in containment zones, will be checked and no one could escape it. She said if anyone under home isolation breaks the rule and comes outside, neighbours or residential societies must inform the authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/report-within-48-hrs-if-contacted-a-ve-patient-dm-131646
26-08-2020||---||LPU inks MoU with Malaysian university||Jalandhar, August 25Taylor’s University, Malaysia, and Lovely Professional University (LPU) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to lead students and faculty of both universities in academics and research exposure.The collaboration between the two universities of the region sets forth the areas of developing research projects jointly and avail of funding; exchange of academic information, materials and facilities; students and faculty exchange; organisation/ participation in joint symposium, seminar, conferences, workshops; developing articulations for twinning/joint programmes; allowing students to undertake part of the programme/course of study at each institution; and promotion of such other activities/programmes as mutually agreed from time to time.For this collaboration, vice-president, International Students Recruitment and Institutional Partnerships of TU Dr Sheikh Fahmy Sheikh Mohamed and Registrar of LPU Dr Monica Gulati signed the MoU. TU Director Institutional Partnerships Au Shieu Ye and Additional Director at LPU’s Division of International Affairs Aman Mittal are coordinators for their respective universities. Endorsing the commitment to the collaboration, Mittal said the internationalisation was at the core of LPU strategic objectives.The hospitality, tourism and events sectors had been growing at an exponential pace and LPU has its own three-star Uni-Hotel, fully operated by students for their final training.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-inks-mou-with-malaysian-university-131645
26-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur lad felicitated by lit academy||Hoshiarpur, August 25Mohit Katyal (20), a final year BSc (IT) student from the Narayan Nagar locality, has been felicitated by the Gujarat Sahitya Academy and Motivational Strips, an online poetry forum. He has been selected as one of the “Most prominent and distinguished writers” on the occasion of 74th Independence Day by the forum. He’s the youngest among the 350 poets from 80 countries felicitated by the academy. The honoured writers include 105 from the country and 245 from across the globe.Talking to The Tribune Mohit said, “I feel fortunate to be among the lucky poets honoured by these two organisations of national and international repute.” When asked about his writing journey, Mohit said, “I am writing since 2016. I won prizes at the university level. I owe my success to my English teachers Dr Disha Khanna and Prof Kamini Verma at GNA University.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-lad-felicitated-by-lit-academy-131644
26-08-2020||Garhshankar||Illegal mining: 15 arrested, 16 trucks seized||On the directions of Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, the police cracked a whip on illegal mining in the area and seized 16 trucks loaded with sand gravel from Shri Anandpur Sahib Road near Khalsa College. As many as 16 cases were registered against 29 persons, including drivers and owners of the trucks. A total of 15 suspects were arrested from the spot. Garhashankar DSP Satish Kumar said search was underway to nab others.Those arrested have been identified as Sohan Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Muhammad Sattar, Satnam Singh, Gurdeep Singh, Jaspreet Singh, Buta Singh, Balkar Singh, Sarwan Singh, Avtar Singh, Jagdish Singh, Sandeep Kumar, Davinder Singh, Buta Singh, Balwinder Singh, Rajesh Kumar, Davinder Singh And Baldeep Singh. SSP Mahal said illegal mining will not be tolerated. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-mining-15-arrested-16-trucks-seized-131643
26-08-2020||---||DC reviews work on road leading to Adampur airport||Jalandhar, August 25The Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday reviewed the widening and strengthening project of the road leading to Civil Airport from Adampur.Presiding over a meeting in his office along with the officers of Revenue, PWD and Civil Aviation Department, the Deputy Commissioner(DC) accompanied by Jalandhar Development Authority Chief Administrator Babita Kaler, Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, said Public Works Department (PWD) had prepared a project about Rs 39 crore, including land acquisition, widening and construction work.He said the project report had been sent to high-ups for releasing the funds. The DC said the domestic flights from the airport had been a huge success and people from the entire Doaba region had been availing the air service for connecting themselves with other parts of the country.He also said the air connectivity had been acting as a catalyst to give a boost to the economy of the district besides facilitating the people by saving their time, money and energy.The DC said the administration had been making continuous endeavours to ensure the smooth and hassle-free journey to passengers up to the airport for which the road leading to the airport must be widened and strengthened. He said dire need had been felt to straighten the alignment of the road so that zig-zag crossing through the village could be avoided to facilitate the passengers.The DC said the project would be completed in a time-bound manner so that passengers boarding and de-boarding from civil air terminal do not face any inconvenience once the funds were being released. On the occasion, SDM-I Dr Jai Inder Singh, Director Adampur Airport Kewal Krishan, Executive Engineer PWD BS Tuli, among others were also present.Committed to provide hassle-free trips:DCDeputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the administration had been making continuous endeavours to ensure the smooth and hassle-free journey to passengers up to the airport for which the road leading to the airport must be widened and strengthened. He said dire need had been felt to straighten the alignment of the road so that zig-zag crossing through the village could be avoided to facilitate the passengers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-reviews-work-on-road-leading-to-adampur-airport-131642
26-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Dodging teachers’ calls, surfing on social media keep kids busy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 25Online teaching has changed the scenario of education amid the pandemic. For students, smartphones have become the only mean to be in touch with teachers these days. While several are still struggling to get one, others are giving a tough time to parents as well as teachers.Teachers have been sharing that students were either spending their time on playing games or surfing on social media sites or apps. They shared that many students don’t answer the phone calls and take hours to complete the home work.Ravinder Kang, head teacher of a government school, said recently a teacher called a student several times, but he didn’t answer. When Kang contacted the parents, they were also unaware of the issue. “When I asked the parents about him, they said that he had given his phone to the child so that he could complete his homework. Later, it was found out that his son had not completed the work and was instead playing video games. Teachers have to face these kind of problems in online teaching,” he said.Sukhdev Lal, president, Government Lecturer Union, said students either don’t answer the calls or can’t be approached easily as their parents keep the phone with themselves.“A teacher’s job has become very difficult because of online teaching, but then we don’t have any other option also. Also, parents cannot sit all day with their kids. However, the sad part is that students are spending too much time on playing games and scrolling other things,” he said.Kulwinder Singh, a teacher at government school in Lohian block, said several complaints from the parents have been received in this regard. “Students are also having eyesight-related problems. Parents tell me that instead of studying, their wards were giving more attention to other things on the phone. Some parents have now started to sit with their children to keep a check on them,” he said.Psychiatrist’s takeDr Nirdosh Goel, head (retd), Department of Psychiatry, Civil Hospital, said students these days were left with no choice, thus they were resorting to playing games and doing other stuff on their phones. “They cannot go out or do anything else. It’s not good that they are getting involved in these things. This is the first time that they have to study like this. The absence of face-to-face interaction is a major problem,” Goel said.He further shared, “Students have now got a hold of phones hitherto unavailable so easily. This has made them curious. I would suggest that parents should deal with the situation calmly. They should not be strict on the child as it affects their psychology.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dodging-teachers-calls-surfing-on-social-media-keep-kids-busy-131641
26-08-2020||Jalandhar||Rs6.50L penalty slapped on defaulters||Continuing with it’s ‘zero tolerance policy’ against electricity theft, the Enforcement Wing of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on Tuesday conducted a massive raid in Kartarpur area. A penalty worth Rs6.50 lakh was slapped on defaulters.A team of six enforcement officers led by Additional Superintending Engineer, Enforcement, Kapurthala, carried out checking around 5 am in Kartarpur, Maqsudan, Kahlwan, Sarai Khas, Amanatpur, Dugri and Faridpur area of the town.Over 300 connections were checked in the raid and detected 15 cases of power theft, wherein power was being stolen by bypassing the electricity meter or through kundi connection. Eight meters were tempered and sealed on the spot. A penalty of Rs6.50 lakh was imposed on the thieves and their connections were disconnected. They have been booked under Section 135 of the Indian Electricity Act, 2003, and if proved guilty, they would face an imprisonment up to three years.Er Rajit Sharma, Deputy Chief Engineer, Enforcement Wing, Jalandhar, said more raids would be conducted to book the unscrupulous elements involved in the theft of electricity. He also appealed to consumers to desist from stealing electricity and tempering of their meters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs6-50l-penalty-slapped-on-defaulters-131640
26-08-2020||Stories that inspire||Sky is the limit for Aakash, a para-player with amputated legs||Ajay JoshiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 25Aakash Mehra, a double-amputee, is an Asian Youth Para Games champion. He might have prosthetic legs, but glories he has garnered are as much real. The 21-year-old has shown no signs of relenting, transforming tragic turn of events into indelible memories of feats.There was time when he had ran out of funds for further medical treatment of his artificial limbs but with help of good samaritans, the treatment was done and allowed him to continue his sport. Having won two consecutive gold medals in javelin throw in the state-level tournaments, a silver in the National Senior Para-Athletic Championships 2017, a silver medal in the Asia Youth Para Games 2018, Akash who belongs to an economically poor family, is now preparing for 2021 Paralympics.After his initial training from the Sports Authority of India (SAI) in Gujarat, he is presently being looked after by the Khelo India. But due to the lockdown, like many other players, he had to come back to his home here. Sans practice for a few weeks fearing that he might lose his techniques, he's been practising his trade at Jalandhar Sports College. His next aim is to clinch a medal in the qualifying championships for the next Paralympics. Amidst the crisis when many a lives are hit, Aakash, banking on his sheer perseverance, is unrelenting when it comes to aim for his dreams.Beginning obstacles, govt support missing"After opting the game, I knew I had the potential to make my mark in the field but managing artificial legs and body strengths were major hurdles besides diet and physical fitness. I can't run so I had to only use my hand to build my upper body strength. I spent hours in my workout sessions to develop the suitable body resilience and power in my arms," Aakash says.Concentration and balancing both mental and physical strength kept him going. Notably, an appendix injury in 2019 and he was bedridden for almost eight months. After recovering, he had to start all over again. Along with improving his game and practicing daily, he also encourages other physically disabled youth to join para games to transform their lives. He says: "People in backward societies are still unacquainted with the para games, hence I consider it my responsibility to make them aware about the games."Although, he is doing his part on the on the ground, which is laudatory, the only thing that is ruffling his feathers is the lack of support from the government. His mother, who works as domestic help, says, "Post winning medals, political leaders promised to provide Aakash a government job along with other rewards but it never happened." Due to her husband's mental illness, she is the only breadwinner in the family. Aakash adds: If help is provided I can also run with the support of advance prosthetic legs."An inspirationApart from winning and participating in several national and international championships, he has also appeared in a national-level ad film by Ebixcash. The ad was aired in the month of March this year to motivate differently-abled people to convert their disabilities into abilities. Being the protagonist in the ad, Aakash not only made himself proud but is a well of inspiration for many.The past life & resurrectionHe had always dreamt of joining the Indian hockey team - his first love was hockey. Although, he had played some state-level matches but as fate would have it. He is now a javelin thrower in the handicapped category as he lost both his legs in a train mishap in 2012. He had taken up the sport to keep his sportsmanship spirit alive. The world seemed to have turned it's back on him, but then an NRI in 2014 and Ravi Sharma, a social worker, in 2018, funded his prosthetic treatment which immensely fuelled his career. "Apart from playing, now, he also easily rides two-wheelers and bicycles," his brother shares. Aakash also credits his resurrection to his coaches Rajinder Singh Rahelu, an Arjuna awardee para-powerlifter, and Parvinder Singh, a para-athlete in Punjab police. "Rajinder introduced him to the world of para games in 2017 and motivated him to shine further," he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sky-is-the-limit-for-aakash-a-para-player-with-amputated-legs-131639
26-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Locals recall living in mud houses without boundary wall, riding a tonga||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 25About 700 mud houses were allotted to those who migrated from Pakistan post-Independence in Model Town. Almost 70 years since it was set up by the Department of Rehabilitation, residents recall how the entire locality has changed and continues to maintain itself as the most posh areas of the city.From just a few shops in the Gol Market area in those days, residents say they cannot count the number of malls, showrooms and shops now in their locality, which has expanded across every connecting road. The flexible Change of Land Use (CLU) provisions allowed many residents to sell off their property that has led to a lot of commercialisation here.Model Town boasts of being the most happening place and the hub of best private clubs, party hangouts, cafes, disco bars, salons, ice cream parlours, restaurants, garment showrooms and branded stuff beating all swanky malls that came up in the city and outskirts in the last few years. Its market beats all other bazaars both in terms of footfall and brand quality.But some residents who have lived and spent several decades here say this is not the Model Town they had come to live in."There was a lot of love, interaction and harmony among residents in those days. Now, we do not even get to see our neighbours for months," says Iqbal Singh, former Rajya Sabha MP and former Governor of Puducherry. He reminisces his 'good old days': "We came to Model Town in 1962. My elders bought a 25 marla house here for just Rs7,000 after selling one of our properties in Amritsar. The same property is now worth several crores. A house could be bought here in those days paying just Rs17 as monthly installment. The monthly rental charges were just about Rs11. But even this amount seemed huge and only a few people could afford to live here.""Every house had at least 7 to 8 fruit trees and there was more greenery all around. Even the number of parks was more here but these eventually got covered. During my early socio-political life, I had even participated in andolans to save parks near Masand Chowk and Geeta Mandir. I was the second president of the Model Town society after Baldev Raj Verma's tenure. My tenure lasted for about 10 years and we did a lot of work. We got a homeopathic dispensary set up in the locality. We also got set up Andh Vidyalaya here.""In those days, just four people in Model Town could afford a car and roads seemed too wide for the kind of traffic it was then. When I studied in Lyallpur Khalsa College, there was a city bus service here. I used to buy ticket for Rs13 paise to reach my college. Since there were lesser colonies in between, distances from Model Town seemed too short. We could walk down to Cantonment quickly. For going to old bus stand near old DC office, we could take Rs5 paise ticket for a bus ride or pay just 2 aanas to a tongawala. In those days, a canal used to pass from the backside of present Satkartar Dera and we used to spend our evenings there.”Model Town has also housed all political who’s who of the city including ex-PM IK Gujral and ex-minister Darshan S Kaypee and now his son Mahinder S Kaypee.Ex-MLA Jagbir Brar’s wife Ravneet Brar says: “Having been born and brought up in Model Town, I have spent all my 55 years of life here. I used to go to St Joseph’s Convent School using the bus service. But when I missed it, I used to walk down and quickly reach my school as there were a maze of localities in between. It was a straight passage with some sugarcane fields in between. Mota Singh Nagar and Defence Colony came much later,” she said, adding: “Now, while I cannot count the number of shops, showrooms or malls in Model Town, there were just a few shops here in those days. I remember a popular sweets shop, which was famous for its samosas with curd. It was later that commercialisation started and people sold their houses to big builders, who constructed malls and markets and the entire look changed.”Having remained the president of Model Town Market Association for long and lived here for 29 years, Manoj Arora recalls that in earlier days, the most common places were where people used to hangout were Pahwa Kulfi House and Geet Chat, both of which maintain their popularity.“A very interesting memory of old days is seeing Model Town Police Station housed in tents,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/locals-recall-living-in-mud-houses-without-boundary-wall-riding-a-tonga-131638
26-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||Residents blame poor contact tracing for surge in Covid cases||Jalandhar, August 25Poor contact tracing of Covid patients is the main reason behind spurt in cases, claim residents. They said despite weekend curfew, there seems to be no respite, as over hundreds of persons were testing positive every day.In the past five days, 622 cases have been reported in Jalandhar district. Moreover, the total number of patients that succumbed to the virus in the last five days was 27, taking the death toll tally to 147. Besides, the total number of infected cases stands at 5,516.As per sources from the Civil Hospital, the health staff is dealing with the problems related to the data of patients. They said at times, the information about patients was incomplete or incorrect. Their phone numbers and addresses are incorrect and it takes time to find out who was residing where. It takes two to three days or even more to locate patients, as a result of which contact tracing is delayed.One of the Rural Medical Officers (RMOs), said: “At present, the condition of Covid-19 in the city is out of the hands of the Civil Hospital or even administration. We are at a stage, where Covid-19 is exploding like anything and almost everyone is at risk of contracting the virus,” he said, adding that by the time health staff reaches the contacts of the infected patients, the damage is already done, as they have by that time further met scores of people.No check on those gettingtest done from pvt labsAs per information, there are hundreds of patients in the city undergoing home isolation, while the administration has no information about them. They said there were no stickers outside their homes and no one from the Health Department ever called them to know their contacts i.e. people they met before testing positive.A Covid patient who tested positive last week only, said: “One of my friends tested positive after which I thought I, too, should get my test done. I took the certificate for Covid test from my family doctor and then called a private lab to collect sample from home. The next day, I received my report and I was positive. But what amazes me is that no one from the Health Department ever contacted me. I saw videos of recovered patients and have been following the same routine. Luckily, I am recovering now,” she said.Data cell constitutedMeanwhile, to ensure vigorous tracing of at least 10 contacts of each Covid positive case as soon as possible, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday constituted a data cell for the collection of information and data of contacts of a positive case and their immediate sampling by sharing the information with the Health Department instantly for breaking the chain of the virus transmission.The cell, which would be headed by MC Joint Commissioner Inaayat, will comprise a team of around 40 members and four zonal supervisors to assist the nodal officer in preparing this important data. Presiding over a meeting with the officials, Deputy Commissioner accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal said contact tracing of patients was one of the vital tools to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.District reports Five more deaths Jalandhar: Covid cases continue to rise in the district. On Tuesday, while five patients succumbed to the virus, 60 people were found infected. The death toll in the district has reached 147 and the number of infected cases have reached 5,516. As per the Health Department, the deceased patients were identified as Ramanand (65), a resident of New Grain Market; Ranu (58), a resident of Santokhpura; Mangat Rai (65) of Nakodar; Vijay Kumar (72) of new Defense Colony; Yogesh Kumst (59), a resident of Deep Nagar, Jalandhar Cantt. Doctor SP Dogra, owner of Dogra Hospital at Mahiran Gate also breathed his last on Monday night due to cardiac arrest. Former president of National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA), Dogra, had recently recovered from Covid. Sources said he had post Covid complications. TNS61 test +ve in HoshiarpurAs many as 61 patients tested positive for Covid in the district on Tuesday, while two people died due to the virus. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 61 new Covid-19 cases have been reported from Hoshiarpur district, of which 20 are from Bahadurpur, Hari Nagar, Sant Farid Nagar, Scheme No.1, Milap Nagar, Gautam Nagar and BSNL Colony, Piplanwala, Bhagwan Das Road and Anmol Nagar areas of the city. Apart from this, four cases have been found from Garhshankar, two from Mukerian, six from Dasuya, four from Hajipur, five from Tanda, two from Bhunga, four from Mustapur, while the remaining 14 cases were from different health blocks. A 61-year-old patient belonging to Paldi block died in a private hospital in Jalandhar due to Covid-19, while another 80-year-old Muggowal resident, admitted to Rajinder Hospital, Patiala, also succumbed to the virus. The total number of positive patients has increased to 1,145. The new samples of 1,440 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms in the district has brought the total samples to 52,498 and as per the reports received from the laboratory, 48,117 of them tested negative, while 3,253 reports were still awaited, while 78 are invalid and the number of deaths is 32 so far. The number of active cases in the district is 224 and 891 patients have recovered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-blame-poor-contact-tracing-for-surge-in-covid-cases-131637
