17-10-2020||Hindustan||Confront the mental health challenge | Opinion||The ongoing pandemic has exacerbated several problems for women, one of them is mental health. The loss of income and mobility have compounded this.Social and physical distancing are not an option for many women in India. They are not in positions of power within the household, they have no access to finances and, therefore, they are at greater risk of falling into poverty. They are increasingly trapped at home and have had to take on more unpaid responsibilities with schools being closed and family members requiring care. This has meant that women are more burdened than ever before. In rural areas, women are often heading single households as the men are in cities. They are unable to take care of themselves properly, and the idea of taking a day off is alien.The loss of income and mobility, where these existed in the first place, have also resulted in women having to face situations of domestic violence, which has added to mental health challenges. In every way, the pandemic has reduced their ability to make decisions, and decreased their social power within the family structure. This has left them vulnerable to neglect, abuse and harm, all of which have contributed to lack of mental well being.The loss of mobility has also led to women not being able to report instances of abuse or to seek medical help. They suffer from lack of community support at the best of times, the pandemic has made things worse for them. The networks which could have helped in the form of small non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are few and far between and, therefore, largely unavailable to women during this time. This increases the distress they suffer.In such a situation of tension, women are bound to suffer a variety of mental challenges, ranging from depression to anxiety to a feeling of worthlessness. This, once internalised, worsens the situation. This increase in their trauma decreases their ability to take care of both themselves and their families.For many women, the trauma can take the form of increased feelings of negativity, mood swings, attention deficit problems and physical conditions such as loss of appetite, fatigue, and suicidal thoughts.The pandemic has diverted health care which should be routinely available for women. This has led to a decrease in reproductive health services which means that women have less access to contraception, abortion and pre- and post-natal care. Fortunately, we have robust grassroots organisations in the form of panchayati raj, which has a fair representation of women. These should be activated to look into the mental health needs of women, apart from, of course, their physical well being. The government must think of including the services of mental health experts in the panchayati raj system in a much greater way to ensure women’s safety. For a start, the government can work to use panchayati raj institutions to set up shelters for women suffering from domestic abuse. There must be more online services for women to report mental health problems, on condition of anonymity. The government can work with NGOs to increase awareness and look to deploy specialised care workers in mental health. There are several ways to reach out to women at risk in this time, and this is a time when they need the most support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/confront-the-mental-health-challenge-opinion/story-TU0bRuDKYywcCxNwl5QqpL.html
17-10-2020||Hindustan||Chanakya: The politics of Delhi’s air pollution||It seems only apt that a column that usually restricts itself to politics, digressing occasionally into related areas such as economic affairs and foreign policy, focus on Delhi’s bad air problem, which surfaces around this time every year. For, while the factors responsible for it may be meteorological, economic, and scientific, the reason it remains unsolved is entirely political.Delhi is unfortunately located from the perspective of air quality — at the foot of the hills and the head of the northern plains, and on the eastern periphery of a desert. The lower temperatures and non-existent winds of late autumn and early winter do not help.Then, there are the human interventions.Entire ranges of the Aravallis, which shielded Delhi from the dust and sand-laden winds from the Thar, have been ravaged by mining. There are far too many vehicles in Delhi — more than in all the other metropolitan cities in the country taken together. For two decades now, Delhi and other parts of the National Capital Region (NCR) have been one extended construction zone — thanks to the Delhi Metro (which helps in other ways by taking vehicles off roads), and the emergence of Gurugram, and to a lesser extent, Faridabad, Noida, and Indirapuram. Despite a late-1990s court order that moved industries out of Delhi, some continue to operate within it illegally. And like every other urban agglomeration in India, Delhi has a garbage (and a garbage burning) problem.The bottom line of all this is that the air quality in Delhi is bad — unless the meteorological conditions are favourable, as they usually are through some part of the summer and the monsoon (when Delhi’s air is actually the cleanest). Chanakya is aware that some baseline studies on air quality have been done during the lockdown enforced to slow the coronavirus disease, but a real baseline would have to factor in activities and mobility, not assume that all vehicles and people will be off the streets. And at this time of the year, helped along by farm fires, mostly in Punjab, but also in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and the weather, the Capital and the NCR’s bad air becomes worse. Which is when everyone starts to take note.Solutions to complex problems such as Delhi’s bad air are always temporally-tiered. There are some that are short-term; others that are medium-term; and still others that are long-term. It’s also possible to categorise them as scientific, economic, or behavioural. And clearly, since it isn’t possible to change Delhi’s location (or the Thar’s), or influence the weather in any meaningful way, it’s not very difficult to figure out what needs doing.The three easiest things to do, which will also have an immediate impact on air quality, are the following — stopping farm fires; preventing the burning of garbage; and prohibiting the use of diesel generators, not just in Delhi, but the entire NCR (an exception is made almost every year for Haryana, many of whose environmentally unfriendly glass-and-chrome condominiums survive on diesel generators). Doing this will ensure the region’s air quality remains bad, and doesn’t become worse. In the language everyone has come to understand now, addressing these three issues is akin to removing co-morbidities.The long-term cure to the original problem involves de-desertification, re-greening and re-wilding of the Aravallis; the move to greener fuel for vehicles; better garbage management; and moving polluting industries out.The reasons why a solution hasn’t been found yet are purely political.The Centre and Haryana (and Uttar Pradesh) are governed by the Bharatiya Janata Party; Delhi by the Aam Aadmi Party; and Punjab by the Congress. And so, the Union environment ministry has shown itself to be far more interested in laying the blame at the Delhi government’s door than finding a solution; Delhi blames Punjab, Haryana, and the Centre; and both Punjab and Haryana (more the former than the latter) have not managed to ensure their farmers do not burn the post-harvest stubble ahead of the next cropping season.As this paper reported on Saturday, Punjab has seen almost 4,000 stubble burning incidents this year (till October 15) as compared to 1,266 in the same period a year ago. For Haryana, the numbers are around 1,800 and 1,072. And only six farmers have been booked in Punjab this year, as compared to around 1700 last year — because officials usually involved in monitoring the fires were busy in crop procurement; and because the government didn’t want to act against farmers already upset at the new farm laws passed by the Centre.The pattern is no different than it was in previous years. Local governments flout National Green Tribunal and Supreme Court (SC) orders with impunity, and Delhi and the NCR suffer.Chanakya is against judicial overreach into the domain of the executive, but because the latter has been found wanting in terms of willingness, ability, or both to address the air pollution issue, it is good that the SC has appointed former SC judge Madan Lokur in a role that makes him the NCR’s unofficial Air Commissioner. The immediate task before him is to stop the farm fires, but there’s a lot more he can do — from ensuring real-time monitoring of the contributors to Delhi’s bad air to addressing the reason why Punjab’s farmers are compelled to burn stubble. There are scientific, economic, behavioural and administrative solutions to the NCR’s pollution problem and with politics out of the way, we may finally be able to breathe easy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/chanakya-the-politics-of-delhi-s-air-pollution/story-BVxNS9CnnY8szQjLXffckL.html
17-10-2020||Hindustan||Covid-19: My dilemma in the festive season, writes Karan Thapar||Am I a killjoy or do I have good reasons for being apprehensive? The truth is, I just don’t know. I can recognise valid arguments on either side of the issue I want to raise and it’s placed me in a quandary. So let me share my thoughts, and you can decide for yourself.Now, it might seem paradoxical but this particular and pressing problem is amplified by the fact that things are improving on the Covid-19 front. The seven-day average of daily cases has been steadily declining since September 16. On that date, it was 93,617. On Friday, it was 65,956 — a drop of 30%. This is also true of daily deaths. For almost two weeks, the number has been under a 1,000. Similarly, the positivity rate and the number of active cases are also reducing.All this is cheering, but might the festive season, which starts in a week, reverse the trend? Dussehra is on October 25, Eid on October 29, Diwali on November 14 and Chhath Puja on the November 20. As we celebrate, it’s likely that social distancing and mask-wearing, hand hygiene and cough etiquette will be forgotten. Yet, all the while, the virus will be around us.This is why the health minister, Harsh Vardhan, has warned against large gatherings. “There is no need to congregate in large numbers to prove your faith or your religion”, he said. “You can pray to your Gods at your home. I would suggest that all of you celebrate with your families”. From the point of view of containing the epidemic, these are wise words. No epidemiologist would disagree. Alas, this will dampen the festive spirit. Ramlila rallies, Durga Puja pandals, Eid Milans and Chhath Puja gatherings cease to be fun without large numbers. But the minister is prioritising safety ahead of celebration. The question is at what cost?This brings me to the other side of the argument. The festive season is traditionally a time when Indians spend money. They actually wait to splurge and this released demand gives the economy a significant lift. This year it’s badly needed. With growth slumping by close to 24% and the government reluctant to further stimulate, any tradition-based revival of demand must not be stifled. After all, it could be the economy’s resurrection.By now the dilemma I can’t resolve should be clear. After months in lockdown, followed by a fear of venturing out, many understandably want to enjoy Durga Puja, Dussehra and Eid. These are cherished religious festivals and God, they hope, will protect them. But what if the virus gets them first? On the other hand, if they stay indoors, neither spending nor celebrating, they could crush what little hope we have of the economy improving. In fact, thousands of dealers and shopkeepers, who’ve stocked up for the festive season, could face huge losses as their wares remain unsold.When I go back and read what the minister has said, I’m tempted to agree. “No God says you need to go to big pandals to pray. If you know there’s fire outside and you still go out in the fire in the name of religion, what’s the point of such festivals?” But when I ask the question, is this learning to live with the virus, I’m pushed in the other direction. If we cancel Durga Puja, Dussehra, Diwali and Eid, that won’t be living. It could feel like the virus winning.This isn’t a dilemma the government can resolve but, of course, it must advise and warn. Not just at the health minister’s level but at the prime minister’s as well. Yet, in the end, it’s an issue on which each of us has to make up our own mind and suffer the consequences — whatever they may be. I just thought I’d spell out the argument on either side so you know what you’re doing and what the cost could be. The inescapable truth is we face a dreadful choice and can’t avoid making it!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/covid-19-my-dilemma-in-the-festive-season/story-AzscChqgkEZNUr842jdmoI.html
17-10-2020||Hindustan||A model for rooted, inclusive journalism | Opinion||At Hathras, a gaggle of media and OB vans descended on the house gutted by tragedy. Reporting from the scene, Khabar Lahariya (KL)’s editor Kavita Bundelkhandi and reporter Meera Devi clambered up onto the roof to take a look. What they saw were swarms of police and a media melee where excitable reporters, who had taken over the house, chatted, laughed, ate biscuits, and, every now and then, shrieked into their microphones.“The family is pleading that they have no strength to speak but the media has not stopped thrusting mics into their faces,” reported Kavita. The bereaved and beleagured family has had no time to even cook and the children are hungry.The women-led digital platform that today counts 30 reporters and stringers across 13 districts in Bundelkhand has, for close to two decades, been chronicling a side of India that is seldom written about. Despite the fact that 65.5% of the population lives in rural India, stories from the hinterland constitute a negligible proportion of all stories in the mainstream press. When these stories are told, they tend to fall into two buckets: The sensational crime report or heart-rending agrarian distress. When you think of exceptions, People’s Archive of Rural India (PARI) comes to mind, taking the trouble to also look for human interest stories of aspiration and hope.Started as a two-page, black and white newspaper in 2002, KL has stuck to its course of reporting hyperlocal issues, telling the stories of Bundelkhand, a hard, hilly region that spills over from north Madhya Pradesh into southern Uttar Pradesh. When it was launched, the only journalists in the region were upper caste, educated men. But, says Kavita, “We wanted to challenge the idea that women are weak, could not do journalism and were only suited to 9-5 jobs like teaching and nursing.” There was no precedent, so KL drew up its own blueprint. They would hire Dalit, Muslim and Adivasi women. Conduct their own training. Take all editorial decisions collectively. And, perhaps most crucially, look at stories through a nariwadi chashma (feminist lens), whether on Chitrakoot’s erratic water supply, a mental health crisis among young people in Bundelkhand or what women farmers thought of the farm bills (timed with Women Farmers’ Day on October 15).If India’s largely social media-driven MeToo movement was urban, KL’s Disha Mullick filled the gap with #MeTooBundelkhand, asking: “What does the workplace look like for women who are resetting centuries of gender, class and caste oppression?”The idea of a feminist framework might not always fit into mainstream media’s understanding of rural life in India. Priorities—unemployment, migrant labour, farmer issues, caste—will invariably differ. But, as KL’s Pooja Pande says, change will come when we straddle both worlds and understand that urban or rural, we face the same enemy — patriarchy. Meanwhile, KL continues to shape its world, and ours, one story at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/a-model-for-rooted-inclusive-journalism-opinion/story-LSl5mt8qp46V1IzkNr0rNN.html
17-10-2020||Hindustan||What’s common to TV news and the Opposition, writes Barkha Dutt||Most of us will agree that my former medium, television news, has been reduced to tawdry entertainment. So, I am anything but a supporter of what passes off for prime time these days. If anything, I believe, television anchors have become parodies of themselves, self-caricatures if such a thing is possible. And I’d dismiss it all with a scornful laugh if broadcast news were not so dangerous in fanning misogyny, communalism, fake news and divisiveness. Yet, as ratings are paused amid a raging controversy over how eyeballs are measured and how rigged those numbers might be, the meltdown in the TV news industry is not going to cleanse the system; it will only weaken it further. What’s happening at the moment — the police confrontation with Republic TV in Mumbai, the channels at war with each other, the audience sniggering from the sides crafting memes from the free comic material — may look faintly like a purge. It’s the exact opposite. First, my biggest quarrel with television news this year has been its failure to report on the biggest issues of our times. So, whether it was the talk-centric coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic or the saturation coverage of the Sushant Singh Rajput tragedy; essentially TV sidestepped issues that really mattered — health, medicine, the economy, the impoverishment of migrant workers and the standoff with China. The navel-gazing quarrels among news networks is one more excuse to deflect and distract from journalism. It’s a collision of multiple (mostly male) egos, all claiming to be better than the other. The truth is that every news channel is a variant of the other and the difference is one of degree. And there is a whole lot of hypocrisy and humbug in the conversation. Take one media group, for instance, which has positioned itself as a supposedly more enlightened platform. It complained bitterly after the conversation of one of its reporters was leaked into the public domain while she was covering the Hathras case. That protest was entirely justified. But it did not hesitate to throw the privacy argument to the wind and use leaked WhatsApp exchanges while covering the Rhea Chakraborty case. And its sister channel vilified and slandered Rhea, using the word kala jaadu or black magic in her context, while the English counterpart decided to position itself in contrast to the other English channels on the same story. In many cases, the Arnabification of English news is a mirror image of fault-lines of Indian politics. Just as India’s Opposition has struggled to find an effective counter-narrative to the rise of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, most news channels have failed to develop their own original voice to take on what the new normal in television news has become. Just like the Congress flirted with Hindutva-lite in some elections to take on the entrenched Hindutva politics of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), news channels have embraced, in one form or the other, the format of the ‘shouty’ debate, templated first by Arnab Goswami. The similarities do not end there. Think of Rahul Gandhi’s political narrative. Much of it is rooted in telling us what is wrong with the philosophy and policies of PM Modi. But we know very little of what Gandhi himself stands for, when not benchmarking himself against the BJP. Similarly, it is not enough for news networks to claim that they are somehow more distinguished because they are not like a competitor. Nor is it enough for channels to claim moral superiority because they do not screech and slander. Comparing yourself to the competition and defining yourself against it only gets you so far and no more. What people, both while voting or while watching television, seek is the same — to know what you stand for and whether you can tell a story that captures their imagination and holds their attention. A Me-Too version of the original product, even if milder, tamer, politer, more bland and better-behaved, does not work. Not in politics. And not in journalism. Television news died the day it stopped telling the stories of people. When it fell into the trap of a cheaper, studio-driven model, it became a twisted version of radio. Pictures became rarer and rarer, though this was meant to be a platform for visual storytelling.And once debates became the staple, they had to be jazzed up with the drama and dialectics of confrontation to make them more entertaining. In this universe of clones, the person who dares to be herself will be the only disruptor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/what-s-common-to-tv-news-and-the-opposition-writes-barkha-dutt/story-ZJ1tm5KzhaX1JtuGxvqRJI.html
