25-10-2020||Hindustan||How personal wealth shapes political lives | Opinion||British Prime Minister (PM) Boris Johnson has said that he plans to resign from his post. The reason for this is not that he is on a politically slippery slope but that he cannot survive on the salary and allowances he gets as PM. He feels that he can earn much more through lectures and writing.Just for the record, Johnson earns £150,402 in salary and perks, or close to ₹1.45 crore a year. According to Johnson, he is financially strapped since he has six children. According to the divorce agreement with ex-wife Marina Wheeler, with whom he has four children, he has to pay a hefty alimony. His salary, as it is now, is not enough to cover the education needs of all his children. Before becoming leader of the Conservative Party, he earned £275,000 a year from The Telegraph. An additional two lectures a month would bring in another £160,000. Apparently, he misses those days and wants to return to them. His predecessor, Theresa May, probably serves as some motivation to him. She earned millions through speeches and writing just a year after resigning. Tony Blair is another former PM who has had a thriving career on the lecture circuit. Many of them get lucrative consultancies after demitting office with big corporations and foreign governments. There was a time when politicians used to step down from office and take time off to reflect on issues. No longer. Now people want to know the secrets of decision-making at the top, which is most plausible coming from those who were in positions of great power. People in leadership roles have a lot to say once they move beyond the limitations of the constitutional oath of office and secrecy. May is just one example. The recollections of United States (US) presidents about their time in office are highly sought after. It is four years since Barack Obama left office, but he continues to be one of the most expensive speakers on the circuit. Even before Obama became President, he used to pull in a lot of money as a writer.While Obama left office with dignity and grace, Bill Clinton left his post under a cloud. But that has not stopped him from earning from various engagements. His autobiography My Life sold over 2.25 million copies from which he earned about $200 million. He and his wife, Hillary Clinton, had made over $153 million from 729 lectures until Hillary’s presidential run. Lectures and books account for about 60% of the Clintons’ total earnings.It has not always been like this. Ronald Reagan, who was a successful president, came in for much opprobrium when he entered the lecture circuit. After completing his stint at the White House, he went on a speaking tour in Japan. He was apparently paid $2 million for two 20-minute speeches and a few public appearances. He became the target of fierce criticism in the media and among American intellectuals. As a result, Reagan swore that he would no longer be part of any public lecture circuit.This trend is now gaining momentum in India. It is a different matter that we have a dearth of politicians who can give insightful and interesting lectures. Most of them do not need this to earn money. Their income tax returns bear witness to the fact that once they enter politics, it does not take long for their wealth to increase dramatically. One reason could be that many of them are what can be called career politicians, unlike say Bill Clinton or Blair who are accomplished lawyers by profession and who went into politics later. Let us take a look at Bihar where assembly elections are round the corner. Data released by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) claims that about 60% of candidates from the two main alliances are millionaires. They have assets ranging from ₹1 crore to ₹60 crore. Not just this, on the basis of affidavits given to the Election Commission last year, ADR stated that 439 Members of Parliament in the current Lok Sabha are crorepatis. But let me be clear. There is nothing wrong in millionaires entering Parliament and state legislatures, provided they make sincere efforts to increase the wealth of the people who elected them and try and usher in a level playing ground. But India ranks 94th in the Global Hunger Index out of 107 countries and its per capita income is ₹1.35 lakh annually. More than 250 million people live below the poverty line. It should also be remembered that a person who spends ₹32 a day is not considered poor by our government. With this amount of money, a person cannot have two square meals a day. What about the needs of citizens on the health and education front? India’s case is different from the West and the US where the gap between the wealth of political leaders and the people is not so stark. Our people are poor and our representatives are rich. And that is why it seems unlikely that too many of our politicians will think on the same lines as Johnson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/how-personal-wealth-shapes-political-lives-opinion/story-h13Pj2Vsn6m5y91Wn9RRJO.html
25-10-2020||Hindustan||Bihar: What we know, and what we don’t know||From being widely seen as a straightforward contest, where the victory of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the return of Nitish Kumar as chief minister (CM) were but certain, the Bihar election has become a far more complex, and an open contest. This is because of a range of factors — the diminished popularity of the CM, a churn in the existing social equations, uncertainty about the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the possible emergence of a younger leader, and possible rifts within the ruling alliance. Any prediction would be unwise, but based on the available information, here is what we know. One, voters are angry with Kumar. After 15 years in power, with a nine- month break in 2014-15, there is a sense of fatigue in the electorate. But if it were just fatigue, Kumar would have been able to offset it. There appears to be palpable discontent. Voters believe that Kumar did a remarkable job in his first term; he improved the law and order situation, infrastructure, and promoted girls’ education. But he has been rewarded for it already — in the 2010 and 2015 elections. His indifferent performance in the third term, political U-turns, and the mismanagement of the pandemic and the distress of migrant workers appear to have tilted the mood. Two, Prime Minister Narendra Modi remains highly popular across caste lines. His appeal in the state helped the NDA win a staggering 39 out of the 40 seats in the Lok Sabha polls in Bihar in 2019. Despite the public health crisis and the economic costs of the lockdown, both anecdotal reports and surveys suggest that voters remain satisfied with Modi, believe he has done his best within existing constraints, and if there has been any mismanagement, it is the fault of the state — not the central — government.Three, there is a trust deficit between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Dal (United). Kumar is the declared CM candidate, but he isn’t quite sure whether the BJP is committed to supporting him after the elections, or has deliberately weakened him — by encouraging the anti-incumbency against him or letting the Lok Janashakti Party (LJP) contest against JD(U) candidates. The BJP has not forgotten Kumar’s decision to walk out of the NDA over Modi’s prime ministerial candidature in 2013 and does not fully trust the CM; its state leaders are unhappy at not getting enough share of power under the current dispensation in Bihar; and there is a sense in the party that this is the best opportunity for the BJP to decisively become the dominant player in the state. And that is why despite the categorical assurance by the PM that Bihar will see an NDA government under Kumar, both forces are wary of each other’s intentions and capabilities. And four, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) remains a formidable force in Bihar. Even though Lalu Prasad is officially out of action, Patna’s political corridors have little doubt that he is wielding control over both his family and the party. But the key public role has been assumed by Tejashwi Yadav, whose rallies have drawn impressive crowds; who is speaking the language of jobs, development and governance; and who is, learning from successful anti-BJP political strands in other states, sticking to attacking the local leader (in this case Kumar) rather than Modi. It appears that RJD’s traditional base of Muslims and Yadavs is firmly intact with the mahagatbandhan. Here is, however, what we do not know. One, while Kumar has become more unpopular, it is not clear whether the anger is deep enough for the traditional voters of the NDA — upper castes, extreme backward classes (EBCs), and Mahadalits — to desert the ship and vote for RJD candidates. Their voting behaviour will be particularly interesting in seats where the JD(U) is pitted against the RJD. This will depend on a battle of memory — if the memories of the wounds from the Lalu Prasad regime (which Modi did his bit to ignite) persist, they will vote for JD(U) and if the memory of the more recent distress under Kumar is overwhelming, they will give RJD under Tejashwi Yadav an opportunity. A related point is whether Modi’s appeal will be enough to offset the anger. Recent elections have shown that voters now make a clear distinction between national and state polls, and if this happens, the NDA’s trump card may not be as effective. Two, while the size of the RJD crowds is impressive, the composition of the crowd is unclear — and this is symbolic of the uncertainty over its social coalition. Is it largely dominated by its traditionally loyal social groups? Or has the RJD succeeded in knitting back the original Mandal coalition of all other backward classes, including the more marginalised among them? If the RJD gets back both a segment of EBCs and Mahadalit vote, its prospects brighten up considerably. And if it just has its older base of Muslims and Yadavs, it will be a strong Opposition but won’t win enough seats to oust the regime. Three, the impact of the pandemic is not known in two distinct respects. How will it affect voter turnout — will the upper castes, more traditionally loyal to the NDA, stay home and turn more apathetic or will it be social segments loyal to other parties who turn indifferent? And how will the economic dislocation brought about by the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic affect voting patterns? This is especially relevant in a state such as Bihar, which witnesses a high rate of migration. There is an acute unemployment crisis, which is why there is now political competitiveness over who can create more jobs. But once again, it isn’t known whether young people will vote across caste lines, motivated by these issues; whether they think one or the other force is actually capable of generating more employment; or whether they will turn to identity-based voting considerations.And finally, the impact of the third pole in a range of seats is unknown. The LJP, for instance, is hoping to thrive around the ambiguity of its ties with the BJP. Does this mean that the BJP voters in seats where the LJP is pitted against the JD(U) will shift to the former and will this result in a split in the NDA votes to the benefit of the RJD? Or is the LJP too insignificant a force to matter in the big picture? A similar dynamic will playout for the Opposition in Seemanchal, where Upendra Kushwaha-Asaduddin Owaisi-Mayawati have teamed up. Will they split the anti-NDA votes, particularly of Muslims, harming the RJD? Or will they not matter? As the late Pranab Mukherjee once said, elections can only be understood once they are over. Bihar will give its answer on the nature of this election on November 10. letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/bihar-what-we-know-and-what-we-don-t-know/story-DL2qVoIrvPkPd5wZfeDbAM.html
