31-10-2020||Hindustan||Chanakya: Do jobs matter in Indian elections?||There is a puzzle that has stayed unresolved in Indian political analysis, especially electoral studies. To put it simply, here is the question — what is the correlation between a political party’s track record and promise on economic management, particularly employment generation, and its electoral performance?This question has got even more urgent in recent years, for the disjunct between the two indicators is quite apparent, especially at the national level. Remember the 2019 elections. It was clear, even then, almost a year before the pandemic struck, that the economy was slowing down. Demonetisation and the rollout of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) had hurt smaller firms and the informal sector severely; private investment was down; hopes that manufacturing would increase under Make in India, leading to more jobs, hadn’t really materialised; and demand had dipped. Politically, however, the dispensation that presided over the period which saw this dip in economic indicators returned to power — with an even bigger majority, underlining that at the polling booth, there are a range of complex motivations and variables that come into play.And that is why Tejashwi Yadav’s promise of a million jobs — notably government jobs, which remain the most attractive option for a majority of the working force because of the security of tenure and social status — if elected to power in Bihar, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s promise of 1.9 million jobs, is an interesting moment in Indian politics. Does this mean that we are, finally, seeing the beginning of an overlap between the political discourse and economic realities? Or is that too premature a conclusion?The answer to that question actually lies in examining why parties struggle to articulate the jobs question and how they have articulated economic issues in elections, and what really motivates voters.Think about parties first. Across the political spectrum, there is a recognition that finding jobs — and good jobs with respectable wages and a degree of security of employment — is India’s biggest challenge. But this is almost always accompanied by a fatalistic recognition that finding those jobs is going to be very hard, even if no party admits it publicly.The limits of India’s services-led growth have been clear to policymakers for close to two decades. While the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government banked substantially on infrastructure to create jobs, both the Manmohan Singh and Narendra Modi governments recognised that manufacturing was the only way to generate mass employment. But this is difficult to achieve, for a range of factors — a challenging regulatory environment, unpredictable policies, absence of land and labour reforms, local networks of corruption, global economic chains, among others. And therefore, while the rhetoric is centred around manufacturing-led employment, there is a realisation that this won’t happen soon.Politically, therefore, parties adopt a range of techniques to neutralise the criticism over the inability to generate jobs. The United Progressive Alliance government banked on welfare schemes — particularly the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme — to provide a safety valve. The Modi government banked on its own boutique of welfare schemes — rural housing, toilet construction, distribution of gas cylinders, opening of bank accounts, direct income transfer to farmers — to offset the criticism on its economic record. In states such as Bihar, Nitish Kumar banked on the improvement in law and order and infrastructure — and rightly claimed these were prerequisites to industrialise — to win polls in the past, except that the promised industrialisation never happened.The other strategy used by parties is a return to classic Indian-style emphasis on group identities. In the task of democratic mobilisation, it is tempting to rally voters based on identities which are a lived reality for them, such as religion or caste; it is also easier to do so when these identities are either deeply entrenched and ranged against other identities (for instance, the Hindu-Muslim fault line) or are the basis of political marginalisation and upward mobility (for instance, the case of Dalit and Other Backward Classes upsurge) or of new resentments (for instance, the upper caste angst over reservations). Even progressive parties then don’t invest in forging solidarities on economic questions on class lines. The fear that not delivering on jobs can cost elections dissipates. And the calculation that the voter will not only vote on the basis of material conditions but on other emotive factors enables this strategy to succeed.Is this calculation correct or misplaced? For this, turn to voters.The most remarkable insight Chanakya got into voter psychology in the 2019 elections was during encounters with a Dalit family with Unnao and a group of young men playing cards in the middle of the day in Mirzapur — both in Uttar Pradesh. In both cases, despite growing distress, and lack of opportunities, voters were unwilling to blame the government. Instead, they attributed it to their own shortcomings, or in some cases, to the whims of private sector employers. This is not to suggest that unemployment has not been a big issue for voters, but to suggest that there hasn’t been a neat causal link in the minds of voters between a government’s record and their individual economic prospects.This can either be read as a rationalisation to support a leader who strikes an emotional chord, or a willingness to see the complex challenge at hand for any regime, or the ability to go beyond one’s immediate economic interest in shaping political choices, or the lack of belief that any other dispensation can really resolve the crisis of joblessness either, or all of these factors.There is also both a more parochial as well as a deeper, idealistic calling that appears to motivate voters. At the more insular level, tribal passions — driven by caste solidarity or antagonism, religious faith or conflict, local alliances and resentments — play a part. This gets intensified because access to state services is often easier when public representatives from your community enjoy power. At the deeper level, ideas such as nationalism drive choices — and irrespective of one’s view on the dominant idea of nationalism at the moment, for many, this is a higher ideal even beyond self-interest.This, then, brings us back to the jobs question and what has changed. It is not just the absence of employment generation, but the fact that job losses have intensified to an unprecedented degree that is shifting the discourse. The link between government policies and economic harm is becoming clear. In Bihar, in particular, migrants and their families have felt the pain of dislocation. Voters appear to be sending a message that it is time to go beyond the basic welfare kitty or the business-as-usual identity battles now. Whether this marks a temporary shift or a deeper rupture in the relationship between political and economic performance will have to be seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/chanakya-do-jobs-matter-in-indian-elections/story-5nsRtmwUBCmGW69AEyYUfO.html
31-10-2020||Hindustan||What political parties must not do for votes, writes Karan Thapar||Let me start with an admission. I accept what I’m about to state could be coloured by the fact I have Covid-19. I would like to believe it’s not but I can’t be certain. Each of you must judge for yourself.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Bihar manifesto promise of a free vaccine if it wins is immoral and I’ll soon explain why. The manifesto proclaims: “It is our promise that when a vaccine for Covid is available… every Bihar resident will be given free vaccination.” Nirmala Sitharaman, who released the document, went further. “This is the first promise in our Sankalp Patra”, she said. So it follows it’s the most important. And it’s made “with responsibility”. In other words, the BJP has carefully thought it through.Now, the promise does not breach India’s carefully-defined electoral laws or rules. Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act states that “a declaration of public policy or a promise of public action” are acceptable manifesto promises and not an attempt to gain undue influence. The Congress’s Nyay scheme of 2019, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s repeated cornucopia of goodies in Tamil Nadu elections, and countless loan waivers for farmers by several parties are justified on this ground.However, it’s when you consider what these promises amount to — what they are, in fact, saying to voters — that you will realise the ocean-like gap between waiving farm loans or giving gratis TVs and promising a free vaccine. These manifesto promises are transactional. Although no money is changing hands, it’s not incorrect to say that they are ways of soliciting people’s votes. Colloquially, we call that buying. A party is saying to the voters, if you vote for me in sufficient numbers, and I win, I will do A, B and C for you.Now, promises of free TVs or loan waivers cater to people’s material needs. A promise of a free vaccine, in the middle of a pandemic raging for ten months, plays upon people’s fears. Not for their country, state or community but of their own lives. In these circumstances, the unstated part is if you don’t vote for the BJP, your life could be at risk. Metaphorically speaking, that feels like a gun to the head.What makes it worse is this promise has been made by a party that’s ruling the entire country. The BJP is not just committed, but also obliged to, do its best for every Indian. At this time, every citizen is afraid of Covid-19 and anxious for a vaccine. I would add the majority are not just hoping for, but also dependent upon, a free vaccine. Yet, the BJP has promised it only to the voters of Bihar.Let me, however, go one step further. There’s a critical difference between the British Labour Party promising a National Health Service (NHS) in the 1945 elections and the BJP promising a free vaccine in Bihar in 2020. There wasn’t a pandemic in 1945 and certainly not the worst in a century. Tens of millions were not infected by disease. Hundreds of thousands were not in danger of dying.The NHS created a system to cater to a long-felt need. The vaccine is an urgent solution to a pressing and, perhaps, worsening crisis. The British people had lived their lives waiting for a NHS and, if necessary, could have waited longer. Many Indians — perhaps a majority? — could die if the pandemic sharply escalates and they can’t afford a vaccine.Ultimately, it’s not the immorality of this promise that distresses me. It’s the distastefulness of it. It’s unbecoming. It’s beyond the pale. I didn’t think people would stoop so low to get someone’s vote. There are some limits you do not cross. Isn’t that what they mean when they say there’s honour even among thieves?As I end, I’m reminded of the title of Alan Paton’s book Cry, the beloved country. If you substitute the definite article with the pronoun my, it could apply to us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/what-political-parties-must-not-do-for-votes-writes-karan-thapar/story-Bhc1VmV3qj4ZeeoTzXNRQL.html
31-10-2020||Hindustan||Strengthen the NCW to effect real change | Opinion||Over the last month, the National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma has come in for much criticism over her social media messages before she took office. The messages were derogatory to women. This is condemnable and clearly suggests that due diligence was not exercised before appointing such a person to what is a national body entrusted to ensure justice and rights for women.While Sharma deserves criticism, past chairpersons of this organisation have been unimpressive, to say the least. They have invariably reacted after a crime has been committed, only to fall silent once it moves away from the headlines. The NCW, to be fair, does take up issues which affect women’s rights but there is rarely any follow-up. This could be because it does not have legislative powers. It can recommend amendments to the law which are not binding on the government that selects both members and the chairperson. The selection process seems based on political preferences rather than competence. But once in office, the chairperson can surely push to keep the focus on women’s issues and push to hold offenders accountable for crimes against them. Apart from expressing displeasure, the NCW seems unwilling or incapable of at least making sure that issues relating to women are not taken up and dropped so routinely.One issue which the NCW has taken up and which merits much more effort is that of benefits for women migrant workers. They are vulnerable to middlemen who take cuts on their already meagre pay and have no protection from abuse and sexual harassment in their workplaces. There have been calls to set up a portal where the details of women workers are available and the facilities provided to them by the employer but, so far, not much has moved on this front. As it is, labour laws for non-formal establishments are weak at best. In the case of women, they are weaker still.The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code 2020 provides for, among other things, first-aid, crèches and canteens, even temporary housing, all of which would help women workers. But unless there is a vigilant monitoring mechanism, it is unlikely that all this will be provided. In a shrinking job market, it is not likely that the women workers will complain about working conditions and this is where a body such as the NCW could play a constructive role. The NCW can help make migrant women workers aware of their rights. Maternity, immunisation and nutrition benefits can all be accessed from various government schemes providing women have the necessary documentation. These are not high-profile issues but should and must be taken up by the NCW, if it wants to work as an enabling organisation for women.But for this, the NCW leadership must be selected transparently from among women, or even men, of merit. The chairperson must command respect both in the government and across civil society. This is a time when women need help in various areas more than ever, from health care to jobs, to safety to nutrition. It is not enough for the NCW to make grandiose statements about the death penalty for rapists or express outrage every time there is a crime against women.Women need help at all levels, especially now. The NCW should be an organisation which can step up to the plate and fulfil its mandate, but that does not seem likely given its current composition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/strengthen-the-ncw-to-effect-real-change-opinion/story-3M0XOg2DFvUHmSy7jhiPgN.html
