03-02-2021||India||Ex-SAD leader sends legal notice to Twitter to delete Kangana's defamatory tweet against farmers||Former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Manjit Singh GK has sent a legal notice to social media giant Twitter asking it to immediately delete the account of Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut for tweeting alleged defamatory statements against farmers.The legal notice, which was sent to the Managing Director of Twitter in Maharashtra on Tuesday through e-mail, said the posts by the actress are factually incorrect and are maligning or tarnishing the image, reputation and goodwill of farmers and the entire Sikh community associated with them.The notice, sent through advocate Naginder Benipal, said it was given for attacking the farmers and the Sikh community who are protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Central Government with the assent of the President.Referring to Ranaut's tweet, it said that on February 2, she had replied to a tweet of international pop star Ms. Rihanna who had tweeted "why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest".In her reply, Ranaut tweeted "No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA."The notice claimed that the actress was using her fan following to try and defame the farmers and the Sikh community so associated with it and has declared them anti-national by claiming them to be terrorists who are trying to weaken the strength and protection of the country."My client is very concerned and serious in protecting the integrity of the nation, the farmers and the entire Sikh community and will not accept such derogatory, false and malicious statements against the farmers," Benipal said in the notice.It said Singh, President of Jagg Asra Guru Ott (JAGO) a religious party, has taken objection to the actress’ act and he is constrained to issue this legal notice to Twitter to delete her account immediately to stop her from harming the peace of the nation.“In the light of the aforesaid, it is requested that the said tweets be taken down/ blocked off from your web portal with immediate effect. The said defamatory/ disparaging/ denigrating (statements) have already been reported on your web portal as per the procedure prescribed albeit they are available for public viewership till date.“Kindly note, that if the said tweets are not take down and her account is not blocked from your platform, then you shall be considered liable for the defamatory content and as such we reserve our right to initiate appropriate legal proceedings as per law which shall be at your sole risk and consequences,” the notice said.It also said that if the company fails to comply with the notice, it shall be solely at its risk and consequences and that Singh would be entitled to seek recourse of all legal remedies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exsad-leader-sends-legal-notice-to-twitter-to-delete-kangana-s-defamatory-tweet-against-farmers-101612367708624.html
03-02-2021||Latest||'External forces can't be participants': Tendulkar, Shastri on Rihanna's tweet||After international celebrities commented on the ongoing farmers' protest in the country against the three farm laws, former Indian cricket captain Sachin Tendulkar on Wednesday said India's sovereignty cannot be compromised and external forces cannot become participants."India's sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda," Tendulkar tweeted.India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation.#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropagandaMeanwhile, India cricket team head coach Ravi Shastri also asserted this is an internal matter which will be resolved through dialogue."Agriculture is a very important part of the machinery of the Indian economic system. Farmers are the backbone of any country's ecosystem. This is an internal matter which I'm sure will be resolved through dialogue. Jai Hind! #IndiaStandsTogether #IndiaAgainstPropoganda," Shastri tweeted.Agriculture is a very important part of the machinery of the Indian economic system. Farmers are the backbone of any country’s ecosystem. This is an internal matter which I’m sure will be resolved through dialogue. Jai Hind! #IndiaStandsTogether #IndiaAgainstPropoganda 🇮🇳Earlier in the day, former India spinner Pragyan Ojha said the country knows how important farmers are and an outsider's opinion is not needed on an internal matter after international pop star Rihanna extended support to farmers protesting on the borders of India's capital."My country is proud of our farmers and knows how important they are, I trust it will be addressed soon. We don't need an outsider poking her nose in our internal matters," said Ojha while replying to Rihanna's tweet.On Tuesday, Rihanna took to Twitter to share a news story by CNN on the internet shutdown in several districts of Delhi's neighbouring state Haryana after protestors broke barricades to enter New Delhi and clashed with police in several parts of the national capital during the January 26 'tractor rally' protest organised by farmers."Why aren't we talking about this?!", tweeted Rihanna and added the hashtag #FarmersProtest along with the post on the micro-blogging site.Teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg had also extended support to the farmers protesting on the borders of New Delhi. "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India," Thunberg had tweeted.The Ministry of External Affairs, in its statement, on Wednesday said that the government has passed the laws "after a full debate and discussion" and has "initiated a series of talks" to address the farmers' issues. The statement also condemned the violence that broke out during the protests on Republic Day.The MEA also condemned celebrities, who have drawn attention to the farmers' protest on social media. "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the statement read alongside hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/external-forces-can-t-be-participants-tendulkar-shastri-on-farmers-protest-101612364407740.html
03-02-2021||India||'Progress, not propaganda': Amit Shah's message on Twitter war over farm stir||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said propaganda can't decide India's progress. Sharing the statement of the ministry of external affairs in which the ministry termed international support to farmers' protest as irresponsible, Amit Shah said propaganda can neither disrupt India's unity nor can decide India's fate. "India stands united and together to achieve progress," he wrote with hashtags IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether. Many ministers and BJP leaders tweeted using these hashtags, first used by the MEA in its statement, committing to India's unity.No propaganda can deter India’s unity!No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights!Propaganda can not decide India’s fate only ‘Progress’ can.India stands united and together to achieve progress.#IndiaAgainstPropaganda#IndiaTogether https://t.co/ZJXYzGieCtThough the tweets, MEA's statement do not mention Rihanna, the action from the government stems from American pop singer Rihanna's tweet on Tuesday in which she raised the issue of the farmers' protest and triggered huge international support for the ongoing farmers' protest.why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest https://t.co/obmIlXhK9SThe CNN article that Rihanna shared talked about how internet access in several districts in the national Capital was disrupted following the clashes between the Delhi police and farmers on January 26.The article also voiced "concerns over democracy" and said, "Although India is the world's most populous democracy, it also topped the world in terms of internet shutdowns in 2019, according to Access Now, an advocacy group which tracks internet freedom."The Centre claimed that this is a part of a concerted effort to hurt India's democracy and the ministry, in its statement, linked this with the recent incidents of desecration of Mahatma Gandhi's statues. "This is extremely disturbing for India and for civilised society everywhere... We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse," the statement said.It also sai that facts need to be ascertained before rushing to comment on such matters. "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to be celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the statement said, denouncing the comments of international celebrities. After Rihanna, climate activist Greta Thunberg too tweeted in support of the farmers.Not only ministers or BJP leaders, but several Indian celebrities also took to Twitter on Wednesday rallying behind India's commitment to unity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/progress-not-propaganda-amit-shah-s-stern-message-on-farmers-protest-101612361980104.html
03-02-2021||India||'What is Parliament for?': Shashi Tharoor on Centre's refusal to debate on farmers' protest||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday questioned the government's stubborn attitude for refusing the demands of the opposition parties to debate on the three contentious farm laws against which farmers' unions have been protesting since November. Calling the Centre's refusal to opposition's request for a debate in Parliament "undemocratic", the Thiruvananthapuram MP said, "If a debate were allowed to happen, MPs could voice the concerns of their constituents, the farmers, and propose solutions to the crisis. But GoI is stubbornly refusing the Opposition's request for a debate as they refused to agree to the farmer unions' demands. This is undemocratic."Click here for complete coverage on Parliament sessionThe Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 9pm on Wednesday after several adjournments during the day as opposition MPs demanded a separate debate on farm laws."I just cannot understand the attitude of the Govt and the Speaker in refusing a discussion on the Farmers protests and instead insisting on clubbing it with the debate on the President's Address. Parliament exists to give people's representatives a voice on burning issues of the day!" Tharoor said."What does GoI think Parliament is for? It is a deliberative body of elected representatives meant to offer their collective views on issues of national importance. Last session, GoI refused to discuss China and now farmers. Why have a Parliament at all if you don't want it to function?" he added.What does GoI think Parliament is for? It is a deliberative body of elected representatives meant to offer their collective views on issues of national importance. Last session, GoI refused to discuss China &now farmers. Why have a Parlmnt at all if you don't want it to function?The government on Wednesday agreed to discuss the issue of the farmers with the opposition parties for 15 hours, which came as a breakthrough. But as Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said that the deliberations will take place in the Upper House after the debate on the motion of thanks to the President's address to Friday's joint sitting, opposition members started protesting.The government and the opposition parties came to a consensus on the discussion of the farm laws. The 15-hour deliberations will happen in the Upper House of Parliament where the Question Hour has been halted for two days.Also Read | Farm laws stir: Three AAP members suspended from Parliament for sloganeeringFarmers from several states, mostly from the northwestern states of India like Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 around the borders of national capital for more than two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-parliament-for-tharoor-on-centre-s-refusal-to-debate-on-farm-laws-101612357594943.html
03-02-2021||Bollywood||Suniel Shetty takes on critics of his ‘India against propaganda’ tweet: ‘I'm a farmer myself’||Suniel Shetty joined a host of Bollywood celebrities, including Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar, Ekta Kapoor and Anupam Kher, and tweeted about the ongoing farmers’ protest with the hashtag ‘India Against Propaganda’. Their tweets came after the external affairs ministry’s statement on certain ‘vested interest groups’ succeeding in getting ‘international support against India’, after pop singer Rihanna, teenage activist Greta Thunberg and others backed the farmers.Earlier on Wednesday, Suniel shared the ministry’s statement on Twitter and wrote, “We must always take a comprehensive view of things, as there is nothing more dangerous than half truth #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda.”However, Suniel’s views were met with backlash online. Reacting to the same, he told ETimes, “I am supporting the farmers. I'm supporting the government and supporting India. My statement was very very clear to all the celebrities from outside of India defaming us, and giving the wrong picture about what's happening in our country.”Also read: Kangana Ranaut asks Diljit Dosanjh to prove patriotism after his RiRi song, he says ‘not just your country’“I'm a farmer myself, my forefathers were farmers. And we should always respect that. The farmers are our backbone. And that is the most important thing, my statement is very, very clear. That doesn't work. And this is to all the celebrities who are trying to comment on our country without really knowing too much about what's going on,” he added.We must always take a comprehensive view of things, as there is nothing more dangerous than half truth. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda @hiteshjain33 https://t.co/7rNZ683ZAUThe external affairs ministry, in its statement, referred to ‘sensationalist social media hashtags and comments’ by ‘celebrities and others’ but didn’t name anyone.On Tuesday, Rihanna drew attention to the farmers’ protest by sharing a news article on the internet shutdown near the site. “Why aren’t we talking about this?!” she asked. Sharing the same story, Greta wrote that she is standing in 'solidarity' with the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/suniel-shetty-takes-on-critics-of-his-india-against-propaganda-tweet-i-m-a-farmer-myself-101612357680182.html
03-02-2021||India||'Matter of pride': Farmers' union on support from Rihanna, Greta Thunberg||The umbrella body of the protesting farmers' unions has acknowledged the international support towards its protest with pride even as the ministry of external affairs dismissed their tweets terming them as "neither accurate nor responsible".A Twitter storm was kicked up on Tuesday after Americal pop singer Rihanna shares a CNN article on farmers protests and wrote, "Why aren't we talking about this?" Swedish activist Greta Thunberg too extended her support as she wrote, "We stand in solidarity with the #farmersprotest in India."The tweets met strong reaction from Indian Twitter users. Claims and counter-claims were made over how international celebrities have been roped in. As the international influencers have a massive following on Twitter, it soon snowballed into a Twitter storm, prompting the ministry of external affairs to issue a statement.The farmers' leaders, on the other hand, are happy over international acknowledgement. Samyukta Kisan Morcha's Darshan Pal said it was a matter of pride that international personalities have shown sensitivity towards the cause of farmers. "On the other hand, it is unfortunate that the government is not understanding the pain of the farmers and some people are even calling peaceful farmers as terrorists," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/matter-of-pride-farmers-union-on-support-from-rihanna-greta-thunberg-101612357779116.html
03-02-2021||India||Lawyers urge CJI to take cognizance of internet shutdown order at Delhi borders||A group of 140 lawyers has written a letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde urging him to take cognizance of a Centre's direction to impose internet shutdowns at Delhi borders where farmers are protesting against the three farm laws.The letter urged the CJI to take suo motu note of the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and suspend the order to ensure that farmers' right to protest is protected. The lawyers have suggested to the CJI that the apex judiciary should direct the MHA to “restrain from imposing further Internet shutdowns at the protest sites and adjoining areas.”The letter written by lawyers Sitwat Nabi and Abhisht Hela, which purportedly contained signatures of 140 advocates, asked “the Judiciary under the guidance of the CJI to set up a Commission of Enquiry to probe into: - police inaction in controlling the violence and the role of the Delhi Police in allegedly facilitating the mob attack on 29 January, 2021 and failing to ensure peace and security.""Action against the 200 local hoodlums who, as reports state, had engaged in the manhandling of protestors, and journalists at the Singhu Protest venue. Strict action against the journalists and the news channels who are spreading provocative content and fake rumors about the farmers and their protest,” the letter said.The suspension of internet order issued by the MHA is a “gross misuse of power by the Central government and is causing disruption to the protestors and individuals in exercising their fundamental conferred under Article 19 (1) (a) which had been upheld by the Supreme Court in…,” it said.“The 'state-of-the-art' political scenario of the year 2021 is witnessing a paradigm shift wherein there has been incessant vilification and ostracization of the farmers protesting against the three Farm Laws for over 6 months. Aggravating the issue further, many mainstream media channels are determined to change their names from 'Farmers' or “'Ann-daatas' to 'Terrorists' or 'Khalistanis', “ it said.The farmers are protesting at three Delhi borders for almost two months seeking repeal of three laws. They are: the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.On January 12, the apex court had already stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and had constituted a committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyers-urge-cji-to-take-cognizance-of-internet-shutdown-order-at-delhi-borders-101612356805843.html
03-02-2021||India||Fortification continues at Ghazipur, MHA official says no further ban imposed on internet||Stringent security continued on Wednesday at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, one of the key protest sites where thousands of farmers are camping with a demand that the Centre repeal the new agri-marketing laws enacted last September.Internet services remained disrupted for the fifth day at the site on Delhi's outskirts where protesters are occupying a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut highway since November, even as a Ghaziabad Police officer told PTI that online connectivity has been restored but there could be glitches.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had announced suspension of internet services at the three border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur and their adjoining areas from 11 pm on January 29 effective till 11 pm on January 31.Later it extended the suspension till 11 pm on February 2.“There has been no further extension of internet suspension at these sites as of now,” a Home Ministry official said on Wednesday.BKU's Meerut zone president Pawan Khatana said the internet was inaccessible at Ghazipur early on Wednesday till the time he left for a mahapanchayat in Haryana’s Jind with union leader Rakesh Tikait and other supporters.Ghaziabad Superintendent of Police (City 2) Gyanendra Singh told PTI, “Internet services have been restored but there could be glitches or slow speed due to crowd at the protest site.”Iron nails studded on roads, multi-layer iron and concrete barricades, concertina wires remained fixed as large number of security personnel were deployed as fortification of Ghazipur continued to prevent protesters' movement to Delhi.On the security apparatus at the protest sites, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava had Tuesday told media, “We have only strengthened the barricading so that it is not broken again.”Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fortification-continues-at-ghazipur-mha-official-says-no-further-ban-imposed-on-internet-101612353926469.html
03-02-2021||India||After MEA statement on 'hashtag temptation', ministers tweet #IndiaTogether||Soon after the ministry of external affairs issued a statement denouncing 'international instigation' to farmers' protest, all ministers shared the statement with #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda, making it a social media movement countering 'defamation of the government' on social media platforms. The message underlying the tweets remained the same that there is an international conspiracy going on to weaken India and India will defeat these forces.Union minister Amit Shah took to Twitter and said no propaganda can deter India's unity. "No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights! Propaganda can not decide India's fate, only 'Progress' can. India stands united and together to achieve progress," he wrote. No propaganda can deter India’s unity!No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights!Propaganda can not decide India’s fate only ‘Progress’ can.India stands united and together to achieve progress.#IndiaAgainstPropaganda#IndiaTogether https://t.co/ZJXYzGieCt"We will not be cowed down by an international gang of anarchy lovers. We saw how they unleashed violence and desecrated our national flag on Republic Day. Let's unite now and defeat these forces," tweeted minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy.'Ascertain facts before rushing to comment': MEA on tweets by Rihanna and others on farmers' stirWe will not be cowed down by an international gang of anarchy lovers.We saw how they unleashed violence and desecrated our national flag on Republic Day.Let's unite now and defeat these forces#IndiaAgainstPropaganda #IndiaTogether https://t.co/UR83p2lYs0"We stand together. We stand United against all attempts to malign India through propaganda and fake narratives," tweeted BJP chief JP Nadda."For 1,000 of years, India was defeated, occupied, looted & ruled by the invaders not because India was weak but there was always a Jaichand. We need to ask who’s behind this international propaganda to defame India," wrote Kiren Rijiju.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan wrote, "Under the leadership of PM Shri @narendramodi, India is scaling new heights on all frontiers. No stone is left unturned to benefit our farmers. I would strongly recommend those who are showing 'concern' for the farmers to study #FarmLaws."भारत की बढ़ती शक्ति से भयभीत अंतर्राष्ट्रीय ताकतें हमारे देश, और देश के लोकतंत्र को कमजोर करने के लिये षडयंत्र रच रही हैं।हमें सुनिश्चित करना है कि हम एक रहें, और विदेशी तथा अराजक तत्वों की कोई योजना सफल ना हो।#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropagandahttps://t.co/msdOJun3fc https://t.co/WWTK8jk0ZuRailways minister Piyush Goyal wrote, "International forces are conspiring to weaken the country and its democracy fearing its growing power. We have to ensure that we remain united and that no plan of foreign and chaotic elements is successful.""The reformist legislation relating to agricultural sector were passed by India's parliament after full debate & discussion. The govt has already held 11 rounds of talks with some farmers who expressed their reservations about the laws," tweeted minister Hardeep Singh Puri.“Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken.”#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropagandahttps://t.co/rGJiPvlM4DThe reformist legislation relating to agricultural sector were passed by India's parliament after full debate & discussion. The govt has already held 11 rounds of talks with some farmers who expressed their reservations about the laws.#IndiaTogether#IndiaAgainstPropaganda pic.twitter.com/RRdjyQUfLzIn the wake of international support pouring in for farmers' protests as American singer Rihanna, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the ongoing protests and the resultant internet suspension, the MEA issued a statement terming this support as "unfortunate". In its statement, it also said that a very small section of farmers has some reservations about the farm laws."It is unfortunate to see vested interest groups trying to enforce their agenda on these protests, and derail them. This was egregiously witnessed on January 26, India's Republic Day. A cherished national commemoration, the anniversary of the inauguration of the Constitution of India, was besmirched, and violence and vandalism took place in the Indian Capital," the statement read.Without referring to Rihanna or Thunberg, the statement continued, "Some of these vested interest groups have also tried to mobilise international support against India/I. Instigated by such fringe elements, Mahatma Gandhi statues have been desecrated in parts of the world...""Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that facts be ascertained and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken. The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to be celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," it concluded with the two hashtags which ministers started tweeting with.The Twitter trend did not end with only politicians. Several Bollywood personalities, including Akshay Kumar, Ekta Kapoor, Suniel Shetty, Ajay Devgn tweeted using the hashtags urging people to not trust in half-truths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-tweet-for-india-together-after-mea-s-statement-on-farm-stir-101612353653304.html
03-02-2021||Bollywood||Kangana Ranaut asks Diljit Dosanjh to prove patriotism after his RiRi song, he says ‘not just your country’||Kangana Ranaut questioned Diljit Dosanjh’s song RiRi, dedicated to Rihanna, whose clarion call on the farmers’ protest triggered an outpouring of international support. Kangana, who has been critical of the agitation, suggested that Diljit and Rihanna were in cahoots with each other for at least a month.“Isko bhi apne 2 rupees banane hain, yeh sab kabse plan ho raha hai ?One month toh minimum lagega (He wants to earn a few bucks too, how long have you been planning this? It takes at least a month) to prep for video and announcement, and libru want us to believe it’s all organic ha ha #Indiatogether #IndiaAgainstPropoganda,” she wrote on Twitter.Isko bhi apne 2 rupees banane hain, yeh sab kabse plan ho raha hai ?One month toh minimum lagega to prep for video and announcement, and libru want us to believe it’s all organic ha ha #Indiatogether #IndiaAgainstPropoganda https://t.co/WvxxRr4T1FThe tweet was in response to Diljit’s new song, in which he thanked God for creating a 'pari (fairy)' like Rihanna. He also sang about wanting to overwhelm her with presents and being obsessed with her, like the rest of the world.Replying to Kangana, Diljit wrote, “2 Rupees. Apne Wali Job Mainu Na Das.. Gana Tan half An Hour Ch Bana Lene An Asi.. Tere te Banaun Nu Jee Ni Karda Mint tan 2 Hee Lagne an.. HAR JAGHA TU BOLNA HUNDA.. Ja Yaar Bore Na Kar .. Kam Kar Apna (Don't teach me my job. I can make a song in half an hour. I don’t feel like making one on you, but it would take two minutes. Do you have to butt in everywhere? Don't bore me, go and do your work).”Kangana responded that her only job was being a patriot and she would not let Diljit succeed in his plans. “Mera ek he kaam jai Desh Bhakti ... wahi karti hoon sara din.. main toh wahi karungi lekin tera kaam tujhe nahin karne dungi Khalistani (I only have one job - to be a patriot. That is what I do all day. I will continue to do that but I will not allow you to succeed in your plans, you Khalistani).”Mera ek he kaam jai Desh Bhakti ... wahi karti hoon sara din.. main toh wahi karungi lekin tera kaam tujhe nahin karne dungi Khalistani... https://t.co/NsU5DzXCiGDiljit questioned Kangana’s authority and replied, “Ley Koi Tukk Banndi aa Teri … Na Koi Ser Na Pair .. Rab Ni Banida Hunda.. Main Nahi Karne Dungi. Tu Kon an Yaar... Dhakke Naal Hee aa Vadh Di an.. Ja Yaar.. Teri Koi Gal Ni Kar RIHA (You make no sense. Don’t play God. You say you will not let me? Who the hell are you? You show up every time. Go away, no one is talking about you).”Teri Canada gang kuch bhi kar payegi ... Khalistan sirf tum logon ke dimaag ka jo empty space hai uska naam rahega, hum iss desh ke tukde nahin hone denge, karlo jitne chahe dangge aur strikes #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda https://t.co/sXkXMRMtxlDiljit reminded Kangana that he was as much a citizen of India as her. “Oh Tera Kalli Da Ni Haiga DESH ... Ki Ho Geya Tainu ...? Kiney Bulekha Pa Ta Tainu ... ? DESH SAREYA DA BHAI... Hosh KAR Hosh ... INDIA SADA V AA BHAI... TU JA YAAR.. BORE NA KAR (It’s not just your country. What’s wrong with you. What misconception are you living under? This country belongs to us all. Pay attention. India is ours too. Go away. You’re boring me. Nobody’s talking about you. Who are you? You keep showing up every time, talking nonsense),” he wrote.Kangana asked Diljit to prove his patriotism. “Desh sirf Bhartiyon ka hai, Khalistanion ka nahin, bol tu Khalistani nahin hai (India only belongs to Indians, not Khalistanis. Declare that you are not a Khalistani), please say you condemn fringe groups such as Khalistanis participating in protests. If you say this I will apologise and consider you a true patriot. Please say I am waiting #IndiaTogether,” she wrote.Desh sirf Bhartiyon ka hai, Khalistanion ka nahin, bol tu Khalistani nahin hai, please say you condemn fringe groups such as Khalistanis participating in protests. If you say this I will apologise and consider you a true patriot. Please say I am waiting #IndiaTogether https://t.co/toq3j4lPxDDiljit reaffirmed his loyalty to India and wrote, “Asi Bhai BHARAT DE NAAL AN.. Jo V Koi Galat Kar RIHA oh Gov. look Out Karugi.. Oh Ona Da Kam An.. Tu Te Mai Thodo decide Kara Ge .. Mai Dekheya Tu Gilla Peen Pa Leni an Gal Da .. Teri Gal Mukdi ni.. Ja Yaar.. Baut Bore Kardi an Tu (We are with India. The government will take care of anybody who says something wrong. That’s their job. Not yours or mine).”Mujhe pata tha tu kabhi nahin bolega ki tu Khalistani nahi hai, this is for everyone to see, bhed ki khaal mein bhediye... Jai Hind https://t.co/Zby730IOoPKangana was not satisfied with Diljit’s reply. “Mujhe pata tha tu kabhi nahin bolega ki tu Khalistani nahi hai (I know you will never declare that you are not a Khalistani), this is for everyone to see, bhed ki khaal mein bhediye (you are a wolf in sheep’s clothing)... Jai Hind,” she wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/kangana-ranaut-asks-diljit-dosanjh-to-prove-patriotism-after-his-riri-song-he-says-not-just-your-country-101612345252330.html
03-02-2021||Bollywood||Akshay Kumar, Ekta Kapoor, Karan Johar call for unity after Rihanna's comment: 'Don't let anyone divide us'||Actors Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Anupam Kher, Suniel Shetty; filmmaker Karan Johar; and producer Ekta Kapoor have called for unity, a day after several international figures, including singer Rihanna and activist Greta Thunberg, commented on the ongoing farmer protests.Using similar language in their tweets, the Bollywood personalities said that the nation shouldn't be divided.Sharing a statement by the external affairs ministry on the matter, Akshay wrote in a tweet on Wednesday, "Farmers constitute an extremely important part of our country. And the efforts being undertaken to resolve their issues are evident. Let’s support an amicable resolution, rather than paying attention to anyone creating differences. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda."Farmers constitute an extremely important part of our country. And the efforts being undertaken to resolve their issues are evident. Let’s support an amicable resolution, rather than paying attention to anyone creating differences. 🙏🏻#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda https://t.co/LgAn6tIwWpKaran, restricting replies to his tweet, wrote, "We live in turbulent times and the need of the hour is prudence and patience at every turn. Let us together, make every effort we can to find solutions that work for everyone—our farmers are the backbone of India. Let us not let anyone divide us. #IndiaTogether."We live in turbulent times and the need of the hour is prudence and patience at every turn. Let us together, make every effort we can to find solutions that work for everyone—our farmers are the backbone of India. Let us not let anyone divide us. #IndiaTogetherहमारे देश के अंदरूनी मामलों में दख़ल देने वाले कुछ विदेशियों के लिए यह शेर अर्ज़ है... रिंदे ख़राब हाल को ज़ाहिद ना छेड तू , तुझको परायी क्या पड़ी अपनी नबेड तू.. :)#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropagandaWe must always take a comprehensive view of things, as there is nothing more dangerous than half truth. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda @hiteshjain33 https://t.co/7rNZ683ZAUबढ़ते वर्चस्व को देख भारत विरोधी किसी भी हद तक गिर रहे. Even in this sad phase of pandemic,India is helping all nations with vaccine supply for the sake of Humanity.Let all realise that India is ONE & will not tolerate comments against it. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropagandaDon’t fall for any false propaganda against India or Indian policies. Its important to stand united at this hour w/o any infighting 🙏🏼#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropagandaOn Tuesday, singer Rihanna, sharing a news story about the protests, asked, "Why aren’t we talking about this?!" Sharing the same story, Swedish activist Greta Thunberg wrote that she is standing in 'solidarity' with the protesters.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry contended “vested interest groups” are trying to enforce their agenda on the protests to derail them and said these groups have tried to mobilise global support against India. The statement also referred to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others” but didn’t name anyone.Also read: Kangana Ranaut launches new attack against Rihanna, compares her to Neha Kakkar, suggests she's been paidMeanwhile, actor Kangana Ranaut and singer Diljit Dosanjh have been involved in a back-and-forth on Twitter, each taking opposing stances on the issue.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/akshay-kumar-ekta-kapoor-karan-johar-call-for-unity-after-rihanna-s-comment-don-t-let-anyone-divide-us-101612345052689.html
03-02-2021||India||Jind mahapanchayat: Rakesh Tikait, farmer leaders fall as stage collapses||The stage at Haryana's Jind Mahapanchayat where farmers leaders were standing to address the assembly on Wednesday collapsed apparently because of a huge crowd. A video of farmers' leaders, including Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, falling as the stage caves in has surfaced.#WATCH | The stage on which Bharatiya Kisan Union (Arajnaitik) leader Rakesh Tikait & other farmer leaders were standing, collapses in Jind, Haryana.A 'Mahapanchayat' is underway in Jind. pic.twitter.com/rBwbfo0Mm1The Mahapanchayat, one in the series that have been taking place in the last few days, was organised at Kandela village sports stadium. It was organised by Haryana khap leaders to discuss the future of the ongoing farmers' protests.This is the first Kisan mahapanchayat in Haryana.Get your facts right: India responds to barbs from celebrities on farm protestAfter farmers' so-far peaceful protest ran into trouble following tractor march fiasco, the protest has been garnering support from panchayats. There have been mahapanchayats at Muzaffarnagar, Mathura and Baghpat in the past few days. But the Jind one was the first one to be attended by Rakesh Tikait.Organisers earlier said that they made arrangement for 50,000 people. But the presence of Rakesh Tikait has apparently been a crowd-puller and more people than what could be accommodated at the venue reached the spot, possibly leading to the collapsing of the stage. It was not immediately known whether there were any injuries.After farmers' tractor march on Republic Day deviated from its pre-decided route and resulted in a stand-off with the Delhi Police at ITO and the Red Fort, the Capital Police have launched a severe crackdown on farmers' leaders. Ghaziabad administration reportedly asked protesters to vacate Ghazipur protest site to which Rakesh Tikait said he would rather end his life but not withdraw the protest. His appeal is believed to have infused fresh enthusiasm in the protest and as many farmers headed towards Delhi after his emotional appeal, Kisan mahapanchayats are being held. In the panchayats held so far, khap leaders, in a show of strength, have decided to throw their weight behind the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jind-mahapanchayat-rakesh-tikait-farmer-leaders-fall-as-stage-collapses-101612345216364.html
03-02-2021||Bollywood||Diljit Dosanjh drops new song RiRi, in honour of Rihanna, calls her a gift from God||Singer Diljit Dosanjh has released a new song, in honour of singer Rihanna, who on Tuesday shed light on the ongoing farmers' protest in India, much to Diljit's appreciation. Titled RiRi (Rihanna's nickname), Diljit dropped the song on Wednesday."#RIRI #Rihanna," Diljit wrote in a tweet, adding a closed-fist emoji. He shared the YouTube link to the song and tagged the producer and lyricist.In the song, Diljit sang about thanking God for creating a 'pari (fairy)' like her. He also sang about wanting to overwhelm her with presents and being obsessed with her, like the rest of the world.On Tuesday, Rihanna had shared a news story about the protests, asking, "Why aren’t we talking about this?!" Actor Kangana Ranaut, with whom Diljit has a long-standing feud, took offence to Rihanna's comment, and wrote, "No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA... Sit down you fool, we are not selling our nation like you dummies."Diljit, however, shared a Punjabi proverb on Twitter: "Jaat Di Kohr Kirli, Shateeriyan Nu Jaffe... (which in English means that your status in life is rather insignificant but you know how to talk big)." Later, he shared a picture of Rihanna on Instagram Stories, with the song Run This Town playing in the background.Also read: Kangana Ranaut launches new attack against Rihanna, compares her to Neha Kakkar, suggests she's been paidKangana, meanwhile, has launched a fresh attack at the Barbadian singer, attacking her business, her appearance, and comparing her to 'Sunidhi Chauhan and Neha Kakkar'.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/diljit-dosanjh-drops-new-song-riri-in-honour-of-rihanna-calls-her-a-gift-from-god-101612340634972.html
03-02-2021||Bollywood||Kangana Ranaut launches new attack against Rihanna, compares her to Neha Kakkar, suggests she's been paid||Kangana Ranaut has launched another attack in her one-sided Twitter war against singer Rihanna, who on Tuesday shed light on the ongoing farmers' protests in India.Reacting to a news story explaining who Rihanna is, Kangana wrote in a tweet, "Yes please India wants to know, to simplify to Indians, she is a singer much like Sunidhi Chauhan or Neha Kakkar ...what is so special about her, well... she can shake her bum cheeks and expose her a** crack right in to the camera lens while singing..ya that’s all. Nothing else."She continued, "Librus who are getting excited about these American porn stars giving paid opinions about our internal issues, well 99 percent India does not care or respect American way of life, one of the most debouched, money minded and self centred societies. So calm down fools ..."She hasn’t released a single song in 5 years, sells make up but looks like she is feeling Corona blues,Forbes estimated incomes are just PR gimmicks big sham,a million or two won’t hurt her right now, also notice in her tweet she did not commit to any opinion just a vague tweet. https://t.co/57VGWJZ8BeIn another tweet, Kangana added, "She hasn’t released a single song in 5 years, sells make up but looks like she is feeling Corona blues,Forbes estimated incomes are just PR gimmicks big sham,a million or two won’t hurt her right now, also notice in her tweet she did not commit to any opinion just a vague tweet."Previously, Rihanna had shared a news story about the protests with her over 100 million followers, asking, "Why aren’t we talking about this?!" Kangana reacted to this, and wrote for her 3 million followers, "No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA... Sit down you fool, we are not selling our nation like you dummies."No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA... Sit down you fool, we are not selling our nation like you dummies. https://t.co/OIAD5Pa61aAlso read: Diljit Dosanjh hypes up Rihanna's support of farmer protests as Kangana Ranaut calls her a 'fool'The actor also responded to Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, who wrote that she is standing in 'solidarity' with the protesters. Sharing a news report about a 105-year-old organic farmer, Kangana called Thunberg a 'spoilt brat'. Addressing the activist, who was declared as Time's Person of the Year in 2019, and has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, Kangana wrote, "No fancy activists will talk about genuine environmentalist our own grandma ... but they will definitely promote dumb and a spoilt brat ⁦@GretaThunberg⁩ who is being used by entire left lobby and in return she gets to skip her education and school."Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/kangana-launches-new-attack-against-rihanna-compares-her-to-neha-kakkar-suggests-she-s-been-paid-101612337861104.html
03-02-2021||India||'Ascertain facts before rushing to comment': MEA on tweets by Rihanna and others on farmers' stir||The ministry of external affairs (MEA) on Wednesday said that the criticism of India's farm laws by foreign personalities is "unfortunate". Talking about Republic Day violence, the MEA further said that "vested interest groups are trying to enforce their agenda on these protests"."Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector. These reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers," the ministry said in a statement."Before rushing to comment on such matters, we urge that facts be ascertained and proper understanding of issues at hand be undertaken. The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," it further said on the reactions from global celebrities and leaders.Also Read | 'We stand in solidarity': Greta Thunberg extends support to farmers' protestThousands of protesters are agitating against the three farm legislation enacted by Parliament in September last year. The central government has projected the laws as "historic reforms" in the agriculture sector that will work in favour of farmers by removing middlemen and giving them the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, farmers fear that it will put them at the mercy of the big corporates and will remove the Minimum Support Price (MSP).The stir received support from American singer Rihanna and Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. "Why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest," Rihanna tweeted to her more than 100 million followers along with an article that talked about suspension of the internet in areas where these farmers are protesting.Taking it further, Thunberg tweeted, "We stand in solidarity with the farmers' protest in India."Apart from Thunberg, UK Member of Parliament Claudia Webbe also expressed solidarity with the Indian farmers. Author and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, Meena also showed her support on social media towards the agitating farmers as well. "It's no coincidence that the world's oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault," she wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ascertain-facts-before-rushing-to-comment-mea-on-tweets-by-rihanna-and-others-on-farmers-stir-101612337341639.html
03-02-2021||Music||Rihanna, called a 'fool' by Kangana Ranaut, has a long history of activism||Singer Rihanna shot up the Google search charts on Tuesday, after her tweet in support of protesting Indian farmers. While those in allegiance with the protests have hailed her attempt at shining a light on the situation, others, such as actor Kangana Ranaut, dismissed Rihanna's comment.But Rihanna has a long history of activism and philanthropy. In 2012, she founded the nonprofit organisation Clara Lionel Foundation (CLF), which, according to its website, 'funds groundbreaking education and emergency preparedness and response programs around the world'.The foundation raised $5 million ( ₹36 crore) for Covid-19 relief in March 2020. Rihanna further donated over $2 million of her own money, a month later.Other causes that Rihanna has been associated with include spreading awareness for HIV/AIDS, raising funds for cancer research, and for foreign students seeking college education in the US. "To be able to give the gift of an education is actually an honor, higher education will help provide perspective, opportunities and learning to a group of kids who really deserve it. I am thrilled to be able to do this," she said in a 2016 statement.A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri)Also in 2016, Rihanna, along with over 20 other celebrities such as Beyonce, Chris Rock, Jennifer Hudson, Pink and Queen Latifah, appeared in a PSA against police brutality in the US. The video was titled 23 Ways You Could Be Killed If You Are Black in America.In February 2017, Rihanna was named Harvard University's Humanitarian of the Year by the Harvard Foundation.She protested against former US president Donald Trump's executive order to restrict travellers from Muslim-dominated nations, when she posed with a T-shirt emblazoned with 'Immigrant' across it. "Hey @realdonaldtrump," she wrote in the caption of her post.Reacting to the El Paso and Dayton mass shootings in 2019, she directed a comment at Trump on Instagram: "Your country had 2 terrorist attacks back to back hours apart leaving almost 30 innocent people dead. This, just days after yet another terrorist attack in California, where a terrorist was able to LEGALLY purchase an assault rifle (AK-47) in Vegas, then drive hours to a food festival in Cali leaving 6 more people dead including a young infant baby boy!"In October 2019, she stated that she declined to perform at the 2020 Super Bowl halftime show in support of Colin Kaepernick following the controversy surrounding his role in the national anthem protests.Also read: Diljit Dosanjh hypes up Rihanna's support of farmer protests as Kangana Ranaut calls her a 'fool'And on Tuesday, she shared a news report about the ongoing farmers protests, and asked in a tweet, "Why aren’t we talking about this?!" Shortly afterwards, she shed light on the military coup that transpired in Myanmar this week.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/music/rihanna-called-a-fool-by-kangana-ranaut-has-a-long-history-of-activism-101612330223094.html
03-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: UP launches e-cabinet training for ministers, officers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.E-cabinet training for UP ministers and officers, paperless budget next targetThe Uttar Pradesh government held an e-cabinet training for ministers and senior officers on Tuesday. Read More‘As if they are enemies...’: Harsimrat slams barricading at farmer protest sitesFormer Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Wednesday hit out at the Centre over the treatment of protesters. Read MoreSariska tigers’ preference for cattle over wild prey poses danger to big catsA recently published research has concluded that the tigers in Rajasthan’s Sariska wildlife sanctuary preferred to hunt cattle over wild animals as their prey. Read MoreFarm laws stir: Three AAP members suspended from Parliament for sloganeeringRajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday suspended three Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) members for one day. Read MoreCooking, tracking colour codes: Training abroad amid the pandemicVikas Krishan and Neeraj Goyat were involved in sparring of a different kind during their training stint in the United States late last year. Read MoreRecipe: Say cheers to Kanji and boost your digestion this winter seasonWhile studies hint that not all beautiful aesthetics of food or pretty looking meals are healthy, there is an exception with kanji. Read More‘Sometimes you just need a hug’: Clip of embracing kids is all about happinessHave you ever seen a video which is absolutely wholesome and evokes happiness in your heart? Read MoreAero India l ‘Plan to spend $130 bn in military modernisation’: Rajnath SinghDefence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the Aero India show in Bengaluru and urged foreign companies to invest in India in the defence sector. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-up-launches-e-cabinet-training-for-ministers-officers-and-all-the-latest-news-101612334916528.html
03-02-2021||Bollywood||Kangana Ranaut calls Greta Thunberg a 'spoilt brat' for supporting farmers, suggests she's uneducated||After calling singer Rihanna a 'fool' for commenting on the ongoing farmers protests in India, actor Kangana Ranaut has also dismissed Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, calling her a 'spoilt brat'.Kangana on Wednesday shared a news report about a 105-year-old organic farmer, and also slammed the Swedish teen, who was declared Time's Person of the Year in 2019, and has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.Kangana wrote, "No fancy activists will talk about genuine environmentalist our own grandma ... but they will definitely promote dumb and a spoilt brat ⁦@GretaThunberg⁩ who is being used by entire left lobby and in return she gets to skip her education and school."No fancy activists will talk about genuine environmentalist our own grandma ... but they will definitely promote dumb and a spoilt brat ⁦@GretaThunberg⁩ who is being used by entire left lobby and in return she gets to skip her education and school. https://t.co/vbN5yJt897The 'spoilt brat' description is borrowed. Thunberg was previously described as such by British presenter Jeremy Clarkson. More famously, she was told to 'chill' by former US president Donald Trump.In a tweet on Tuesday, she wrote, "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India." Her tweet came after Rihanna posted a news story about the protests, and wrote, "Why aren’t we talking about this?!"No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA... Sit down you fool, we are not selling our nation like you dummies. https://t.co/OIAD5Pa61aIn response, Kangana had tweeted, "No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA... Sit down you fool, we are not selling our nation like you dummies."Also read: Diljit Dosanjh hypes up Rihanna's support of farmer protests as Kangana Ranaut calls her a 'fool'Singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh, who has been a vocal supporter of the protesting farmers, showed support for Rihanna when he shared a picture of her on social media, accompanied by the song, Run this Town.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/kangana-ranaut-calls-greta-thunberg-a-spoilt-brat-for-supporting-farmers-suggests-she-s-uneducated-101612330394862.html
03-02-2021||Bollywood||Jacqueline Fernandez's BFF Amanda Cerny voices support for protesting farmers, takes down trolls||American influencer Amanda Cerny, who hosts a podcast with actor Jacqueline Fernandez, has joined in the chorus of international support for protesting Indian farmers. This comes after tweets from singer Rihanna and activist Greta Thunberg on Tuesday.Amanda took to Instagram to share a black-and-white image of elderly ladies at the protest site, and wrote in her caption that the situation transcends culture. Her post got love from Ammy Virk, Gippy Grewal, Himanshi Khurana, among other, but also attracted its fair share of trolling.A post shared by Amanda 𝕮𝖊𝖗𝖓𝖞 (@amandacerny)"The world is watching," she wrote. "You don't have to be Indian or Punjabi or South Asian to understand the issue. All you have to do is care about humanity. Always demand freedom of speech, freedom of press, basic human and civil rights-equity and dignity for workers."Reacting to a person who asked if she even knew what farming is, Amanda had a savage response. "Yes," she wrote, "it's where you take this (aubergine emoji) and shove it up your (peach emoji)." Reacting a person who said that she would lose followers because of her stance, she wrote, "Quality over quantity."🥰 https://t.co/j4I2D14iIbEarlier, Rihanna shared a news report about the protests, and asked, "Why aren't we talking about this?!" Her comment drew criticism from actor Kangana Ranaut, who has been against the farmer agitation. "No one is talking about it because they are not farmers, they are terrorists who are trying to divide India..." she told her 3 million followers on Twitter. Rihanna has over 100 million.Amanda, who is very popular in India, hosts a podcast with Jacqueline. In their first episode, they hosted Saif Ali Khan as the featured guest. Saif spoke about his family, and his kids' future as actors. He also noted that Jacqueline and Amanda look a lot like each other.Also read: Diljit Dosanjh hypes up Rihanna's support of farmer protests as Kangana Ranaut calls her a 'fool'A couple of years ago, Jacqueline invited Amanda to visit India, which she did. During her trip, she also met actor Salman Khan. Pictures of Amanda, Jacqueline, and Salman, were shared online.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/jacqueline-fernandez-s-bff-amanda-cerny-voices-support-for-protesting-farmers-takes-down-trolls-101612327517273.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Centre defends police use of tear gas on protesters||Defending the use force on protesting farmers during the January 26 tractor rally that descended into violence and chaos, the Union government told Parliament on Tuesday that Delhi Police was left with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons, and mild force to control the agitating crowd, which was also breaking Covid safety protocols. .The ministry of home affairs (MHA), which oversees the policing of the Capital, said that Delhi Police have registered 39 cases between September and December 2020 against the farmers protesting against the new farm laws. These cases do not include those registered in connection with the January 26 violence.Responding to a query by several members of Parliament in the Lok Sabha, Union minister of state (home affairs) G Kishan Reddy said in a written reply: “As regards the use of tear gas and resorting to lathi charge against protesting farmers by the Delhi Police, it has been reported by Delhi Police that at Delhi border, large convoys of protesting farmers in tractor trolleys tried to furiously force their way and go past police barricades to enter Delhi to mark their protest against the recently enacted farm laws.”Also read: Metal batons, just an experiment, say Delhi PoliceHe added that the farmers “aggressively resorted to rioting, damage to government property, and used criminal force to deter public servants from the discharge of their duty, thereby inflicting injuries to the on-duty police personnel. Moreover, social distancing was not followed by the farmers/protestors and they gathered in large numbers without face masks amid Covid-19 pandemic. The farmers’ actions left the Delhi Police with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force to control the crowd”.The minister told Parliament that one case of a farmer’s suicide has been reported to the ministry by the police till date.The Centre, however, appeared to duck a question on number of farmers who have lost their lives so far during the agitation, which have been going on at Delhi’s borders for over two months now. To a query on number of farmers’ killed so far during agitation, the MHA told Parliament that police and law and order is a state subject. “The responsibilities of maintaining law and order, including investigation, registration / prosecution of crimes, conviction of accused, protection of life and property etc. rests primarily with the respective state governments,” the MHA reply stated.In Delhi, law and order comes under the Union government.Farmers claim that over 100 people have died on Delhi’s borders, for various reasons, since the agitation began.The minister also did not give a specific response to a question seeking evidence from the home ministry on the claim that “terrorists have infiltrated the farmers’ agitation”. Over the last month, the government and intelligence agencies have repeatedly said that the farmers’ agitation has been hijacked by some pro-Khalistan elements.Avik Saha, Secretary of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), said, “The government has always been very shy of admitting farmers’ deaths, be it suicides or now during the agitation. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-defends-police-use-of-tear-gas-on-protesters-101612303590260.html
03-02-2021||India||House stalled as Opposition parties demands farm debate||Several opposition parties protesting the farm bills brought Parliament proceedings to a halt on Tuesday by pushing suspension of business motions in the Rajya Sabha and adjournment motions in the Lok Sabha to demand a separate debate on the farm protests before the customary discussion on the President’s speech during the Budget Session.The parties forced repeated suspension of proceedings in both Houses, trooped into the Well, raised slogans and flashed placards, walked out, and continued protests whenever they returned — mirroring scenes of agitation that have played out across northern India and Delhi over the past two months.Rajya Sabha was adjourned three times before it was adjourned for the day, and Lok Sabha three times before it was adjourned just minutes after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Locket Chatterjee initiated the debate on the motion of thanks to the President.There is some hint that normal proceedings may resume on Wednesday since a section of the Opposition feels that it provides opportunity for them to nail the government on the farm issue, as it featured extensively in the January 29 speech by President Ram Nath Kovind.Also read: Over 50% exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in 10 of 11 city districtsCongress floor leader in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said, “We have some issues that we will discuss with Speaker Om Birla. But we want the debate to take place.”Even if there’s a debate, the farm issue is set to dominate the Opposition agenda. The Opposition wants a separate debate on the farm issue but government managers want it covered under the discussion on the President’s speech. As things stand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to reply on the debate in Lok Sabha on Friday and Rajya Sabha on Monday.A few opposition parties may move notices under Rule 267 in the Rajya Sabha, and adjournment motions in the Lower House, to set aside scheduled business and discuss the farm issue.The agitation against the three farm bills started soon after they were passed by Parliament in September. The farmers think the laws will put them at the mercy of corporate firms and gut government-backed support systems. The Centre has assured farmers that the minimum support price regime will not be touched and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but the protesters are pushing for a repeal of the laws.The protests took a violent turn on Republic Day, when agitators broke through barricades on tractors, ran riot on Delhi’s streets and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting the Sikh flag from its ramparts. Since then, protest sites on the outskirts of the Capital have turned into fortresses, with police digging trenches, putting up barbed wire fences, concrete barricades and hammering beds of nails on roads.On Tuesday, farm leader Rakesh Tikait, whose emotional appeal for support last week inspired thousands of farmers from western Uttar Pradesh to join the stir, told agitators to be ready to continue the stir until November. “‘Kanoon wapsi nahi to ghar wapsi nahi (no returning home until the laws are repealed),” he added.Some opposition parties, including the Congress, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Left, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which met on Tuesday morning to strategise, also objected allotment of 10 hours for the entire debate on the President’s speech, and argued that since the PM speaks for about an hour, he should get a separate slot.The Opposition parties will again meet on Wednesday morning to review and renew their strategy.Throughout the day, Lok Sabha Speaker Birla spoke to leaders across parties to run the House but the Opposition remained adamant. There was no formal meeting between Naidu and opposition leaders, according to his officials, but back-channel negotiations are likely to start in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.Protests erupted in the Rajya Sabha at 9.25am after Naidu rejected the Opposition’s notice and said, “As we are going to discuss the President’s address tomorrow as the first item, members can avail themselves of this opportunity and then participate and express their viewpoints. That is why I am not able to accept the notice given to suspend the Business of the House.”The opposition members from the TMC, Left, Congress and the DMK, who had given suspension notices, raised slogans and trooped into the Well of the House. But Naidu did not relent, and some Opposition MPs walked out as soon as the question hour began.When they reassembled after some later, the protests grew louder, forcing Naidu to adjourn the House for about 40 minutes. As soon as it resumed, opposition members continued to raise slogans, forcing a second adjournment till 11.30am. The House was finally adjourned for the whole day a third time when opposition MPs did not heed deputy chairperson Harivansh’s appeals to allow the House to take up bills listed for the day.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said, “The Opposition can raise any issue during the debate on President speech. And the government will also give a reply to all their questions.” RJD’s Manoj Jha and Communist Party of India’s Binoy Viswam demanded a discussion while BSP’s Satish Misra said that this was an issue that every parliamentarian wanted to discuss so that a solution could come out.In the Lok Sabha, right from the start, the Opposition pushed for an adjournment motion. Question hour, which had a query on minimum support prices — one of the key bones of contention between the government and the farm unions — could not continue after a brief start as the House got adjourned.The House met after an hour but protests followed. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that had the Opposition allowed the question hour, their issue would have been resolved. Birla tried to convince the protesting MPs and said he will allow everyone to speak if they return to their seats but no one was in a mood to comply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-stalled-as-opposition-parties-demands-farm-debate-101612300800173.html
03-02-2021||World||Rihanna tweets on farmers' protests in India, Kangana Ranaut calls her 'fool'||International pop star Rihanna extended her support to farmers protesting on the borders of India's capital against the three agriculture laws introduced by the Central government last year and asked why people were not talking about it. Taking to Twitter, the 32-year-old pop star shared a news story by CNN on the internet shutdown in several districts of Delhi's neighbouring state Haryana after protestors broke barricades to enter New Delhi and clashed with police in several parts of the national capital during the January 26 'tractor rally' protest organised by farmers. The protestors also entered the iconic Mughal Era monument Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts."Why aren't we talking about this?!", wrote Rihanna, as she added the hashtag #FarmersProtest along with the post on the micro-blogging site.The 'Umbrella' crooner's tweet evoked reactions from fans and celebrity followers and caused her to trend on the microblogging platform. With over 241,000 tweets, Rihanna was trending at Number 1 spot in India on the site. Till 11:10 pm (IST), her tweet garnered 144,000 likes and over 70,000 retweets.Actor Kangana Ranaut, who had supported farm laws called Rihanna a "fool" and said that the protestors were not farmers but "terrorists who are trying to divide India"."No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA... Sit down you fool, we are not selling our nation like you dummies," the 'Panga' actor tweeted.Others like Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Diljit Dosanjh have earlier come out in support of the farmers on Twitter. Diljit also had a Twitter spat with the 'Queen' actor following their contrasting views on the protesting farmers."Yes! Thank you so much Rihanna. This is a humanity issue! #IStandWithFarmers and this narrative is TIRED," Canadian YouTuber, comedian, talk show host, and actress Lily Singh tweeted.Meanwhile, the Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services in several districts of the state till 5 pm on February 3.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rihanna-tweets-on-farmers-protests-in-india-kangana-ranaut-calls-her-fool-101612291601660.html
03-02-2021||India||Farm leaders tell protesters to ensure peace during Feb 6 ‘chakka jam’||Farmers leaders on Tuesday appealed to the protesters to maintain peace during the Feburary 6 nationwide ‘chakka jam’ announced on Monday against the three farm laws. This comes a week after violence during the tractor parade by farmers on Republic Day.Protesters and security volunteers have also been asked to keep a “tight vigil” to ensure that anti-social elements do not become part of the agitation on February 6 and “disrupt” the movement.Karan Singh Brar, a farmer leader and a member of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said, “We will have to successfully execute the call of ‘chakka jam’ on February 6 between 12-3 pm and it will only be successful if we do it peacefully. We will have to ensure that emergency vehicles such as ambulance or fire tenders should be given way during the agitation and that there is no non-violence,” he said at Tikri border.Also read: Rakesh Tikait coins new slogan at Ghazipur protest siteAnother farm leader, Chaudhary Rajveer Singh said, “To execute our chakka jam peacefully, we also need to be vigilant and keep an eye out for anti-social elements who may try to infiltrate and try to defame farmers. The government may resort to these tactics, but we will have to be extra cautious.”Following the Republic Day violence, farmer leaders have maintained that the incident was a government conspiracy. Police have blamed farmer leaders for betraying their trust by letting protesters indulge in violence and drive on routes other than the ones approved by the police.Meanwhile, Delhi Police continued to bolster its security arrangements at the agitation spot across the three borders. While police installed at least three more layers of obstructions beyond the iron spikes at Tikri on Tuesday, fresh trenches were dug up at Ghazipur, and another layer of concrete barricade was installed a few metres away from the main stage at Singhu border. The police have made these arrangements to discourage any movement of agitating farmers towards the capital.At Singhu, the barricades were installed after a mob, claiming to be locals, entered the protest site last week leading to clash with farmers in which 15 farmers and 6 police personnel were injured. On Monday, the government had poured concrete mixture between two barricades and fixed iron rods on the road. On Tuesday, another layer of barricades were installed at the spot and no one except police personnel were allowed at that point. Security volunteers at the spot had also tied ropes on the concrete barricades disallowing protesters to come near it.Gurpreet Singh, 28, a security volunteer and a farmer from Moga district, said, “Yesterday, too many people had crowded here when police officials were supervising pouring of cement mixture between concrete barricades. If anyone managed to infiltrate that group and cause any problems, our movement would get defamed. So, we decided to guard the area and ensure no one reaches close to police barricades.”However, despite restrictions, farmers from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh were joining the protests in large numbers. At Singhu, where crowd had thinned after January 26, more farmers had arrived at the protest site in the past couple of days adding to the movement.Pritam Singh, 62, a farmer from Devinagar village of Patiala district in Punjab, said, “Around 2,500 people from our village have been coming per day since last week. While some stay back for a week or two, others return in a couple of days once more people come. Though the Republic Day incident had left us worried, we now understand that it was a ploy to scare the farmers and weaken the movement. The government’s decision to repeal laws and suspend internet just shows that.”Hundreds of farmers from Haryana were also travelling from Sonipat and other districts to join the movement albeit for a day. Rajesh Malik, 47, a farmer from Bhainswal Kalan village in Sonipat district of Haryana, who has been camped at Singhu border, said, “Our women want to join the movement in large numbers, so they come every day in different batches. They leave the next day only once another batch arrives. We want to let the government know that protesters are not leaving the agitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-leaders-tell-protesters-to-ensure-peace-during-feb-6-chakka-jam-101612289745173.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||14 tractors seized for R-Day violence, 80 more identified, say Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have seized 14 tractors, while more than 80 tractors have been identified for allegedly being part of the farmers’ tractor rally, which had turned violent in the national capital on Republic Day.Police said the tractors were used to break through the barricades and buses stationed by the police on the roads to stop protesting farmers from deviating from the agreed-upon routes for the rally. The police said they have also got “clear photographs” of 12 men allegedly involved in the January 26 violence from video footage available with them. The video grabs of the 12 suspects were circulated on social media on Tuesday, but the police said they have not officially released them yet.Also read: Journalist Mandeep Puniya arrested at Singhu protest site gets bailA total of 44 cases have been registered in connection with the violence at Red Fort and other places in Delhi during the tractor rally on January 26 and also in connection with an incident on January 29 when a group of persons, claiming to be locals, entered the protest site at Singhu border and clashed with farmers and police.Police said in all, they have arrested 123 people, including protester Akash Preet Singh whose arrest details were shared on Monday, and apprehended two minor boys. The total number of police personnel injured in the two incidents of violence is 510. A day after the January 26 violence, the city police had said 394 police personnel were injured, during clashes. At least 10 farmers have also sustained injuries.The crime branch, which was already investigating 10 cases related to the January 26 violence, has now been given four more cases (from the 44) for investigation. Of the four cases, one pertains to the FIR filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), in connection with the vandalism at the iconic Red Fort. This is the second FIR in the violence at the historic monument; the first one was filed by the police themselves. The other three FIRs transferred to the crime branch were registered at the Nangloi police station, police officers privy to the development said.One of the officers, who did not want to be named, said 14 tractors were seized from different places in the city, where the violence had occurred on January 26.“The seizures were made after video footages pertaining to the violence confirmed that they were involved in the vandalism and violence. The owners of these tractors have been served notices, asking them to join the investigation and record their statement,” the officer said.Asked about the 80 or more tractors that have been identified but are yet to be seized, the officer said these were identified with the help of the video footage and photographs available with the police and those shared by the public.Also read: Centre defends police use of tear gas on protesters“A majority of these tractors are from Punjab and Haryana. Many of them were at the Red Fort during the violence. The owners of these tractors are being sent notices for joining our probe recording statements,” the officer said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and a few other states have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders near Delhi to protest against the three contentious farm laws. Their agitation entered its 70th day on Tuesday.After the January 26 and 29 violence, the police have strengthened their security arrangements at the three spots with multilayered barricading, iron spikes on roads, trenches, barbed wire fencing and y place iron rods between cemented barriers, and pouring cement mixture between barricades. All these measures are in addition to the deployment of DTC buses and extra personnel. The new security measures have attracted sharp criticism from protesting farmers, civil society as well as politicians.Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava on Tuesday defended the measures and said the force had “strengthened” the barricading so that it is not broken again. Addressing the media outside DCP Outer’s office in Pitampura, Shrivastava said he was “surprised” that nobody had raised questions when protesters had attacked policemen.“I am surprised that when tractors were used on January 26 to attack policemen and barricades were broken, no questions were raised. Why were no questions raised at that time? What have we done now? We have just strengthened the barricades so that it could not be broken again,” he said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/14-tractors-seized-for-r-day-violence-80-more-identified-have-clear-photos-of-12-vandals-say-delhi-police-101612289685066.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||'Kanoon wapsi nahi, to ghar wapsi nahi': Tikait announces new slogan for farm protests||Red Fort vandalism: Police arrest first suspectBharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) leader Rakesh Tikait gave a new slogan to protesters at Ghazipur on Tuesday “Kanoon wapsi nahi, to ghar wapsi nahi (no returning home, until the laws are repealed)”, and urged them to start preparing to stay till October, November.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws for over two months.On Tuesday, protesters from Tikri and Singhu reached Ghazipur to present a joint front as the police and local authorities have taken unprecedented measures to contain them at the protest site by putting in place several layers of metal and concrete barriers, fixing iron spikes on the road and building walls of concrete in the aftermath of the violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day.Tikait said the ongoing stir against the three new farm laws will continue till the legislations are repealed.Also read: Police arrest first suspect in Red Fort vandalismAddressing a huge gathering of protesters at Ghazipur on Tuesday, Tikait said, “When we had started the protest at Delhi borders, we thought that the government would resolve the issue before January 26. But it doesn’t look like the government wants to resolve it. We will now have to make a longer strategy. I urge people to start preparing to continue this movement till October and November.”The Ghazipur protest site--- where the Ghaziabad administration served an eviction notice to the protesters last week---- was brimming with supporters on Tuesday. Despite several roads connecting Delhi to the protest site remaining sealed due to multi-layer barricades and a heavy security deployment, supporters continued to arrive not only from neighbouring UP, Punjab, Haryana, and Uttarakhand, but also from states as far as Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The supporters used the roads from Uttar Pradesh to reach the Ghazipur protest site.President of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) Joginder Singh , who is a prominent leader of protesters at Tikri border, reached Ghazipur with over 600 farmers on Tuesday. “The government thought that Rakesh (Tikait) was alone at Ghazipur and it can get the protest site vacated easily. But Tikait did not let that happen. He, in fact, emerged as the hero of our movement who has successfully managed to turn the tables on the government’s conspiracy,” he said.Azad Kisan Samiti (Doaba) leader Harpal Singh Sangha, who had visited Ghazipur protest site from the Singhu border with a large group of people, said, “Ghazipur border has given a new hope to our movement. It has clearly conveyed our message to the government that we won’t succumb to their pressure. We also want to make it clear that if anyone tries to target the protesters at Ghazipur border again, those at Singhu will not spare them.”Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut also visited the protest site and met Tikait on Tuesday.Tikait said he was overwhelmed by the support. “But I am not a hero. It’s the love and support of farmers and union leaders that helped revive the protest at Ghazipur. Singhu border was, is and will always be the headquarters of our movement,”Throughout the day on Tuesday, Tikait was seen attending supporters. Farmers from different states continued to carry water for him. On January 28, Tikait broke down in front of supporters and media persons, and appealed that he wants people to come and offer him water from the villages. Last week, the farmers had alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government cut off the water supply to the protest site.Earlier in the day, the BKU leader was also seen having lunch sitting on ground next to a Delhi police barricade. “We are not criminals that the police have blocked all the roads to stop us entering our national capital,” Tikait said as he broke down while having his food.Meanwhile, several protesters at the site on Tuesday said the police have turned the protest site into a “fortress”. “It looks like we are living at the Wagah border. If the police think that we will feel threatened by all these barricades then they are wrong. Our people are getting all the essential supplies to sustain the protest for as long as it takes. The barricades are just making life difficult for common people,” said Rakesh Yadav, a resident of Meerut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanoon-wapsi-nahi-to-ghar-wapsi-nahi-tikait-announces-new-slogan-for-farm-protests-101612289684433.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Metal batons, just an experiment, say Delhi Police after pictures go viral||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said that there was no official order asking its personnel to use improvised metal batons while handling law and order situations across the national capital. On Monday, photographs of a group of police personnel carrying metal batons and arm guards in east Delhi’s Shahdara were widely circulated on social media, prompting criticisms against the Delhi Police for resorting to the use of metal batons against farmers who are protesting at the city borders against the three contentious farm laws.Apart from photographs of metal baton-wielding personnel, pictures of policemen drilling iron nails on to the roads and heavily barricading them -- reportedly to stop farmers from driving their tractors into the national capital -- were also widely circulated.Also read: Over 50% exposure to Sars-Cov-2 in 10 of 11 city districtsCurrently, police use canes, water cannons and tear gas shells for riot control and metal batons have not been a part of their riot gear.Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar said they got the batons on an experimental basis to counter rioters who may be armed with swords. The usage of improvised metal batons was a “defensive mechanism and not an aggressive one”, he insisted.“Everyone has seen the violence during the tractor rally on January 26; barricades were broken, agreed upon route was not followed, rally began before the scheduled time and tractors were used as weapon against police personnel,” Kumar told ANI.“There is no official order for its usage, and it was being used on an experimental basis,” he said.Officers aware of the matter said so far, only 10 to 15 policemen were given the improvised batons. The decision to use such batons did not come from the police headquarters, senior officers said.“It’s a makeshift arrangement to minimise injury in case a policeman is attacked by rioters armed with swords. This new baton will help stop the blow of a sword and prevent the personnel from sustaining grievous injury,” said an officer, who wished not to be named.Last week, a police inspector was injured after he was allegedly struck by a sword by one of the farmers camping at Singhu border after clashes broke out between farmers and a group of about 200 men, who claiming to be locals tried to disband tents put up by farmers. Also, during the Republic Day violence, many protesters who took to the streets were seen wielding swords.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metal-batons-just-an-experiment-say-delhi-police-after-pictures-go-viral-101612289625008.html
03-02-2021||Delhi||Journalist Mandeep Puniya arrested at Singhu protest site gets bail||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to independent journalist Mandeep Puniya, who was arrested on January 30 during the farmers protest at the Singhu border for allegedly obstructing police officials on duty.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Satvir Singh Lamba said, “It is well settled legal principle of law that bail is a rule and jail is an exception,” He added that there was a delay in lodging the FIR and the witnesses, all being police officials, cannot be influenced.Granting bail to Puniya on a bail bond of ₹25,000 with a surety of same amount, the judge also noted that the accused is a freelance journalist and no recovery of any material has to be made from him. “It is pertinent to mention here that the alleged incident of present case is of around 6.30pm. However, the present FIR was registered at around 1.21am the next day. Moreover, the complainant, victims and witnesses are police personnel only. Hence, there is no possibility that the accused/ applicant can be able to influence any of the police officials.”Also read: Rakesh Tikait coins new slogan at Ghazipur protest sitePuniya was barred from leaving the country without informing the court.The journalist was arrested on the grounds of misbehaving with the police personnel on duty and obstructing a public servant from discharging its duties during the farmers protest at the Singhu border. He was arrested while covering the clashes that broke out at the protest site last week.The police opposed the bail plea, stating that Puniya was concealing his identity and misleading them. The police alleged that the accused was trying to incite the protesters at the Singhu border by shouting slogans and he even “clung” to one of the policemen on duty and dragged him.The Editors Guild of India on Monday had demanded the release of the journalist. The guild claimed that the arrest was an attempt to curtail the voice of independent journalists who were fighting fake news.In a separate matter, the Delhi High Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea which sought immediate release of protesters, not limited to farmers, from the alleged “illegal detention” of police since January 26 in connection with the violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh came down heavily on the counsel for the petitioner and said that it was nothing more than a “Publicity Interest Litigation” and not “Public Interest Litigation. It also said that the protestors cannot be released without investigation and going in the merits of the case.It directed Delhi Police to complete the investigation of the cases in a time bound manner and produce the detainees before a magistrate within 24 hours in accordance with law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/journalist-arrested-at-singhu-protest-site-gets-bail-101612289504424.html
03-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab parties want farm laws withdrawn||Chandigarh An all-party meet convened by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh passed a resolution on Tuesday to demand that the Centre immediately withdraw three contentious agri laws that have prompted widespread protests by farmers, and said the Centre was responsible for a “substantial delay” in resolving the deadlock.The meeting, attended by most parties except the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), passed the resolution seeking the immediate withdrawal of the farm laws and for statutory minimum support price (MSP) for crops, even as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the principal opposition party in the state, staged a walkout. The AAP, however, voiced its support for the withdrawal of the three laws.The Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal, Lok Insaaf Party, SAD (Democratic), Bahujan Samaj Party, CPI and CPI (M) participated in the meeting, while the BJP, which is in power at the Centre, boycotted it. The Punjab CM called the meeting to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the issue of the farm laws, according to a statement.The meeting also decided to send a delegation to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue of the farmers’ stir, days after violence broke out during a tractor parade held by the protesters in the national capital on Republic Day.Also read: Rakesh Tikait coins new slogan at Ghazipur protest siteThe meeting termed the Republic Day violence “sponsored” and demanded a judicial probe into the “laxity and complicity” of those responsible for maintaining peace at the Red Fort, where the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, was hoisted on the ramparts.The AAP’s leaders demanded a “concrete plan” for a “dharna” outside the PM’s residence in case the state delegation was not allotted time to meet the PM and called for the deployment of Punjab Police to protect the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders. The Punjab CM rejected the demand for Punjab Police security to the protesters, telling the AAP leaders that their chief minister in Delhi (Arvind Kejriwal) could request the Union home minister to provide security there. “We cannot do it as it is not possible constitutionally,” the CM said, leading to a walkout by AAP leaders present at the meet.The Punjab CM said his government will bring Amendment Bills to negate the Centre’s three farm laws again in the Vidhan Sabha since the governor did not send the earlier bills to the President. “We will bring the Bills again as the Constitution provides that if Bills are passed twice by the Vidhan Sabha they have to be sent by the governor to the President,” he said.Accusing miscreants of seeking to sabotage the “historic and unparallel” farmer agitation through untoward incidents at the Red Fort, the resolution said these acts “are truly condemnable” and need to be probed thoroughly, the statement said. These incidents, however, should not be made a pretext to victimise agitating farmers, farmworkers and others, including the media persons, it added.In the resolution, the Punjab parties asked the Centre “to withdraw all cases registered against farmers, farmworkers, journalists and other peaceful agitators and release all those detained by the police or any other agency”. It called upon the central government “to make the Minimum Support Price a statutory right of the farmers”.The resolution also lauded Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, and thanked Haryana farmers for their support to Punjab’s farmers in the agitation.AAP MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the party walked out of Tuesday’s meeting as its demands were not included in the resolution.The meeting, which began with a two-minute silence in remembrance of those who died during the stir, also saw a host of suggestions from participants, ranging from the appointment of a state observer at Delhi borders, to joining the farmers at the protest site without making a political statement.Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar termed the BJP’s decision to skip the meeting as “unfortunate”.AAP MP Bhagwant Mann suggested that representatives of all Punjab parties should jointly meet the Prime Minister and the Union home minister to build pressure on them and the state government should set up an office in Delhi to coordinate and help the protesting farmers.Simranjit Singh Bains of the Lok Insaaf Party stressed the need for consensus among all parties on the issue.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-parties-want-farm-laws-withdrawn-101612289385090.html
03-02-2021||India||'What is Parliament for?': Shashi Tharoor on Centre's refusal to debate on farmers' protest||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday questioned the government's stubborn attitude for refusing the demands of the opposition parties to debate on the three contentious farm laws against which farmers' unions have been protesting since November. Calling the Centre's refusal to opposition's request for a debate in Parliament "undemocratic", the Thiruvananthapuram MP said, "If a debate were allowed to happen, MPs could voice the concerns of their constituents, the farmers, and propose solutions to the crisis. But GoI is stubbornly refusing the Opposition's request for a debate as they refused to agree to the farmer unions' demands. This is undemocratic."Click here for complete coverage on Parliament sessionThe Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 9pm on Wednesday after several adjournments during the day as opposition MPs demanded a separate debate on farm laws."I just cannot understand the attitude of the Govt and the Speaker in refusing a discussion on the Farmers protests and instead insisting on clubbing it with the debate on the President's Address. Parliament exists to give people's representatives a voice on burning issues of the day!" Tharoor said."What does GoI think Parliament is for? It is a deliberative body of elected representatives meant to offer their collective views on issues of national importance. Last session, GoI refused to discuss China and now farmers. Why have a Parliament at all if you don't want it to function?" he added.What does GoI think Parliament is for? It is a deliberative body of elected representatives meant to offer their collective views on issues of national importance. Last session, GoI refused to discuss China &now farmers. Why have a Parlmnt at all if you don't want it to function?The government on Wednesday agreed to discuss the issue of the farmers with the opposition parties for 15 hours, which came as a breakthrough. But as Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said that the deliberations will take place in the Upper House after the debate on the motion of thanks to the President's address to Friday's joint sitting, opposition members started protesting.The government and the opposition parties came to a consensus on the discussion of the farm laws. The 15-hour deliberations will happen in the Upper House of Parliament where the Question Hour has been halted for two days.Also Read | Farm laws stir: Three AAP members suspended from Parliament for sloganeeringFarmers from several states, mostly from the northwestern states of India like Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 around the borders of national capital for more than two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-parliament-for-tharoor-on-centre-s-refusal-to-debate-on-farm-laws-101612357594943.html
