05-02-2021||India||Congress says ‘nails’ at Delhi’s border will not deter farmers||The Indian National Congress while reiterating its support to the farmers and their 'Chakka jam' scheduled on February 6 criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party and said that farmers will not be afraid of the barricades installed at Delhi’s borders.“The farmers who have made a place in the 'hearts' of India will not be afraid of the 'nails' of the BJP government,” Congress’ tweeted on its social media handle, referring to the barricades and spikes placed at Delhi’s borders aimed at stopping farmers from crossing into Delhi. Delhi Police have stated that these barricades have been put up as a precautionary measure after a planned tractor march turned violent on January 26.The party has already extended its support to the road blockade proposed by the protesting farmers, which will be held between 12pm to 3pm across the nation, except in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The farmers’ unions have assured that essential services will not be affected during the blockade.Opposition parties have criticised the government after Delhi Police set up barricades and voiced their protests against the farm laws in Parliament which led to the several disruptions in Lok Sabha proceedings for the fourth day in a row.Congress MP from West Bengal Adhir Ranjan Choudhury demanded that the government should hold a standalone session to discuss the farm laws. “We've urged the government for a separate discussion in Lok Sabha over farmers’ agitation. All kinds of things are discussed in Motion of Thanks to the President’s address. Our only demand is that separate discussion be held over farmers’ issue after Motion of Thanks,” Choudhury was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We do want a discussion but the government should say that there will be a stand-alone discussion on agriculture,” Choudhury further added.People familiar with the developments told news agency ANI that the government on Friday agreed to discuss the issues related to the farmers’ agitation and farm laws in Parliament when the session reconvenes.Union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar criticised the Opposition and said that during discussions held in the Lok Sabha none of the lawmakers was able to point out the flaws in the farm laws. He said, “As far as the farm laws are concerned, I was in Rajya Sabha today and I noticed that no one is ready to say what is ‘black’ in the ‘black laws’. If you are protesting against the law, then discussion should be held on its provisions. Unfortunately, this is not happening.”Farmers have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 for more than two months at Delhi’s borders. They fear that these laws will decrease farmer incomes and pave the way for corporate farming along with hurting government procurement of crop yields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-nails-at-delhi-s-border-will-not-deter-spirit-of-farmers-101612544737159.html
05-02-2021||India||Delhi Police write to Google, seek data on toolkit shared by Greta Thunberg||Delhi Police on Friday wrote to Goggle seeking details of the toolkit that was shared on social media by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, news agency ANI reported. The police have approached several platforms seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which the document was uploaded. Details of email IDs, one Instagram account and one URL have also been sought by the Police. This comes a day after Delhi Police filed an FIR against person/persons who created the toolkit containing information of a "digital strike" over farmers' protest.As the farmers' protest and internet suspension drew international attention following American pop singer Rihanna's tweet, Greta Thunberg also tweeted in support of the protest. She later tweeted a toolkit which sparked off a debate on whether international celebrities were asked to tweet.Farmers' protest: India may seek help from Canada in Greta toolkit probeDelhi Police on Thursday said there was a "copycat" execution of what was mentioned in the toolkit. "We have recovered a document about the planned execution. We have found out that is a copycat execution. As of now, we have registered cases against the authors of that account. The case has been handed over to the cyber cell. Investigations are underway," Delhi Police Special Commissioner Praveer Ranjan said. He also mentioned 'khalistani' links with the document.Even before the tractor march, for which Delhi Police were not granting permission initially, police mentioned of over 300 Twitter accounts based in Pakistan, trying to create confusion over Republic Day tractor march. The initial document that Greta uploaded was later deleted and she posted the link of another document. Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the toolkit points to a serious issue. BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi too said the toolkit offers evidence that an "international conspiracy" to hurt India's democracy is being hatched. A toolkit is a social media document explaining how to support a particular cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-write-to-google-seek-data-on-toolkit-shared-by-greta-thunberg-101612541919875.html
05-02-2021||India||Disruptions continue to affect Lok Sabha proceedings on Day 4||Lok Sabha proceedings were a virtual washout on Friday as relentless protest by Opposition members against the Centre's three farm laws continued for the fourth consecutive day, even as signs emerged that normal functioning could resume from Monday.The government has always been ready for discussion and we are hopeful that Lok Sabha will function smoothly from Monday, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said.On February 3, Locket Chatterjee of the BJP had initiated the discussion on the Motion of Thanks but she could not complete her speech due to disruptions.She has not yet resumed her speech.While demanding repeal of the three laws, Opposition parties are also insisting on a stand alone debate on the farmers' issue. The government has maintained that Opposition can raise the farmers' issue during the debate on the Motion of Thanks.On Friday, Lok Sabha was adjourned first till 6 pm after Opposition members disrupted the proceedings demanding repeal of the laws and shouted slogans from the Well of the House.As soon as the House convened at 4 PM, members from the Congress, Left parties and the DMK rushed to the Well raising slogans against the new agri laws and holding placards.Speaker Om Birla continued with the Question Hour with Health Minister Harsh Vardhan responding to supplementary questions on COVID-19 vaccination.As Opposition members continued to raise slogans, Birla appealed to them to participate in the Question Hour as an important issue related to vaccination was being discussed.While Congress, DMK and Left members were in the Well, members from the TMC did not participate in raising slogans. Trinamool Congress members remained seated on their benches.Around 4.15 PM, Birla adjourned the House till 6 PM.With no letup in the protests when the House reconvened in the evening, the Speaker adjourned its proceedings till Monday after his plea to opposition members to go back to their seats went unheeded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disruptions-continue-to-affect-lok-sabha-proceedings-on-day-4-101612541328288.html
05-02-2021||Jaipur||Farm laws being opposed across the country, should be withdrawn: Sachin Pilot||The resolution has also sought compensation for families of the farmers who have died during the protests which started in November last year.Addressing the Mahapanchayat, Pilot said, “While making these laws none of the state governments or farmers’ organisations were consulted. These laws were passed in Parliament in haste and imposed on the country. The government of India claims these farm laws are in the interest of the farmers but they are being opposed across the country.”“The farmers are protesting in a Gandhian manner but the way barricades have been put up, and electricity and water supply discontinued, it is unjustified,” Pilot said, adding that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi have supported the farmers throughout the agitation.The Mahapanchayat, held under the banner of Kisan Mahapanchayat, submitted a memorandum to district collector demanding a repeal of the laws. “We will not step back, till these demands are met,” Pilot said.Friday’s gathering was the second Kisan Mahapanchayat to be held in Dausa in the past four days. Smaller Kisan Panchayats have been held in several parts of Rajasthan, including in the Jat dominated Shekhawati belt of the state.Condemning the violence that erupted during the tractor parade, Pilot said, “The opposition parties are supporting the farmers. The issue is not of a party or leader but of the farmers.” On Saturday, the Congress leader will address a Mahapanchayat in Bharatpur, Chaksu and Bayana, each.Targeting the Congress for allegedly misleading the farmers, Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said, “Congress itself made such promises in the manifesto. The GoI is continuously holding talks with the farmers and is committed to resolve it on a positive note.”Ram Lal Jat, head of Kisan Mahapanchayat, Rajasthan, has appealed the farmers in the state to support Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s call for a Chakka Jam (traffic blockade) on February 6.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the three farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses.The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/farm-laws-being-opposed-across-the-country-should-be-withdrawn-sachin-pilot-101612533944836.html
05-02-2021||Tamil||Vetrimaaran, Pa Ranjith defend farmers' right to protest: 'It is democracy'||National award-winning Malayalam actor Salim Kumar, and Tamil filmmakers Vetrimaaran and Pa Ranjith, have declared their support for protesting farmers. While Salim asked what is wrong if international celebrities commented on the agitation, Vetrimaaran and Ranjith have come in support of the farmers.In his Facebook post, Vetrimaaran wrote: “Protest is the expression of people who are not heard otherwise. The power of governance is given to the Government by the People. It should protect the interest of the people, not act as corporate collaborators. Farmers are trying to defend the spirit of the nation. Protesting for their rights and supporting the protest is democracy.”Vetrimaaran, known for hard-hitting films such as Visaaranai and Asuran, is one of the first filmmakers from the south to voice his opinion on the farmers' protest.Ranjith, who is known for his films such as Kabali and Kaala, took to Twitter to express his opinion. He said those questioning the farmers’ protest should understand why they're doing it. “We stand with farmers & so, we support for the cause that the farmers have been fighting for the last few months. People, whoever questions farmer's protest & its supporters, should have a sense that the survival of farmers depends on MSP! #FarmersBill #StandWithFarmers (sic),” Ranjith wrote.We stand with farmers & so, we support for the cause that the farmers have been fighting for the last few months. People, whoever questions farmer's protest & its supporters, should have a sense that the survival of farmers depends on MSP! #FarmersBill #StandWithFarmersSalim Kumar, in his Facebook post, asked in Malayalam why international icons such as Rihanna and Greta Thunberg calling attention to the matter is a problem.As per India Today report, his translated post read: “The image of George Floyd being killed by kneeling on his neck by a white guy in America had rattled every human being with a conscience. Every nation, community and we Indians, reacted strongly against the US. Not even one American said, this is an internal matter and outsiders need not convey their opinions or that it was an issue for the US to handle internally. They accepted the criticism whole-heartedly. We even saw the US police chief apologise on his knees. What will we Indians lose that the Americans did not when Rihanna and Greta criticize us? Those who want to protest will protest. There are no borders of nationality, religion or class when it comes to this.”Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/tamil-cinema/vetrimaaran-pa-ranjith-defend-farmers-right-to-protest-it-is-democracy-101612531288676.html
05-02-2021||West||Tweets were extracted at gun point: TMC's Bratya Basu on #IndiaTogether||A feeling of fear and intimidation has been created by the BJP government at the Centre over famers' agitation and it appears that many celebrities are being "forced" to tweet against the movement at "gunpoint," West Bengal minister Bratya Basu said on Friday.Basu, a prominent stage and screen personality himself besides being a director and playwright, said that identical words and phrases have been shared in the tweets of some celebrities deriding the agitation by the farmers against the new farm laws of the Centre."It seems these tweets were extracted at gun point," he said.Comments by international celebrities Rihanna and Greta Thunberg on the microblogging site show that the agitation has created ripples outside the country as well, Basu said.He decried the trolling of actor Taapsee Pannu for her support to and solidarity with the farmers' movement. The trolling shows how "fear and persecution" pervades the country now.Drawing parallels with other states of the country, he said "Despite so much criticism, mocking of our Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, despite so much unfair, crude and personal remarks against her and the TMC, democracy prevails in West Bengal."We are not a regime that will imprison scores of activists like Varvara Rao for speaking against the establishment. Our government is not vindictive like the BJP," he iterated.Basu took a swipe at TMC turncoats who went to Delhi recently in a chartered flight to join BJP and wondered whether the saffron party gave any importance to its local leaders."This indicates that the central leadership in Delhi controls everything in BJP and doe snot acknowledge the role of state-level leaders. This is insulting."In contrast, local Trinamool Congress leaders induct people from different fields into the party. "This is because we give importance and respect to our local leaders as well as state-level leaders," he said.He said that the entry of several actors of Tollygunj film industry into TMC proved that "not everyone has sold themselves to the lure of chartered flights". A few actors in the Bengali film industry mulling joining BJP should think about it again though it is a matter of individual choice.Asked to comment on BJP plans to hold a Rathyatra across the poll-bound state, Basu said TMC has nothing to say about it."But people know BJP's Rathyatra will be bereft of the ideology of Sri Chaitanya. It will not promote love among the people, but only hatred and division."Basu said the 'Duare Sarkar' (government at the doorstep) programme has attracted huge participation by the people. Already 2.7 crore having visited the camps and 77 per cent of them have enlisted at the outreach programme to avail the benefits of 12 schemes of the TMC government."The opposition is only spreading canards about the campaign," he added.Veteran actor Dipankar Dey, who has in the past featured in films by Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen and Tapan Sinha joined TMC during the day in Basu's presence.Critically acclaimed actor Bharat Kaul and musician Saona Khan too joined the party. PTI SUS KK KK KK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/tweets-were-extracted-at-gun-point-tmc-s-bratya-basu-on-indiatogether-101612530709162.html
05-02-2021||India||'Nails on BJP’s political coffin..': RLD leader on farmers' protest||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice president Jayant Chaudhary said on Friday that the government’s policies will not work against farmers. Referring to the nails planted at the farmers’ protest site in Ghazipur, Chaudhury said the same nails will end up marking the ‘political coffin’ of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)."These are not nails being put on the roads going to Delhi, these are nails being put into the political coffin that is being made for the BJP," Chaudhury said, as quoted by news agency PTI.Chaudhury accused the government of not paying heed to their own politicians on the ground, who are in touch with the common people and can sense their rising anger."It is a totalitarian administration. They are not even listening to their own political people on the ground. If you speak to BJP MLAs or MPs off the record, they are not happy and they can feel the angst rising in the people of India, in the common man who voted for (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi," the former MP said.Chaudhury who is quite active on Twitter criticised Indian celebrities for releasing statements of solidarity following the international outrage on the government’s handling of the protests.“Celebrities who have pawned off their brains and now are tweeting similar statements should first look up the meaning of sovereignty. A nation’s power is diminished when the government is cruel towards its providers. Friends, let’s exercise control over our governments instead of letting governments control us.” Chaudhury tweeted on Friday.The Ghazipur border which is one of the three protest sites has witnessed heavy fortification and nails have been affixed to keep farmers from entering the protest site. On Thursday the nails were relocated to ensure farmers’ safety. DCP (east) Deepak Yadav told HT that, “The nails were fixed initially at a spot where people wouldn’t venture earlier. But now that some people are moving around that point, we fear that the nails could become a hazard for them. So, just to ensure their safety, we are removing them and fixing them elsewhere.”Chaudhury has been attending Kisan mahapanchayats and protest sites and had extended support to Bharatiya Kisan Union when the union was thinking of withdrawing protest from the Ghazipur site after being pressured by the local administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nails-on-bjp-s-political-coffin-rld-leader-on-farmers-protest-101612529087276.html
05-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam tomorrow: Timing, services to be affected | All you need to know||Farmers who have been protesting against three farm laws passed by Parliament last year have called for a three-hour, all-India 'chakka jam' on Saturday. The Congress has extended its support to the chakka jam.This is the farmers' first major event after Republic Day tractor march which ended up in violent clashes with Delhi Police. Though farmers' unions have promised that the Chakka Jam will be peaceful and outside Delhi, Delhi Police, Haryana Police are tightening their security arrangements.Here is all you need to know about the Chakka Jam> It will be observed from 12 noon to 3pm.> National and state highways will be blocked, the Samayukt Kisan Morcha has said. It has said that the chakka jam will be held nationwide.> Emergency and essential services will not be stopped anywhere.> But if you happen to travel on a highway on Saturday between 12 and 3pm, you will probably get stuck.> Farmers have said they will provide food and water to those stuck at chakka jam.> There will be no chakka jam in Delhi after what happened on Republic Day. Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are also exempt from this protest as farmers from these two states may need to travel towards Delhi's protest sites. All roads leading to Delhi will remain open except where the protests are going on.> The chakka jam is a symbolic protest of the farmers against internet suspension at protest sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-tomorrow-timing-services-to-be-affected-all-you-need-to-know-101612529228226.html
05-02-2021||Bollywood||Vishal Bhardwaj reflects on farmers' crisis shown in Matru Ki Bijlee Ka Mandola||Director Vishal Bhardwaj took to Twitter to express his thoughts on the ongoing farmers protest in relation to the new farm laws. He spoke about his 2013 film, Matru Ki Bijlee Ka Mandola and how it spoke of agrarian crisis, well before its time.Tweeting an article which spoke about how Vishal's film may have foreshadowed the plight of farmers, he wrote: "I’m often consoled by my friends that my films are ahead of their time. Unfortunately, in this case they may be right. #Farmers #FarmersProtest."I’m often consoled by my friends that my films are ahead of their time. Unfortunately, in this case they may be right. #Farmers #FarmersProtesthttps://t.co/RszI4DdTlrFor the uninitiated, Vishal's film was about a shrewd businessman, played by Pankaj Kapur, who wants to buy land from farmers at very low rates and build a special economic zone.The post saw a number of people commenting about it, some for him and others against the idea. One person wrote: "Matroo was a delight, sir! It was Brecht at Sonepur Mela, Andy Warhol in Sadar Bazaar, with an underlined, almost smiling, presence of your politics. I saw it again as recently as a few months back, and rediscovered quite a few gems. Ahead of its time or not, thank you! :)"Another person wrote in: "Wasn't Matru about the lands of farmers being taken away. These protests are nowhere about that."Also read: Bigg Boss 14 couple Eijaz Khan and Pavitra Punia cannot keep their hands off each other in new photosFarmers agitation has led to many people, expressing their views on the subject. The issue drew international attention after pop singer Rihanna tweeted an article on the protests. Environment activist Greta Thunberg echoed similar sentiment.In reply, a number of Indian celebs such Akshay Kumar, Suniel Shetty, Ajay Devgn, cricketer Virat Kohli, badminton ace Saina Nehwal used the hashtag #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda asking people not to fall for propaganda.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/vishal-bhardwaj-reflects-on-farmers-crisis-shown-in-matru-ki-bijlee-ka-mandola-101612525475423.html
05-02-2021||India||Why did Twitter delete Kangana Ranaut’s tweets?||Microblogging site Twitter on Thursday removed two of actress Kangana Ranaut’s tweets related to the farmers' protests. "We have taken action on Tweets that were in violation of the Twitter Rules in line with our range of enforcement options," Twitter said in an official statement.In one of the now-deleted tweets, Ranaut was responding to cricketer Rohit Sharma’s statement of solidarity against the rising global criticism of the three farm laws that farmers have been protesting against. In another tweet that has been removed by Twitter, Kangana wrote: "I feel so elated. I don't remember being so happy/excited ever, the cancer in the body of this nation we were looking for has been located, identified and now the process of eradication will start, together we will see through this. Not just survive but also thrive. Jai Hind." Both tweets have been flagged and deleted by Twitter, with a message displayed at their places, saying. "This Tweet is no longer available because it violated the Twitter Rules".Why were the tweets deleted?The microblogging site removes tweets if they violate Twitter's policy. The policy states that if a tweet is found to be violating rules and yet to be deleted by the owner of the account, it will be hidden behind a notice. A country’s authorised entity — in most cases the government — can also request Twitter to remove tweets or entire accounts for justifiable reasons. India recently asked for certain accounts related to the farmers’ protest to be taken down, and Twitter had initially obliged. After taking internal cognisance of the accounts, they were not found to be violative of any Twitter policy and were restored.“We may sometimes add a notice to an account or Tweet to give you more context on the actions our systems or teams may take. In some instances, this is because the behaviour violates the Twitter Rules. Other times, it may be in response to a valid and properly scoped request from an authorized entity in a given country.” Twitter says on its website.Twitter can delete or remove a tweet if it falls under the following categories.Violence: Threatening to inflict violence on any individual or group can cause a tweet to be deleted or an account to be suspended, temporarily or otherwise. Ranaut’s tweet on OTT series Tandav was categorised as violent and her account was temporarily suspended. Twitter clearly states “We also prohibit the glorification of violence”.Hateful conduct: Promoting hatred against any ethnicity, race, gender, identity, sexual orientation invites action from Twitter. Ranaut has on occasion labelled the protesting farmers as ‘Khalistanis’ and ‘terrorists’.Abuse/harassment: Users face action if they are found to be engaging in the targeted harassment of someone, or inciting others to do so.Apart from these safeguards which Kangana's tweets violated, Twitter flags posts on terrorism, child sexual exploitation, suicide, or tweets with sensitive media, adult content etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-did-twitter-delete-kangana-ranaut-s-tweets-101612519063914.html
05-02-2021||Bollywood||Ranvir Shorey mocks Greta Thunberg in a song, calls activist 'uneducated'; says Rihanna is a 'bahana'||Actor Ranvir Shorey has mocked singer Rihanna and activist Greta Thunberg in a new song. He later claimed that the song had gone 'viral'.Ranvir shared the clip on his Twitter account on Thursday. In it, he could be seen strumming a guitar and singing a song about Rihanna and Greta, both of whom recently commented on the ongoing farmers' agitation in India. He hinted that they were being used as tools in a larger conspiracy."Wow! This song of mine has gone #viral. I think more for its lucidity than its melody," the actor wrote on Friday, adding the hashtag, "India Rejects Propaganda." In his original tweet, he sang that Greta, who was declared Time magazine's Person of the Year in 2019 and has twice been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, is 'uneducated'. A similar comment was made against Greta, by actor Kangana Ranaut.Wow! This song of mine has gone #viral. I think more for its lucidity than its melody. 😆 #IndiaRejectsPropaganda https://t.co/pmAaUqiDMI"Best way to explain it is with a simple, fun song," he wrote, singing about Rihanna being a 'bahana (excuse).' On Twitter, the clip has 2.2 lakh views.Earlier this week, both Rihanna and Greta shared the same news article about the farmer agitation, leading to mass uproar on social media, that prompted a statement from the external affairs ministry. Several Bollywood celebrities, including Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar, Ekta Kapoor, and others, used similar language and hashtags in tweets calling for unity.Interestingly, Ranvir's ex-wife, actor Konkona Sensharma, said in a tweet that she felt the celebrities' comments were made out of 'fear'.Also read: Kangana Ranaut attacks Rihanna again, says singer must have charged 'at least ₹100 crore' for tweetRanvir in an earlier interview had said that Kangana Ranaut ‘says a lot of sensational things for the effect more than the content’ but questioned the attempts to silence her.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/ranvir-shorey-mocks-greta-thunberg-in-a-song-calls-activist-uneducated-says-rihanna-is-a-bahana-101612515438540.html
05-02-2021||India||Chakka jam: Delhi Police monitoring social media, tightening overall security||After what happened in Delhi during farmers' tractor march on Republic Day, the Delhi Police are taking additional measures for the farmers' next proposed event on 'Chakka jam' to be held on February 6.Bharatiya Kisan Union, one of the unions representing protesting farmers, said that the 'chakka jam' will be held across India, except in Delhi. It will be a three-hour-long symbolic protest. People who will get stuck will be given food and water and will be explained the jam peacefully, the union has said.However, as their tractor march on January 26 broke the vow of a peaceful protest and led to a violent stand-off in the Capital, the Delhi Police are leaving no stones unturned to maintain the law and order situation in the Capital. Adequate security arrangements are being ensured at the borders so that no protester can enter the Capital, Delhi Police public relation officer Chinmoy Biswal said. The Delhi Police is also in touch with the forces in other states, he added.Will not enter Delhi, say farmers as police prepare for chakka jamSocial media platforms are also on the radar as the Delhi Police found external links through the social media toolkit that became the centre of controversies after Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg shared it on her Twitter account."We are monitoring content on social media to make sure rumours are not spread against Police or other things," Biswal said.The 'chakka jam' will be in protest against the snapping of internet connection at border areas. As part of their tomorrow's protest, farmers are planning to block highways. RSS-affiliate Bharatiya Kisan Sangh is not supporting the jam.Partial internet suspension was imposed on January 26 soon after protesters clashed with Delhi Police. Since then, there have been frequent internet suspensions on the border and surrounding areas, which drew the attention of international media, celebrities.On Thursday, Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava and took stock of the law and order situation. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval was also present in the meeting.The Haryana Police have also issued directives to deploy maximum forces on February 6. Intelligence network should be geared up, it said. Haryana home minister Anil Vij has also appealed to the union leaders to call off their strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-tomorrow-delhi-police-monitoring-social-media-tightening-overall-security-101612515828089.html
05-02-2021||India||Won't be intimidated, silenced: Meena Harris after protests over farmers' tweets||Meena Harris, an American lawyer and the niece of US vice president Kamala Harris, has defended her support to protesting farmers in India after her pictures were burnt by the activists of the United Hindu Front. Harris shared a photo of a protest against her over her posts in support of the farmers' agitation. The activists also burned the pictures of Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and pop star Rihanna, who have both supported the farmers protesting against the three farm laws."I spoke out in support of human rights for Indian farmers, and look at the response," Meena Harris tweeted on Thursday and also shared a photo by Reuters journalist Danish Siddiqui. "I won't be intimidated, and I won't be silenced," the 36-year-old said in another tweet.I spoke out in support of human rights for Indian farmers, and look at the response. https://t.co/5xzB6pxxA8Meena Harris has been tweeting on the issue for some days now. “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest,” Harris also tweeted as tagged Thunberg’ sport.Also read | US says it supports reform but cautions against curbs“It’s no coincidence that the world’s oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault. This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India’s internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters,” she had said in a February 3 tweet.Her tweet came after Rihanna wrote "why aren't we talking about this?!", with a link to a news story about an internet blackout at the protest camps where tens of thousands of farmers have been since November last year. Thunberg also tweeted a story about the blackout. “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India,” Thunberg said on Tuesday, as she tagged a CNN news report headlined: "India cuts internet around New Delhi as protesting farmers clash with police." She also shared "a toolkit for those who want to help". "Here's a toolkit if you want to help," tweeted Thunberg, which takes the user to a document which has urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support farmers' protest. She later deleted the tweet and shared a link to a new document saying that the previous tweet had an outdated document.Also read | Battle to begin with repeal of farm laws, says Mo Dhaliwal who created ‘toolkitThe government issued a statement and several celebrities, sportsmen and other public figures also tweeted with the hashtags "IndiaAgainstPropaganda" and "IndiaTogether". The Delhi Police on Thursday said they have registered a first information report (FIR) to probe a “toolkit”. The FIR was registered by the cyber cell of the Delhi Police under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 124A (spreading disharmony), 153 (provocation with intent to cause riots) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-be-intimidated-silenced-meena-harris-after-protests-over-farmers-tweets-101612514535844.html
05-02-2021||Bollywood||Kangana Ranaut attacks Rihanna again, says singer must have charged 'at least ₹100 crore' for tweet||Actor Kangana Ranaut has made several new claims about the ongoing farmers' protest. Kangana, who has been vocal in her disapproval of the agitation, in a new interview attacked singer Rihanna and activist Greta Thunberg, who recently made comments about the situation.This week, both Rihanna and the Swedish activist shared the same news report about the farmer agitation, leading to mass uproar on social media, and even prompting a statement from the external affairs ministry. Neither of them has responded to the attacks made against them by Kangana.In an interview to Republic TV, the actor said that the Barbadian singer, worth a reported $600 million ( ₹4300 crore, according to Forbes), must have charged 'at least ₹100 crore' for her tweet.On Tuesday, Rihanna shared the news article and asked, "Why aren't we talking about this?!" Kangana subsequently launched repeated Twitter attacks against her, commenting on her career, her appearance, and her qualifications to speak on the subject. "She is a singer much like Sunidhi Chauhan or Neha Kakkar," Kangana wrote in a tweet. "She can shake her bum cheeks and expose her a** crack right in to the camera lens while singing. Ya that’s all. Nothing else."Watch video: Kangana lashes out at TaapseeIn the Republic interview, she said that this was 'a conspiracy to brutally divide India into pieces'. She asked why Rihanna, who 'hasn't spoken yet about the pandemic, hasn't spoken about the US Capitol Hill riot, one day wakes up and tweets about farmers. She must have charged 100 crore at least, where are they getting this money from?'Rihanna, via her Clara Lionel Foundation (CLF), raised $5 million ( ₹36 crore) for Covid-19 relief in March 2020. She further donated over $2 million of her own money, a month later.Kangana continued, "Greta, this child whom they are hiding behind and using - this is a masterstroke for India, she should get a Padma Shri."Also read: Kangana Ranaut launches new attack against Rihanna, compares her to Neha Kakkar, suggests she's been paidKangana said that she has lost endorsement deals in the vicinity of ₹15 crore because of her stance on the matter, and that she has basically been boycotted by the film industry, and has multiple cases against her.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/kangana-ranaut-attacks-rihanna-again-says-singer-must-have-charged-at-least-rs-100-crore-for-tweet-about-farmers-protest-101612512977084.html
05-02-2021||India||Anyone speaking truth dubbed as traitor, anti-national, repeal farm laws: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday charged that anyone speaking the truth is dubbed as a "traitor" or "anti-national" and that cases of sedition have been slapped against those criticising the government.Participating in the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in Rajya Sabha, Sena member Sanjay Raut said farmers fighting for their rights have been branded as anti-nationals or Khalistanis.He said the farmers, who were known as 'warriors' when they fought the Mughals and the British, are now dubbed as anti-nationals when they are fighting for their rights on Delhi's borders.Raut said farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, who are sitting on the borders of Delhi, are fighting for the peasants from across the country and demanded that their voice be heard and the farm laws be repealed."We heard minister Dharmendra Pradhan asking us to listen to the truth. For the last six years, we have been listening to the truth, even the untruth dubbed as truth. The atmosphere in the country today is such that anyone writing the truth is dubbed as traitor and anti-national," he alleged."Cases of sedition are slapped on anyone asking questions from the government," he charged, citing examples of MPs like Sanjay Singh and Shashi Tharoor and journalists and writers.Raut said it seems that the government has changed the Indian Penal Code and replaced all its provisions with only those of sedition.He charged that cases of sedition are being lodged against everyone these days and people are booked under the law even for domestic violence cases.The Shiv Sena member further said that the government is trying to defame anyone trying to say something."Defaming the farmers' agitation is not a good thing for the country, for farmers and for all," he said.The Sena member said even though they respected the prime minister, who has got a majority to rule, "but, the majority is not run by arrogance," he said.He said everyone was ashamed by the incidents of violence that took place on Republic Day and asked why those behind the incidents of disrespecting the national flag have not been nabbed so far."Why is Deep Sidhu, responsible for disrespecting the national flag, not been caught yet. At whose behest he is acting?"Over 200 farmers are lodged in jail after being booked for sedition and not Sidhu. Over 100 youth are missing and whether they have been killed in encounters," he asked.Raut accused the government of sheltering those who violated the Official Secrets Act by leaking details about the Balakot strike while referring to a journalist and an actress.On the President saying no one can stop India from progressing if the country unites, he said when thousands of farmers have united for their rights why is the government trying to "break their unity and defaming" their agitation."When the farmers are uniting and fighting for their rights, you see anti-national acts in them and you term them as traitors. They are not anti-nationals or khalistanis.Till the time this movement is alive, the nation will remain alive and this 'andolan'," he said."If you would have built such barricades at the international borders, as those put up at Delhi borders, China would not have dared to come into Indian territory," the Sena member added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anyone-speaking-truth-dubbed-as-traitor-anti-national-repeal-farm-laws-shiv-sena-101612514123684.html
05-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Farmers forced to fight for justice’ says Cong in Rajya Sabha and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Farmers forced to fight for justice’: Congress’ Anand Sharma in Rajya SabhaThe three central farm laws were once again the topic of discussion in the Rajya Sabha on Friday, as Congress lawmaker Anand Sharma held the Centre responsible for the ‘situation that has arisen.’ Read MoreRajasthan HC issues notice on illegal mining hazard near Indo-Pak borderTaking a serious view of a petition alleging illegal mining near the Indo-Pak international border presented a major security risk to the country, the Rajasthan high court has sought response from the Central and state governments. Read MoreSupreme Court grants interim bail to comedian Munawar FaruquiThe Supreme Court on Friday granted interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui, who is accused of hurting religious sentiments by allegedly passing objectionably remarks about Hindu deities during a show, on a petition challenging the rejection of his bail by Madhya Pradesh High Court. Read MoreUP Police book mother, brother for draping farmer’s body in tricolourThe Uttar Pradesh police have booked relatives of a 32-year-old farmer for draping his body in the tricolour before his last rites in the state’s Pilibhit district on Thursday. Read MoreNASA shares stunning image of Morocco. Can you guess what it shows?If you’re someone who loves exploring the different space-related content on the Internet, then this image shared on official Instagram profile of NASA will leave you very happy. Read More'Would've picked him any day': Gautam Gambhir 'massively surprised' at India's selection of Nadeem over KuldeepIndia’s decision to play Shahbaz Nadeem in place of Kuldeep Yadav in the first Test against England in Chennai was a bit ‘unfortunate’ and ‘surprising’ for former India opener Gautam Gambhir. Read MoreSix yards of magic: Mouni Roy declares love for sarees in new pics, seen yet?A saree is one of those attires that fit the dress code of every occasion. Be it a traditional Indian event or a red carpet glamorous night. Read MoreAbhay Deol lauds Taapsee Pannu, Swara Bhasker for stance on farmers' protest: 'You should be in next Rihanna video'Actor Abhay Deol has voiced his praise for actors Taapsee Pannu and Swara Bhasker and jewellery designer Farah Khan Ali. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farmers-forced-to-fight-for-justice-says-cong-in-rajya-sabha-and-all-the-latest-news-101612508920842.html
05-02-2021||Lucknow||Farm stir: Priyanka Gandhi visits kin of deceased farmer||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday urged the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government to repeal the three new farm laws instead of calling the farmers protesting against the laws “terrorists”.“If there is any bigger wrong other than the three farm laws, which the government should take back but is not doing so, it is that martyrs are branded as terrorists and the farmers’ agitation is seen as a political conspiracy,” Priyanka Gandhi said.The Congress general secretary on Thursday met the family of Navreet Singh, who died after his tractor overturned during a tractor parade on January 26 in New Delhi, and attended a prayer ceremony for him at Dibdiba village in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur district.“I have come here to tell this family that you are not alone. Every single countryman is with you, be it of any religion, and farmers of every corner of the country are with you and we are with you,” she said.Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and Congress legislature party leader Aradhna Mishra accompanied Priyanka Gandhi on her visit to meet Navreet’s family.“Navreet was 25. My son is 20. You have young sons who went there to show their solidarity with farmers. He (Navreet) did not come back because of an incident. I want to tell Hardip Singh (Navreet’s grandfather) that we will not allow the loss of your grandson go waste. This agitation will continue till these black farm laws are withdrawn,” said Priyanka.Hitting out at the Congress leader, UP BJP vice president Vijay Patha, “The BJP government is doing a lot of work to double the income of farmers and bring about an improvement in the law and order situation. She should show large heartedness and speak about good efforts of government.”“By supporting the cause of farmers, the opposition wants to target the government. It’s opposition for the sake of opposition. Instead of siding with farmers, the Congress should point out the flaws in the farm laws,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farm-stir-priyanka-gandhi-visits-kin-of-deceased-farmer-101612477013992.html
05-02-2021||India||Will not enter Delhi, say farmers as police prepare for chakka jam||Farm unions agitating against three agriculture laws announced on Thursday that no protester will enter Delhi during a three-hour nationwide highway blockade on February 6 in a bid to avoid a repeat of the clashes and violence witnesses on Republic Day.Farmers in Punjab and Haryana drummed up support for the chakka jam, scheduled between 12pm and 3pm on Saturday, held village-level meetings and deputed special security volunteers to avert any clashes with security forces.In Delhi, Union home minister Amit Shah met national security adviser Ajit Doval and Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava inside the Parliament complex to review the security situation.The Centre had already conveyed to Delhi Police that additional central paramilitary forces are on standby if required. Currently over 60 companies (6,000 personnel) of central paramilitary forces are assisting Delhi Police at the borders.Farm leaders said cultivators camping at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur borders, and those who will join them by Friday, will carry out the chakka jam at their respective venues.“Farmers will block the highways in their respective states and no attempt will be made to enter Delhi. In case anyone gets stuck during the chakka jam, they will be served water and food by the farmers. We will also explain to them the reason behind our protest and what the government is doing with us,” Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said at the Ghazipur border.During this chakka jam – the first big event by the agitators after the Republic Day tractor rally went out of control and protesters ran riot on Delhi’s streets – farmer leaders assured that they will not stop ambulances and fire brigades.“We would like to request the people to cooperate with farmers on February 6, just for three hours, and let’s do our protest peacefully,” said Manjeet Singh Rai, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba).Many farmers said they will ask family members and supporters to block roads peacefully in their home states. “We are already sitting on a highway and we will continue doing so. We need people to participate in the chakka jam in different parts of the country. We are urging people to stay back at their places and support us from there,” said farmer leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa.Farmer leaders held meetings with people in various states to discuss the plan to avoid the scenes from Republic Day, when farmers ran riot during a tractor rally on Republic Day, storming the Red Fort and hoisting the Sikh flag from its ramparts.“From the security point of view, farm leaders, as well as volunteers, have been visiting all tractor trolleys and tents and telling people to remain non-violent. Volunteers in security duty will remain present at the border points to ensure nobody crosses the line,” said Lakhbir Singh, a farmer leader.Rai said that to strengthen their numbers, announcements were made in villages in Punjab that R1,500 will be collected as a fine from people who didn’t visit Delhi borders.“This announcement is having an impact now as many farmers have come from those villages in Punjab from where not a single participation was made in the past 70-71 days. We don’t want our agitation to die in the absence of protesters,” said Rai.Farmers at the Tikri border also said that they will avoid getting into confrontation. “Only anti-social elements resorted to violence on Republic Day. For the past two months, farmers had been protesting peacefully and the same will continue on February 6,” said Bijender Pal, a farmer from Mansa in Punjab.Across Punjab and Haryana, farmers held meetings. Response was especially enthusiastic in Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar as local people thronged toll plazas. “This agitation is at its peak and we need your support to win it,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni in Kurukshetra district. He said block-level meetings were held to fix responsibilities and they were finalising locations to block highways.In Delhi, police officers said that their strengthened security arrangements, deployment of security personnel and closure of the three borders will continue. The protest sites have turned into fortresses with police digging trenches, putting up barbed wire fences, concrete barricades and hammering beds of nails on roads.A senior police officer, who did want to be named, said intelligence inputs were being received that farmers may try to enter Delhi from several borders for the chakka jam and stopping them may lead to confrontation with the police.“Whenever there is a call for any such event (nationwide chakka jam), Delhi Police always make security arrangements to maintain law and order and avoid inconvenience to the public. Our police personnel will be deployed at the borders and on the streets across the city to manage traffic and security,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.In Haryana, district administrations across the state said they were making arrangements to deal with the situation. “We are holding talks with farmers and urging them not to block Delhi-Chandigarh, National Highway 44 as this may cause problems for thousands of commuters”, said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-enter-delhi-say-farmers-as-police-prepare-for-chakka-jam-101612475668219.html
05-02-2021||India||43 FIRs in R-Day violence, 13 being probed by special cell: Delhi police to HC||The Delhi Police on Thursday informed the Delhi high court that 43 FIRs have been registered in the Republic Day violence, out of which 13 have been transferred to the special cell.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was told by the police, represented by Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, that provisions of UAPA have also been invoked in some cases involving banned organization “Sikhs for Justice” and investigations is on.The submissions were made while hearing a plea seeking a probe into the violence during farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day and the alleged lapse in security, which resulted in a religious flag being hoisted at the Red Fort.The court declined to hear the plea and asked the petitioners, three Uttar Pradesh residents, to withdraw the petition or face costs. It said that a crime can happen in a fraction of seconds but the investigation takes time, while adding that it was to analyse the mindset of such petitions.“So you started typing the petition right after the incident on January 26 noon? Do you know how much time is given for investigation under the Criminal Procedure Code? You are a lawyer. How much time is given for an investigation?”“You expect the investigations to be completed within two days of the incident? Does the government have a magic wand which it will wave and everything will be done? Should we dismiss it with cost or will you withdraw,” the bench asked advocate Vivek Narayan Sharma, appearing for the petitioner.Man arrested for R-Day violence gets bailA Delhi court has granted bail to a man arrested for allegedly being part of unlawful assembly and conducting riots in the Uttam Nagar area during the tractor rally on Republic Day. The court stated that “no fruitful purpose would be served by curtailing the liberty of the accused”.Additional sessions judge Dheeraj Mor, while granting bail to one Sandeep Kumar, said that the Investigating officer’s report is “conspicuously silent” about his previous criminal involvement.“Therefore, there is no reason to doubt the submissions on behalf of the accused that he has clear antecedents. He is no more required for the investigation of this case. In the aforesaid circumstances, no fruitful purpose will be served by further curtailing the liberty of the accused,” the judge said in his order of February 3.The judge also noted that co-accused Gurvinder Singh, with the similar allegations as that of the accused, was released by the police after giving a notice.Kumar, through his counsel, advocate Kapil Chaudhary, had contended his client was falsely implicated in this case and he was just a bystander at the spot of occurrence. He said that Kumar was neither part of the unlawful assembly nor he was involved in the riots.The counsel said that Kumar owns a shop of iron rods at Kakrola, Dwarka Mor, New Delhi and he was not part of any agitation.However, opposing the bail application, additional public prosecutor Satvinder Kaur, told the court that the accused was part of unlawful assembly that committed riots and caused injuries to nine police personnel. She said that the members of the unlawful assembly also damaged the public property including the cluster buses.The police had earlier released a list of over 120 arrestees after allegations that several protestors were illegally detained without even informing their families.Advocate Harpreet Singh Hora said that their legal team has been providing legal aid since the first day of the arrests of several farmers and this type of orders give them hope.“Additionally, the bail reinforces our faith that the people who have been wrongly implicated in these cases shall get justice. What we are doing is upholding the law and we will strive to fight cases of these farmers till this reaches a logical conclusion,” he said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three farm laws.The tractor parade on January 26 that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/43-firs-in-r-day-violence-13-being-probed-by-special-cell-delhi-police-to-hc-101612471992469.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||Farm stir: Students miss online classes as internet remains suspended at Delhi, Haryana borders||For the past 10 days, 14-year-old Kunal Kumar, a Class 9 student of Government Senior Secondary School at Tikri border has not attended studies online as the mobile internet in the area remains suspended. While many school-going students in the area have turned to private tuitions in order to prepare for exams as only some of them have access to a Wi-Fi connection.Kumar, whose father works at a private firm, has not gone to school since the Covid-induced lockdown and had been studying online using his phone. But Republic Day onwards, following violent clashes between the protesting farmers and Delhi police, as the government snapped mobile internet services in several pockets of Delhi situated close to the borders where the farmers have been camping for the past 70 days, Kumar has not attended a single class.“Earlier, we used to take online classes from 8am to 1pm at our house, but now, because there is no network, I have not been able to attend classes for the past 10 days. We cannot download videos or study material. Now, students in classes 9-11 have been asked to come to school. Our final exams are scheduled to held next month. We are under pressure,” Kumar said.Prince Thakur, Kumar’s classmate, however, has made an arrangement. He visits his relative’s place nearby, who has a Wi-Fi connection. “With Wi-Fi, there are no problems. It is slow though but manageable. I only go there sometimes as my parents do not allow me to visit them daily,” he said.Both the boys and their friends who were playing in the neighbourhood on Thursday morning said their entire day is spent playing cricket, visiting protest sites, eating at langars there and loitering.Anil Kumar, a father of three, whose children study in class 6, 4 and in kindergarten, said they have no idea how things will turn out. “I have been regularly paying the fees, ₹500 per child for months. Throughout the year, there were only online classes and now, for the past ten days, they have also stopped. Left with no option I have to send my children for tuition so that they can prepare for their exams,” he said.Kumar, who runs a shop right next to the Tikri border agitation site, said because of the protest his earnings have also been hit. “To pay the school fee along with tuition fees and for the internet is difficult to afford,” he said.Adarsh Kumar, 17, a class 11 student who lives a few metres away from the agitation spot at Singhu border, hasn’t been able to attend his online classes for a week now. Due to the pandemic, Kumar’s offline classes at the nearby government school had been suspended since March and he was relying on worksheets as well as online learning.“The mobile internet here has been slow for the past few weeks but now it doesn’t work at all. We can send some messages on WhatsApp sometimes, but the signal is not strong enough to download files. So, I can’t access any reading material. I have been revising the old ones for a week now,” he said, adding that his sibling who is also in class 11 has to resort to the same.Though Kumar’s problems may resolve this week as the Delhi government on January 29 announced reopening of government schools for classes 9 and 11, many parents in Haryana are worried about the gap in learning that has been exacerbated by the mobile internet ban.Panipat resident Suman Malik, 38, mother of two who visits Singhu border agitation site at least four times a week, is one of them.“Not all schools have reopened in Haryana. While one of my sons has resumed his offline classes, the other one, who studies in a private school, cannot go for in-person classes. Online learning is the only option for him, and he has his exams next month. Besides, students cannot be expected to follow online classes for nearly a year and then just switch to offline classes after an internet ban. There has to be blended learning,” she said.While senior Delhi Police officers said mobile internet facilities were suspended on the orders of the ministry of home affairs (MHA), ministry officials said on Wednesday that there was no plan to further extend the suspension of internet beyond February 2. However, connectivity in areas near the protests sites continued to be poor on Thursday.Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said, “There are so many students who are staying at the protest site, and who have to attend online classes. They have not been able to study since the last one week due to the government’s inhuman and abrupt decision. We request the government to restore the internet connectivity for the sake of students.”In the evening, Samyukta Kisan Morcha also demanded the immediate reinstatement of mobile internet services. “Along with the agitating farmers, media persons and locals are facing a lot of trouble due to internet ban. Especially students are facing a big problem as their exams are approaching.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tikri-border-students-miss-classes-as-internet-stays-suspended-101612470743604.html
05-02-2021||India||Creators of ‘toolkit’ booked for conspiracy and sedition||The Delhi Police on Thursday said they have registered a first information report (FIR) to probe a “toolkit”, or document, that allegedly detailed an action plan for online and offline protests linked to the ongoing farmers’ agitation, including those during a tractor rally in the national capital on Republic Day.The toolkit was tweeted by Swedish environment activist Greta Thunberg along with a post in support of the agitating farmers.At a news briefing, Praveer Ranjan, special commissioner of police (crime), said the FIR against the creators of the toolkit mentioned charges of criminal conspiracy and sedition, but did not name any individual. He was responding to a question that if police had registered a case against Thunberg.Hours earlier, as reports of an FIR against Thunberg were flashed by multiple news outlets — police later clarified the FIR was against unknown persons — the 18-year-old activist posted: “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest.”During the media briefing, Ranjan pointed to a “copycat execution of the action plan detailed in the toolkit” in the past few days, including the protests on January 26 that plunged into chaos. He said an initial probe revealed that the document was created by pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF).HT could not find any verified social media handle or contact number of PJF. The group’s website did not have any contact details. Ranjan did not specify who exactly would be probed or how the investigators planned to go about it.The toolkit became a talking point after Thunberg shared a link to the document on Wednesday, deleted it, and then again posted an updated link on Thursday.“Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated.),” Thunberg, who has supported the farmers protesting against three controversial agricultural laws, said.The updated toolkit, which HT has seen, gave a brief description of the ongoing farmers’ agitation and called upon people to participate or organise on-ground protests, post tweets supporting the agitation, contact legal representatives and sign petitions. It did not appear to be out of the ordinary as guidelines for online protest campaigns go.The farmers’ agitation has been getting global attraction with international celebrities such as pop star Rihanna and activist Thunberg tweeting in support of the protesters. Actor Amanda Cerny, singers Jay Sean and Dr Zeus, and US sporting icons Juju Smith Schuster, Baron Davis and Kyle Kuzma supported the farmers. They were joined by lawmakers from the UK, the US and other countries.Police are probing the contents of the first “toolkit” that was brought down, according to officials who did not want to be named. Officials did not explain how international celebrities and lawmakers became a part of the campaign.Ranjan said the toolkit had an action plan that called for “digital strikes through hashtags” on or before January 26, “tweets storm” from January 23, and “physical action” on January 26, among others.“Design of the author of the toolkit is to create disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups and encourage disaffection against the government of India. It also aims at waging social, cultural and economic war against India,” he said.The FIR was registered by the cyber cell of the Delhi Police under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 124A (spreading disharmony), 153 (provocation with intent to cause riots) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups).Ranjan said the toolkit was noticed by the police while monitoring social media accounts peddling “hateful and malicious content” related to ongoing the farmers’ protest.“During our negotiations with the farmer leaders (before the tractor march on Republic Day), we had made them aware that vested interests were using the agitation to spread disaffection and hatred towards the Indian government,” he said.Vikram Singh, former director general of Uttar Pradesh Police, said the FIR was “perfectly in order” as the toolkit was part of a “concerted international effort against the country”.“Agitations are welcome, but the toolkit was actually meant to serve as a call for violence even as it left many things unwritten,” Singh said.An Indian security assessment, seen by HT, suggested that a coordinated campaign involving “a number of global celebrities”, was being run in the backdrop farmer’s protest. According to the assessment, the “content and the campaign” were being designed and run through www.askindiawhy.com. It added that this website was managed through another platform called Poetic Justice Foundation, allegedly run by a Canadian Khalistani who runs a PR agency and is close to politicians in Canada.“While the campaign takes the cover of farmers protest, content is designed to play on the same three fault lines that have been used to target India particularly by Pakistan, viz. the Sikh, Muslim and the Dalit agenda...,” the assessment said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/creators-of-toolkit-booked-for-conspiracy-and-sedition-101612470028794.html
05-02-2021||Delhi||January 26 violence: Soldiers, farmers... and now suspects||They live 120km apart in two villages of Punjab, and each owns a one-acre plot of farmland on which they grow wheat. Once soldiers in the Indian Army, the farmers now carry the tag of suspected criminals, having been picked out by Delhi Police as participants in the violence that marred Republic Day celebrations in the Capital.Until Saturday, the families of the two men, Gurmukh Singh and Jeet Singh, did not know each other despite them having served the army in the same regiment -- the Sikh Regiment -- for over two decades. Gurmukh Singh retired in 1984, Jeet Singh in 1989 after nearly two decades in the force.Events in Delhi on January 26, when a tractor rally by protesting farmers took a violent turn and chaos reigned on the streets of the Capital and at the Red Fort, brought them together.The two men are now united by FIR No. 31 registered at the Mukherjee Nagar police station for one act of violence that they were allegedly part of; they have been accused of assaulting police personnel and preventing them from performing their duty.Lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail, Gurmukh Singh,80, and Jeet Singh, 70, are the oldest among the 122 people arrested by Delhi Police for the violence. Gurmukh Singh is also the oldest prisoner within the high-security jail.Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at Delhi borders for over two months, demanding a complete roll back of the three agricultural laws. The farm unions say there are more than 150,000 farmers from Punjab. Kulwant Singh Sandhu of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said several hundred army veterans are among them.When a team from HT visited the homes of the two men in Punjab on Wednesday, the families did not deny the two were part of the protest, but said they could not have attacked or stopped the police from doing their duty.“My brother has fought in the 1965 India-Pakistan war. He served the army for more than two decades. He would not have attacked men in uniform,” said Gurmukh’s younger brother Gurcharan Singh outside his house in Fatehgarh Sahib.On Saturday morning, a neighbour called one of the village elders with the news “Fauji fadya gaya (soldier has been arrested”. Gurmukh is now a local supporter of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Mann faction) and is known as Fauji in his Samaspur Singha village.A video clip of Fauji, who retired as a subedar naik, leading a march- past of ex-servicemen near Singhu on the Delhi border on the morning of January 26, is also being widely circulated on the WhatsApp group of the villagers.Divided neighboursSome say Gurmukh may have taken part in the rioting. Others believe the police saw him as a leader among the ex-servicemen protesting against the laws and arrested him.“He was an aggressive man for his age. Maybe this was because of his years in the army. We have been told that he fought against Pakistan and China. He joined politics and was a supporter of SAD (Maan). But considering his age, the police should have released him,” said a neighbour who did not wish to be named.Gurmukh Singh’s family members said he had left for Singhu about a month ago. He told his family he would only return once the farm laws were repealed.“A man who fought for the country is now behind bars. But we are not feeling sad or bad. This is Punjab. If one family member dies in the line of duty, arrested while protesting in this case, another will go and take his place,” his brother Gurcharan Singh said.In Sangrur district’s Khanouri Kalan village, retired lance naik Jeet Singh’s house has now become the new haunt of villagers. It is at this two-storey house that villagers come together to discuss the case of Punjab residents arrested by Delhi Police.Jeet Singh’s wife, Balbir Kaur, 65, prepares tea for the young men from the village who have been coming to her house since the news of her husband’s arrest.“I am sure, the other elderly soldier’s (Gurmukh Singh’s) wife must also be busy dealing with such charged-up youngsters at her house,” Kaur said in her kitchen on the first floor.Outside the kitchen, a group of young men have gathered and are standing on the stairs. They claim they are here to tell Kaur that they are proud of her husband and would willingly join the protesters.‘Travesty’Jeet Singh’s family too heard the news of his arrest on Saturday. A jail officer called Jeet Singh’s son Veer and explained that his father had been booked .“My father served the army till his retirement in 1989. At a time during the 80s when many (Sikh) soldiers had deserted the army (after Operation Bluestar in 1984), my father proudly served the country. Yes, he was there at the protest, but he could not have indulged in violence,” said Veer Singh, who works at the local sub-divisional magistrate’s office as a guard.Veer Singh’s friend, a clerk at the SDM’s office, who asked not to be named because he is a government official, said: “ We are ready. We will work for the Punjab government from Monday to Friday. But weekends will be spent in Delhi.”On Wednesday afternoon, the villagers held a panchayat to encourage more young people to join their elders in the protests on the Delhi borders.Advocate Amar Veer Bhulkar, one of the lawyers who visited Tihar jail to meet the arrested protesters and is helping them fight the cases pro bono, said: “Two elderly men aged 80 and 70, who may physically not be able to assault anyone and yet (being) behind bars for alleged assault, is a travesty of justice. We have formed a team of lawyers in each district and will fight their cases right till the end.”Deputy commissioner of police (north west) Urvija Goel did not respond to requests for comment.The two families are not worried about the police case. They say they will join the other farmers at Singhu this weekend and won’t return until the government repeals the three laws.But one thing upsets them. Veer Singh said: “Our fathers fought for this country in their youth. The government disrespected them by putting such veterans in jail. This doesn’t hurt much. We are a race of fighters but when the media calls us Khalistanis and terrorists, imagine the feeling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/january-26-violence-soldiers-farmers-and-now-suspects-101612468519089.html
05-02-2021||India||Rajya Sabha debates, but no end to Lok Sabha impasse||HRajya Sabha members debated the new farm laws for the second day on Thursday along with the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis and the subsequent migrant workers’ crisis.The Upper House debate proceeded smoothly even as the Lok Sabha deadlock continued. Speaker Om Birla called Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and his deputy Arjun Ram Meghwal for a marathon meeting, seen as a last-ditch effort to salvage the debate in the Lower House where the PM is scheduled to reply at 5pm on Friday.“I want to draw the attention to the farmers’ agitation today, despite the adversities of the weather,” Congress MP Deepender Hooda said in the Rajya Sabha. “There have been 11 rounds of talks with the government. There has been no resolution to the issue, instead 194 farmers have been martyred.”Hooda said the government failed to express a single word of condolence for those who lost their lives.“This government has lost the faith of the people,” he said. Hooda drew Parliament’s attention to the barricades erected by Delhi Police at the borders of the national capital. “Despotism can never defeat democracy. The farmer of a country can never be a serf.”BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia lauded the Prime Minister’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis and other challenging issues since he came to power for the second time. “Jammu and Kashmir has been freed from historical chains and over 1.5 crore people have received the benefits of central schemes,” he said. He added that the PM had rolled out visionary reforms. “The Ram mandir will be a symbol of a new and strong India,” Scindia said.Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the PM had taken every crisis head-on. “The mandate of the country has been vested in the PM not once but twice in the national elections. Modi ji has worked for energy justice that the farmers will benefit from,” said Pradhan. “India is also working to develop alternate energy in the form of hydrogen fuel.”Congress MP Digvijay Singh raised the issue of the farm laws and said that democracy was being suppressed in the country. “We respect the mandate you have, but the way in which dissent, which is the backbone of a democracy, is being suppressed in our country is deplorable,” Singh said. “The foisting of cases against farmers, journalists, activists and such needs to stop.”He was backed by Trinamool MP Derek O’Brien who said the government had failed to uphold the sanctity of Parliament. “Members had asked, as is procedure, for the bills to be referred to a select committee, but the government never did that. Political administration is the purview of the Prime Minister and the home minister. This government has failed on many counts, including handling of the Covid-19 crisis and the economy.”O’Brien said he had prepared a draft to repeal the three farms laws.The DMK’s NR Elango said the government was violating the federal structure with the farm laws. “The farm laws occupy the field of the state’s power,” Elango said “The government legislated them in tearing hurry and farmers’ interest was not considered.”The laws, farmers say, will only aid private enterprises and hurt their livelihoods. The opposition has demanded a repeal of all three laws, but the government has agreed to a waiver for 18 months, during which it says the legislation will be re-examined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-debates-but-no-end-to-lok-sabha-impasse-101612467626231.html
05-02-2021||India||US says it supports reform but cautions against curbs||The US on Thursday weighed in on the ongoing farmers’ agitation at New Delhi’s borders for the first time since it began in November-end, saying peaceful protests and unhindered access to information, including the internet, were hallmarks of a “thriving democracy”, but at the same time backed reforms that would increase efficiency of Indian markets and attract more private investment.The carefully worded response by Joe Biden’s administration also encouraged a “dialogue” between farmers and the government to end the agitation that has been getting global attraction with international celebrities such as pop star Rihanna and green activist Greta Thunberg tweeting in support of the protesters.The external affairs ministry said the comments by the US must be seen in their entirety, while pointing out that State Department “has acknowledged” India’s steps towards reforms, which have emerged as a point of contention. The government also appeared to draw parallels between a farmers’ rally on January 26 that plunged into chaos and the January 6 storming of the US Capitol by Donald Trump’s supporters protesting election results that declared his defeat in the presidential race.“We recognise that peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy and note that the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same,” a US State Department spokesperson said in Washington in response to a request for comment from US media. A version of it was provided to HT. “We encourage that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue.”In New Delhi, a US embassy spokesperson echoed a similar response.The State Department did not mention anything specific to three new farm laws that have triggered the agitation (now in its 71st day), but appeared supportive of reforms. “In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India’s markets and attract greater private sector investment,” the spokesperson said.“We recognise that unhindered access to information, including the internet, is fundamental to the freedom of expression and a hallmark of a thriving democracy,” the spokesperson added, a remark that came in the backdrop of internet curbs at protest sites.Asked about the US position at a news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “Any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse.”Describing India and the US as vibrant democracies with shared values, Srivastava added: “The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on January 6 and are being addressed as per our respective local laws.”He said “temporary measures” on internet access in parts of the National Capital Region were “undertaken to prevent further violence”.Michael Kugelman, South Asia expert at leading think-tank Wilson Center, Washington’s comments were unlikely to trouble the Narendra Modi government.“What strikes me about these comments is their neutrality. Aside from some soft criticism that the State Department made about the internet blocks...they don’t convey anything that New Delhi would find disagreeable. Washington is essentially saying it agrees with India’s new farm laws and with any peaceful protestors that may oppose them,” Kugelman said.Milan Vaishnav, South Asia expert with Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said, “I actually found the State Department statement to be quite balanced. While the statement reiterates the right of Indians to peacefully protest, it also expressed its support for the underlying motivations of the farm reform bills. In my view, I think U.S. diplomats threaded the needle very well. I would also add that the MEA seems to have also picked up on this--highlighting, in its response, U.S. support for continued market reforms in agriculture. The MEA statement also links the Jan 26th incursion at the Red Fort to the January 6 Capitol insurrection, a not-so-subtle message that the U.S. is facing its own domestic infirmities.”Tens of thousands of farmers have camped at Delhi’s borders, demanding the repeal of the three contentious laws passed by Parliament in September. Eleven rounds of talks between the protesters and the government have failed to break the impasse. Protesters say the laws will hurt their livelihood and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government defends the laws as necessary for long-overdue reforms in the agriculture sector.On Republic Day, violence broke out during a tractor rally by farmers after a section of the protesters veered off the routes agreed with police and resorted to vandalism. Clashes broke out in several places, including the 17th-century Red Fort and the ITO intersection.On that day, internet services were suspended, albeit temporarily, at three key protest sites — Singhu and Tikri (on Haryana border), and Ghazipur (on Uttar Pradesh border). Services were suspended again on January 29 for two days, and then extended till February 3.After the violence, authorities stepped up security at the protest sites, placing iron spikes and steel barricades to prevent the agitators from entering Delhi.The agitation landed in global spotlight after Rihanna, who has 101 million followers, tweeted a CNN news report about internet curbs on Tuesday. Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, actor Amanda Cerny, singers Jay Sean and Dr Zeus, and US sporting icons Juju Smith Schuster, Baron Davis and Kyle Kuzma supported the farmers. They were joined by lawmakers from the UK, the US and other countries.On Wednesday, India said criticism by foreign celebrities and attempts to “mobilise international support” against the country on the government’s handling of the protests without ascertaining facts were “neither accurate nor responsible”. In a rare statement, the external affairs ministry contended that “vested interest groups” were trying to enforce their agenda, referring to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others”. It didn’t name anyone.While Indian movie stars such as Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn said citizens should focus on the government’s efforts to resolve the farmers’ crisis, others appeared to be on the opposite side of the debate. “If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others,” actor Taapsee Pannu posted.The tug of war continued on Thursday. Opposition parties stepped up attack on the government even as leaders of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) launched a counter-offensive.“The issue is not Rihanna or Greta Thunberg or any individual. The issue is the manner in which the government is countering the farmers’ protests as though they were an invading army,” senior Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram tweeted. “There are many Gretas among Indian women and girls, but they are shackled by poverty, social constraints and fear. Sooner than later, India’s Gretas will find their voices and speak in favour of the farmers,” he added.Late on Thursday evening, farm leader Rakesh Tikait said, “If some foreigner is supporting the movement, then what’s the problem? They are not giving or taking anything from us.”In Nagpur, BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis told reporters that there was an international conspiracy to defame India and spark chaos and unrest in the country. “How an international conspiracy is going on has been revealed with the tweets. India is being defamed using the platform of farmers’ protest,” Fadnavis was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Valerie Vaz, a senior MP of Britain’s Labour Party and sister of former lawmaker Keith Vaz, wrote a letter to foreign minister Dominic Raab to reiterate the concerns of her constituents regarding events related to the farmers’ protest. The Indian-origin MP was among 35 British lawmakers to take up the farmers’ protest with Raab before he visited India in December.Vaz asked Raab to contact the Indian government “as a matter of urgency regarding these concerning events”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-says-it-supports-reform-but-cautions-against-curbs-101612466863173.html
05-02-2021||Bollywood||Salman Khan reacts to farmers' protests: 'Most correct thing should be done'||Actor Salman Khan is among the latest Bollywood celebrities to react to the ongoing protests by farmers against the three farm laws. The actor said whatever was the correct thing to do, should be done.The issue picked up steam after international music star Rihanna and Swedish teen environment activist Greta Thunberg threw their weight behind the farmers.Salman was asked by paparazzi at a recent event about his opinion on the issue. He was quoted by Spotboye as saying: "The right thing should be done. The most correct thing should be done. The most noble thing should be done."Earlier this week, Rihanna had shared a news article on the issue and had written: "Why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest."A number of Indian celebrities including Ajay Devgn, Akshay Kumar, Suniel Shetty and cricketers such as Virat Kohli had posted on the subject, using the hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda.Sharing his thoughts, Ajay Devgn had written on Twitter: "Don’t fall for any false propaganda against India or Indian policies. It's important to stand united at this hour w/o any infighting #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda."A number of other celebrities including Kangana Ranaut, Diljit Dosanjh, Taapsee Pannu, Richa Chadha have also been speaking on the contentious issue. In fact, Kangana and Diljit, who are on the opposing sides of the argument, had a rather nasty exchange on Twitter. Kangana has been tweeting against Rihanna, Greta and targeting other Indian celebs such as cricketer Rohit Sharma and Taapsee, too. Two of her tweets were subsequently deleted by Twitter over violation of rules.Also read: Priyanka Chopra goes bold in new photo shoot, says ‘I don’t want to be defined by where I come from’This is the first time Salman has spoken on the subject. The actor has mostly been busy shooting for his upcoming project, Antim. The film sees him play a Sikh cop. He is paired opposite Aayush Sharma, the latter playing a negative role in the film.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/salman-khan-reacts-to-farmers-protests-most-correct-thing-should-be-done-101612495638837.html
