06-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR peaceful as 40,000 security personnel keep vigil during ‘chakka jam’||Delhi-NCR remained peaceful on Saturday — with police and paramilitary forces covering every inch of the city, barricades coming up at all strategic points to deter protesters and some Metro stations shutting their gates for more than five hours — as thousands of farmers held a “chakka jam” protest to press for the repealing of three contentious farm laws that the Central government had passed in September last year.Police said at least 62 protesters were detained from outside Shaheedi Park near ITO in central Delhi on Saturday where they had gathered to hold a demonstration in solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. All the detained persons were let off in the evening and no first information report (FIR) was registered against them.On Saturday, the three-hour-long chakka jam protest called by farm unions concluded peacefully in Delhi amid heightened security and full-scale police deployment to prevent a rerun of violence that had taken place on Republic Day. On Saturday, nearly 40,000 security personnel from Delhi Police and from the paramilitary forces fanned out across the capital to maintain law and order on the streets.Authorities also suspended internet connectivity at three protest sites of Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, as well as adjoining areas, for 24 hours till Saturday night. The entry and exit gates of at least 10 metro stations – Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Delhi Gate, ITO, Mandi House, Janpath, Central Secretariat, Khan Market, Nehru Place and Vishwavidalaya – were closed for nearly five hours as a precautionary measure aimed at avoiding arrival of agitators for taking part in the chakka jam protest. The stations were closed between 10-30 am and 11.30 am and were reopened by 4 pm, officials said.The three protest sites — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — where thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three contentious agriculture laws remained under a cloak of multilayered barricading, with barbed wiring on top, concrete walls, trenches, and nails boards being drilled onto the roads. Nets to block stones in case of stone pelting were also placed even as a heavy contingent of security personnel, armed with anti-riot gear, kept a watch at the barricades and patrolled the streets around the protest sites.Drone cameras were also used at the borders and Shaheedi Park for aerial surveillance and to capture the activities of protesters. From Friday evening onwards, checking of vehicles at the border points had been stepped-up to ensure that no miscreants or farmers entered Delhi for the chakka jam.“However, the checking was relaxed late Saturday morning, following intelligence inputs that the protesting farmers or groups were not entering Delhi for their agitation,” a police officer deployed at Anand Vihar border said, requesting anonymity.Farmer unions on Monday had announced a countrywide “peaceful and non-violent” chakka jam on February 6, during which they would block national and state highways for three hours (between noon and 3pm) in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites; harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities.Even as the farm unions on Friday declared that “there will be no chakka jam inside Delhi”, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “Considering the violence that erupted on January 26 during the tractor rally, we did not want to take any chances. Elaborate security arrangements were put in place and a full-scale vigil was checked untoward incidents and traffic-related inconvenience. No violence happened and traffic remained normal.”At Shaheedi Park, over 60 protesters, mostly women and students of various pro-Left groups, arrived with placards and drums in two separate batches. The first group of 50 people arrived around 12.30pm and tried to enter the park. However, they were stopped at the barricades places 10 metres from the park’s entry gate. The police asked them to disperse. But when the protesters refused,and were detained, put inside buses stationed there and shifted to Rajender Nagar police station. The other group having 12 students arrived around 1.30 am and began beating drums. They were also removed in another bus.“All of them were released around 4.30 pm. No FIR has been registered,” said deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh.There were reports that the police had closed the India Gate lawns. DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said, “We had not shut the lawns. No protester came to New Delhi district area. The security around the iconic structures and important buildings had been tightened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-peaceful-as-40-000-security-personnel-keep-vigil-during-chakka-jam-101612634206372.html
06-02-2021||India||'His personal view': Farmers' union on what Tikait said on UP 'chakka jam'||On Friday, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said that Saturday's 'chakka jam' will not be held in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. First, he said the decision has been taken as farmers from these states can be called to Delhi. Then he said he had evidence that few people might attempt to spread violence at these two states. Now his comments have led to what seems like a disagreement among the protesting unions as Samyukt Kisan Morcha spokesperson Darshan Pal Singh said it was Tikait's personal feeling that violence might occur in those two states. "I feel he should have made the statement after speaking with us. The statement was made in haste," Darshan Pal said to news agency ANI.He personally felt that violence might occur in UP & Uttarakhand. I feel he should have made the statement after speaking with us. The statement was made in haste: Farmer leader DP Singh on Rakesh Tikait's announcement regarding holding chakka jaam in UP & Uttarakhand https://t.co/5L2aHWnAZd pic.twitter.com/xv0zEMVvDZIn its statement, SKM, the umbrella body of the 40 unions protesting against the farm laws, said 'chakka jam' programme in Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand and Bihar was a complete success. "Roads were blocked by farmers all over the region including Champaran, Purnia, Bhojpur, Katihar. Farmers organised 'chakka jam' programs in more than 200 places in Madhya Pradesh. In Maharashtra, farmers led the 'chakka jam' in many places, including Wardha, Pune and Nashik. The success of Chakka Jam was also seen in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu," the statement said."Yesterday, in Parliament, the agriculture minister insulted the struggle of farmers of India by saying that only one state's farmers are opposing the agricultural laws. But today's nationwide 'chakka jam' once again proved that farmers across the country are united against these laws. The farmers were completely peaceful and non-violent in these events," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-personal-view-farmers-union-on-what-tikait-said-on-up-chakka-jam-101612627441748.html
06-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre asks states to increase Covid-19 vaccine coverage, minimise wastage and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Minimise vaccine wastage, increase pace': Centre sets new targets for statesThe Union health ministry on Saturday reviewed the vaccination status of all states and union territories as India covered 56,36,868 beneficiaries under its vaccination drive till 6pm. Read more'I need to go back and work in the nets': Nadeem talks about his problems with no-balls in first Test against EnglandTeam India's bowling performance in the first Test was not up to the mark as England piled on the runs at the MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. Read moreMalcolm & Marie movie review: Zendaya and John David Washington are mesmerising in incendiary new Netflix filmStructured like a boxing match and told with the intensity of a scream into an empty void, Malcolm & Marie finds writer-director Sam Levinson in peak introspection mode, both professionally and personally. Read moreTelegram is the most downloaded app in January 2021Telegram became the most downloaded non-gaming app in January 2021 surpassing the likes of TikTok, Facebook, and Instagram among others. Read moreGrandpa returns stolen handcuffs to police after 60 years due to this reasonA story of a grandpa who returned handcuffs he stole about 60 years ago has now won people over. Shared on the official Twitter account of the LAPD, the story shows that it is never too late to do the right thing. Read moreOctober warning on farmer stir; potato, sugarcane planted at Ghazipur siteFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that the ongoing stir would continue till at least October 2021. He said that the protesting cultivators are not 'short of time', and the government can make all the preparations it wants. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-asks-states-to-ensure-minimum-vaccine-wastage-101612623818047.html
06-02-2021||Lucknow||Farmers protest against farm laws in UP demanding repeal of legislation, submits memoranda to district authorities||Farmers staged protests in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday against the Centre's three farm laws and handed over memoranda to the respective district authorities demanding its withdrawal.We did not participate in the chakka jam (road blockade) but handed over memoranda to the district magistrates in different districts of the state, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Alok Verma said.Office bearers of BKU handed over memorandum to district magistrates concerning their demand, he said.According to a report, farmers associated with Bundelkhand Kisan Union held peaceful protests in all the seven districts of the region against the new agriculture laws and submitted memoranda addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind to the respective district authorities.In Banda, farmers held a symbolic protest on the Jhansi-Mirzapur National Highway in Attara town and handed over a memorandum to the tehsil officials, ASP Mahendra Pratap Singh Chauhan said.Similar protests were held in Hamirpur, Lalitpur, Mahoba and Chitrakoot districts among others with farmers raising slogans in support of their demands, officials said.National President of Bundelkhand Kisan Union Vimal Kumar Sharma said farmers staged protests for about three hours and handed over memoranda addressed to the President.In Ballia, farmers staged a protest at the district headquarters under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and demanded withdrawal of the legislations, legal guarantee to MSP among others.The Yuva Chetna Manch, a social organisation, said that it will hold a kisan mahapanchayat in all the districts of UP's eastern region. In Ballia, its national convenor Rohit Kumar Singh said farmers are seeking justice over the last 73 days and the Prime Minister has maintained silence over it.The farmers are standing for the country against the Narendra Modi government and the youth will also have to come forward, Singh said alleging that there is an undeclared emergency in the country.Similar protests were staged in Gauriganj and Tiloi areas of Amethi district and the agitators submitted memorandum to ADM Shailesh Pratap Singh, a report stated.Under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu faction) and led by its district president Shiv Kumar Pandey, farmers took out a march from Gauriganj Chowk to the DM's office. Women holding lathis protested against the government and raised slogans against the dispensation.In Tiloi, farmers of Tikait and Bhanu groups staged protests and submitted memorandum to SDM Yogendra Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farmers-protest-against-farm-laws-in-up-demanding-repeal-of-legislation-101612621513929.html
06-02-2021||India||3-hour-long 'chakka jam' ends peacefully. What's next?||The three-hour-long 'chakka jam' called by farmers on Saturday protesting internet suspension at borders in the aftermath of Republic Day violence ended peacefully. Many state and national highways were blocked, except in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, as decided earlier. Security was stepped up in Delhi, Haryana so that a rerun of what happened on Republic Day does not take place. The symbolic protest ended with Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait saying that the protests will continue until the demands are met. He said that the government has "time" till October to repeal the laws, implying that the protesters are planning to camp t Delhi borders till October.Here is what happened in the 3-hour chakka jam:> Before 'chakka jam' began, the entry and exit facilities of 10 Delhi Metro stations were closed. They remained closed for several hours until 'chakka jam' ended around 3pm. After that, the gates were opened.> The blockade was not observed inside the Capital. Highways leading to Delhi were also free from blockade so that farmers can come to the protest sites. For the same reason, there was no blockade in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.> In Chandigarh, Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore, Patiala-Kaithal, Jind-Karnal, Karnal-Kaithal, Ambala – Chandigarh Highway, Ambala- Hisar and Mansa-Sirsa were blocked.> The road blockade was observed in almost all states including Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajasthan. In some areas, protesters were detained.> Though there was no 'chakka jam' in Delhi, some protesters demonstrating at Delhi's Shahidi Park were detained.> Internet services have been temporarily suspended in border areas of Delhi till the end of Saturday.> The Congress extended its full support to the call of the road blockade.> Delhi Police kept water canons ready for any untoward situation. Drones were deployed to keep a watch on protesters at Delhi borders.> As far as the future of the protest is concerned, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said the protest will go on until the demands of the farmers are met.> Tikait said the government has "time" till October 2 to repeal the laws.The protesters are under fire after their peaceful protest turned violent on Republic Day. Union leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav are on police radar for they promised a peaceful march. While Delhi Police is probing into the matter of Republic Day violence, the Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws is consulting with farmers from across the country. Mahapanchayats are also being held at several placed in UP, including Shamli, Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, to bolster farmers' protest. If farmers continue camping till October, it will be 12 months of their protes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3hourlong-chakka-jam-ends-peacefully-what-s-next-101612613140419.html
06-02-2021||India||Javadekar shares Tharoor's old tweet on farm laws; 'Misinformation,' says latter||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday shared an old tweet of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor where Tharoor championed for the engagement of the private sector in the storage of grains. "And now Congress thinks exactly the opposite," Javadekar wrote on Twitter, accusing Tharoor of hypocrisy.In the tweet, which Shashi Tharoor had posted on January 23, 2010, he noted that India wasted more wheat every year to storage and distribution losses. And the amount of loss surpasses what Australia grows. "Real need for pvt sector 2move into grain storage," Tharoor had written, as seen in the screenshot shared by Javadekar.Prakash-bhai, Does my tweet mention or imply anything about removing MSP or amending ECA to allow hoarding? Or aren't you aware of farmers’ demands? Surely it’d be better for a Minister of Information & Broadcasting to stop Broadcasting Misinformation this way. @PrakashJavadekarTaking the accusation in his stride, Tharoor said the old tweet has no mention that he wants minimum support price (MSP) system to be abolished. "Prakash-bhai, Does my tweet mention or imply anything about removing MSP or amending ECA to allow hoarding? Or aren't you aware of farmers’ demands? Surely it’d be better for a Minister of Information & Broadcasting to stop Broadcasting Misinformation this way," Tharoor wrote.Centre has 'time' till October 2 to repeal farm laws, says BKU's Rakesh TikaitThe Centre and the BJP in its extensive campaigning for the farm laws have reiterated that the bills did not come to Parliament overnight. There have been years of consultations on this, Union leaders have said.The BJP also dug out an old letter of National Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar where Pawar in the capacity of the agriculture minister had written to chief ministers to amend APMC Act to allow private sector in agriculture. NCP clarified that Pawar was trying to form a consensus among state agriculture marketing boards in 2010-11. But the party (NCP) did not support the farm laws against which the present protest is going on.Farmers have been protesting the three laws as they apprehend that these laws will allow the entry of private players in the sector. Another contentious issue is MSP not being mentioned in the laws, though the Centre has reiterated that the system of procurement under MSP will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/javadekar-shares-tharoor-s-old-tweet-on-farm-laws-misinformation-says-latter-101612608757773.html
06-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam: PAC, paramilitary forces deployed at state, national highways in UP||About 144 UP-PAC companies, six paramilitary companies, along with senior officers, have been deployed at the state and national highways and everything is being recorded in the wake of 'chakka jam' call by the farmer unions who were protesting against the farm laws for over two months at the national capital's border, said Prashant Kumar, Additional Director General (ADG) Law and Order in Uttar Pradesh."About 144 UP-PAC companies, six paramilitary companies along with senior officers have been deployed at state and national highways. We have imposed sector/zonal schemes. There is foot patrolling, drones, and everything is being recorded," said Kumar."UP Police and administration have maintained security since farmers' protest began. We have got support from farmer organisations, with their cooperation and our effort no untoward incident has happened so far. Today also we have deployed adequate security force," he added.A pan-India 'chakka jam' call has been given by farmers from 12 pm to 3:00.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-pac-paramilitary-forces-deployed-at-state-national-highways-in-up-101612603285311.html
06-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam: Internet suspended again at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur||On a day, farmers held a three-hour-long symbolic protest of chakka jam against the Centre's frequent orders of suspending internet connection at border areas where farmers have been camping since November, the ministry of home affairs order an internet suspension, which will continue till the end of the day.The suspension of internet services has been announced in the interest of "maintaining public safety and averting public emergency", the order issued on February 5 said. Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri borders are surrounding areas come under the purview of this suspension order.Follow live updates of farmers' protestThe MHA ordered the first suspension of internet connection amid the ongoing farmers' protest on January 26, when farmers' tractor march led to a violent stand-off between protesters and the Delhi Police. A group of protesters entered into the Capital deviated from the pre-agreed route of their tractor march and entered the Red Fort, climbed on it to hoist religious flags. Soon after the incident, internet connectivity was suspended. Since then, there have been regular suspensions of internet connection at the border areas.Saturday's three-hour 'chakka jam', in which state and national highways across the country were blocked between 12 noon and 3pm, except in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, was in protest against these internet suspensions.Similar orders blocking internet services had been passed in Haryana and Punjab as well — after January 26.The service disruption in national Capital and surrounding areas has drawn the attention of international media and international celebrities as American pop star Rihanna, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, on their social media accounts, extended support to farmers' protest, sharing a CNN article which talked about India's internet suspension.Since the three-hour 'chakka jam' was the protesters' major event after Republic Day march, the Centre, Delhi Police, Haryana Police stepped up security measures. Union home minister Amit Shah had met Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and NSA Ajit Doval on February 4 to review the security situation ahead of 'chakka jam'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-mha-suspends-internet-connection-at-sites-of-farmers-protests-101612604158159.html
06-02-2021||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh failed to perform responsibility towards farmers: SAD||Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday said the Punjab Chief Minister Captain (retired) Amarinder Singh has failed to perform the responsibility towards the farmers of the state.She alleged that innocent youth have been put behind bars without any FIR being filed in the January 26 episode and the Punjab government should do something to help them."It is CM Amarinder Singh's responsibility to go to Delhi and ensure that cases registered against innocent youth of Punjab are withdrawn. They've been imprisoned without any FIR. It is the Punjab government's responsibility to help them, what are they doing?" she said.She added that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has started a helpline number on which the people at the protest can report for their missing members.While talking about the belief that only Punjab is agitating against the farm laws, Harsimrat Kaur said "Government of India has a misunderstanding that only Punjab is agitating. The entire country is protesting, farmers from all states are sitting at protest sites. If they still want to turn a blind eye claiming only Punjab is protesting, then one can't do anything".Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-failed-to-perform-responsibility-towards-farmers-sad-101612601127657.html
06-02-2021||TV||The Good Place's Jameela Jamil says she is getting rape threats after voicing support for Indian farmers||British actor Jameela Jamil has shared a message on the online harassment she has been facing since speaking up about the farmers' protests in India. Jameela, who is the star of the hit show, The Good Place, said she has been regularly speaking about the protest and has been getting rape and death threats online for it."I have *repeatedly* spoken about the farmers in india over the past few months and what is happening there at the moment, but each time I do I am met with death and rape threats. so while you are pressuring me in my dms please keep in mind that i am a human being who has some limitations as to what i can handle," she wrote in a message on Instagram on Friday.A post shared by Jameela Jamil (@jameelajamilofficial)"I do however maintain. my solidarity is of course with the farmers in India and everyone fighting for their rights during this protest. I hope you are also pressuring men to speak on this subject too as they are far less likely to be attacked the way women in the public eye are. To everyone reading this. As I've asked many times before, please read about what's happening," she added.Responding to her comment, Four Weddings and a Funeral star Andie Macdowell wrote, "Went to India for my first time last year right before coronavirus. I am watching. don’t know why people are threatening you ? You can block those people."On Saturday, Oscar-winning actor Susan Sarandon had also voiced her support towards the farmers, who are protesting against the new farm laws by the central government. "Standing in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India. Read about who they are and why they’re protesting below," she wrote in her tweet.Also read: Radhe Shyam pre-teaser: Prabhas take a romantic stroll in red, teaser out on Valentines DayBefore them, pop star Rihanna had also tweeted about the protest, raising awareness about it on Twitter. Later, Swedish activist Greta Thunberg also extended her support to the farmers' cause.On Wednesday, a host of Bollywood celebrities, including Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar, Ekta Kapoor and Suniel Shetty, put out similar statements about the ongoing farmers’ protest with the hashtag ‘India against propaganda’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/tv/the-good-place-s-jameela-jamil-says-she-is-getting-rape-threats-after-voicing-support-for-indian-farmers-101612598897006.html
06-02-2021||Delhi||Several Delhi metro station gates shut in view of farmers’ ‘chakka jam’ call||As a precautionary measure in view of the 'chakka jam' called by farmers on Saturday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has shut off entry and exits gates of at least eight metro stations in the national capital.In a series of announcements made via their social media accounts, DMRC said that entry and exit gates at Mandi House, ITO, Delhi Gate, Vishwavidyalaya, Lal Qila, Jama Masjid, Janpath, Central Secretariat, Khan Market and Nehru Place metro stations have been closed for public."The gates in these metro stations will only open where interchange facilities are available. Interchange will be allowed," a DMRC spokesperson said.The official also added that the stations were closed on the orders of the local police to prevent any unruly elements from reaching central Delhi.Also Read: Chakka Jam: Heavy police deployment in Haryana to deal with fallout"During the day if more station gates have to be shut down on police orders, we are prepared for it," the DMRC said.Meanwhile, there was heavy security presence across the city and at the three borders where thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for the past 73 days. Police used drone cameras for aerial surveillance and were also monitoring social media feed to ensure that rumour mongers did not fuel tension during the farmers’ chakka jam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/several-delhi-metro-station-gates-shut-in-view-of-farmers-chakka-jam-call-101612592820650.html
06-02-2021||India||Farmers' agitation: Normal vehicular movement in Delhi ahead of chakka jam||The vehicular movement in the national capital has been normal but slower on Saturday at border points, where the police have intensified checking of vehicles because of the nationwide traffic blockade call given by farm unions between 12 pm and 3 pm, the Delhi traffic police said. Security arrangements have been enhanced even as no untoward incident has been reported from anywhere in the city.Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur border points, where thousands of farmers have been camping against the three farm laws for 73 days, continue to remain closed. The traffic between Delhi-Uttar Pradesh and Delhi-Haryana was being diverted to the alternate routes. The other border points closed because of the farmers' agitation are Piau Maniyari, Saboli, and Auchandi, all connecting Delhi with Haryana.Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu School, and Palla border points are open for traffic between Delhi and Haryana. The traffic police have advised motorists to avoid Outer Ring Road, GT Karnal Road, and NH-44 to avoid traffic congestion.All the six carriageways of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, NH-9 and NH-24 are blocked at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border. Motorists coming from Ghaziabad are entering Delhi through alternate border points such as Anand Vihar, EDM Mall, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, and through Noida where they are being diverted to DND, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, and Dallupura."Traffic is normal across the city and we have so far not received any call regarding traffic jams from anywhere in the city," an official from the traffic police control room said at 10.30 am.Farmer leaders have announced that there will be no blockade, or chakka jam, in Delhi and the protesting farmers will not enter the city. But around 50,000 traffic and security personnel, including those from the paramilitary forces, have been deployed. The police are also using drone cameras for aerial surveillance.One of the groups from the Ghazipur protest site deviated from their agreed-upon route during the January 26 tractor rally, reached ITO and ran riot there. Another group from Singhu border stormed the Red Fort, where one of the protesters climbed a flag post and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs. A violent clash followed as policemen tried to disperse the protesters.The farmer protest sites at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur borders are being heavily patrolled ahead of the three-hour-long chakka jam called to intensify the protest against the farm laws.The Delhi Police on Friday reiterated that no permission has been granted to protesters for holding the chakka jam or any other demonstration in the city and legal action will be taken against those found disrupting the city’s traffic and law and order.The protest sites are under multi-layered barricading with barbed wiring on top, concrete walls, trenches, nails boards drilled onto roads, and netting to stop pelted stones.These measures, the police said, were to keep the farmers from entering the national capital on Saturday.The police were also monitoring content on social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours or instigating people against the government and the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-agitation-normal-vehicular-movement-in-delhi-ahead-of-chakka-jam-101612592351770.html
06-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam: Delhi-Chandigarh highway blocked at 3 places in Haryana||National Highway 44 has been blocked at Kurukshetra, Panipat and Karnal districts in Haryana as farmers carry out a 'chakka jam' protest against the three Central farm laws, said the police. Farmers have also blocked Panipat-Rohtak highway near Panipat, Hisar-Chandigarh highway at Kaithal and Pehowa, Karnal-Jind highway near Assandh.Haryana police have diverted the traffic from NH 44 to alternative routes to avoid traffic jams. The protestors said that the highway blockade will continue for three hours till 3pm. However, they said they had made arrangements for food and water for commuters stuck in traffic jams on one of the busiest highways of the country, which caters to around 40,000 vehicles daily. Earlier heavy police deployment was made around Chandigarh-Delhi national highway 44.The authorities tried to convince the protesting farmers not to block NH 44, which connects three states of Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh and three union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Chandigarh with the national capital of Delhi, but the union leaders insisted on the blockade of all major national and Haryana state highways, forcing the authorities to divert the traffic from NH 44 to link roads.Rakesh Bains, national spokesperson of BKU (Charuni) said block level coordination committees have finalised the locations for protests.He said instructions have been issued to local farmers to ensure protests remain peaceful and the movement of ambulances, marriage parties and media persons were allowed.Following the vehicle-blockade call, Haryana ADGP Law and Order Navdeep Virk has asked all district superintendents of police to make necessary security arrangements at all traffic junctions and important roads.The district administrations have made arrangements to avoid any face-off with the farmers, who have identified hundreds of locations, including 11 in Karnal district alone, to block the highways.Also Read: Farmers' stir: Security tightened, many metro stations shut ahead of chakka jamKarnal Superintendent of police, Ganga Ram Punia, said that police deployment has been made to prevent traffic jams and apart from release of a traffic advisory, arrangements have been made to divert the traffic on the link roads when the highways are blocked.The traffic from NH 44 is being diverted from Bastara toll plaza to Kutail and Gharaunda. Kurukshetra district police have issued an advisory too, diverting traffic from several highways to the link roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-heavy-police-deployment-in-haryana-to-deal-with-fallout-101612591835781.html
06-02-2021||India||Drones, high alert: Delhi turns into a fortress as farmers call 'chakka jam'||Police are on high alert in Delhi on Saturday ahead of the three-hour nationwide blockade of state and national highways by farmers, who are intensifying their agitation against the three agricultural laws through the 'chakka jam'. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmers' unions protesting against the farm laws, said emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped during the 'chakka jam'.However, farmers leaders have said the chakka jam, which will begin from 12pm to 3pm, will not affect Delhi. Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh will also not witness any road blockade, however, farmers who are protesting there have been asked to stay on standby, farm union leader Rakesh Tikait had confirmed. Tikait is the spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union and is among the leaders spearheading the farmers' movement.Also Read | Farmer leaders ready for talks with Centre but without any conditionIn a bid to avoid the violence and chaos during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day, the Delhi Police is keeping a strict vigil in the city as it deployed thousands of personnel and additional forces. It said in a statement that around 50,000 personnel of the police, paramilitary and reserve forces are standing guard at various key points of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). At ITO intersection, multilayered security measurements were seen as police put out barbed wires over their barricades. Heavy barricading was also placed at Minto Road which is near the Red Fort.The police have also deployed drone in the national capital to monitor the situation. At least 12 Metro stations in the national capital have also been put on alert.The 'chakka jam' is being staged as a symbolic protest against the internet suspension and the extra security around the protest areas at Delhi borders. From November last year, thousands of farmers from different parts of the country, including Punjab, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh, have been demonstrating against the three farm laws brought in by the Centre. Calling the agriculture reforms anti-farmers, the protesters are demanding a repeal of the laws. They are also demanding a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for their produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-high-alert-delhi-turns-into-a-fortress-ahead-of-chakka-jam-101612588891598.html
06-02-2021||Hollywood||Susan Sarandon, Oscar-winning actor, is latest Hollywood name 'standing in solidarity' with Indian farmers||After pop star Rihanna, Hollywood actor and Oscar-winning star Susan Sarandon has voiced her support towards the Indian farmers protesting against the three new farm laws introduced by the government.Susan, who has starred in films such as Stepmom and Thelma and Louise, shared a tweet on Saturday, asking her followers to inform themselves about the protests. "Standing in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India. Read about who they are and why they’re protesting below," she wrote in her tweet, tagging a news article about protests. Her tweet got 18.7K likes and almost 7K comments.Standing in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India. Read about who they are and why they’re protesting below. https://t.co/yWtEkqQynFEarlier, on Tuesday, Rihanna had caused a massive uproar in the country when she tweeted a news article about internet services being shut down around New Delhi amid the farmers' protests. "Why aren't we talking about this?!," she had written in her tweet. Later, Swedish activist Greta Thunberg also extended her support to the protests.On Wednesday, a host of Bollywood celebrities, including Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar, Ekta Kapoor and Suniel Shetty, put out similar statements about the ongoing farmers’ protest with the hashtag ‘India against propaganda’.Their tweets came after the external affairs ministry’s statement on certain ‘vested interest groups’ succeeding in getting ‘international support against India’, after Rihanna, teenage activist Greta Thunberg and others commented on the protests.Also read: Abhay Deol lauds Taapsee Pannu, Swara Bhasker for stance on farmers' protest: 'You should be in next Rihanna video'Susan has been working as a social activist and has been critical of the US government, too, in the past. "In the US, wars are the biggest exports, second may be films, but definitely weapons. But thanks to Bush, his two terms in office and his stripping of the economy, people are now paying attention to what they really need. They know that nothing is gained using violence," she had told Hindustan Times in 2013 during the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/hollywood/susan-sarandon-oscar-winning-actor-is-latest-hollywood-name-standing-in-solidarity-with-indian-farmers-101612586655612.html
06-02-2021||India||Farmers call for 3-hour ‘chakka jam’, say Delhi won’t be impacted||Farm unions have called for a three-hour nationwide highway blockade on Saturday afternoon to mark their protest against internet bans near demonstration sites and their alleged harassment at the hands of authorities among other issues. The protesting farmers, who have been agitating against the Centre's agricultural laws for the past two and a half months, will block roads and highways from 12pm to 3pm. Follow latest updates on farm stir hereThe protesters have assured that no disruptions will be caused in the national capital and that emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped during the blockade. However, the Delhi Police on Friday reiterated that they have not granted any permission to hold the ‘chakka jam’ in the city and have warned that legal action will be taken against those found disrupting the city’s traffic and law and order. Security at the farmers’ protest sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have been stepped up with multilayered barricading using barbed wiring on top, concrete walls, trenches, nails boards drilled onto roads and netting to stop pelted stones. Heavy deployment of security personnel armed with anti-riot gear has also been done to stop the agitators from entering the Capital. Nearly 15,000 personnel of the paramilitary forces of Rapid Action Force (RAF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) – all armed with anti-riot equipment – will be on duty along with thousands of Delhi Police personnel to maintain law and order during the ‘chakka jam’, officers told HT. Officials said that the police are also keeping a tab on social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours or instigating people against the government and the police. The move comes after farmers’ proposed tractor rally on Republic Day took a violent turn and clashes broke out between the protesters and security personnel. While one farmer died during the chaos, many participants on both sides suffered injuries. Following the clashes, internet services were also restricted in several districts of Haryana. Police said they have intelligence inputs that protesters may deflate tyres of vehicles to cause jams on roads, all the police stations have been asked to keep air pumps with them for filling up deflated tyres. “Cranes have also been arranged to remove such vehicles and clear the traffic. Videographers and photographers will also be present for capturing the activities of protesters. We will also be using drones for aerial surveillance,” said an officer.Workers of various political parties and student organisations have also planned a foot march from Shaheed Park near Delhi Gate to ITO during the ‘chakka jam’, according to intelligence inputs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-call-for-3-hour-chakka-jam-say-delhi-won-t-be-impacted-101612579205428.html
06-02-2021||India||UN human rights agency calls for 'maximum restraint' by farmers and authorities||The UN human rights agency on Friday called on both protesting farmers and authorities in India to exercise “maximum restraint” and to find “equitable solutions” that show respect for human rights.The UN office of the high commissioner for human rights joined lawmakers, organisations and governments from around the world that have weighed in on the farmers’ protest that began last November against the three farm laws. A spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had earlier said it was important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence.“#India: We call on the authorities and protesters to exercise maximum restraint in ongoing #FarmersProtests,” the UN human rights agency led by high commissioner Michelle Bachelet said on its official Twitter handle on Friday night.“The rights to peaceful assembly & expression should be protected both offline & online. It's crucial to find equitable solutions with due respect to #HumanRights for all,” it added.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the UN human rights agency’s comments.On Thursday, the US had called for a dialogue to address the farmers’ protest and backed peaceful demonstrations and freedom of expression. It also offered support for reforms that improve and open up India’s markets to attract private investments.These were the first public comments by the Biden administration on the farmers’ protest, and the external affairs ministry responded by saying the protest must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos. The ministry also sought to make a comparison between violence at a farmers’ rally on January 26 and the chaos during the siege of the US Capitol on January 6.The ministry has also pushed back against support for the farmers’ protest by foreign celebrities, describing the agitation as an internal matter. It has also dismissed criticism by celebrities of the government’s handling of the protest as “neither accurate nor responsible”.Also Read: India seeks Canada’s assistance in ‘toolkit’ probeThe farmers’ protest against three laws – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 – began on November 26 last year.The government has defended the laws as necessary for long overdue reforms in the agricultural sector. After several rounds of unsuccessful negotiations with the government, the unions backing the protest decided to intensify their agitation and organised a tractor rally in the capital on Republic Day that descended into violence and chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-human-rights-agency-calls-for-maximum-restraint-by-farmers-and-authorities-101612576612402.html
06-02-2021||India||Congress extends support to 'chakka jam' called by farmer unions||The Congress on Friday extended support to the countrywide 'chakka jam' called by farmer unions on February 6, saying party workers will stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their protest.The Congress also hit out at Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who defended the three new farm laws and criticised the Opposition while speaking in Rajya Sabha.Whatever the agriculture minister said was "not only totally bereft of facts" but also "grossly objectionable", the party claimed.Farmer unions on Monday had announced 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues.Also Read | Chakka jam: Barricades, thousands of policemen on watch todayCongress general secretary (organisation), K C Venugopal, said the party fully supports the farmers' movement and appeals to the government to climb down from the "high horse of false and misplaced pride", and accede to the justified demands of the farmers by repealing the three farm laws.On February 6, when the farmer organisations will hold a three-hour nationwide 'chakka jam' from 12 pm to 3 pm in a non-violent and peaceful manner on the national and state highways, the Congress will extend its full support to farmer groups, Venugopal said in a statement.Congress workers in solidarity with the protesting farmers will stand shoulder to shoulder in this "symbolic and Gandhian" way of protest, he said.Farmers' organisations have already exempted emergency and essential services from this protest, Venugopal noted."Joining in the spirit, Congress workers will take full care that the ambulance services, school bus, elderly, patients and women and children are not inconvenienced due to the bandh call," he said.Venugopal said that this farmers' movement, which is being steadfastly supported by the poor, farm labour, SCs, STs, OBCs as well as every "right- minded Indian", is not only aimed at protecting agriculture and farming but also saving the public distribution system."However, the power drunk Modi government is trying every mean trick of the trade to tire out and defame the protesting millions. Even today, the Union Agriculture Minister (Narendra Singh Tomar), while speaking in the Parliament, blatantly tried to mislead the House and the nation," Venugopal alleged.It is public knowledge that the farmers' organisations have held eleven rounds of talks with the government during which they provided point-wise detail of the deficiencies and lacunae in the three laws, "consequent to which even the government has openly agreed to bring about as many as 18 amendments to the said laws", he said."In the light of this, whatever the agriculture minister said today in Parliament is not only totally bereft of facts but is grossly objectionable," Venugopal said.Intervening in the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar alleged that farmers were being misled by the Opposition and the agitation was only in one state.Hitting out at the government, Venugopal alleged, "Driven by the sole motive of benefiting its corporate cronies and steamrolling the laws by the brute force of parliamentary arithimatical majority, the government neither consulted the opposition parties nor took any farmers organisation in confidence, before enacting the laws."Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-extends-support-to-chakka-jam-called-by-farmer-unions-101612571880071.html
06-02-2021||India||Repeal farm laws, drop cases filed: Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday attended a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ in Dausa, where a resolution, asking the Centre to repeal the three farm laws and withdraw cases filed against farmers for the violence during tractor rally on Republic Day, was passed.The resolution has also sought a compensation for the families of the farmers who have died during the protests, which started in November last year.Addressing the event, Pilot said, “While making these laws none of the state governments or farmers’ organisations were consulted. These laws were passed in Parliament in haste and imposed on the country. The government of India claims these farm laws are in the interest of the farmers but are being opposed across the country.”“The farmers are protesting in a Gandhian manner but the way barricades have been put up, and electricity and water supply discontinued, is unjustified,” Pilot said, adding that Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi have supported the farmers throughout the stir.The event, held under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Sangathan, submitted a memorandum to district collector seeking repeal of the laws. “We will not step back, till these demands are met,” he said. Condemning the violence at tractor parade, Pilot said, “The opposition parties are supporting the farmers. The issue is not of a party or leader but of the farmers.”Hitting back, Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said, “Congress itself made such promises in the manifesto. The GoI is continuously is holding dialogue with the farmers and committed to resolve it on a positive note.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-farm-laws-drop-cases-filed-sachin-pilot-in-rajasthan-101612562875200.html
06-02-2021||India||UN human rights agency urges farmers and authorities to show restraint||The UN human rights agency on Friday called on both protesting farmers and authorities in India to exercise “maximum restraint” and to find “equitable solutions” that show respect for human rights.The UN office of the high commissioner for human rights joined lawmakers, organisations and governments from around the world that have weighed in on the farmers’ protest that began last November against three farm laws. A spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had earlier said it was important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence.“#India: We call on the authorities and protesters to exercise maximum restraint in ongoing #FarmersProtests,” the UN human rights agency led by high commissioner Michelle Bachelet said on its official Twitter handle on Friday night.“The rights to peaceful assembly & expression should be protected both offline & online. It’s crucial to find equitable solutions with due respect to #HumanRights for all,” it added.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the agency’s comments.On Thursday, the US had called for dialogue to address the farmers’ protest and backed peaceful demonstrations and freedom of expression. It also offered support for reforms that improve and open up India’s markets to attract private investments.These were the first public comments by the Biden administration on the farmers’ protest, and the external affairs ministry responded by saying the protest must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos.The ministry also sought to make a comparison between violence at a farmers’ rally on January 26 and the chaos during the siege of the US Capitol on January 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-human-rights-agency-urges-farmers-and-authorities-to-show-restraint-101612562301741.html
06-02-2021||India||Thousands defy police orders to throng UP mahapanchayat||Defying the district administration’s orders, thousands of farmers attended a a kisan mahapanchayat at Bhainswal village in western Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district on Friday to extend support to the ongoing protests against three agriculture laws.Farmers from Shamli, Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat rode into the venue on their tractors with the Tricolour held high. Slogans of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” rent the air. The meet was attended by Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Choudhary, Samajwadi Party leader Sudhir Panwar and representatives of 12 khaps, or clan-based bodies.“The three contentious bills will destroy farming and was brought only to benefit the corporate,” RLD leader Choudhury said, asking farmers to think of their next generation and stay united. He also thanked people for coming in such large numbers.The Shamli administration had denied permission for the gathering on Thursday, citing restrictions, Covid-19 protocol and law and order problems.This was the fifth mahapanchayat in western UP after Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait’S emotional appeal for support last week drew thousands to protest sites outside Delhi. The first mahapanchayat was organised in Muzaffarnagar on January 29 followed by similar events at Banjna in Mathura, Baraut in Baghpat and Bijnor.Pawar said the mahapanchayat was different from previous editions as representatives of 12 khaps, including those from the influential Jat community, shared the dais. “The dais today symbolised the concept of village Swaraj in a true sense, which was once conceptualized by leaders like Chaudhary Charan Singh,” said Pawar and added that presence of khaps indicated that the farming community backed the movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-defy-police-orders-to-throng-up-mahapanchayat-101612562076075.html
06-02-2021||India||HT interview: Tikait, Rajewal say Centre should give up insistence on no-repeal||Into its third month, the dogged farmer protests, centred on the three contentious central farm laws, have dramatically gathered a new momentum in the last one week following a surge in support from the Jatlands of Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh.In the post-January 26 churn, Rakesh Tikait, 52, a cop-turned-farmer leader, and Balbir Singh Rajewal, 73, a veteran Bhartiya Kisan Union leader from Punjab, have emerged as the pre-eminent face of the agitation that has laid siege to Delhi’s key entry points, garnered international attention and put the Narendra Modi government to a severe test. While Tikait, the son of a tall farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, is the prime mobiliser, Rajewal stands out as a moderate voice of reason among ideologically disparate farm outfits from the border state.On Friday, a day before its nationwide ‘chakka jam (road blockade)’, Tikait and Rajewal dropped a conciliatory signal for resumption of talks with the Centre, while steadfastly swearing by their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws and a legally backed minimum support price. In an exclusive joint interview with HT Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak at the Ghazipur border protest site, the two leaders announced the second phase of their stir up to October 2 and spoke about the protests, the negotiations, the January 26 tractor march, the chances of resuming talks with the government, and the way forward for the agitation. Edited excerpts:Prime Minister Narendra Modi underlined his intent to resolve the farmers’ agitation by committing at the January 30 all-party meeting that the proposal to suspend the three farm laws and set up a committee still stands. What’s your response?Tikait: This is not acceptable to us. We will not talk with conditions. What the government offered after 11 rounds of talks has fallen flat. Now if they offer a new proposal, we will consider starting fresh talks.Which conditions are you referring to?Tikait: The one on the 18-month moratorium. If we take this and enter into talks, that will mean our acceptance of their formula. If they want to go beyond this, the doors to talks can open.What should the Centre do to bring the farmer unions back to the negotiating table?Tikait: They should give up their insistence that there will be no repeal of the three laws and say that there will be talks. Then, we will also vouch for talks. That will create a platform for negotiations. Earlier too, the negotiations were deadlocked for 20 days, but it was broken. I’m sure the talks will happen again.Farmers have taken a repeal-or-nothing stand. How will such an extreme position help create the negotiating space?Tikait: Obstinacy is on the part of the government. It is against the repeal of the laws and legal back-up for minimum support price (MSP). For us, these are the big issues.Rajewal: The government should fulfil its duty and invite us (farm unions). The government is not expected to sit silent and do nothing. Unhone ik baat ki zidd pakad li aur baat cheet ke table par aana nahin. Such a stubborn attitude will not help resolve the issue.Tikait: It’s possible that we may go to the first meeting to just put across our views and then come back to discuss it with our committee. But that would open the door for talks.So, you want the Centre to send an invite?Tikait: Let there be an invitation. Then, things will move forward. Talks are stalled since January 11. Our farmers are in jail, many are missing, and more than 400 tractors have been damaged. The government has put multi-layered barricades and spikes on roads leading to Delhi. People are inconvenienced. Sooner they (the Centre) respond the better. Otherwise, we will be holding meetings across the country. We will launch the second phase of the agitation from Saturday, and it will go on till October 2.The government says the farmers’ movement is based on misinformation that land will be snatched, and corporates will take over agriculture and the MSP will be discontinued.Rajewal: The government is creating such misgivings. In the meetings so far, farms laws were discussed clause by clause. We proved that these are wrong.How have the January 26 events changed the movement?Tikait: Three lakh tractors and 20 lakh people came to Delhi. Such a massive crowd could have done anything. But our agitation was peaceful except the wrong acts of certain elements, who infiltrated our agitation and did all in complicity with the authorities to defame and discredit our movement.The Prime Minister said the country was saddened by the insult to the national flag at Red Fort.Tikait: Will the PM tell us why Red Fort, which is the country’s pride, has been leased to private players? The national flag atop the ramparts was not touched. We even took out sadbhavna marches with the national flag. No one knows and upholds the honour of the Tricolour better than a farmer whose son is a jawan serving on the country’s borders. Before coming to power, the BJP never unfurled the national flag at its offices. The RSS never hoisted the national flag at its headquarters in Nagpur. How can they teach us the izzat of the national flag?The government says the stir is getting support from forces that aim to weaken the country.Rajewal: Who are these forces? Ek aadhi kaa naam batao (Tell us their names). We will deal with such forces. Agar koi desh ko kamzor kar raha hain, uska ilaaz tau hum hi kar denge (If they try to weaken the country, we will sort them out). We have not seen the tent of any such forces at our protest sites. All you see here are farmers from villages who bring their own food material and run community kitchens.As leaders of the movement, what lessons have you learnt from the January 26 episode?Tikait: We have been doing agitations for 35 years. Whosoever is in the Opposition raises slogans and lays siege to Parliament. But, in reality, the protests happen at Jantar Mantar. Has any agitator ever entered Parliament in all these years? On Republic Day, people who declared on the eve of our tractor march that their intention was to reach Red Fort were put up front by the police and given a free run to inner Delhi. The police and the authorities were complicit in this.But, is not it a fact that a section of protesters went out of your control?Tikait: What happened on December 6, 1992, in Ayodhya? All top BJP leaders were there, and the party was in power. Was the Babri mosque structure demolished intentionally? Their affidavits said it was done by a crowd that turned unruly.Many believe that the government’s proposal to stay the implementation of the laws for 18 months and set up a committee with the involvement of farm groups is a reasonable offer; it amounts, for all practical purposes, to the government retreating because this version of the law will be pulled back; it buys enough time to come up with a new framework. Why don’t you accept the offer?Rajewal: These laws are basically wrong and were rammed through Parliament in a high-handed manner. These have been enacted for trading, not agriculture. A farmer doesn’t trade; he takes his crop for marketing. These laws are not meant for farmers. Secondly, in the Constitution’s 7th Schedule, agriculture is a state subject, but they have taken the concurrent list route in which Schedule 33 is on food stuff. Farmers produce foodgrains, not food stuff. So, these laws cheat farmers. Nor do they pass the constitutional test.The farmers’ number has swelled at protest sites of late. There’s a law and order concern. How much control do you have on the crowds?Tikait: We have full control. Anyone who has joined the agitation and protests under some ideology other than the farmers’ cause can go back. We will shun such elements. Anyone involved in the breach of law and our protocol will be responsible for his own actions.As the face of the agitation, what role do you see for yourself to resolve the situation?Tikait: It’s a collective responsibility. Rajewal ji is our key leader. Let the government initiate talks. We also want resolution.The government says the farmers’ view on the laws and the MSP are based on fear and not on facts.Tikait: Even today, farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan sell foodgrains in Punjab and Haryana, which are the only states with MSP. Once there is a law-backed MSP, traders in the entire country will not dare to buy crop at lower than the MSP.Rajewal: Except Punjab and Haryana, the government has not put in place a marketing system in other states. We want a similar marketing system all over by opening 48,000 mandis so that all farmers benefit from the MSP.But there is wide consensus that the country urgently needs agri reforms to improve the farmers’ incomes and modernise agriculture.Rajewal: Of course, we need reforms. But we don’t want corporate agriculture. Reforms should not solely benefit traders at the cost of farmers.Tikait: In the reforms that this government is pushing, traders are trying to invade agriculture.The government has said MSP will continue.Rajewal: On MSP, the government says the existing system will continue. But that doesn’t apply to farmers except in Punjab and Haryana. We want a uniform legally guaranteed MSP for farmers of all states. They want to save the trader, not the farmer.The government at the highest level has repeatedly said that the laws are for benefit of farmers. Why don’t you trust that?Tikait: Farmers see through everything. The problem is that even the existing farmer-related laws are not implemented. Look at the Sugarcane Act that binds sugar mills and the government to pay the farmers’ due within 15 days of procurement, but the farmers get paid after up to two years. And the government do nothing. But these are dangerous laws, and these (farm laws) will be implemented. How can farmers trust the government?There is a trust deficit between Union leaders and the Centre?Tikait: We have full trust in the central government, but it is hell bent on dhokhe baazi (deception). Look at how they have levelled allegations against our movement to break it up by all means. Farmers are being labelled Khalistanis. They say we are getting funds from abroad. Attempts are on to divide us and entangle us on the lines of big versus small farmers and Punjab versus Haryana. This agitation will not break up. The government will have come to the table and talk.Would you talk to the Supreme Court-appointed expert panel?Tikait: We have already rejected that. If someone is studying Kannada, can he solve a question paper in Hindi?The government believes that farm leaders want to find a compromise but buckle under pressure of the radical mood of protesters. You fear being seen as too soft or selling out to the government? Is there a problem of radical competitiveness within the movement?Tikait: We have not backtracked from talks. But come what may, we can’t betray the trust farmers have reposed in us. We are standing for their rights.Rajewal: The constituents of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha are free to give their opinion, but there are no pressures from any quarter. Ours is a collective decision. The government is floating the radical angle to discredit us. It is a ploy to avoid talks.It is Parliament’s prerogative to pass laws. Why should the government repeal the farm laws meant for all states?Tikait: Because the farmers for whom these laws have been made don’t want it.But protests are confined to Punjab, Haryana and western UP?Tikait: The protests are happening in Gujarat, too. More than 100 farmers there have been detained and their families don’t know their whereabouts.Rajewal: The protest sites around Delhi have farmers from Karnataka, Orissa and Chhattisgarh. In that sense, it is a pan-India agitation now.How challenging is it for you to steer an agitation of 32 ideologically diverse organisations?Tikait: If Atal Bihari Vajpayee could run a coalition government of so many parties, why can’t we manage this?Would you give an assurance that during the chakka jam on February 6, there will be no violence?Rajewal: Our agitation was peaceful, is peaceful and will remain so in future. It will be 100% peaceful tomorrow (on Saturday). We have full control over our farmers.In Punjab, there are apprehensions that the agitation may disturb peace and communal harmony. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh says Pakistan may exploit the surcharged atmosphere in the border state.Tikait: We won’t let that happen at any cost.Rajewal: Communal harmony will remain intact in Punjab. I can guarantee that.There is brewing local disenchantment because of the disruption caused by the protests. Is there a possibility of clashes with local communities in urban areas because of your prolonged sit-in?Tikait: We have not blocked the road. The police have barricaded them.Rajewal: Initially, the local people were apprehensive for a few days. But now they have opened their homes for farmers. They are supporting us fully.If no talks happen in the near future, how long will you be able sustain the agitation?Tikait: Second phase will last till October 2. We will decide the course after that.The government believes that the union leaders have a different agenda.Tikait: We are not tricksters. We have no hidden agenda. Our only agenda is that farmers’ ‘roti-roji’ (livelihood and income) should not go into traders’ ‘tijori’ (safes).The government says the opposition parties rallying behind farmers had supported the agri reforms when they were in power.Tikait: Political leaders have their own way when in power. But we are espousing farmers’ interests. We will fight anyone going against that.What will be the political fallout of the agitation?Tikait: We are not doing anything for votes or politics. Anyone who wants to exploit it politically can do it on his own.Rajewal: Voters will get educated and understand how to deal with politicians.What’s your relationship with the BJP now?Tikait: I have relations with all parties. We go by the government’s policies. If they are against farmers, we will oppose that to any extent no matter who is in power.Are there any back channels with the government?Tikait: Our manch (platform) and panch (representatives) will remain the same. Whatever talks happen will only be through them. Singhu will remain our platform.There is a view that the global outpouring of solidarity for farmers’ protest has hurt India’s image.Tikait: Then, let them repeal the laws. What comes first: The country or traders?What is your next course of action?Tikait: The next target is to involve 40 lakh tractors. From Saturday, farmers will bring soil and water from their villages from all over the country. While the government is putting spikes around the protest sites, we will sow flowers here. That will connect our agitation with rural India.The tractor will be the symbol of our agitation and gaon ki mitti and paani (soil and water from villages) will be its devta (presiding deity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-interview-tikait-rajewal-say-centre-should-give-up-insistence-on-norepeal-101612561440776.html
06-02-2021||India||Oppn unable to point out flaws in farm laws: Tomar||Protests against three farm laws are limited to “one state” where cultivators are misguided by Opposition parties and the government’s offer to amend provisions doesn’t mean the reform legislation were flawed, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday, as the 15-hour debate on agriculture issues in the Rajya Sabha concluded.Speaking in the Upper House, Tomar said the Opposition labelled the three laws as “black law” but couldn’t find a single shortcoming in the legislation. “Opposition is continuously saying this is a black law and should be repealed. I am holding meetings with farmers unions for the last several months. I’m asking the same question to them also, what are the black provisions in these bills? Till now, I’m waiting for their reply,” he said.The 15 hour-long discussion in Rajya Sabha on the motion of thanks to the President’s address concluded on Friday. As many as 50 speakers from 25 parties participated in the debate, including 18 from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), five from Congress, and 27 from other parties.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to reply to the debate on Monday, even as no discussions have taken place in the Lok Sabha because of disruptions by the Opposition. Modi, who customarily addresses Lok Sabha first, was scheduled to speak in the LS on Friday.Tomar said the government’s offer to amend some provisions were meant to assuage farmer sentiments and did not mean the laws had any flaws. He also said the protests were limited to only one state. “People in a particular state are misinformed. Farmers are being misled that others would occupy their land if these laws are implemented. Let me know if there is a single provision in contract farming law which allows any trader to snatch away the land of any farmer,” he said, in a clear reference to Punjab though he did not name any state.To be sure, while farmers from Punjab started the agitation, protests have spread in Haryana, western UP and Rajasthan, and mahapanchayats called by farm leaders in these states have seen massive crowds.The minister said the government wanted to double farmer incomes and expand the contribution of agriculture to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). “These agriculture laws are also an important step in this direction. I want to tell this House and farmers that PM Modi is committed towards welfare of farmers,” he added.For 72 days, farm unions have camped outside Delhi against the three laws that cultivators say favour big corporations. The government has refuted the concerns, and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate. Opposition parties — including the Congress, Shiv Sena, Shiromani Akali Dal, Nationalist Congress Party, Samajwadi Party and Left parties — attacked the Centre.Sena MP Sanjay Raut criticised the government for dubbing the protests “anti-national”. “When the farmers are uniting and fighting for their rights, you see anti-national acts. They are not anti-nationals or Khalistanis,” he said.Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa accused the Centre of passing farm laws amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Today we have cut electricity, water supply, internet supply of our own farmers.”His party colleague Anand Sharma criticised the violence on Republic Day. “We have become internet shutdown capital of the world. It is time to mend ways, especially during this Parliament session,” he said, referring to the snapping of internet at protest sites.Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge accused the Centre of lying about MSP. “They (Centre) lie regarding MSP. Modi ji never stops saying that Congress did not increase MSP, [the] reality is in Congress’ time MSP increased by 219%, they only increased a little over 40%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-unable-to-point-out-flaws-in-farm-laws-tomar-101612561262771.html
06-02-2021||India||Chakka jam: Barricades, thousands of policemen on watch today||The farmer protest sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have been hemmed in with multilayered barricading and are being heavily patrolled ahead of Saturday’s three-hour long nationwide highway blockade, “the chakka jam”, called by farmers to intensify their protest against the new farm laws.The Delhi Police on Friday reiterated that no permission has been granted to protesters for holding the chakka jam or any other demonstration in the city and legal action will be taken against those found disrupting the city’s traffic and law and order.The protest sites are under multilayered barricading with barbed wiring on top, concrete walls, trenches, nails boards drilled onto roads and netting to stop pelted stones, besides a heavy contingent of security personnel armed with anti-riot gear. These measures, the police said, were to keep the farmers from entering the national capital on Saturday.The police have also started monitoring content on social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours or instigating people against the government and the police, senior officers said.Even though the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions that are part of the ongoing agitation against the three contentious agriculture laws, has announced that “there will be no chakka jam inside Delhi”, police said they have tightened the security arrangements, especially on all borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, keeping in view the January 26 violence during the farmers’ tractor rally.Officers said checking of vehicles at the city border points has been intensified since Friday evening to ensure that protesters or antisocial elements were not entering the city for Saturday’s traffic blockade.Apart from thousands of Delhi Police personnel, nearly 15,000 personnel from the paramilitary forces of Rapid Action Force (RAF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) – all armed with anti-riot equipment – will be on duty to maintain Delhi’s law and order during the chakka jam, officers in the know of Saturday’s security arrangements said.“A full-scale police deployment will be in place at all borders and on streets across the city on Saturday. Traffic police personnel will also be deployed in full strength to regulate traffic. While our prime focus will be on maintaining traffic as well as law and order, those attempting to disturb these will be dealt with strongly as per law. We are in touch with the police force of other states as well,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.On Friday morning, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava held a meeting with senior police officers and reviewed security arrangements. Shrivastava, on Thursday, had attended a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah at the Parliament complex to review the security situation in Delhi-NCR ahead of the chakka jam. National security advisor Ajit Doval was also present at that meeting.Farmer unions on Monday had announced a countrywide “peaceful and non-violent” chakka jam on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours (between noon and 3pm) in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites; harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities; and other issues. They have declared that all emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped.Elaborating on the security arrangements, a senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said police personnel who will be on duty Saturday have been asked to report to their area of deployment by 7am. Every police station has been asked to keep ready for action at least one sub-inspector and four to five constables along with buses in which arrested or detained persons can be moved away.Police said they have intelligence inputs that protesters may deflate tyres of vehicles to cause jams on roads, all the police stations have been asked to keep air pumps with them for filling up deflated tyres. “Cranes have also been arranged to remove such vehicles and clear the traffic. Videographers and photographers will also be present for capturing the activities of protesters. We will also be using drones for aerial surveillance,” said the officer.According to the intelligence inputs, workers of various political parties and student organisations have planned a foot march from Shaheed Park near Delhi Gate to ITO during the chakka jam. “Anticipating that protesters may incite a confrontation with security personnel, we have asked our staff to remain calm and not get provoked in any manner,” a second police officer said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-barricades-thousands-of-policemen-on-watch-today-101612558361363.html
06-02-2021||India||Delhi not to be impacted by ‘chakka jam’, say farmer leaders||The three-hour ’chakka jam’ on Saturday afternoon to protest against the three farm laws will not impact Delhi and the national capital region (NCR), Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions which is spearheading the agitation, said on Friday. Farm leader Rakesh Tikait also said on Friday that there will be no blockade in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“Only national and state highways across the country will be jammed from 12 noon to 3 pm. Emergency and essential services like ambulance, school bus, etc. will not be stopped... All roads for entering into Delhi will remain open except where farmers’ protest sites are already located,” said a statement issued by Darshan Pal, a leader of SKM.The chakka jam will be a part of a series of events scheduled by the farmers’ groups to press their demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws passed by the Parliament in September to deregulate agricultural trade. On January 7, the farmers protesting at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and others took out a tractor march on the eastern and western peripheral expressways which form a ring around the national capital.On January 26, the protesters took out a tractor parade and barged into the city deviating from the routes approved by the police by breaking barriers and clashed with the cops at several points. Hundreds of farmers also reached Red Fort and vandalised the monument.Even though the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has assured that the event will remain peaceful, police have made extensive arrangements to meet any eventuality.Tikait said farmers in UP and Uttarakhand will only submit memorandums to the administration. He said they will be on “standby” in case they are needed to rush to Delhi’s borders at a short notice. “They (farmers in UP and Uttarakhand) can be called to Delhi (borders) anytime and they need to be on standby,” Tikait told a news channel.Tikait’s associate, Arjun Balyan Tikait, said the decision to keep UP and Uttarakhand was also taken in view of the sugarcane cultivation season.The statement issued by the SKM did not mention Tikait’s claim. While Darshan Pal remained unavailable for queries, one of his team members said that there was no conflict.“The farmers in some parts will not be involved in chakka jam because they are busy harvesting sugarcane. In some states, on the other hand, the chakka jam will be much more intense as farmers there will block internal roads as well,” said SKM media coordinator, Harinder, who goes by a single name.The chakka jam will take place between 12noon and 3pm and it will be “completely peaceful and non-violent”, SKM said.“Protesters are asked to not to indulge in any confrontation with the government officials or ordinary citizens,” said SKM leader Darshan Pal.The event will conclude with farmers honking from their vehicles continuously and simultaneously for one minute when the clock strikes 3pm.PREPARATIONS ON AT DELHI’S BORDERSWhile no specific activity has been planned for Delhi the three border points where farmers are protesting, the police as well as farmers were busy preparing for the event on Friday.At the Singhu Border, the police on Friday added yet another layer of barbed barricading, several hundred metres away from the main stage. At Tikri border too, the police set up an extra layer of barriers using concrete barricades and iron nails. They also installed layers of nets in anticipation of stone pelting by the protesters.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said in the backdrop of the Republic Day violence adequate security arrangements have been made at all border points. The police are also monitoring social media to curb rumours and coordinating with their counterparts in neighbouring states, Biswal said.Farm leaders urged their supporters in Delhi not to disrupt normal life in the city had a word of advice for office-goers in the NCR. “While we won’t be causing any trouble to commuters, and our chakka jam in NCR towns will be limited to the highways on the city periphery, we urge the public to reach their workplaces before noon and leave after the event ends at 3pm,” said Gurmeet Singh Bhattiwal, vice president of Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta (Dakonda).“To avoid hassle, they should take internal routes because our focus will be on highways only,” Bhattiwal added.The protesters have also chosen some volunteers to explain the drawbacks of the three farm laws to those who will be stuck on the highways. “If someone gets stuck on the road, our farmers will offer them snacks and lunch and explain to them the problems with the farm laws,” said Mukesh Chander, senior vice-president of Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee.Farmer volunteers have also been instructed to ensure no disturbance to the shared and private vehicles plying along the protest routes. “They threw open their personal bathrooms to us and provided us water at a time when we needed it the most in the early days of our protest. The locals have sacrificed a lot for us and we will do all we can to reduce their troubles,” said Amandeep Singh, a farmer from Amritsar who is a volunteer at Singhu Border.Farmers appealed to their families and friends in the villages to ensure the success of ‘chakka jam’.“Our brothers and sisters in Punjab, Haryana and other states will be blocking roads leading to Delhi with tractors. We have requested for maximum participation,” said Sahil Kamboj from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha at Tikri Border.Rajinder Pal, from Baghpat, who joined the protest at Ghazipur after Republic Day, said it was time for the government to accept the demands of farmers. “We are only here to place one demand which is the withdrawal of the farm laws. We will make sure that none of our men get into any confrontation that may lead to violence during chakka jam. It will be a peaceful demonstration,” Pal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-not-to-be-impacted-by-chakka-jam-say-farmer-leaders-101612557284075.html
06-02-2021||Today's||How not to respond to Greta, Meena, Rihanna||There is a reason that truth is so much more dramatic than fiction could ever hope to. This week has offered a ringside view to the theatre of the absurd. To watch our nation, the world largest democracy, be hysterically rattled by a clutch of tweets on the farm protests, has been utterly embarrassing.That we have such little self-confidence and such narrow shoulders that we could not shrug off a woke, possibly even surface-level intervention by Rihanna, the international pop sensation, says way more about us than it does about her or even about what can often be the western world’s orientalist, saviour complex.So, it doesn’t really matter whether Rihanna’s Umbrella cover for India’s farmers was rooted in any real understanding of the new farm law legislation. Or if Greta Thunberg’s “toolkit” for activism was somewhat formulaic and superficial. Or whether Rupi Kaur, the minimalist poet from Canada, did a short quick verse on a complex issue. Or whether Meena Harris, niece of the United States (US) Vice-President Kamala Harris, was clambering on a liberal bandwagon because it was the trendy cause celebre of the time.None of this is the point.In this case, it barely matters whether you support the farm protests or not. Or which side of the divide you are on about the options before the police after the fracas on Republic Day.Governments should be responding to other governments, if at all. And unless Rihanna is now a republic, the stodgy, fuming intervention by the ministry of external affairs was unnecessary. It catapulted the issue into the global headlines. As Hannah Ellis Petersen, South Asia correspondent for The Guardian, told me, “If the government had not responded, Rihanna’s tweet would have been just one line in my piece.”Even more cringeworthy was the coordinated celebrity endorsement from India’s most iconic cricketing and Bollywood stars, as if patriotism and standing with India are now the same as peddling soap or soda. Yes, that is what we reduced Indian pride to, as we saw the silly spectacle of similarly worded tweets lambasting outside interference in internal matters. This came from many of the same folks who freely commented on the George Floyd murder in the US and the Black Lives Matter movement because it was fashionable to do so. The obvious absence of spontaneity in this orchestrated chorus only makes it strike a false note. And this from folks who never take a public position on any contentious issue in India, ever.Worst of all, the same people who want “foreigners” to mind their own business are now parsing the US state department statement on the farm laws and latching onto the bits that strengthen the government’s stand. How can we play this out both ways — resist foreign commentary, but selectively hold on to it as well?Since their tweets, posters of Meena Harris, Greta Thunberg and Rihanna have been burnt. Our television channels have lived up to their reputation for dangerous mindlessness by running character assassination campaigns. The police have registered a case, like they don’t have the actual issue of the farm protests in the real world to deal with.And the full force of vile, ugly misogyny has been unleashed against these and other women, in language that is both vile and violent. Some of us live with this every day on Twitter and are almost numbed by this bootcamp version of coarse sexism. But as Meena Harris tweets passionately about not being intimidated — and rightly so — what was just a kerfuffle is becoming a full-blown diplomatic fracas.In any case, if you build barricades of cement, snap internet lines, place iron rods, nails and spikes at the sites where a majority of farmers have been protesting peacefully, it is inevitably going to get global attention. This is where the government’s attention should have been instead of going all churlish and petty over a handful of tweets.There are complex questions that could have been posed to Greta Thunberg, as the excellent economist Shruti Rajagopalan did, in seeking to know why the climate activist backed crops that used up so much water. There are many fair counters to the broad strokes in which India’s police have been painted, especially given that close to 400 police personnel have been injured.We do not have to be trapped in the simple-minded binaries of the western world.But when we respond in this manner, we have just gone and proven their point.As we sought to stand against propaganda, we end up looking like we are teaching the class on propaganda.And not very smartly at that.Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and author The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-not-to-respond-to-greta-meena-rihanna-101612532430228.html
06-02-2021||India||Centre fielded Tendulkar to counter global support for farmers: RJD leader||RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari on Friday alleged that the Union government "fielded" Sachin Tendulkar to "counter" international personalities who recently commented on the ongoing farmers' protests, and said it was an insult to the nation. The RJD's national vice-president asked whether the Centre wants the world to turn a blind eye to the farmer's stir by "getting statements issued by people like Tendulkar".Cricketers like Tendulkar, Ravi Shastri, Virat Kohli, on Wednesday joined Bollywood superstars Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn to support the Centre's call on standing against "propaganda" against the Indian government and its policies after international personalities like Rihanna and Greta Thunberg extended their support towards farmer's protest.Also read: Sena flays Tiwari for questioning Bharat Ratna to SachinAlso read: Kangana asked about her credentials, replies ‘I am the best person to lead'"India's sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Lets remain united as a nation," Tendulkar had tweeted on February 3, 2021 with hashtag #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda."Farmers do not know about Twitter. This Twitter politics has started recently and everyone is doing it. What do the farmers know about Greta Thunberg or Rihanna? And you have fielded Sachin Tendulkar against them," the RJD leader said.Climate and environmental activist Greta Thunberg had come out in support of the farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's new agri laws."We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India," she had tweeted soon after singer Rihanna shared a news article highlighting the Centre's crackdown on the farmers by cutting off internet services in many regions."Why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest," Rihanna had tweeted.Tiwari's remark came in for sharp criticism from the ruling BJP and its ally JD(U) which demanded an apology from him.However, the RJD distanced itself from the remark, terming it as Tiwari's "personal opinion".Condemning the RJD leaders statement, the BJP and the JD(U), describing it as "absurd and uncalled for"."Nowadays Shivanand Tiwari is representing a group of frustrated opposition leaders, crazy to grab headlines. His statement on Sachin Tendulkar is absurd and uncalled for. Shivanandji should apologise to the people of the country."The RJD is free to express grievances and demand Bharat Ratna for anybody but Shivanandji doesn't have the right to abuse anyone who is conferred with Bharat Ratna. We seriously condemn the statement and demand that Tejashwi Yadav should come up with a clarification on his party leader," Bihar BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said.Echoing similar sentiments, Bihar JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, "Showing respect for foreign celebrities like Greta Thunberg and Rihanna and insulting legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, who is loved and admired by millions of people, can only be expected from a leader of the RJD". If Tiwari does not apologise, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav should take stern action against him, Prasad said.Bihar RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwary said, "It is his (Shivanand Tiwaris) personal opinion which he may have given considering the conditions and sufferings of the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-fielded-tendulkar-to-counter-global-support-for-farmers-rjd-leader-101612581819224.html
06-02-2021||India||Farmers call for 3-hour ‘chakka jam’, say Delhi won’t be impacted||Farm unions have called for a three-hour nationwide highway blockade on Saturday afternoon to mark their protest against internet bans near demonstration sites and their alleged harassment at the hands of authorities among other issues. The protesting farmers, who have been agitating against the Centre's agricultural laws for the past two and a half months, will block roads and highways from 12pm to 3pm. Follow latest updates on farm stir hereThe protesters have assured that no disruptions will be caused in the national capital and that emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped during the blockade. However, the Delhi Police on Friday reiterated that they have not granted any permission to hold the ‘chakka jam’ in the city and have warned that legal action will be taken against those found disrupting the city’s traffic and law and order. Security at the farmers’ protest sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have been stepped up with multilayered barricading using barbed wiring on top, concrete walls, trenches, nails boards drilled onto roads and netting to stop pelted stones. Heavy deployment of security personnel armed with anti-riot gear has also been done to stop the agitators from entering the Capital. Nearly 15,000 personnel of the paramilitary forces of Rapid Action Force (RAF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) – all armed with anti-riot equipment – will be on duty along with thousands of Delhi Police personnel to maintain law and order during the ‘chakka jam’, officers told HT. Officials said that the police are also keeping a tab on social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours or instigating people against the government and the police. The move comes after farmers’ proposed tractor rally on Republic Day took a violent turn and clashes broke out between the protesters and security personnel. While one farmer died during the chaos, many participants on both sides suffered injuries. Following the clashes, internet services were also restricted in several districts of Haryana. Police said they have intelligence inputs that protesters may deflate tyres of vehicles to cause jams on roads, all the police stations have been asked to keep air pumps with them for filling up deflated tyres. “Cranes have also been arranged to remove such vehicles and clear the traffic. Videographers and photographers will also be present for capturing the activities of protesters. We will also be using drones for aerial surveillance,” said an officer.Workers of various political parties and student organisations have also planned a foot march from Shaheed Park near Delhi Gate to ITO during the ‘chakka jam’, according to intelligence inputs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-call-for-3-hour-chakka-jam-say-delhi-won-t-be-impacted-101612579205428.html
