07-02-2021||India||'No ghar wapsi till farmers' demands are met': Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that the protest that they have launched is a people's movement and wpn't fail. He was addressing the attendees of a 'kisan mahapanchayat' in Haryana."There will be no 'ghar wapsi' till farmers' demands are met. This is a people's movement, it will not fail," said Tikait.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson claimed the campaign against the agriculture laws is going strong. With many "khap" leaders present at the “mahapanchayat”, Tikait lauded their role in strengthening the stir.Tikait is widely credited by the farmer unions and their supporters of bringing the 75-day-old agitation back on track after Republic Day violence. The tractor rally which the farmer leaders took out in Delhi on January 26 was marred by violence when a group of protesters, defying the approved route, marched towards central Delhi and clashed with the police.A few of them even stormed the historic Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag along with the Tricolour from its ramparts - an image which was a loss of face for the farmers' movement.The authorities as well as general public lashed out at farmers for the Red Fort incident. Soon, the police issued orders asking the protesters to disperse and end their stir. At the three border points near Delhi - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - the protest began to lose steam.But Tikait vowed to carry on and addressing a gathering at the Ghazipur border, made an emotional announcement that he will "kill himself but won't end the protest", with tears it his eyes. That worked and the farmers got ready to once again take on the government over three farm laws passed in September last year.The protesters then announced a 'Chakka Jam' which was carried out peacefully across the country on February 6. Tikait said on Saturday that the farmer leaders have give the central government 'time' till October 2 to withdraw the legislations.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November 26, 2020 near Delhi, demanding a rollback of the three laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-this-is-a-people-s-movement-won-t-fail-says-rakesh-tikait-101612706483808.html
07-02-2021||India||Host farmers at your house like you treated Obama: Owaisi to PM Modi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to invite protesting farmers to his residence like he had hosted then US president Barack Obama, and repeal the new farm laws.Addressing a rally for upcoming polls to local bodies in Gujarat, the Hyderabad MP also asked the prime minister to be "large-hearted" and "understand pains" of the farmers, who have been protesting at borders of Delhi over the last two months demanding scrapping of the agri marketing legislations.Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen is contesting maiden elections in Gujarat--in Ahmedabad and Bharuch-- in alliance with the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP)"The way the farmers are being treated is not right. It is wrong. The Prime Minister should invite the farmers to his residence like he had offered tea to (then US President) Barack Obama with his own hand (in 2015), which is fine as he was our guest. We expect the PM to invite the farmers, offer them tea and biscuits and tell them the (agri marketing) laws are being repealed, and that they should be happy," Owaisi said.Owaisi said the PM should understand the plight of agriculturists who feed the country, if he claims to have risen from poverty."When a poor person weeps out of helplessness, then nature tells us to help the poor, but those who have no sympathy for the poor, they remain unaffected by tears of the poor. We are with farmers, they are our'annadatas', they work hard to get us food," he said.Taking a dig, Owaisi said the massive protest by farmers has "disturbed sleep" of PM Modi."They came out in thousands, shouted slogans, and took out a tractor rally in Delhi (on January 26). The BJP, with 300 MPs, is worried about how to tackle farmers," he said.With BTP leader Chhotu Vasava by his side, Owaisi made a strong pitch for the unity among tribals, Muslims, Dalits and OBCs in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/host-farmers-at-your-house-like-you-treated-obama-owaisi-to-pm-modi-101612700226390.html
07-02-2021||India||Nodeep Kaur: All you need to know about jailed Dalit activist||Meena Harris, an American lawyer and US vice president Kamala Harris’ niece, on Saturday had tweeted about the alleged sexual assault that a 23-year-old Dalit and labour rights activist had faced in police custody. Nodeep Kaur has been detained without bail for more than 20 days, reported The Quint."Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you—23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days," Harris had tweeted.Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you—23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days. pic.twitter.com/Ypt2h1hWJzThe 36 years old, who is also an author, has been tweeting regularly in support of the farmers' protest and against the government's crackdown on the protestors. Meena along with pop star Rihanna, activist Greta Thunberg and others had tweeted about the protest and internet suspension near the border protest sites citing a CNN story.Who is Nodeep Kaur?The labour rights activist is associated with Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan (MAS) and has been part of the farmers' protest happening at the Singhu border of the national capital since December 2020.The activist, from the state of Punjab, before taking part in the protest was working in a factory based in Kundli in Haryana. She was reportedly fired without being paid when she decided to join the protest. A video of her went viral on social media where they are heard talking about how labourers are also a part of the agitation against the farm laws and the laws need to be repealed to prevent the privatisation of agriculture.Also Read | Farmers’ struggle bound to receive global support, says Shiv SenaArrestKaur was arrested from the Singhu border on January 12 and her detention in Karnal jail was later revealed. She was arrested by the Haryana police on charges attempt to murder, extortion, rioting with deadly weapons, criminal intimidation, causing hurt to a public servant, unlawful assembly and trespassing.Nodeep was arrested late in the night and her family was not informed about where she was taken by the police, her sister Rajvir Kaur has claimed.Rajvir claimed that Nodeep was sexually assaulted in police custody. On January 13, when she visited Kaur in Karnal jail, she said she saw Nodeep was hurt in her genitals. Kaur's lawyer also alleged that a medical examination has revealed wounds on her body and private parts.on january 12—haryana police abducted nodeep kaur from her tent at singhu protest. since then she has been beaten & sexually assaulted while under police custody. nodeep is 23 yold punjabi dalit woman & trade union activist who has been bravely speaking up about the protests. pic.twitter.com/XvN6TJwKj8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nodeep-kaur-all-you-need-to-know-about-jailed-dalit-activist-101612689302379.html
07-02-2021||Latest||Tendulkar should be careful about speaking on farmers: Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Saturday said cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar should be more careful while speaking on farmers' issues.Many celebrities including Tendulkar and legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar rallied around the government on social media using hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda following tweets by pop singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg backing farmers.When asked about celebrities like Tendulkar and Mangeshkar reacting to the ongoing agitation by farmers against the three new farm laws at the borders of Delhi, the NCP chief said that people had responded strongly."I would suggest to Sachin (Tendulkar) that he should be careful while speaking on the issues related to other fields," Pawar told reporters.He alleged the Union government was defaming the ongoing agitation of farmers by calling them ‘Khalistanis’ or terrorists. "These agitators are farmers who feed our country. Therefore, it is not right to call them Khalistanis or terrorists," the former Union agriculture minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/tendulkar-should-be-careful-about-speaking-on-farmers-sharad-pawar-101612631184597.html
07-02-2021||India||Govt shouldn't have 'asked' big personalities to tweet on farmers: Raj Thackeray||In the wake of comments by celebrities on the ongoing farmers' protest, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Sunday said that the government should not have "asked" big personalities like former batsman Sachin Tendulkar and legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar to tweet in their support on the issue and put their "reputation" at stake.The MNS chief said that the agitation is against the government policies and not concerning issues of national interest."The government should not have asked big personalities like Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar to tweet in support of its stand and put their reputation at stake. They are recipients of Bharat Ratna. Actors like Akshay Kumar were enough for this task," said Thackeray."This issue was about the policies of the government and not of the country. It was not a matter related to China or Pakistan. It was a matter of farmers. The Bharat Ratna recipients tweeted on behalf of the government and now they are being trolled," he said.Days after Tendulkar made comments on the protest by farmers, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar had asked the former Indian cricketer to "exercise caution while speaking about other fields"."Many people (celebrities) have reacted sharply to the stand taken by them (farmers). My suggestion to Sachin Tendulkar is he should be cautious while commenting on fields other than his domain," Pawar had said.Taking to Twitter, former Indian cricket team captain tweeted: "India's sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda."His remarks came after a few international celebrities including pop star Rihanna commented on farmers' protests.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three new farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-shouldn-t-have-asked-big-personalities-to-tweet-on-farmers-raj-thackeray-101612675635485.html
07-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: CM Mamata likely to skip inauguration event to be attended by PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CM Mamata Banerjee likely to skip inauguration event to be attended by PM ModiWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to give a miss to a programme during which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of key infrastructure projects in the poll-bound state. Read moreJ-K police arrest wanted terrorist, seize arms and ammunition in JammuA wanted terrorist and self-styled commander of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, believed to be a frontal organisation of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) outfit, was arrested on Saturday on the outskirts of Jammu city. Read moreFarmers’ struggle bound to receive global support, says Shiv SenaThe Shiv Sena has questioned the Centre’s response to international celebrities for their stand on the farmers’ protest. Read moreFood and fitness: Masaba Gupta gets candid about body transformationFamous fashion designer Masaba Gupta has been quite vocal about her fitness journey lately. Read moreIndia vs England: With 53.1 overs, R Ashwin bowls his longest in a Test inningIt was after a long time that India had to toil hard with the ball in a single inning of a Test match. Read moreKangana Ranaut: 'I challenged Diljit Dosanjh to say he is not Khalistani, he didn’t'Kangana Ranaut, who has had quite a few heated faceoffs with singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh on Twitter over farmer protests, has made more allegations against him. Read moreThis US shelter is letting cats poop on names of people’s exes on Valentine’s DayBreaking up with someone is an extremely hard job, but what’s worse than that is getting over that person and go on towards a fresh start. Read moreWatch: North Pole, longest flight, all-women crew: Zoya Agarwal on The Interview||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cm-mamata-likely-to-skip-inauguration-event-to-be-attended-by-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news-101612681173551.html
07-02-2021||India||Heavy police deployment at Delhi borders to keep up vigil day after ‘chakka jam’||As farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agricultural laws continued, security personnel were deployed on all borders of Delhi on Sunday, a day after the ‘chakka jam’ called by protesters on Saturday concluded peacefully. Heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces was seen at Tikri border, which connects the national capital with Haryana, as well as Ghazipur border, which connects Delhi to Uttar Pradesh. The intensive security on Saturday came in order to avoid the rerun of Republic Day violence, when clashes broke out between the police and protesters following which one farmer died after his tractor overturned and several were injured on both sides. Follow latest updates on farm stir hereOn Saturday, farmers’ ‘chakka jam’ call —blockade of national and state highways— against the internet ban near the protest sites and alleged harassment by authorities remained largely peaceful. Several thousands of farmers from across states, especially in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, came out in support while symbolic road blockades were observed in other parts of the country. The unions, however, had withdrawn the call for the blockade in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi citing inputs regarding some “miscreants trying to disrupt peace”.As the three-hour blockade led to traffic snarls, farmers were seen offering food and water to stranded commuters on the Rohtak-Delhi highway. There were similar reports from Punjab as well. Farm leaders said protesters stalled traffic on roads in parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere. Several protesters, however, were briefly detained by the police in several states for blocking roads.Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders for more than two and a half months now demanding a repeal of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which farmers say favour big corporations. The Centre has refuted the concerns and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-police-deployment-at-delhi-borders-to-keep-up-vigil-day-after-chakka-jam-101612675862314.html
07-02-2021||India||9,222 in fray as Punjab civic bodies go to polls on Feb 14 amid farmers protest||With the last date for withdrawal and rejection of candidates for civic body polls ending on Saturday, the state election commission on Saturday said 9,222 candidates were left in the fray. Overall, 2,832 (around 30%) candidates are contesting as Independents; this is due to the fact that all councils have been categorised into A, B and C. The C councils are very small and here elections are not being held only on symbols.In A and B councils, 2,037 candidates of the Congress are left in fray, whereas the primary opposition in Punjab assembly, 1,606 candidates belong to the AAP. The SAD is fielding 1,569 candidates, with 1,003 are from the BJP.The BSP is also fielding 160 candidates. In the finally tally, BJP could not field any candidate from Tarn Taran.Also read| Farm union leader Rakesh Tikait calls on farmers for 'tractor revolution'﻿24 Cong candidates set to be elected unopposed in Bathinda districtAt least 24 Congress candidates are set to be elected unopposed in seven urban local bodies of the district.As per district electoral officer B Srinivasan, a total of 33 candidates, including nine independents, have no electoral opponent in the district.Besides 50 wards in the Bathinda municipal corporation, the district has six municipal councils and eight nagar panchayats.There are 769 candidates in the fray in the district.Maximum seven candidates of the ruling Congress have no challenger in from Maluka, the native place of the veteran Akali leader Sikander Singh Maluka. Maluka nagar panchayat has 11 wards. It was followed by Mehraj, the ancestral village of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, from where five Congress candidates have no electoral opponent.Also read| Delhi's borders quiet as police ramp up checksLehra Mohabbat nagar panchayat ended up with a peculiar situation where there is no candidate from four wards.It happened as the residents had announced to boycott the electoral process in support of their demand to restore it the status of a gram panchayat.None of the four key political parties have fielded candidates following unanimous decision of the residents to stay away from the polls. But independent candidates considered close to the Congress filed papers from all 11 wards at the eleventh hour on the last day of filing election papers.After scrutiny of papers and withdrawal, all seven independent candidates have no opponent from their wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9222-in-fray-as-punjab-civic-bodies-go-to-polls-on-feb-14-amid-farmers-protest-101612669273480.html
07-02-2021||India||Tikait’s decision to not have chakka jam in UP, Uttarakhand 'hasty': SKM leader||Senior farmer leader Darshan Pal Saturday said the decision by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to not hold 'chakka jam' in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand was taken in "a hasty manner" and it would have been better had he first discussed his plan with the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha.Earlier this week, the Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions leading the protests at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- against a trio of farm laws for over 70 days, had announced a nationwide 'chakka jam' on February 6.On Friday, Tikait told reporters that there would be no road blockade in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Saturday.A senior farmer leader, who didn't wish to be named, said that the BKU leader's "sudden decision" surprised some leaders of the SKM."It would have been better if Rakesh Tikait had talked and discussed about his proposal of not having chakka jam in UP and Uttarakhand with us before telling it to the media. He, of course, did discuss it with the SKM later and it was a joint thing," Pal told reporters at a press conference at the Singhu border."So basically what we are trying to say here is that he announced it in a hasty manner. Nothing else," he added.Pal, however, cleared that everything is fine within the SKM and people shouldn't assume that there are any differences between the leaders.Later in the evening, the SKM issued a statement, claiming that 'chakka jam' was also held in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Saturday."Chakka jam programme in Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand and Bihar was a complete success," it stated.It also stated that farmers organised chakka jam in more than 200 places in Madhya Pradesh while in Maharashtra, farmers led the chakka jam in many places, including Wardha, Pune and Nashik."The success of Chakka Jam was also seen in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu," it stated.The three-hour long nationwide 'chakka jam' by protesting farmers was held on Saturday amid tight security, even as there was no such event in the national capital which was turned into a fortress with heavy security deployment by the Delhi Police, paramilitary and reserve forces personnel to prevent any untoward situation.The Delhi Police had also used drone cameras to keep a tight vigil at protest sites.Ten Delhi Metro stations, including Mandi House and ITO, were closed for the duration of the 'chakka jam' from 12 noon to 3 pm, and reopened after the protest ended.Around 50 people were detained near Shaheedi Park in central Delhi for allegedly holding an agitation in support of the 'chakka jam’. PTI MG BUN BUN RDM RDM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tikaits-decision-to-not-have-chakka-jam-in-up-uttarakhand-hasty-skm-leader-101612663278821.html
07-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to visit Rajasthan next week to raise voice for protesting farmers||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi will be on a two-day visit to Rajasthan next week to raise his voice for farmers protesting the new agriculture laws, party general secretary Ajay Maken said on Saturday."To fight for farmers' interests, to raise the voice of farmers in the struggle for the repeal of the three back laws, Rahul Gandhi ji will be in Rajasthan on February 12-13," the AICC in-charge of Rajasthan said in a tweet in Hindi.A 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' was held in Rajasthan's Dausa on Friday in solidarity with the farmers camping on the borders of Delhi. The resolution passed at the meet reiterated the farmers' demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws.Speaking at the meeting, senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot said the Union government had not discussed the bills with state governments and farmers' organisations before bringing them in Parliament."We will not step back till these demands are met," the former Rajasthan Congress chief said.Thousands of farmers have been protesting demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-rajasthan-next-week-to-raise-voice-for-protesting-farmers-101612662693359.html
07-02-2021||India||US vice president's niece voices support for stir again||Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US vice president Kamala Harris, continued to voice her support for farmers protesting against three contentious farm laws in India, saying on Saturday that “this isn’t just about agricultural policy”.“It’s also about the persecution of a vocal religious minority. It’s police violence, militant nationalism, and attacks on labor rights. It’s global authoritarianism. Don’t tell me to stay out of your affairs. These are all of our issues,” Harris said, a day after she was targeted on social media for having supported the farmers’ agitation along with several other international personalities. The Indian government has maintained that it was an internal matter and that propaganda was being spread against the country by vested interests.“Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-vice-president-s-niece-voices-support-for-stir-again-101612646003989.html
07-02-2021||India||US panel urges India to allow peaceful protest||The leadership of the powerful Congressional India Caucus has urged the Indian government to ensure that the norms of democracy are maintained and the protesters are allowed to demonstrate peacefully and have access to the Internet, as it discussed the issue of the ongoing farmer’s agitation in the country.Congressman Brad Sherman, Co-Chair of the Congressional India Caucus said that he convened a meeting with his other Republican Co-Chair Congressman Steve Chabot, and Vice-Chair Congressman Ro Khanna to speak with India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, regarding farmers demonstrations in India. This was the first meeting of the India Caucus, the largest country-specific caucus in the US House of Representatives, on the issue.“I urged the Indian government to make sure that the norms of democracy are maintained and that protesters are allowed to protest peaceably and to have access to the Internet, and to journalists. All friends of India hope that the parties can reach an agreement,” he said.The external affairs ministry has said any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the farmer groups to resolve the impasse. “The Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector. These reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers. They also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming,” the MEA said in a statement on Wednesday.“The temporary measures with regard to internet access in certain parts of the NCR region were... understandably undertaken to prevent further violence,” it said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-panel-urges-india-to-allow-peaceful-protest-101612645849763.html
07-02-2021||India||Traffic snarls across states as farmers block key highways||The three-hour chakka jam (traffic halt) call by farm unions protesting the three agricultural laws evoked huge response on Saturday in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, even as symbolic road blockades were held in other parts of the country. The unions, however, withdrew the call for blockade in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi citing inputs regarding some “miscreants trying to disrupt peace”.Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India, who is part of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said they have received reports of traffic being halted in almost every state and the entire protest was peaceful.Rakesh Takait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, however, alleged that attempts by miscreants to discredit the protests in some areas were thwarted by volunteers. “Because of these inputs, we had decided to call off the ‘chakka jam’ in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” the 51-year-old Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, credited with reviving the farmers’ stir, said. He also declared that the protest on the outskirts of the Capital will continue till October 2 and an effort will be made to “connect every village” with the agitation. He asked farmers to take soil from Ghazipur border to their farmland as a symbolic gesture to express solidarity.For 72 days, farm unions have camped outside Delhi demanding repeal of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which farmers say favour big corporations. The Centre has refuted the concerns, and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate.Scores of protesters were also briefly detained by the police in several states on Saturday for blocking roads. Farm leaders said protesters stalled traffic on roads in parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karanataka. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere. “At 42 places in Karnataka, the protests were held and police took farmers into custody.”Raising slogans against the Centre, many farmers parked their tractor-trailers or squatted in the middle of roads in Punjab and Haryana, blocking several highways, including the Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore and Ambala-Chandigarh highway. Protests were also held at Shambhu near Ambala and at many toll plazas. “The protest was completely peaceful,” said Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan. “Around 6,000 to 7,000 protesters on an average took part in Chakka Jam each place,” he added.In Haryana, traffic was blocked on almost all national and state highways for three hours. Rustic farmer songs were played and people perched atop truck-tractors hoisted the tricolour on the KMP Expressway even as biscuits and fruits were distributed to the protesting farmers and those stranded.In Rajasthan, farmers at many places including Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar stalled traffic on the highways and main roads and held demonstrations, police said.Protests were also staged in Maharashtra’s Karad and Kolhapur. At least 40 protesters, including Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan’s wife Satvasheela Chavan, were detained in Karad, a police official said. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti and others were detained briefly in Kolhapur.In Telangana, police said several people were taken into preventive custody. Similar reports came from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu where farmers blocked highways in different parts.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-snarls-across-states-as-farmers-block-key-highways-101612645448695.html
07-02-2021||India||Internet at Delhi borders snapped again, for 24 hrs||As farmers held a three-hour chakka jam protest against the Centre’s frequent suspension of internet at protest sites, heavy police barricading and the three new agriculture laws, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday snapped internet services again at Delhi’s borders for 24 hours.The 24-hour internet suspension began at midnight on Friday and was to end at 11.59pm on Saturday.The suspension of internet services was announced in the interest of “maintaining public safety and averting public emergency”, the order issued on February 5 said. Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri borders and surrounding areas came under the purview of this suspension order.The MHA ordered the first suspension of internet services amid the ongoing protest on January 26, when the farmers’ tractor march led to a violent stand-off between protesters and Delhi Police.A group of protesters who entered the Capital deviated from the pre-agreed route of their tractor march and entered the Red Fort. Since then, there have been regular suspensions of internet services in the Capital’s border areas.Saturday’s three-hour chakka jam, in which state and national highways across the country were blocked between 12 noon and 3pm, except in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, was in protest against these internet suspensions, among other things.Similar orders blocking internet services had been passed in Haryana as well — after January 26.The service disruption as well as the months-long protests in the national capital and surrounding areas have drawn the attention of the international media while global celebrities such as pop star Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg, on their social media accounts, extended support to the farmers’ protest.Since the three-hour chakka jam was the protesters’ first major event after the Republic Day march, the Centre, Delhi Police and Haryana Police stepped up security measures. Union home minister Amit Shah met Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and national security adviser Ajit Doval on February 4 to review the security situation ahead of the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-at-delhi-borders-snapped-again-for-24-hrs-101612643861046.html
07-02-2021||India||‘Chakka jam’ passes off largely peacefully||Delhi turned into a virtual fortress on Saturday amid heavy deployment of security forces as farmers protesting against three contentious agricultural laws held demonstrations in some states including Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan as part of a three-hour “chakka jam”, even though no demonstrations were held in the national capital.Thousands of farmers across the country blocked roads with vehicles and boulders to demand a repeal of the three laws, with no major incidents of violence being reported. The government and farm unions have not been able to find a solution to the stand-off over 11 rounds of talks, and the farmers have rejected a proposal by the Centre to put the laws on hold for 18 months.On Republic Day, farmer groups broke through barricades, clashed with the Delhi Police and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, on its ramparts.While the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmers unions spearheading the agitation, said earlier that the “chakka jam”, or road blockade, would not impact Delhi and the national capital region (NCR), there was heavy police deployment across the Capital, with at least 40,000 personnel standing guard at various spots. Mobile internet services were again suspended at three border points – Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri – until Saturday night, according to a Union home ministry order.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait declared that their protest on Delhi’s outskirts will continue till October 2 and an effort will be made to “connect every village” with the agitation. He said inputs were received regarding some “miscreants trying to disrupt peace” during the “chakka jam”. “Because of these inputs, we had decided to call off the ‘chakka jam’ in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” the 51-year-old Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, credited with reviving the farmers’ stir after the Republic Day violence, said.After the “chakka jam” concluded, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Saturday evening that the protest once again proved that farmers across the country were united against the three central farm laws. It said the call for “chakka jam” received huge support across the country.Shouting slogans against the Centre and the three farm laws, many farmers parked their tractor-trailers and blocked roads in Punjab and Haryana, impacting highways including Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore and Ambala-Chandigarh.Farmers also squatted on roads in Odisha, Karnataka, Maharashtra and other states with flags and banners protesting against the laws. Thousands of farmers blocked the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway in Haryana.No incidents of violence were reported in the Capital, even as the Delhi Police detained 62 people from outside Shaheedi Park near Maulana Azad Medical College, where they had gathered to hold a protest in solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the three-hour-long “chakka jam” protest. They were released later in the evening, according to officials. The police also used drone cameras at several places including the protest sites at the borders for aerial surveillance. On Friday evening, they began conducting checks at entry points at Delhi’s borders.At places such as India Gate, Red Fort, and residences of the Prime Minister and President, police were on high alert and monitored the movement of vehicles. At India Gate, along with the riot control force, the police also stationed water cannons for emergency use. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said: “The security around the iconic structures and important buildings was tightened. There were no protesters in the New Delhi area.”As a precaution, the entry and exit gates of many Delhi Metro stations were also shut. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said in a statement on Saturday morning that the entry and exit gates at Mandi House, ITO, Delhi Gate, Vishwavidyalaya, Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Janpath, Central Secretariat, Khan Market and Nehru Place metro stations were closed for public. The gates were opened after 3pm, when the three-hour “chakka jam” concluded. A Delhi Metro official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the gates were closed on the police’s instructions to prevent unruly protesters from entering the Metro premises or gathering at important locations.At the three border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur – the protests remained peaceful after farm leaders repeatedly told the protesters not to cross the barricades to enter Delhi or indulge in violence. The Delhi Police have placed multiple layers of barricades and cement boulders at the borders to ensure that the protesters do not drive their tractors into the national capital.Many among the protesters said they would ensure that their agitation was not marred by violence like the one during the tractor rally on January 26. At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured when the protesting farmers on their tractors deviated from the pre-approved route of the rally, assaulted police personnel when they were stopped from entering parts of central Delhi, and also stormed the Red Fort premises.“We have been sending out messages to our brothers in other states that instead of coming to Delhi for the protests, on Saturday, they should support the movement by blocking their respective state highways and internal roads. The gathering here might be fewer than usual, but that is because the participation at the highways was immense,” said Sahil Kamboj, a volunteer at the Tikri border.Farmer leader Tikait, while addressing a gathering at Ghazipur, said the Centre should repeal the farm laws by October, failing which they will intensity their protest further. “We have given time to the government till October 2 to repeal the laws. After this, we will make further plans. We won’t hold discussions with the government under pressure. We won’t return home unless our demands are met,” he said. In other parts of the country, scores of protesters were held briefly by police as they stalled traffic on roads in Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. However, no untoward incident was reported during the protests across the states. Farmers’ associations supported by opposition parties, including the Rashtriya Janata Dal, held an hour-long “chakka jam” in Bihar in response to the nationwide agitation.In Rajasthan, farmers at many places including Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar stalled traffic on the highways and main roads, police said.The Congress and Left parties, too, held protests in some states in support of the “chakka jam” called by the farmer unions. “Rasta roko” protests were staged in Karad and Kolhapur cities in Maharashtra.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-passes-off-largely-peacefully-101612643121956.html
07-02-2021||India||Intervention by PM Modi may resolve farm bills issues, says Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said that the highest level intervention from the Central government may help in resolving the deadlock between the Centre and farmers organisation over contentious farm bills which has resulted in over 70-day long protest, by the agrarian community. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the defence minister Rajnath Singh should intervene and resolve the impasse.He also slammed the Centre for failing to handle the farmers’ agitation properly and taking extreme steps against the protestors, which have never happened in the country post-independence.“In my opinion, the central government should take an initiative and a senior-level minister should intervene. I don’t want to disrespect Narendra Singh Tomar (Union agriculture minister) but the Prime Minister or defence minister should intervene then the issue may be resolved. If it happens then those leading the protest should also look for a resolution,” Pawar told reporters.“To stop protestors, roads were cemented with nails. It has never happened in the country since independence. The government took extreme measures which also shows their attitude. Whenever farmers come out on streets like this then the government is expected to show some consonance,” he said.Pawar alleged the BJP is defaming the ongoing agitation of farmers by calling them “Khalistanis” or “terrorists”. “The ruling party has taken a stand to defame farmers by calling Khalistanis and terrorists. These agitators are farmers who have made the country self-sufficient in food production. Calling them with names is not a quality of civilized culture,” the veteran leader said.Meanwhile, thousands of farmers, peasants, along with social activists and political leaders participated in the nationwide chakka jam called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday in Maharashtra. Farmers in many parts of the state blocked national highways and state highways to show their opposition to the three laws passed by the Centre.Except for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), prominent parties including Nationalist Congress Party, Samajwadi Party, Congress, Swabhimani Sanghatna, Left parties and its affiliated bodies All India Kisan Sabha and All India Centre for Trade Unions (AICTU) participated in the agitation across the state. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the protests are not political, but the party stands for the demands of the farmers’.Reacting to comments from foreign celebrities, Pawar said that farmers are protesting despite all the odds since the last over two months and people were sympathetic towards them in the country. “Now, similar views are expressed abroad for the farmers which are not good for the country. The government must take them seriously,” he suggested.Linking these reactions over farmers’ protests with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s support to the candidature of Donald Trump as Presidential candidate for the second term, he said, “I remember when the Prime Minister was on a US tour, he declared that Trump will be elected for a second term and a few sections appreciated him. Today, people from abroad are also reacting the same way because of the same reason,” he said, blaming Modi for interfering in the internal matter of the United States.Swabhimani Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti led a protest in Kolhapur. Shetti slammed the Centre for making celebrities tweet in support of the farm laws. He said that the government has forgotten that “crores of common people” have brought them to power, but once they dump them no celebrities will ask them.Kishore Tiwari, president of Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission, led a protest in Yavatmal district blocking the national highway. Tiwari, who is associated with the Shiv Sean and holds MoS rank, was detained by the district police.In Mumbai, Samajwadi Party, NCP, Left parties protested in Kurla. NCP spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik participated in a protest near Kurla station. Malik, who is the party’s Mumbai unit chief, said that the three laws are an attempt to get industrialists in the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intervention-by-pm-modi-may-resolve-farm-bills-issues-says-sharad-pawar-101612642500755.html
07-02-2021||India||'Exercise caution': Pawar's piece of advice to Tendulkar amid farmers' stir||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday advised Bharat Ratna and former international cricketer, Sachin Tendulkar, to be cautious while commenting on issues other than his field. He also said that the common people have fiercely reacted to the stand taken by Indian celebrities to counter tweets by foreign celebrities on the ongoing issue of farmers' agitation.Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also took on the Centre for dragging Bharat Ratna awardees Lata Mangeshkar and Tendulkar in its campaign to counter tweets by celebrities such as international pop star Rihanna. He slammed the Centre saying that the issue was of government's policy and not a national issue to use such legends to garner support.“They (Indian celebrities) have taken a stand but the common people have fiercely reacted to the position taken by them. I would also advise Tendulkar to exercise caution while speaking about any other field,” Pawar commented.Also read: Delhi-NCR peaceful as 40,000 security personnel keep vigil during ‘chakka jam’Thackeray, who was speaking to reporters, said that the Union government should have not exposed Mangeshkar and Tendulkar to social media trolling. "The government should not have asked Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar to tweet and put their reputation at stake. This is an issue of the government's policy and not of country's like some threat from China or Pakistan. Now they have to face the wrath of social media trolling."“The government should have limited its use of celebrities in its campaign to actors such as Akshay Kumar,” he remarked.He further said, "They (Tendulkar and Mangeshkar) are legends in their fields, and they are very simple people. They should not have been asked to tweet with the same hashtag. They tweeted what the government asked them to tweet, and now they are at the receiving end."Thackeray also slammed the Centre for issuing clarification to pop singer Rihanna's tweet supporting the farmers' stir.Reacting to comments from foreign celebrities on farmers’ protest, the former Union agriculture minister also said that farmers are protesting despite all odds for over two months and people were sympathetic towards them in the country. “Now, similar views are expressed abroad for the farmers which is not good for the country. The government must take them seriously,” he suggested.Linking these reactions over farmers’ protests with PM Modi’s support to the candidature of Donald Trump for US presidential polls for the second term, he said, “I remember when the Prime Minister was on a US tour, he declared that Trump will be elected for a second term and a few sections have appreciated him. Today, people from abroad are also reacting the same way because of the same reason,” he said, blaming PM Modi for interfering in the internal matter of the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exercise-caution-pawar-s-piece-of-advice-to-tendulkar-amid-farmers-stir-101612636528676.html
07-02-2021||India||Delhi's borders quiet as police ramp up checks||Amid the large-scale police deployment and a host of steps taken to curtail the movement of farmers, the three-hour nationwide “chakka jam” — a blockade of national and state highways — called by farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, went off peacefully on Saturday at the three protest venues at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders.In view of the violence in the Capital on Republic Day during the tractor rally taken out by farmers, in which one person died and several others were injured, the Delhi Police had put in place a thick security blanket to ensure that no untoward incident takes place during the chakka jam.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “Considering the violence that erupted on January 26 during the tractor rally, we did not want to take any chances. Elaborate security arrangements were put in place and full-scale vigil was maintained to check any untoward incident and traffic-related inconvenience. No violence happened on Saturday and the traffic remained normal.”The blockade was not observed inside the Capital. Highways leading to Delhi were free from the blockade so that farmers could reach the protest sites. There was no blockade in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh either as decided by farmer unions, for the same reason.However, all three protest venues saw thinner crowds on Saturday with farmer leaders saying that a large number of protesters had returned to their respective states to take part in the chakka jam there.At the Singhu border, farmers did not stop any private or shared public vehicle from plying along the stretch where the protest has been taking place for over two months now. “These locals have supported us from Day One. They have already done more than their bit for our movement. So we decided not to impose the jam on them,” said Jagmohan Singh, one of the many volunteers there.At Tikri, farmer leaders on the stage continued to remind the participants to hold the chakka jam as a non-confrontational event. Several young farmers, who had been camping at Tikri border, went back to their villages and home towns to lead the blockade of state highways there.“We have been sending out messages to our brothers in other states that instead of coming to Delhi for protests, on Saturday they should support the movement by blocking their respective state highways and internal roads. The gathering here might be smaller than usual, but that is because the participation at the state level is immense,” said Sahil Kamboj, a volunteer.Despite peaceful scenes at the Tikri border, the security arrangements near the protest site were intense on Saturday. Between Friday and Saturday night, the Delhi Police had set up a multilayered security cordon comprising their personnel, paramilitary personnel, concrete barricades, barbed wire fencing, and nail boards drilled onto roads to stop farmers from entering the national capital.On the roadside near the police barricades in Ghazipur, farmers prepared a small patch of land for cultivation and planted sugarcane and potatoes.Lata Chaudhary, a farmer from Baruat, said, “The police have set up a multilayered barricading and have drilled nails onto the road to prevent our movement as though we are criminals. Today, we planted sugarcane here in front of them (police) to make them realise that we are just farmers and they should not wage a war against us.”On Friday, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait had planted flower saplings beside the police barricades. The police, on their part, added another layer of barricades on Saturday and allegedly removed the flowers planted by protesters. “The government fixed iron nails in our path, but we have planted flowers next to them, Tikait said.Also watch: 'No ghar wapsi till laws are withdrawn': BKU’s Rakesh Tikait | Farmers’ protestAt 3pm, farmers gathered at the Ghazipur border site started honking their vehicles in unison. However, at Singhu border there was no such collective honking. “In the rest of the country, the jam was for three hours. Here, it has been going on for 73 days now. If the government can’t hear us despite so long, our involvement in the chakka jam won’t make a difference,” said Manmeet Kaur, a farmer from Gurdaspur in Punjab.“You can see that thousands of farmers have gathered here. The crowd is sitting for kilometres from here. If we wanted to cause trouble, their (police’s) barricades will not be able to stop us. Our movement was always meant to be peaceful. On January 26, some unruly elements tried to defame farmers and our movement but that was a political ploy,” said Daya Ram, a farmer from Mansa in Punjab.Also read: Traffic snarls across states as farmers block key highwaysAlso read ‘Chakka jam’ passes off largely peacefully||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-protest-sites-at-delhi-borders-remain-peaceful-during-chakka-jam-101612634198747.html
07-02-2021||India||Nodeep Kaur: All you need to know about jailed Dalit activist||Meena Harris, an American lawyer and US vice president Kamala Harris’ niece, on Saturday had tweeted about the alleged sexual assault that a 23-year-old Dalit and labour rights activist had faced in police custody. Nodeep Kaur has been detained without bail for more than 20 days, reported The Quint."Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you—23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days," Harris had tweeted.Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you—23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days. pic.twitter.com/Ypt2h1hWJzThe 36 years old, who is also an author, has been tweeting regularly in support of the farmers' protest and against the government's crackdown on the protestors. Meena along with pop star Rihanna, activist Greta Thunberg and others had tweeted about the protest and internet suspension near the border protest sites citing a CNN story.Who is Nodeep Kaur?The labour rights activist is associated with Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan (MAS) and has been part of the farmers' protest happening at the Singhu border of the national capital since December 2020.The activist, from the state of Punjab, before taking part in the protest was working in a factory based in Kundli in Haryana. She was reportedly fired without being paid when she decided to join the protest. A video of her went viral on social media where they are heard talking about how labourers are also a part of the agitation against the farm laws and the laws need to be repealed to prevent the privatisation of agriculture.Also Read | Farmers’ struggle bound to receive global support, says Shiv SenaArrestKaur was arrested from the Singhu border on January 12 and her detention in Karnal jail was later revealed. She was arrested by the Haryana police on charges attempt to murder, extortion, rioting with deadly weapons, criminal intimidation, causing hurt to a public servant, unlawful assembly and trespassing.Nodeep was arrested late in the night and her family was not informed about where she was taken by the police, her sister Rajvir Kaur has claimed.Rajvir claimed that Nodeep was sexually assaulted in police custody. On January 13, when she visited Kaur in Karnal jail, she said she saw Nodeep was hurt in her genitals. Kaur's lawyer also alleged that a medical examination has revealed wounds on her body and private parts.on january 12—haryana police abducted nodeep kaur from her tent at singhu protest. since then she has been beaten & sexually assaulted while under police custody. nodeep is 23 yold punjabi dalit woman & trade union activist who has been bravely speaking up about the protests. pic.twitter.com/XvN6TJwKj8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nodeep-kaur-all-you-need-to-know-about-jailed-dalit-activist-101612689302379.html
07-02-2021||India||Trudeau govt wakes up to death threat to PM Modi, provides security to top Indian diplomats||The Justin Trudeau government in Canada has finally woken up to death threats to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Indian consul general at Vancouver made by pro-Khalistan separatists on January 26 and provided armed guard security to top Indian diplomats in Ottawa and Vancouver on Saturday.The Trudeau government last Friday instructed the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to provide protection to the Indian embassies in Ottawa and Vancouver after external affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke to his Canadian counterpart Marc Garneau on February 5. The action was taken after at least four note verbale were issued to Canadian authorities at Vancouver and Ottawa after death threat to the Indian consul general on December 26, 2020. Two police complaints were also filed by the Vancouver consul general office.Also read | India takes up with Italy, Canada incidents outside missions in Rome, VancouverIn a diplomatic note to Canadian foreign ministry, the Indian high commission on February 2 informed that one Inderjit Singh Bains made death threats against Prime Minister Modi on January 26 outside the Vancouver consul general office and posted on the Facebook account of fellow separatist Narinder Singh Khalsa. The English translation of the rabble-rousing speech was sent to the Vancouver police department in a complaint filed by the consul general.Although Hindustan Times has reviewed the contents of the speech, it is not reproducing it as it is communal and incendiary. The political activist makes it clear that they will take care of Modi as they have taken care of other political leaders and Indian Army generals in the past.Also read | In probe against Khalistanis, NIA examines people linked to farmers’ protestsThe letter from Indian high commission to Canadian foreign ministry makes it amply clear that death threats to the Indian Prime Minister constitutes an act of terrorism and requested that the matter should be thoroughly investigated and the action should be taken against the individuals to mitigate any security risk posed.Since December 2020, pro-Khalistan elements in Canada have taken over the protests against farm laws and are using communal speeches to divide the Indian diaspora by extolling the virtues of so-called Khalistan leaders. A reaction to this was a large Tiranga car rally organised in support of farm laws on Saturday afternoon in Vancouver.Also read | Battle to begin with repeal of farm laws, says Mo Dhaliwal who created ‘toolkit'According to a diplomatic note written to the Canadian authorities on December 28, Inderjeet Bains is associated with Gurdwara Dashmesh Darbar in Surrey, Vancouver. He is a known offender who has earlier issued death threats against Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh (2017) and then British Columbia MP Ujjal Dosanjh (2010). The Khalistani supporter has threatened Indian diplomatic personnel time and again but the Vancouver Police Department has never initiated any legal proceeding or enforced the law even after a formal police complaint was filed by the Vancouver Consul General about him for his inflammatory speeches on December 25, 26, 2020, and January 26, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trudeau-govt-wakes-up-to-death-threat-to-pm-modi-provides-security-to-envoys-101612678127959.html
07-02-2021||India||Heavy police deployment at Delhi borders to keep up vigil day after ‘chakka jam’||As farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agricultural laws continued, security personnel were deployed on all borders of Delhi on Sunday, a day after the ‘chakka jam’ called by protesters on Saturday concluded peacefully. Heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces was seen at Tikri border, which connects the national capital with Haryana, as well as Ghazipur border, which connects Delhi to Uttar Pradesh. The intensive security on Saturday came in order to avoid the rerun of Republic Day violence, when clashes broke out between the police and protesters following which one farmer died after his tractor overturned and several were injured on both sides. Follow latest updates on farm stir hereOn Saturday, farmers’ ‘chakka jam’ call —blockade of national and state highways— against the internet ban near the protest sites and alleged harassment by authorities remained largely peaceful. Several thousands of farmers from across states, especially in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, came out in support while symbolic road blockades were observed in other parts of the country. The unions, however, had withdrawn the call for the blockade in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi citing inputs regarding some “miscreants trying to disrupt peace”.As the three-hour blockade led to traffic snarls, farmers were seen offering food and water to stranded commuters on the Rohtak-Delhi highway. There were similar reports from Punjab as well. Farm leaders said protesters stalled traffic on roads in parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere. Several protesters, however, were briefly detained by the police in several states for blocking roads.Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders for more than two and a half months now demanding a repeal of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which farmers say favour big corporations. The Centre has refuted the concerns and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-police-deployment-at-delhi-borders-to-keep-up-vigil-day-after-chakka-jam-101612675862314.html
07-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to visit Rajasthan next week to raise voice for protesting farmers||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi will be on a two-day visit to Rajasthan next week to raise his voice for farmers protesting the new agriculture laws, party general secretary Ajay Maken said on Saturday."To fight for farmers' interests, to raise the voice of farmers in the struggle for the repeal of the three back laws, Rahul Gandhi ji will be in Rajasthan on February 12-13," the AICC in-charge of Rajasthan said in a tweet in Hindi.A 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' was held in Rajasthan's Dausa on Friday in solidarity with the farmers camping on the borders of Delhi. The resolution passed at the meet reiterated the farmers' demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws.Speaking at the meeting, senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot said the Union government had not discussed the bills with state governments and farmers' organisations before bringing them in Parliament."We will not step back till these demands are met," the former Rajasthan Congress chief said.Thousands of farmers have been protesting demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-rajasthan-next-week-to-raise-voice-for-protesting-farmers-101612662693359.html
