08-02-2021||India||AAP asks Sachin Tendulkar to tweet in favour of protesting farmers||AAP leader Preeti Sharma Menon has written a letter to cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar asking him to tweet in favour of protesting farmers as demanded by a young man who reportedly protested outside the former India captains residence here on Monday.Sharma Menon said the man, Ranjeet Bagal, came all the way from Pandharpur in Solapur district, around 400km from Mumbai, to request Tendulkar to put out at least one tweet in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre's new agriculture laws near Delhi for more than two months now.In a photo shared by the AAP, Bagal can be seen holding in his hands a poster which questions Tendulkar when he will tweet in support of farmers.The poster also bears the name of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, a farmer organisation led by former MP Raju Shetti.Preeti Sharma Menon has endorsed Ranjeet's request and has written an open letter to Sachin Tendulkar, imploring him to tweet in favour of our farmers who are protesting, a statement from the AAP said.Several celebrities, including Tendulkar, and legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar, recently rallied around the central government on social media using hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda following tweets by American pop singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg who had backed the agitating farmers. PTI ENM RSY RSY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-asks-sachin-tendulkar-to-tweet-in-favour-of-protesting-farmers-101612807104274.html
08-02-2021||India||Farm laws: Cong MP slams govt over push back against tweets by foreign celebs||Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury questioned if the country was so weak as to feel threatened by an 18-year-old girl and treat her as an enemy for tweeting in support of protests against farm laws. He was speaking in the Lok Sabha or Lower House of Parliament.Chowdhury was speaking about climate activist Greta Thunberg who had recently tweeted her support for the protesting farmers at the Delhi borders. He also said that celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar were being misled."Celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar being misled. Is our country so weak that an 18-year-old-girl is being considered an enemy for speaking in favour of the protesting farmers?" he said.International pop icon Rihanna sought to draw attention towards the farmers' stir by posting a news article along with her tweet with a caption, "Why aren't we talking about this?!"Several global personalities - including Thunberg and Meena Harris, the niece of US vice-president Kamala Harris - also reacted to it showing their support to the protesters.The Indian government was swift in their push back, with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) calling the criticism of India's farm laws by foreign personalities "unfortunate"."Before rushing to comment on such matters, we urge that facts be ascertained and proper understanding of issues at hand be undertaken," the MEA said in a statement.Home Minister Amit Shah had tweeted, "No propaganda can deter India's unity! No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights! Propaganda can not decide India's fate... only 'Progress' can. India stands united and together to achieve progress," on Wednesday following Rihanna's tweet.Soon afterwards, several Indian celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Akshay Kumar and others took to Twitter to talk about the issue with #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether hashtags used originally by the MEA.Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the Centre's farm laws that were passed back in September, for several weeks now. The Centre have made it clear that they would not roll back the laws while the farmers have refused to accept anything less than a complete rollback.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital against the three farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-cong-mp-slams-govt-over-push-back-against-tweets-by-foreign-celebs-101612792544794.html
08-02-2021||Mumbai||‘Is he in sound mind ?’ BJP’s Anil Shelar questions Maharashtra CM after order to probe celebrity tweets||Maharashtra BJP leader Ashish Shelar on Monday opposed the probe ordered by the state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh into the recent tweets posted by Indian celebrities in response to posts by global celebrities on the ongoing farmers' protest.“I doubt if Maharashtra home minister thinks before speaking. Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar are not just celebrities, they're Bharat Ratna recipients. We condemn any inquiry into their chats. We want to ask Uddhav Thackeray ji, is he in sound mind ?” Shelar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read: Two BJP MLAs meet Mamata Banerjee, spark speculations of ‘homecoming’Shelar also slammed the Congress party for demanding the investigations in the first place. “Cong [Congress] DEMANDS MVA Govt INVESTIGATE Sachin Tendulkar, Lata Didi for tweets supporting United India ! First Palghar, then free Mahek,escape Sharjil, NOW Enquiry of Sachin ! Greed for power made Sena abandon Maharashtra, Our icons & India !” he tweeted earlier on Monday.Cong DEMANDS MVA Govt INVESTIGATE Sachin Tendulkar, Lata Didi for tweets supporting United India !First Palghar, then free Mahek,escape Sharjil, NOW Enquiry of Sachin !Greed for power made Sena abandon Maharashtra, Our icons & India !Penguin 🐧 Sena Surrender is COMPLETE !The order by home minister Deshmukh has drawn the ire of the Maharashtra BJP unit. Former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis too, had expressed his opposition to the announcement earlier on Monday. “Disgusting & highly deplorable ! Where is your Marathi Pride now ? Where is your Maharashtra Dharma ? We will never find such ‘ratnas’ (gems) in entire Nation who order probe against BharatRatnas who always stand strong in one voice for our Nation !” he had tweeted.Has this MVA Govt lost all it’s senses❓MVA should feel ashamed while using the word ‘probe’ for BharatRatnas❗️Actually, now it seems necessary to probe the mental state & stability of the ones who made such demand & of people who ordered probe against our BharatRatnas ❗️Joining the list of leaders who have opposed the move, independent MP from Amravati constituency Navneet Rana said, “National heroes don't have to prove anyone whether they're in favour of the nation or against it. It's a democracy, we can express ourselves whenever we want. If someone is judging celebrities on basis of a tweet,then they're anti-India,” as reported by news agency ANI.National heroes don't have to prove anyone whether they're in favour of the nation or against it. It's a democracy, we can express ourselves whenever we want. If someone is judging celebrities on basis of a tweet,then they're anti-India:Navneet Rana, MP from Amravati, Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/eIZC5Mfd5eOn February 3, many celebrities including cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and singer Lata Mangeshkar have tweeted that India is capable of solving its own problems after pop singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg have tweeted in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi. Earlier on Monday, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had assured a Congress delegation that an investigation into such tweets by Indian celebrities would be launched to find if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had pressured them to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-he-in-sound-mind-bjp-s-anil-shelar-questions-maharashtra-cm-101612792643482.html
08-02-2021||India||Don't link farmers' agitation with one religion or community: Sukhbir Singh Badal to PM Modi||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to link the farmers' agitation with any one religion or community and said farmers from Uttar Pradesh to Kerala were united on one platform against the three agricultural laws.Speaking to the reporters after addressing ward-level meetings in connection with the forthcoming municipal elections, the SAD president appealed to the Prime Minister to talk on the agenda and focus on giving justice to farmers instead of linking the agitation with any one community."We should all be clear that the farmer is fighting for the welfare of the 'anna daata' at large and we should not try to divide this struggle by trying to limit it to one religion or community. This will not serve any purpose except alienating the government amongst the farming community," Badal said, according to a release issued by the SAD.Many farmers, mainly from Punjab, are protesting for over 70 days on the borders of Delhi against the three newly enacted farm laws.India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs towards nation-building, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Rajya Sabha on Monday while replying to the motion of thanks on President's address."This country is proud of every Sikh. What have they not done for this country? Whatever respect we give them will always be less. I have been fortunate to spend crucial years of my life in Punjab. The language used by some against them and the attempt to mislead them will never benefit the nation," said the Prime Minister.Badal also condemned the state police for not proceeding against Gidderbaha legislator Amarinder Singh Raja Warring even after it was clearly mentioned in the suicide note of contractor Karan Kataria that Raja Warring and the latter's brother in law Dimpy Vinayak were both demanding money from the contractor, read the release."It was shocking that even after the death of the contractor who shot himself and his family members the police was not booking Raja Warring in the case. SAD will provide all necessary assistance to the victim's family and ensure justice is done in the matter", he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-link-farmers-agitation-with-one-religion-or-community-sukhbir-singh-badal-to-pm-modi-101612793160987.html
08-02-2021||India||PM's address masterclass in political whataboutery and rhetoric: CPI||CPI leader and Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech in Parliament was a "masterclass in political whataboutery and rhetoric".Stating that Modi had failed to address any of the issues raised by MPs, Viswam questioned his claim that the minimum support price (MSP) was part of the contentious farm laws."Once again the Hon'ble Prime Minister has put on a masterclass in political whataboutery and rhetoric that completely fails to address the issues raised by MPs on the President's address. The Prime Minister emphatically told the house that 'MSP tha, MSP hai aur MSP Rahega' but there is no legal guarantee of the same in any of the anti-farmer acts.""If the Prime Minister is so committed to the same, why was there no written guarantee in the law to protect farmers and ensure an MSP? The words of the Prime Minister do not carry more weight than the laws of this country," the Left leader said in a statement.Modi made a fervent appeal to the protesting farmers on Monday to end their agitation against the new farm laws even as he questioned opposition parties for their sudden "U-turn" on the agriculture reforms.Viswam further said in an attempt to save and re-invent the government's only "silver bullet", FDI, the prime minister gave the acronym a new connotation as he called it "Foreign Destructive Ideology"."Let us be clear that the opposition to this government's authoritarian and anti-people policies is firmly rooted in this country. While on the subject of external interference, it would be appropriate to remember the Prime Minister's chant of 'Ab ki baar Trump sarkar' from the podium in Houston during the 'Howdy Modi' event. It appears that the definition of FDI by the PM is a reflection of his own actions and beliefs," he said.Viswam also alleged that Modi's discourse on the government's achievements during the coronavirus crisis was an "extreme disrespect" to all those who lost their lives and struggled during the pandemic."The Prime Minister waxed eloquent about the achievements of his government without even acknowledging the sufferings that were witnessed during the lockdown and post it. The images of thousands of migrant workers walking back to their homes in the scorching heat or workers being forced to beg for food show that the Prime Minister exists in an alternative reality, devoid of the sufferings of the common people."While the Prime Minister triumphantly claimed success in the pandemic, it is important to remember that his government does not even have simple data as to the number of healthcare workers who succumbed to the Covid-19 virus," the Communist Party of India (CPI) leader said, adding that the lack of reflection and acknowledgement of people's sufferings is emblematic of this government's outlook.Viswam further alleged that rhetoric has become the main staple of the government and said it is unfortunate that its leader failed to take any responsibility or even address the numerous issues raised by members of the Rajya Sabha."The Prime Minister has used the floor of the Rajya Sabha to confuse and mislead the people of India," he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pms-address-masterclass-in-political-whataboutery-and-rhetoric-cpi-101612785722583.html
08-02-2021||India||Fadnavis slams Maharashtra home minister for ordering probe into celebrities' tweets on farmers' stir||Former Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis slammed state Home Minister, Anil Deshmukh for ordering a probe into celebrities' tweets on the ongoing farmers' protests."Disgusting and highly deplorable! Where is your Marathi pride now? Where is your Maharashtra dharma? We will never find such 'ratnas' (gems) in the entire nation who order probe against Bharat Ratnas who always stand strong in one voice for our nation. Has this Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government lost all its senses?" Fadnavis said in a tweet."Actually, now it seems necessary to probe the mental state and stability of the ones who made such demand and of people who ordered a probe against our Bharat Ratnas," he added.Congress leader Sachin Sawant today informed that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has given orders to the Intelligence Department to probe the row over tweets by celebrities on the farmers' issue. He also hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that national heroes were being intimidated by the ruling party.Celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar, Akshay Kumar, Sunil Shetty and Lata Mangeshkar among several others had tweeted calling for unity in the country after international pop star Rihanna, teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg and others extended their support to farmers protesting at the borders of India's capital against the three new agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavis-slams-maharashtra-home-minister-for-ordering-probe-into-celebrities-tweets-on-farmers-stir-101612784774726.html
08-02-2021||India||After PM's invite, farmer leaders say ready for talks, ask govt to choose date||Farmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue.They, however, objected to Prime Minister Modi's remarks in Rajya Sabha that a new "breed" of agitators called "andolan jivi" has emerged in the country, and said that agitation has an important role in a democracy.Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka, who is a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the ongoing stir, said they are ready for the next round of talks and the government should tell them the date and time of the meeting."We have never refused to hold talks with the government. Whenever it has called us for dialogue, we held discussions with Union ministers. We are ready for talks with them (government)," Kakka told PTI.Eleven rounds of talks have been held over the contentious farm laws but the impasse continues as the farmer unions remain firm on their demands -- the repeal of the three laws and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP).In the last round of talks, the government had offered to suspend the laws for 12-18 months, but the farmer unions rejected it.Thousands of agitating farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over 70 days.While replying in Rajya Sabha on Monday to a debate on the President's address, PM Modi assured the farmers that Mandis will be modernised, saying "Not just this, MSP was there, it is there and will remain.""We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the way the old people are sitting there, is not right.""They (agitators) should be taken back. They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue," Modi said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation.Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also a member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said that the government has already said "hundreds of times" that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain in place."If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar told PTI.He said that the farmer unions are ready to resume talks with the government, but there should be a formal invitation."Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in-principle to resume talks," the farmer leader.In his speech, Modi slammed the mushrooming of a new breed of 'andolan-jivi' -- professional protestors -- who are seen at every agitation. These "parasites feast on every agitation," he said."Agitation has an important role in democracy. People have a right to oppose the government's wrong policies," Kakka said, referring to the remarks by the prime minister.Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ekta Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops and alleged that it is trying to divert the issue.Farmer leader Baldev Singh also said that government should repeal these farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP for farmers' crops.Earlier in the day, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country."There will not be any business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, the price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those who wish to do business over hunger will be driven out of the country," Tikait told reporters at the Ghazipur protest site.To press their demands, protesting unions held a nationwide 'chakka jam' last week, during which national and state highways were blocked in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-pm-s-invite-farmer-leaders-say-ready-for-talks-ask-govt-to-choose-date-101612784514167.html
08-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: DRDO conducts aerial survey in Uttarakhand and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Prima facie looks like hanging glacier broke away from main structure': DRDO team in UttarakhandA team of specialists from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which reached Uttarakhand early on Monday morning, conducted an aerial survey of the areas in Chamoli district. Read More‘Are we fools?’: Congress says ‘no substance’ in PM Modi’s Rajya Sabha speechCongress on Monday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech in Rajya Sabha, accusing him of ‘overlooking’ the party’s proposal on what lacks in the contentious three farm laws. Read MoreChina charges Aus journo with spying, 6 months after her detentionAn Australian journalist who worked for China’s national broadcaster for years has been formally charged with supplying state secrets abroad. Read MoreMG ZS EV 2021 facelift launched at Rs.20.99 lakh, gets new battery pack withinMG ZS EV 2021 facelift 2021 was officially launched in India on Monday at a starting price of Rs,20.99 lakh (ex showroom). Read MoreIshant Sharma joins elite list of Indian pacers with 300 Test wicketsIshant Sharma has been one of India cricket's silent warriors for over a decade now and on Monday he brought up a huge personal milestone, becoming the 6th Indian bowler to pick up 300 Test wickets. Read MoreMia Khalifa asks why Priyanka Chopra is silent on farmers' protests: 'Is Mrs Jonas going to chime in at any point?'Internet personality Mia Khalifa has asked why 'Mrs Jonas', perhaps a reference to Priyanka Chopra Jonas, has remained silent about the ongoing farmers' protests. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-drdo-conducts-aerial-survey-in-uttarakhand-and-all-the-latest-news-101612782228578.html
08-02-2021||Bollywood||Mia Khalifa asks why Priyanka Chopra is silent on farmers' protests: 'Is Mrs Jonas going to chime in at any point?'||Internet personality Mia Khalifa has asked why 'Mrs Jonas', perhaps a reference to Priyanka Chopra Jonas, has remained silent about the ongoing farmers' protests. Priyanka's last statement on the situation came in December.Mia, whose opinions on the agitation have been met with backlash from certain sections, tweeted on Monday, "Is Mrs. Jonas going to chime in at any point? I’m just curious. This is very much giving me shakira during the Beirut devastation vibes. Silence."Is Mrs. Jonas going to chime in at any point? I’m just curious. This is very much giving me shakira during the Beirut devastation vibes. Silence.In December, Priyanka, quote tweeting a message from singer Diljit Dosanjh, had written, “Our farmers are India’s Food Soldiers. Their fears need to be allayed. Their hopes need to be met. As a thriving democracy, we must ensure that this crises is resolved sooner than later.”Our farmers are India’s Food Soldiers. Their fears need to be allayed. Their hopes need to be met. As a thriving democracy, we must ensure that this crises is resolved sooner than later. https://t.co/PDOD0AIeFvBoth Diljit and Priyanka have been attacked on social media by actor Kangana Ranaut, who has accused them of instigating the farmers. In a series of tweets, Kangana wrote, “People like @diljitdosanjh and @priyankachopra will be hailed by the left media for misleading and encouraging farmers protests, pro Islamists and anti India film industry and brands will flood them with offers and English/living in colonial hangover media houses will felicitate them with awards, the problem is whole system is designed to make anti nationals flourish and grow and we are too less in numbers against a corrupt system, but I am sure magic will happen in every fight of GOOD versus EVIL, evil has been much stronger, JAI SHRI RAM.”Also read: Kangana Ranaut targets Diljit Dosanjh, Priyanka Chopra again; asks ‘who will pay for’ losses incurred due to farmers’ protestLast week, Mia Khalifa joined several international celebrities, including singer Rihanna, activist Greta Thunberg, influencer Amanda Cerny, writer Rupi Kaur, and others, in commenting on the protests. They have all resisted against the backlash. "What in the human rights violations is going on?! They cut the internet around New Delhi?! #FarmersProtest," she had tweeted on February 3.Follow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/mia-khalifa-asks-why-priyanka-chopra-is-silent-on-farmers-protests-is-mrs-jonas-going-to-chime-in-at-any-point-101612769823434.html
08-02-2021||India||‘Working for small farmers’, says PM Modi amid farm stir, hits out at ‘new FDI’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the government is working to empower small farmers and amid the ongoing farm stir reiterated that minimum support prices (MSP) will continue and mandis will be modernised. “MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future,” he said in his reply to the motion of thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Rajya Sabha.The Prime Minister also hit out at those behind the farmer’s demonstration against the agricultural laws enacted in September last year, saying a new "breed" of agitators has emerged in the country who cannot live without an agitation and the country should be beware of them. He said the new FDI (Foreign Destructive Ideology) has emerged in the country and "we need to be wary of them to save the country from such ideology."Follow latest updates on Parliament proceedings hereModi said that since his government came to power in 2014, the Centre has initiated changes in the agriculture sector aimed at empowering farmers. “The crop insurance scheme was changed to make it more farmer friendly. The PM-KISAN scheme was also brought in. We are working for the small farmers,” he explained.During his address, Modi also thanked former prime minister HD Deve Gowda for bringing seriousness to the discussions relating to agriculture in the house. “His words have added great perspective to the debate. He himself has a strong association with the agriculture sector,” Modi said.The Prime Minister also spoke about other schemes of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-government that he said have benefited farmers. “For example- the PMGSY. When the road connectivity improves, it enables the produce of the farmers to reach distant places. There are efforts like Kisan Rail too,” he told the Parliament, adding that the need of the hour is to improve the lives of the small farmers.Modi alleged that some people are also trying to defame the Sikh community. “India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs. This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious,” his said in his speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-for-small-farmers-says-pm-modi-in-parliament-amid-farm-stir-101612765831253.html
08-02-2021||Bollywood||Diljit Dosanjh responds to Kangana Ranaut's comments on TV interview: 'What is this drama?'||Actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh has responded to actor Kangana Ranaut's latest barbs against him on a television interview. Kangana and Diljit have been engaged in a heated war of words on Twitter for almost two months now.Diljit took to Twitter on Monday to react to Kangana's comments about him--how she asked him to say that he is 'not a Khalistani' but he did not say it. Diljit called it all a 'drama'.Desh Ch Sab Ton Wadh Agg Laun Da Kam Eh Eh So Called MASTAR-MASTARNI Hee karde aa ..I KNOW GAND DA JAWAB DENA THEEK NI..PAR EH SER HEE CHADI JANDE AA.. Har Gal Da Chup ni Hunda.. KAL NU EH KISEY NU KUSH V BANA DEYA KARAN GE..PUNJABI JEONDE AA HALEY...BUGGEY"They sit on TV and call themselves patriots. They talk like the whole country is just for them. Punjabis have given their lives for the country whenever the need has risen. God forbid if there is a need for it today, we will do it again. And these Punjabis prick your side so much?," he wrote in a tweet in Punjabi.TV INTERVIEW -Tu Mainu Ah Puch Lai.. Mai Tainu Ah Jawab De Daungi.. Ki Drama Eh.. ?Asi Desh 🇮🇳 Di Gal Karde an..PUNJAB Di Gal Karde an..Eh Dhakke Naal Hor Hee Angle Dena Chaunde aaIt Means Tusi Dhakke Naal Sanu Jo Jee Karda Oh Banauna Chaune An.. Wah 👏🏽"TV interview: 'You ask me this, I give you this answer.' What is this drama? They talk about the country, about Punjab. They want to push the debate to another angle. You wanna to project us as whatever you want. Wow," he wrote in another tweet.In a recent interview with Republic TV's Arnab Goswami, Kangana had said, “I openly challenged him to say just once that you are not a Khalistani, he didn’t say it. Youth have been misled, they have been presented with a dream about Khalistan.”Seemingly calling Arnab and Kangana 'Mastar, and Mastrani (Teachers)', he wrote in a tweet, "These Mastar and Mastrani are the ones setting the country on fire. I know it is not right to react to filth. But they keep getting on my nerves. Everything cannot be treated with silence. Tomorrow they will make anyone, anything. "Also read: Anushka Sharma poses with daughter Vamika's burp cloth, shares a look inside her stunning homeKangana has been attacking Diljit online for being a vocal supporter of the farmers' protest. She said in a tweet that he was inciting farmers to protest while he accused her of disrespecting an elderly Sikh woman who was at the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/diljit-dosanjh-responds-to-kangana-ranaut-s-comments-on-tv-interview-what-is-this-drama-101612760913281.html
08-02-2021||NA||Farmers' stir LIVE: Farmers ask govt to pick date for talks after PM's address||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait while addressing the attendees of a kisan mahapanchayat in Haryana on Sunday said, "There will be no 'ghar wapsi' till farmers' demands are met. This is a people's movement, it will not fail." He added that the farmers’ protests, which have been going on for more than 70 days, were going strong. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November 26, demanding a rollback of the three farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.In symbolic protest on Saturday, farmers staged a 'chakka jam' for three hours, nationwide during which farmers blocked major state and national highways. The protest was largely peaceful and the farmers said that they are ready to resume talks with the government, reiterating their demand for repeal of the three contentious laws.Follow all the updates here:Delhi police withdraws additional security personnel at bordersThe Delhi police have withdrawn additional security personnel at the city's borders. As per ANI, the additional forces to go back to their respective units and districts. Rakesh Tikait slams PM for not addressing law on MSP demandBKU leadder Rakesh Tikait slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not mentioning anything about a law on MSP> Tikait said that while the PM might have said that MSP was there to stay, he did not mention anything about a law.Can't remain silent when lakhs of farmers are sitting at border: AR ChowdhuryCongress leader AR Chowdhury said that the Parliament culd not remain silent when lakhs of farmers were protesting at the Delhi border, in the Lok Sabha. He said that over 206 farmers had passed away and the police had set up nails to prevent them from entering the capital. Chowdhury also said that all they asked for was a discussion on the farmers' issue.Farmers ask govt to pick date for talks after PM's addressFarmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue.State intelligence department to conduct probe into celebrities' tweets on farmers' protests: Maha Home MinisterMaharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that the state intelligence department would conduct a probe into allegations that some celebrities were pressured to tweet about the farmers' protests.Farm protests: Indo-Canadians get ‘threat calls’ for supporting India’s stanceFrom the Greater Toronto Area to Metro Vancouver and Calgary and across Canada, members of the Indo-Canadian community are being targeted with intimidating calls including threats of sexual violence against family members. Their crime? Questioning the rationale behind the ongoing farmers’ protests in India and opposing the Khalistani involvement in the movement. Read more'Want law to be formed on MSP', farmer leader Rakesh Tikait"When did we say that MSP is ending? We said that a law be formed on MSP. If such a law is formed, all the farmers of the country will be benefitted. Right now, there is no law on MSP and the farmers are looted by traders": Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union‘Working for small farmers’, says PM Modi in Parliament amid farm stirPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the government is working to empower small farmers and amid the ongoing farm stir reiterated that minimum support prices (MSP) will continue and mandis will be modernised. Read more'MSP will continue, mandis will be modernised,' says PM Modi amid farmers' protests over agri lawsOn MSP, PM Modi again assured farmers that it will stay. 'MSP tha, hai aur rahega, said PM Modi in Rajya Sabha. "We need to collectively convince the farmers that the farm laws will be beneficial to them. I'm doing this, you do this as well. Let all abuses come my way, you can take credit for good things", he added.Amid impasse, govt asks Twitter to take down 1,178 accountsAmid the impasse between the government and Twitter over the demand to block 257 accounts with posts related to the farmers’ protests, the ministry of electronics and information technology has asked the company to take down over 1,178 accounts that may “foment trouble”. Read moreHow farmers at Delhi borders worked their way around internet shutdownsA day after farmers organised a nationwide “chakka jam” for three hours on national highways demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws and protesting the arrests of farmers, frequent internet shutdowns and barricading at the agitation spots, farmers at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur said network connectivity had improved on Sunday. Read moreGovt ready to resume talks, says Union minister Piyush GoyalUnion minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the government is ready to resume talks with the farmers protesting the new farm laws but asserted that despite repeated proposals, the protesters have not come up with any "concrete suggestions" so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-live-updates-live-februrary-8-farmers-protest-101612745687917.html
08-02-2021||India||Man from Chandigarh arrested for violence at Red Fort on Republic Day||Delhi Police said on Sunday that they have arrested a man from Chandigarh who was allegedly leading a group of protesters that barged into the Red Fort during the Republic Day’s tractor rally.Senior officers who declined to be named identified the man as Sukhdev Singh, “a prominent face” among those who were involved in the violence and vandalism at the fort. Last week, the police announced ₹50,000 for any info leading to Singh’s arrest.Singh, 59, a resident of Karnal in Haryana, was arrested in connection with the first case registered on January 27, after the violent clashes between the farmer groups and police at the Red Fort on Republic Day. He has been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including attempt to murder, rioting, dacoity, theft and under Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act and under Arms Act for illegal possession of weapon.Investigators said they have identified various people involved in the violence through pictures, video footage from the local residents and the media; and CCTV camera recordings from the fort and nearby areas.“Singh was one of them. He has been identified as a farmer leader. He was seen leading a group of violent protesters inside the Red Fort premises. He was identified as one of the prominent faces behind the violence after which search for him was initiated and a cash reward was announced on information that may lead to his arrest. From the evidence gathered, it was also established that he had spent ample time inside the Red Fort on January 26,” the investigator said.The police are awaiting response from Google after they had written to the technology firm on Friday seeking assistance in identifying the author/creator of a “toolkit” or document, which allegedly detailed an action plan for online and offline protests associated with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The investigators said any concrete progress in the probe is only possible when Google helps with the IP addresses and details of the two e-mail accounts, through which the toolkit was created.The police are also trying to get details of the Instagram account mentioned on the original toolkit, through which a live session was screened, they said.The Delhi Police have also issued notices to nine people from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh to join investigation into the violence at the fort. The notices were issued under 12 different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.The notices were issued in cases registered at eas Delhi’s Pandav Nagar police station and Seemapuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-from-chandigarh-arrested-for-violence-at-red-fort-on-republic-day-101612743878034.html
08-02-2021||India||How farmers at Delhi borders worked their way around internet shutdowns||A day after farmers organised a nationwide “chakka jam” for three hours on national highways demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws and protesting the arrests of farmers, frequent internet shutdowns and barricading at the agitation spots, farmers at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur said network connectivity had improved on Sunday. However, the Internet blackouts made it difficult for protesters to access and disseminate information, and stay in touch with their families across Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, forcing agitators to devise workarounds to ensure information flowed unrestricted.Internet services at Delhi’s borders were suspended following the violence that ensued during the tractor parade on January 26. Following this, internet connectivity at agitation spots remained poor. Another set of orders were passed to snap the services between 11pm on January 29 (when a group of persons claiming to be locals had entered the protest area and clashed with locals) till February 2. Another ban was imposed on February 6, when farmers undertook their chakka jam, but Internet services were restored at midnight that day.Gurjant Singh (36), a resident of Bari village in Mohali, who returned to the Singhu protest site on Sunday after spending three days in his village said his family was relieved after he shared messages on WhatsApp with them.“Following the Republic Day violence, it became difficult to stay in touch with my family, who want to know what is happening here. There are so many rumours floating around but we can’t counter them because we don’t even have Internet access. We tried to get a WiFi connection, but internet service providers told us that the authorities were not allowing new connections at Singhu,” he said.In the absence of mobile internet, the only source of current information was around 5,000 copies of regional newspapers, which were paid for by the organisers. Even the press conferences by farmer groups that were broadcast live on social media platforms, had to be first recorded and then uploaded later using WiFi hot spots set up by some farmer groups nearly a month ago. Several volunteers at the protest site travelled a few kilometres away from the protest spot to get connectivity and access news of the day using social media.Sukhwinder Singh, 28, a farmer from Roopnagar district in Punjab who volunteers at the library-cum-cultural centre at Singhu border, said, “Some of us have motorcycles, so we travelled to an area where we could get network and access news on the protests. There are a few areas at the protest spot where we could access WiFi that locals residents had opened up for us to use.”“After collecting the information, we passed the messages on verbally during our evening dialogue sessions, when farmers from various trolleys would gather at our centre,” he added.Volunteers from their team are also visiting various districts of Punjab, including Bhatinda, Patiala, Roopnagar, and Anantpur Sahib to get inputs from the villages, and to provide them verified information related to the protests.Sukhwinder also said that the farmers largely relied on social media platforms for verified information after several instances of alleged “biased coverage by media outlets” during the past two months.“Social media has been the only way for these families to get correct information. The more the government tries to suppress us, the more ways we will find to keep the movement alive,” he said.Jatinder Pal Singh, 27, a resident of Mohali who is a security volunteer at Singhu, said, “We have arranged for tractors and other vehicles with loudspeakers that share information with the other protesters towards the end of the day as not all farmers come to the stage area daily.Showing his notebook which carried names of international celebrities who recently led support to the farmers’ movement on social media, Singh said, “We had to devise alternative techniques to raise awareness, spread information, and quell rumours in the absence of the internet, which had so far empowered farmers to stay updated on their own.”Navkiran Natt, 29, a student-activist at Tikri border and also one of the editors of Trolley Times (a bi-weekly newspaper started by activists to share information on farmers’ protests) said the mobile internet ban had affected their work as well.“Since most of the volunteers stay at the protest sites, it was difficult to coordinate, and our edition was delayed because of the Internet shutdowns. In the absence of other platforms, we too used open-jeeps to circulate information among protesters to counter panic as well.”While the situation remained peaceful at the three borders on Sunday, heavy security deployment continued at the agitation spots. “We are continuing our protest peacefully. No untoward incident was witnessed here today. Our fight against the three black farm laws will continue as more people from Punjab and Haryana are expected to join us from tomorrow (Monday),” said Darshan Singh, a farmer leader from Punjab who has been camped at Tikri border.The crowd at Ghazipur, however, was thinner in comparison to the previous days, as several protesters had accompanied farmer leader Rakesh Tikait who was in Charkhi Dadri for a mahapanchayat along with farmer leaders Darshan Pal and Balbir Singh Rajewal.Thousands had gathered at the mahapanchayat where farmer leaders passed five resolutions including demands of repealing the three farm laws, a legal guarantee of MSP, and releasing farmers arrested following January 26 violence and vehicles seized after the incident.(With inputs from Ashish Mishra and Anvit Srivastava)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-farmers-at-delhi-borders-worked-their-way-around-internet-shutdowns-101612733714659.html
08-02-2021||India||Congressional India Caucus takes up farm protests with Indian envoy||The leadership Congressional India Caucus, a group of US lawmakers striving for better ties with India, has called on the Indian leadership to maintain democratic norms and allow peaceful protests.The matter was raised by the leadership of the India Caucus during a virtual meeting with Indian ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu on Saturday to discuss the farmers’ protest, Brad Sherman, the Democratic co-chair of the caucus, said on Twitter.Sherman tweeted that he convened a meeting of the leadership of the India Caucus, including Republican co-chair Steve Chabot and vice chair Ro Khanna, to speak with Sandhu “regarding the farmers’ demonstrations”.“I urged the Indian government to make sure that the norms of democracy are maintained, that protesters are allowed to protest peaceably and to have access to the Internet, and to journalists,” Sherman said.“All friends of India hope that the parties can reach an agreement,” he added.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Sherman’s comments.Sandhu said on Twitter that he had detailed discussions “on varied issues with the leadership of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans”. He didn’t specifically refer to the farmers’ protest.“Look forward to working closely with them to further strengthening India-US ties,” Sandhu said.The caucus on India and Indian Americans, which is the largest country-specific caucus in the US House of Representatives, has joined organisations, lawmakers and celebrities in the US, the UK and other countries in taking up the farmers’ protest with the Indian side.The US state department on Thursday called for dialogue to address the farmers’ protest and backed peaceful demonstrations and freedom of expression. It also described peaceful protests and unhindered access to information and the internet as indicators of a “thriving democracy”, while offering support for reforms that improve and open up India’s markets to attract private investments.The Indian government has maintained that the farmers’ protest is an internal matter that should be seen in the context of the country’s democratic ethos and the several rounds of talks held by the government with farmers’ unions opposed to three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congressional-india-caucus-takes-up-farm-protests-with-indian-envoy-101612727381513.html
08-02-2021||Today's||Resolve all issues democratically||The nationwide chakka jam (road blockade) called by the farm organisations passed off peacefully on Saturday. During this time, dharnas were organised from Kashmir to Karnataka. As expected, the chakka jam had the highest impact in Punjab and Haryana.Delhi, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Uttarakhand were exempted from it. This is because Bharatiya Kisan Union leader, Rakesh Tikait, had announced that it was time for sugarcane cultivation and people needed to go to work in their fields. He also expressed fears that miscreants would try to orchestrate violence to discredit the movement in these states.But why did Tikait alone make this announcement? This should have ideally come from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha during its press conference. Does this suggest a problem among the protesters? However, the morcha’s spokesperson later clarified that Tikait had made his announcement with the consent of all the organisations .But the statements by Tikait and the morcha spokespersons could also have been due to the fact that they wanted to take a step back since the blockade call did not find much traction in these regions. Had they not acted, the movement could have been dismissed by detractors as being confined to only a few geographical areas.The farm agitation around Delhi has now been on for months. Much has been written about the events of January 26. What happened at Red Fort that day was appalling and the farmers’ leaders were deeply embarrassed by this. At that time, it almost seemed that the movement was coming to an end.It was only when Rakesh Tikait went on a hungerstrike, saying that he would drink water only from his village that the movement got its second lease of life. His impassioned appeal to stay the course revived the flagging movement and the influential Jat khap panchayats in Haryana and western UP seemed re-energised. These days, across many cities and towns of this region, mahapanchayats are being held to support the agitation. Due to participation of all religions and castes, old social equations have got a fresh lease of life. Will this affect electoral politics? The upcoming panchayat elections in UP may hold some answers.Why did this happen?The alleged attempts by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Ghazipur legislator to disrupt proceedings at a protest site was a political misstep. Earlier, many people were calling the agitators Khalistanis. When the Nishan Sahib was hoisted at Red Fort, attempts were made to spread rumours that the Tricolour had been insulted. All of this deepened alienation.Many of these incidents caught the attention of the international community, and led to artiste Rihanna, environmental activist Greta Thunberg, United States Vice-President Kamala Harris’s niece Meena Harris and others to comment on the protests. This was an opportunity handed to them on a platter. If we do not want outside interference or unwanted comments, then we need to solve our problems in a just, peaceful and democratic manner. During this time, the police took some extreme steps when caution and restraint were the need of the hour. Its steps at the Delhi border have disturbed many in the area. People are forced to travel long distances to work. There has been a decline in the movement of workers and goods to factories. There is no way for ambulances to reach hospitals. The internet is often closed in the surrounding areas. With this restriction, children are unable to study online with examinations approaching. The agitators are forced to fight for water and toilet facilities.The arrest of two freelance journalists reporting from the ground has brought disgrace to the police. Had they not been arrested, their social media posts may not have attracted so much attention. Rather than registering a case of sedition against some senior editors, it would have been better if their transgressions, if any, had been dealt with using more appropriate methods. Calling journalists and farmers traitors diminishes India in the eyes of the world.Farm organisations had successfully kept politicians away from their agitation before the events of January 26. But, now they are meeting political leaders from the Opposition regularly. Though these political leaders are not being allowed to speak from the stages at the protest sites, their entry into the movement has complicated things. Many of the Opposition politicians who are opposing the farm laws today had earlier supported them.There is no doubt that the agriculture sector needs reforms and the government wanted to do the same through these laws. If the farmers do not understand this, then the government will have to find some new ways to reassure them. Most of those sitting in protest on the streets today stood with the ruling alliance in the Lok Sabha elections. The ruling dispensation must think about the trust these citizens had reposed in it.Shashi Shekhar is the editor in chief of Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/resolve-all-issues-democratically-101612707768040.html
08-02-2021||India||‘Working for small farmers’, says PM Modi amid farm stir, hits out at ‘new FDI’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the government is working to empower small farmers and amid the ongoing farm stir reiterated that minimum support prices (MSP) will continue and mandis will be modernised. “MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future,” he said in his reply to the motion of thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Rajya Sabha.The Prime Minister also hit out at those behind the farmer’s demonstration against the agricultural laws enacted in September last year, saying a new "breed" of agitators has emerged in the country who cannot live without an agitation and the country should be beware of them. He said the new FDI (Foreign Destructive Ideology) has emerged in the country and "we need to be wary of them to save the country from such ideology."Follow latest updates on Parliament proceedings hereModi said that since his government came to power in 2014, the Centre has initiated changes in the agriculture sector aimed at empowering farmers. “The crop insurance scheme was changed to make it more farmer friendly. The PM-KISAN scheme was also brought in. We are working for the small farmers,” he explained.During his address, Modi also thanked former prime minister HD Deve Gowda for bringing seriousness to the discussions relating to agriculture in the house. “His words have added great perspective to the debate. He himself has a strong association with the agriculture sector,” Modi said.The Prime Minister also spoke about other schemes of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-government that he said have benefited farmers. “For example- the PMGSY. When the road connectivity improves, it enables the produce of the farmers to reach distant places. There are efforts like Kisan Rail too,” he told the Parliament, adding that the need of the hour is to improve the lives of the small farmers.Modi alleged that some people are also trying to defame the Sikh community. “India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs. This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious,” his said in his speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-for-small-farmers-says-pm-modi-in-parliament-amid-farm-stir-101612765831253.html
