09-02-2021||India||Treatment meted out to farmers should be extended to Chinese aggressors: Owaisi||Asking the government to withdraw the three farm laws, AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi (AIMIM) on Tuesday accused the Centre of treating farmers the way it should be treating China on the borders of the country.Participating in a discussion in Lok Sabha on the Motion of Thanks to the President for his address, Owaisi said the "infrastructure" that should have been created at the borders to check Chinese troops was erected at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders to prevent farmers from entering Delhi.He wanted to know why Prime Minister Narendra Modi was "shying" away from taking the name of China which is responsible for the killing of Indian soldiers and constructing a village in Arunachal Pradesh.Owaisi hoped that during his reply to the debate, PM Modi will blame China for its actions against India.He said the government should rescind the three controversial farm laws and contended that Parliament was not competent to legislate on agriculture which is a state subject.He also wondered as to how the government decided to suspend the three farm laws for one-and-half years once they have been passed by Parliament.Owaisi also came down heavily on the government for not filing an appeal against the court judgement in the Babri demolition case acquitting all the accused.It is a signal to the cadre to repeat similar kinds of activities at Mathura and Kashi, he allegedReferring to the 'andolanjivi' remark of Modi, Owaisi said that he was an 'andolanjivi' as it was the right of people to protest against the policies of the government.India is a democracy and not a monarchy, he added.Hanuman Beniwal (RLP) said that he had left the NDA because of the farm laws and will not hesitate to quit Lok Sabha in support of the demands of the farmers who are protesting at the borders of Delhi.He claimed that even BJP members privately admit that they will have to face problems in the next general elections on account of the farm laws.Meenakshi Lekhi (BJP) said that there was an international conspiracy to destabilise and defame India over the farmers' protest issue.She said that protests were organised at the time of the visit of the then US President Donald Trump and now on January 26 to catch the attention of global media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treatment-meted-out-to-farmers-should-be-extended-to-chinese-aggressors-owaisi-101612891543372.html
09-02-2021||India||‘‘The nation attained independence through agitation’: Akhilesh Yadav on PM Modi's ‘andolanjivi’ remarks||Former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his “andolanjivi” remarks in Parliament. Yadav said that inspite of the country achieving countless rights through agitation, those who carry on the tradition are being earmarked as "andolanjivis".“The nation attained Independence through agitation. Innumerable rights were received through agitation. Women received the right to vote through agitation. Mahatma Gandhi became the father of the nation because he agitated for Africa, the world and the nation.” Yadav said in Lok Sabha.“What is being said about the agitations? That people are 'aandolan jivi'. What should I call the people who go out to collect donations? Are they not members of 'chanda jivi sangathan'?” he further said.Yadav took on the Centre over the new farm laws asking why they are not being repealed when the farmers themselves are against it, citing the allegations of corporate houses getting powerful.“If the government says that laws are for farmers, why is it not taking it back if farmers aren't accepting it? People, for whom it has been formed, don't want it. Who is stopping the government? Are allegations that you rolled out carpet for corporates and brought these laws not right?” Yadav asked in the Lok SabhaCommenting on the Prime Minister’s words on the continuation of minimum support price (MSP) in Parliament, the SP chief said that farmers have not been getting MSP for their crops for a long time. He praised the protesting farmers for awakening all farmers across India through their agitation.“Yesterday I heard 'MSP tha, MSP hai, MSP rahega'. It's just in speech but not on ground. Farmers aren't getting it, had they been getting, they wouldn't have been sitting in Delhi. I congratulate agitating farmers that they have awakened farmers across India,” said Yadav.Yadav has also been constantly tweeting in support of the protesting farmers. He took to Twitter on Monday to criticise the PM's ‘andolanjivis’ remark saying it as an insult to the country’s martyrs and revolutionaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-nation-attained-independence-through-agitation-akhilesh-yadav-on-pm-modi-s-andolanjivi-remarks-101612879114325.html
09-02-2021||Delhi||Deep Sidhu sent to 7-day remand, police say he was main instigator in Republic Day violence||The Delhi Police on Tuesday told a city court that actor Deep Sidhu was the main rioter and instigator in the Republic Day violence. They further said that Sidhu instigated the protesters and destroyed public property.He was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Prigya Gupta where the police said that Sidhu was seen entering in a video with swords, sticks and flags during the violence on January 26. "He provoked the people and gave speeches with a loud hailer thus inciting violence," the police's lawyer said.The judge sent Sidhu to seven-day police custody.On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police.Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protester died.The police today told the court that Sidhu congratulated the person who hoisted the flag at Red Fort and also did a Facebook Live from the spot.The defence counsel, however, rejected the charges against the actor happened to be at the wrong place at wrong time. Sidhu's lawyer also said that his client was not evading arrest.Sidhu was arrested by a team of Delhi Police's Special Cell late on Monday night. The police said they have started the process of identifying the co-conspirators in the incident of violence on Republic Day.Since Sindhu kept changing his location after the day of the violence, police teams will visit all those places.In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protesters who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deep-sidhu-arrested-in-connection-with-republic-day-violence-101612874088578.html
09-02-2021||India||Farm laws: SC-appointed panel holds consultations with agro-processing industries||The Supreme Court-appointed committee on farms laws issue on Tuesday said it held consultations with agro-processing industries including ITC and Amul on the legislations.This is the sixth meeting the panel has held so far. The three-member committee is holding consultations with stakeholders both through the online mode and in person.In a statement, the committee said it held interactions with various agro-processing industries, associations and procurement agencies on Tuesday.Amid the agitation by farmers who are camping on Delhi's borders since November end, the Supreme Court had on January 12 stayed the implementation of the three contentious farm laws for two months and asked the committee to submit a report after consulting the stakeholders during this period.In total, 18 different stakeholder organisations participated through video conference in the detailed deliberation with the committee members, the panel said.These stakeholders included Amul, ITC, Suguna Foods, Venkateshwara Hatcheries, industry bodies CII and FICCI, as well as state-run Food Corporation of India, Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA)Among sector-specific associations, Horticulture Produce Exporters Association, Seafood Exporters Association, All India Rice Miller Association, All India Rice Exporters Association, Tractor Manufacture Association, Cotton Association of India, Fertiliser Association of India, India Pulses and Grain Association and All India Poultry Feed Manufacturer Association participated in the deliberations.Representatives of the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) participated in the meeting in person."All the stakeholder participants gave their detailed views and valuable suggestions on the three farm laws," the committee said in the statement.Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over two months now seeking the repeal of the new laws introduced by the Centre last year, claiming they were pro-corporate and could weaken the mandi system.The 11 rounds of the talks between the Centre and 41 protesting farmer unions have failed to end the deadlock even though the former has offered concessions including suspension of the legislations for 18 months which the unions have rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-sc-appointed-panel-holds-consultations-with-agro-processing-industries-101612872711947.html
09-02-2021||India||Supreme Court stays arrest of Shashi Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai and 5 other journalists||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the arrest of Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor and six journalists, including Rajdeep Sardesai, in criminal cases pending against them over their tweets on the death of a Sikh man during the January 26 tractor rally in the Capital. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued a notice on the petitions filed by Tharoor, Sardesai and five other journalists to quash the multiple first information reports (FIRs) pending against them in several states.The top court said the stay on the arrest will continue till the next date of hearing, after two weeks, and also issued notices to Delhi Police and Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Haryana.Also read | 'Can't condone': Tharoor says farmers' flag on Red Fort is 'unfortunate'The Delhi Police opposed the stay. "We will show the horrendous effect these tweets have had. These Twitter handles have lakhs of followers," Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for Delhi Police, said.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was representing Tharoor, said that interim protection was needed as the Congress leader is in Delhi and the charge is serious. "The investigating agency can arrest me anytime," Sibal said.The top court bench asked Mehta, "We will hear you. But are you going to arrest him?" Mehta replied, "We know our responsibility." He assured that he will convey the assurance to other states.But the bench noted that Mehta was representing just the Delhi Police. "Issue notice. Stay of arrest in the meantime. List after two weeks," said the bench also comprising Justice AS Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian.Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Anant Nath and Vinod Jose are among the other journalists.The Delhi Police lodged a case on January 30 against Tharoor, Sardesai and several others for alleged misreporting and spreading disharmony. Simultaneously, cases were lodged at Gurugram in Haryana and in Madhya Pradesh under serious charges of sedition besides provisions of promoting enmity, making assertions prejudicial to national integration under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), among other provisions under the Information Technology Act.Tharoor and Sardesai had petitioned the top court challenging the registration of FIRs against him in several states and for quashing of the criminal cases against them. They had sought protection of their fundamental right to free speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. They had stated that the multiple FIRs against them were a malafide exercise that was politically motivated as the contents of the FIRs were identical. The other people who have been named in these FIRs also have reportedly approached the top court seeking similar relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-arrest-of-shashi-tharoor-rajdeep-and-5-other-journalists-101612853461913.html
09-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu, an accused in January 26 violence case, arrested: Delhi Police||Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who was allegedly involved in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26, was arrested by Delhi Police's special cell late on Monday night, officials said on Tuesday.Last week, the Delhi Police announced cash rewards of ₹600,000 for information leading to the arrest of eight suspects, including Sidhu. “We have announced ₹1 lakh against Sidhu, Jugraj and two others because they appear to be the key conspirators. Raids have been conducted at many places in Punjab and other states, but the suspects are absconding. The family members of some of them are also untraceable,” a senior officer, requesting anonymity, has said on February 3.Also read | Shameful to call me a traitor: On the run, Sidhu releases videoSidhu was seen among the protesters in the many video clips and photographs which showed protesters clashing with the security personnel and hoisting the religious flag on the Red Fort.Police said they have identified more than 260 vehicles, including nearly 100 tractors, which were part of the rally and involved in the violence at the fort and other places in Delhi when protesters clashed with the police after breaking barriers and entering the city from Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-sidhu-an-accused-in-january-26-violence-case-arrested-delhi-police-101612843006042.html
09-02-2021||India||Farmers unions to widen protest against farm laws with panchayats in Purvanchal||After playing a key role in organising the farmers’ movement against the three Central farm laws in western Uttar Pradesh and other states, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has now decided to hold kisan mahapanchayat (village congregations) in eastern UP, also known as Purvanchal, said a Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader on Monday.The first such mahapanchayat would be held in Barabanki district on February 16 with farmers from Lucknow and Ayodhya divisions participating in it. The second such mahapanchayat would be held in Fatehpur district in Prayagraj division on February 23.The Fatehpur mahapanchayat would be followed by similar gatherings in Gorakhpur, Basti and Mirzapur, the BKU leader said.“Kisan leaders were getting demands (for widening the protests) from farmers and other organisations in Purvanchal after successfully mobilising protests for the Raj Bhavan ‘gherao’ programme on January 23,” said Digamber Singh, BKU’s youth wing state president.He said the issue was discussed in meetings of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and it was unanimously decided to hold kisan mahapanchayat in Purvanchal to mobilise farmers for the ongoing movement against the three agriculture reform laws.BKU’s Lucknow divisional president Harnam Singh Verma said he was confident that these maha panchayats would draw large crowds though farmers in Purvanchal had limited resources in comparison to their western UP counterparts.Verma said, “Procurement of crops at MSP (minimum support price) has always been a major issue for farmers in Purvanchal. It was a major demand of SKM, too. Therefore, farmers would come out in large numbers and join the movement.”Also Read: Several Delhi borders remain closed due to farmers’ protest, traffic divertedVerma said a large section of people from different castes and communities could also join the farmers’ movement through the maha panchayats to voice their concerns. Farmer leaders said that SKM’s call for a protest at the Raj Bhavan in Lucknow on January 23 saw an overwhelming response with the participation of around 600 tractors at a short notice of four days. “This shows people are annoyed and they would show their strength through the maha panchayats in Purvanchal,” said Verma.Meanwhile, people familiar with the developments said BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, BKU chief Naresh Tikait and his son Gaurav Tikait (national president of BKU’s youth wing) would be present at some of these maha panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-unions-to-widen-protest-against-farm-laws-with-panchayats-in-purvanchal-101612840835271.html
09-02-2021||India||PM Modi's speech offered no solution: Opposition||Minutes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the farm issue in his reply on the President’s speech in the Rajya Sabha, the Congress criticised his speech on Monday and said that the address did not offer any solution to farmers protesting against three contentious agri laws.Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said: “We expected that the PM, looking at the ongoing agitations across the country, will withdraw the three black laws and take all stakeholders into confidence to review the laws. He spoke in his own style but didn’t say a word about relief to farmers.”Congress leaders also said that the PM tried to suggest that no one knows the contents of the three laws. “Is it possible? There are experts among the farmers and entire opposition leaders know about the laws. The first law promoted black market, the second one helps the rich people and the third one helps hoarding,” Kharge said.Another Congress MP, Deepender Hooda, alleged that “the PM disappointed the farmers. The government is unable to understand the seriousness of the situation.” Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh said: “PM Modi said that FDI is also ‘Foreign Destructive Ideology’. This from someone whose governance has been based solely on FDI — Fear, Deception, Intimidation.” Reacting to PM’s speech in the Rajya Sabha, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior vice president Prem Singh Chandumajra said that it appeared that the country’s backbone peasantry has a bigger test to prove the genuineness of their cause. He added that it was expected from the PM to make a big announcement but by criticising the farmers who are protesting on the borders of Delhi, he denied them the legitimate right.According to Chandumajra, the PM did not give clarity on MSP, despite his party leaders making announcements on the public forum that the new farm laws will not impact the MSP. “He (PM) has made no commitment to make MSP a legal right,” added the former MPBJP president J P Nadda asserted on Monday that PM Narendra Modi’s address in Rajya Sabha has dispelled the web of confusion being created over a host of issues and laid out a clear direction for the country.Modi has made it clear that the government is taking all necessary steps for farmers’ welfare, which is its priority, Nadda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-speech-offered-no-solution-opposition-101612834006582.html
09-02-2021||India||Farm stir, Bengal polls dominate Lok Sabha debate on President speech||The ongoing farmers protest dominated the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President’s speech, which resumed in the Lok Sabha on Monday after four consecutive days of disruption.The debate started after protracted backchannel negotiations involving defence minister Rajnath Singh and Opposition leaders. Singh appealed to the Opposition not to break the longstanding tradition of the House to debate the President’s speech before anything else.Locket Chatterjee, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member from Bengal, initiated the debate and focused entirely on attacking the eastern state’s ruling Trinamool Congress, with an eye on the upcoming assembly polls.Speaking in Hindi, Bengali and English, Chatterjee said Trinamool stole ration provided by the Centre during the pandemic, tents during the Amphan cyclone and even Covid-19 vaccines. She said the BJP will not allow anyone to make Bengal into “East Pakistan”.“Mamata (Banerjee) government insults Ram and Sita. They (Bengal government) practise appeasement politics. They practice politics of 30%. We will not allow making Bengal into East Pakistan,” she said. Bengal is scheduled to go to the polls in April-May.Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) into the Republic Day vandalism in Delhi’s Red Fort and alleged it was the government that sent “vandals” to defame the farmers agitation. He demanded another parliamentary investigation into the alleged TRP (target rating point) scam.“How can some people reach the Red Fort, that too on January 26 when the highest level of security was in place in Delhi?” he asked.“Why isn’t there a proper investigation into it,” he alleged.Chowdhury alleged the government “trapped” farmers and criticised the government for what he saw as a bid to “create a rift between Punjab and other states,” referring to the government’s stand that only one state had a problem with the new farm laws.He also wondered why the government is making “Greta a persona non grata”, referring to climate activist Greta Thunberg’s support for the farm stir and the consequent backlash.The second speaker, BJP’s Virendra Kumar, maintained that the Narendra Modi government was committed to the welfare of farmers and was trying to double the their income through various measures.Trinamool’s Mahua Moitra lashed out at the BJP and alleged that the ruling dispensation was making “hate and bigotry” a part of its narrative.The government’s decision to impose a nationwide lockdown following the outbreak of Covid-19 inflicted “untold misery” on people with “lakhs of people” forced to walk to their homes, she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-bengal-polls-dominate-lok-sabha-debate-on-president-speech-101612833427524.html
09-02-2021||India||Farm laws: Elderly protesters recount ’88 stir, stare at a long haul||On a bright February morning, 101-year-old Layak Ram makes for a picture of steely resolve as he speaks about the ongoing farmers’ protests against three laws enacted by the Centre in September to open up the country’s agricultural markets.“ I am not going anywhere till the farm laws are repealed,” said the centenarian, clad in a white kurta-pyjama and a grey jacket, resting against a pile of blankets inside a yellow tarpaulin tent pitched under the Delhi-Meerut expressway at the Ghazipur border.The Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border is one of the epicentres of the farmers’ 75-day-old campaign against the agricultural laws they say would erode their bargaining power, put them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses and could lead to the dismantling of the system of minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce.Ram, who arrived at the Ghazipur site from Amroha, Uttar Pradesh, in November, is one of the oldest protesters in the agitation and one of the few who also participated in the late Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Mahendra Singh Tikait’s movement that brought Delhi to a halt in 1988.About half-a-million farmers from western Uttar Pradesh arrived in Delhi in October 1988 and took over the Boat Club lawns in the heart of the Capital, close to Parliament, with demands ranging from more remunerative prices for farm produce to cuts in power and water tariffs.Ram remembers that protest well. “The place had turned into a village panchayat, with charpoys, hookahs, bullock carts and buffaloes all around. That is where we cooked, ate and slept,” he said.“The difference is that then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi conceded our demands, but this government seems adamant and is just not listening to us,” added Ram, who often wags a finger in the air to make a point. A passionate storyteller, Ram lets you know that his “tryst with history” goes beyond his participation in farmers’ agitations.“I do not remember the date, but I was born in 1919, the year of the Jallianwallah Bagh massacre. Our farmers’ leader Mahendra Singh Tikait was 16 years younger to me, but he was a visionary and knew the pulse of the farmers, ”said Ram, who these days wakes up at 6 am and eats at the community kitchen set up at the protest site. “I eat my dinner at 7pm and go to bed by 8pm; it is too cold here in Delhi under the highway.”He is visibly upset at what he calls the government’s unreasonable stance. “I witnessed the struggle for the independence of this country. We have won against the British and against our own governments in the past. But today’s government is very adamant and this is going to be a long struggle.”Ram has not been in touch with his family since he arrived. He suffers from an old injury and wears a bandage around his head, which he has been told, has turned cancerous. “I have lived up to 101 years; and now I do not care if I if I die here.”Two tents ahead is another tarpaulin tent where Ram Kumar Singh, a 90-year-old farmer from Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, is camping. Unlike Ram, Singh, joined the agitation recently, after the Republic Day.Singh too was a part of the farmers’ movement led by Tikait. And he too has many stories to share.“The then government did not use force on us to drive us out of the city like it happened on Republic Day; it bowed before the country’s farmers respecting their demands,” said Singh, his voice firm and his lips covered by a thick, drooping moustache.Singh, who suffers from blurred vision in one eye, contends that the ongoing fight is tough, but reckoned that Rakesh Tikait, the son of Mahendra Singh Tikait and the BKU’s national spokesperson, who has emerged as the face of the farmers’ campaign, will eventually lead farmers to victory. “He is determined, tenacious and tactful like his father,” said Singh.While Singh and Ram have many memories of their participation in the 1988 farmers’ agitation, Dharm Pal, a 73-year-old farmer from Baghpat, UP, proudly shows off a picture with Mahendra Singh Tikait, set as the wallpaper of his mobile phone. “It is from one of the farmers’ rallies 1994 or 1995,” he said, showing his phone screen.Pal, who is camping in Ghazipur, said he was shot with a rubber bullet during the 1988 protest. “It took me and many others days to be able to walk properly, but we are here again. Tikait was like my elder brother. He also attended my son’s wedding. This is the reason why I am here today to support his son, who is fighting for our rights,” he said.“ I was born in 1948, a year after the country got Independence. Even after so many years, the farmers of this country are forced to sit on the roads to be heard,” said the septuagenarian, smoking a hookah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-elderly-protesters-recount-88-stir-stare-at-a-long-haul-101612831691108.html
09-02-2021||India||Farm protests: Additional deployment at Delhi borders withdrawn||Additional deployment of Delhi Police personnel at the three borders points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, where farmers are camping for over two months to protest against the three farm laws,was withdrawn from Monday evening. The security arrangements in these places will now be taken care of by personnel belonging to the police districts concerned, senior police officers privy to the development said.Hundreds of personnel from various Delhi Police units such as crime, police control room (PCR), railways, vigilance, economic offences wing (EOW), licensing, headquarters, and police training college (PTC), were mobilised to the three borders points on security duty during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26 and the chakka jam call on February 6.On Monday, special commissioner of police (operations and licensing) Muktesh Chandra issued a message, referred to as TPM, to all the units and their heads regarding the withdrawal of the internal mobilisation done for the farmers’ rally and law and order duty.The entire staff have been told to return to their respective units from Tuesday.“The available resources in the districts concerned will now be used to maintain law and order and security at the farmers’ agitation sites. They will be assisted by personnel from the paramilitary forces,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Rajeev Ranjan said, “The situation at the Singhu border is under control and peaceful. We have adequate force deployed round-the-clock at the border to deal with any contingency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-protests-additional-deployment-at-delhi-borders-withdrawn-101612828812409.html
09-02-2021||India||Ascertain whereabouts of man who went missing during tractor rally: HC to police||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the Delhi Police to ascertain the whereabouts of a 27-year-old man, who had allegedly gone missing from the Nangloi area during the tractor rally on Republic Day, held by farmers protesting against the Centres three farm laws.A bench of justice Siddharth Mridul and justice Anup J Bhambhani directed the police to update it about the whereabouts of the missing man, Bajinder, on a plea filed by his cousin Baljeet.Baljeet in his complaint said his brother was missing since January 26 when he had participated in the rally. He also raised the suspicion that the police had “illegally detained” Bajinder since they were deliberately putting off the registering of a missing person complaint.Baljeet said he had tried searching for his brother in the neighbouring areas and have also contacted all relatives and friends, but Bajinder could not be found nor traced. Baljeet said he went to the Nangloi police station multiple times for registration of a missing person complaint.“…however to his complete shock, the police refused to register any missing person complaint and further failed to take any action on his plea.“The inaction and negligent attitude have led to the apprehension that the brother of the petitioner (Bajinder) has been illegally detained by the police and therefore, they are deliberately resisting the writing of any official complaint / FIR and providing any information…,”the plea said.The court listed the matter for February 9.The tractor parade on January 26, which was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions currently sitting on a protest at Delhi’s borders, had resulted in violence in the national capital. Thousands of protesters had allegedly broke through barriers, and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ascertain-whereabouts-of-man-who-went-missing-during-tractor-rally-hc-to-police-101612828033671.html
09-02-2021||India||'Andolan gave India freedom': Farm leaders slam PM Modi’s speech in Rajya Sabha||Protesters camped at the Capital’s borders against three new farm laws reiterated their demand that Minimum Support Prices (MSP) be legally guaranteed, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the Rajya Sabha sought to assure farmers that the procurement regime would continue to exist, and urged them to call off their agitation and continue discussions.Responding to the debate on the motion of thanks on the President’s address in the Rajya Sabha, Modi on Monday also spoke of people he termed “aandolanjeevis” (those who live off protests) and warned against the alleged influence of FDI (“foreign destructive ideology”)Farmer leaders condemned Modi’s statements, calling it an “insult of farmers”, and said they are ready for fresh talks, but with the condition that the “prime minister holds the meeting with the farmers”.“Farmers of this country respect the Constitution, the elected government and the PM’s rank and dignity. If the PM wants the next round of talks, we are ready for it. But we urge the PM that he should hold the meeting with us, understand the concerns of the farmers, and end this deadlock. Multiple rounds of meetings with the Union agriculture minister have yielded no results so far,” said Satnam Singh Sahni, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba group), at the Singhu border.Speaking in Rajya Sabha, Modi said the farm laws should be given a chance, while reiterating that MSP will continue and doubling down on the government’s commitment to modernise agricultural markets. “MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future,” the PM said.However, protesters and prominent farm leaders were unmoved by the assurances and demanded that the government ensure legal provisions to “protect farmers from businesspersons.”BKU (Tikait) faction national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, “There are no laws now, so businesspersons loot farmers. Authorities have tried to taint the movement by various means. The movement is not led by political leaders, but farmers who demand the repeal of these laws. There will be no business over hunger, and this is what we are fighting against,” said Tikait, who has been leading the farmers’ agitation at Ghazipur border.A farmer from Punjab’s Moga Sadhu Singh said, “Nobody knowingly consumes poison. When we know that the new farm laws are poisonous, why is Modi ji asking us to consume it. We (farmers) know what is good for us and we are fighting for our rights. We will leave only when the laws are repealed”On Monday evening, Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of the 40 farmers’ unions, issued a press statement, condemning the Prime Minister’s “aandolanjeevi” remark.“SKM condemns the insulting of farmers by prime minister. Farmers would like to remind the PM that it is andolans that have liberated India from colonial rulers, which is why we are proud to be aandolanjeevi,” the statement read.“The PM’s FDI approach is dangerous too, even as we distance ourselves from any Foreign Destructive Ideology,” the statement continued.“SKM stands with constructive democratic processes, which uphold basic human rights anywhere in the world and expects similar reciprocation from all likeminded citizens all over the world because “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere,” the farmer group said in their statement.Avtar Singh, another farmer leader from Uttarakhand camping at the Ghazipur border, said, “We had voted for this government for ‘acche din’ and jobs. But we got these laws in return. There was no need to pass these laws during the pandemic with no consultation and we will continue the agitation till the laws are repealed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andolan-gave-india-freedom-farm-leaders-slam-pm-modi-s-speech-in-rajya-sabha-101612808820570.html
09-02-2021||India||PM slams ‘andolanjeevi’ in Rajya Sabha farm laws defence||While warning the country against “andolanjeevis” (those who live off protests), and the influence of FDI (“foreign destructive ideology”), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday strongly defended the recent farm laws, touted their benefits, particularly for small and marginal farmers, and reiterated the government’s commitment to modernising agricultural markets (mandis) and retaining the minimum support price (MSP)-based procurement regime.At the same time, the PM appealed to agitating farm groups to call off their protests, said all doors for suggestions and improvement remain open, and invited them for continued discussions.Responding to the debate on the motion of thanks on the President’s address in the Rajya Sabha, Modi cited the history of political backing for agricultural reforms, including by former PM Manmohan Singh, and criticised the Opposition for their “U-turn” on the issue.At a time when there is increasing criticism about India’s democratic record, the PM also called India the “mother of democracy”, and at a time when some have labelled protesting Sikh farmers as extremists, he hailed the contribution of Sikhs to nation-building and underscored the sensitivity of Punjab given its history.Modi also praised the manner in which Indian citizens battled Covid-19, spoke of the immense goodwill generated for India with its supply of medicines and now vaccines to other countries, and highlighted India’s post-Covid-19 economic recovery. On the continued stand-off with China at the Line of Actual Control, he said that India’s position was clear and there was no question of any relaxation in India’s commitment to “border security”and “border infrastructure”.Highlighting the urgency of agri reforms, which formed the core of his speech in the House, the PM said: “This is the time to make agriculture prosperous... Give the reforms a chance and see whether we benefit from it. If there is any weakness, we will remedy it..the doors are not closed... If we delay this, if we get caught up in our political calculations, we will push farmers to darkness. I pray to all of you to think about this.”The PM also warned against those he termed “andolanjeevis”. “We are familiar with shramjivi (those who labour), and buddhijivis (intellectuals). But I see that a new group has emerged in this country. If there is a lawyers movement, a students movement, a workers movement, they will be there — either in the front or behind the scenes. They cannot live without andolans (movements). They get to all places, give an ideological stand, mislead and show new ways. The country must be saved from these ‘andolanjeevis’. The interesting thing is they cannot do anything on their own but if something is happening, they will be there. They are ‘parijeevis’ (parasites).”He added that even as the country was talking about foreign direct investment (FDI), another form of FDI had emerged. “This is foreign destructive ideology. To save the country from this FDI, we need to be more aware.” The PM’s comments come in the wake of tweets by global figures — including pop icon Rihanna and environmental activist Greta Thunberg — in solidarity with farm protests, which triggered an official government response blaming “vested interests” for propaganda. At the same time, Modi emphasised the importance of Punjab. “There are people who are making constant efforts to weaken and destabilise India. Don’t forget what happened with Punjab. During Partition, Punjab suffered the worst. During 1984, the maximum tears were shed in Punjab. The most horrific incidents happened in Punjab... all governments have known who was behind it.”He also sent out a message on the Sikh community. “Some people are trying to mislead the minds of Sikhs in particular. This country is proud of every Sikh. What have they not done for this country? However much we respect them, it will be less.”Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said Modi’s speech did not offer any solution for the protesting farmers but tried to divert the issue. “He spoke in his own style but didn’t say a word about relief to farmers,” he said. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of farmers unions, condemned the Prime Minister’s ‘”andolanjivi” remark and said it was an insult to the farmers. “Farmers would like to remind the PM that it is ‘andolans’ that have liberated India from colonial rulers and that is why we are proud to be ‘Andolan-jivi’,” a statement from the organisation said.On the laws, Modi first spoke about the scale and marginalisation of small farmers in India and cited the late farm leader and former prime minister, Chaudhary Charan Singh — this was symbolic, for it is Singh’s community, the Jats, who are currently at the forefront of the protests in Singh’s geographical base, western Uttar Pradesh. The PM said that Singh, citing the 1971 farm census, had often spoken of how 51% of Indian farmers had less than a hectare of land. This figure was now 68%, while 86% of farmers in India were small and marginal. Modi claimed that this large segment had been neglected — while big farmers got the benefits of bank loans, bank loan waivers, insurance schemes, irrigation, free power. It was his government, Modi claimed, which had expanded benefits to small and marginal farmers — through direct income assistance, expansion of Kisan credit cards and insurance scheme and initiatives such as Kisan rail and Kisan udan to enable them to reach distant markets. The PM then spoke about increasing land fragmentation and the need to generate livelihoods for members of farming families. He gave the example of the dairy sector — which contributes 28% of India’s agri economy — and said that milk and vegetable producers were able to directly get better rates from the market. “Why should foodgrain and lentil producers not have the same freedom as those who produce milk and vegetables?”Citing Manmohan Singh as having said that Indian farmers must be allowed to sell their produce where they can get higher rates of return and there should be a common agricultural market, the PM said, “Maybe those making U-turns won’t accept my view but accept his views...You should be proud that Manmohan Singh said it and Modi is doing it.” The entire discussion on the subject in the House, the PM claimed, had not been about the law but had revolved around complaints about the method and that it was hurried or there wasn’t enough consultation. “This happens. Even when there is a wedding in the family, a relative may say she was not called... this happens in such large families.” The PM also spoke about the resistance to any change as being natural — and claimed that even during the Green Revolution, the then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri had to face opposition from his Planning Commission, from members of his cabinet including the finance minister, from Left forces (“they are using the same language today they used then”), and appointed C Subramanian as agriculture minister when other politicians feared that taking over the portfolio would antagonise farmers and jeopardise their political careers. “But the result is that from seeking food under the PL-480 (an American aid programme), our farmers did record production domestically.” Modi projected the reforms as inevitable, claiming that those parties opposing the reforms at the moment had done similar, even if partial, reforms, in their states. “We will have to explain to protesters that whoever is here will have to do it, if not today, then tomorrow. Today I have done it, tomorrow you will have to do it. Attribute the negative to me, take the credit yourself. But let us move forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-slams-andolanjeevi-in-rajya-sabha-farm-laws-defence-101612830718006.html
