10-02-2021||Bollywood||Sonakshi Sinha narrates poem on farmers, pays 'tribute to the hands that feed us'||Sonakshi Sinha, who has expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers, has now shared a tribute to them on Instagram. She lent her voice to a poem which tries to explain why the farmers have left their homes to protest on the streets and why they are being branded as rioters. She also shared a montage of powerful visuals from the agitation.“Nazarein milake, khud se poocho - kyun? A tribute to the hands that feed us... a beautiful poem written by @varadbhatnagar. Shot and conceptualized by @gursanjam.s.puri and narrated by me. #farmersprotest,” she wrote in the caption of her Instagram post.A post shared by Sonakshi Sinha (@aslisona)Earlier, Sonakshi expressed her disapproval towards tweets posted by Bollywood and sports stars criticising international celebrities for supporting farmers. “The voices raised are about the violation of human rights, suppressions of free internet and expression, state propaganda, hate speech and abuse of power,” she shared a post originally by a handle @storysellercomics on Instagram stories.The post said, “Journalists are being harassed. Internet has been banned. Protesters are being vilified through state and media propaganda. Hate speech (desh ke gaddaro ko, goli maro sardaro ko resurfaced) is flourishing. THAT is the issue that's taken global centre stage.”Also read: Here’s why Kajal Aggarwal couldn’t sleep throughout the shoot of Live Telecast“To re-iterate, news tonight will try to paint a picture that 'outside forces' are trying to meddle in the functioning of our country. Please don't give in to that narrative. It's human, standing up for other humans. THAT'S the narrative,” it added.Last week, the external affairs ministry issued a statement that ‘vested interest groups’ were trying to mobilise global support against India, in the wake of prominent international figures including Rihanna and Greta Thunberg drawing attention to the farmers’ protest. Without taking any names, the ministry criticised ‘sensationalist social media hashtags and comments’ by ‘celebrities and others’.After the external affairs ministry’s statement, Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar, Virat Kohli, Sachin Tendulkar and others put out similar tweets about the ongoing farmers’ protest, with many of them using hashtags such as ‘India against propaganda’ and ‘India together’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/sonakshi-sinha-narrates-poem-on-farmers-pays-tribute-to-the-hands-that-feed-us-101612972697041.html
10-02-2021||India||It is important to differentiate between 'Andolanjeevis' and 'Andolankaris’': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while replying to the motion of thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Lok Sabha on Wednesday, reiterated his ‘andolanjeevi’ remark. He insisted that the farmers protest is sacred but has been hijacked by the ‘andolanjivis’ who are now demonstrating with pictures of those jailed for terrorism.“Kisan Andolan is sacred, but when 'andolanjeevis' hijack it and show pictures of those jailed for terrorism what purpose does it serve?”The Prime Minister also said that the country needs to learn to differentiate between ‘andolanjeevis’ and ‘andolankaris’.The Prime Minister had on Monday vigorously defended the new farm laws in Rajya Sabha where he had made the ‘andolanjeevi’ remark.“We are familiar with shramjivi (those who labour), and buddhijivis (intellectuals). But I see that a new group has emerged in this country. If there is a lawyers movement, a students movement, a workers movement, they will be there — either in the front or behind the scenes. They cannot live without andolans (movements). They get to all places, give an ideological stand, mislead and show new ways. The country must be saved from these ‘andolanjeevis’,” the Prime Minister had said.The comment has received considerable backlash with politicians like P Chidambaram and Akhilesh Yadav citing examples of Mahatma Gandhi as the nation’s biggest ‘andolanjeevi’.“I’m a proud andolan jeevi. The quintessential andolan jeevi was Mahatma Gandhi,” Chidambaram had tweeted.Opposition parties like the Congress and Trinamool Congress staged a walkout during the Prime Minister’s response in the Parliament. He also faced vocal opposition and his speech was interrupted by sloganeering. He concluded his speech by requesting protesting farmers to resume talks with the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-is-important-to-differentiate-between-andolanjeevis-and-andolankaris-pm-modi-101612963259106.html
10-02-2021||India||PM Modi’s reply in Lok Sabha to motion of thanks on President’s address: Top 5 quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday replied to the motion of thanks on the President’s address in the Lok Sabha. From highlighting the increase in the number of women parliamentarians who took part in the proceedings to praising India’s medical fraternity for their Covid-19 efforts, the Prime Minister covered a range of topics in his address.In a speech that saw some interruptions due to protest by opposition MPs, PM Modi also defended his government’s implementation of the three new farm laws, against which many farmers are protesting at Delhi’s borders. Congress MPs staged a walkout in the middle of the speech to express their disagreement.Also read: In Lok Sabha address, PM Modi says Congress 'divided and confused'Here are top 5 quotes from the Prime Minister’s address to the lower house of the parliament -1. Sankalp Shakti - “The speech by [the] President showcased India's 'Sankalp Shakti.' His words have boosted the spirit of confidence among the people of India,” Modi said. “I want to congratulate the women MPs who enriched the House proceedings with their thoughts.”2. 100 years of freedom - “We're knocking at the doors of 75 yrs of independence. It's a matter of pride for every Indian & an occasion to move forward. We may be in any corner or belong to any strata of society but we must make a new resolve that where do we want to take India at 100 years of freedom.”3. Aatmanirbhar Bharat - “The post-COVID world is turning out to be very different. In such times, remaining isolated from global trends will be counter-productive. We'll have to emerge as a strong player. That is why, India is working towards building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat.”4. God came as doctors and nurses - “[Congress MP]Manish Tewari said that we stayed protected from Corona by God's grace. I'd like to say something. This indeed is God's grace that the entire world shook but we remained safe. It was because doctors & nurses came as God, because they couldn't return to their homes for 15 days.”5. Farmers protest -“Farm laws were passed through an Ordinance & later by Parliament. No mandis were shut after the implementation of these laws, MSP did not end anywhere in the nation. It's a truth which we hide, it has no meaning. Purchase on MSP increased after the laws were formed,” Modi assured.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-reply-to-motion-of-thanks-on-president-s-address-top-5-quotes-101612958985292.html
10-02-2021||India||Eye on mahapanchayats, Samayukt Kisan Morcha to decide future of farm stir today||The umbrella organisation of the farmers' unions protesting against three farm laws, Samayukt Kisan Morcha, will meet today to decide the road lying ahead of the farmers' protest which witnessed several trajectories since it began in November.The protesting unions have rejected the Centre's proposal of putting the laws in the backburner for one and a half years. After the rejection, no fresh date for further consultation after the 11th round was decided, though Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Rajya Sabha said that the agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar is in constant touch with the farmers.Environment of enmity must end: Farm unionsAfter Republic Day violence, the image of the so-far farmers' protest became sullied. Farmers union leaders also came under fire. The executive committee meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha comes at a time when a need to reset the direction of the protest is being felt.As the issues of the farmers have gained massive support in the mahapanchayats held so far, the focus from now onwards will be to organise more such mahapanchayats. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who became the revival force of the farmers protest after Republic Day setback, has started attending these panchayats drawing a huge number of crowd. Tikait has attended three mahapanchayats so far — Jind, Dadri, Kurukshetra. Congress leader Sachin Pilot has addressed a mahapanchayat in Rajasthan; Priyanka Gandhi will address one in Saharanpur.The last programme of the farmers was peaceful 'chakka jam', which garnered support from across the country. Rakesh Tikait said the Centre has "time" till October to repeal the laws dropping hints that the protest will go on till October.In October 2021, it will be a year of the protest and farmers are mulling future path as farmers sitting on the borders and continuing the protest is not resolving the deadlock. The future plan includes holding more mahapanchayats where prominent farmer leaders will be present; sending out the message that farmers are open to discussion; not compromise on their demand of a complete withdrawal of the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-mahapanchayats-samayukt-kisan-morcha-to-decide-future-of-farm-stir-today-101612926032911.html
10-02-2021||India||Odisha govt approves re-promulgation of farm reform ordinance amid farmers’ stir||Even as the agitation by farmers demanding repeal of three farm laws rages on across the country, the Naveen Patnaik government on Tuesday evening decided to re-promulgate the ordinance to reform the Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Amendment Act to enable geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce including livestock across the state.The state cabinet which met under the chairmanship of chief minister Naveen Patnaik Tuesday evening, gave assent to the re-promulgation of the Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance for the third time, enabling the state to move ahead with the abolition of notified market area in so far as enforcement of regulation by Agricultural Produce and Livestock Market Committee (APLMC) was concerned.The ordinance would also help the government create an environment for setting up and operating private market yards and farmer consumer market yards (Krushak Bazar), sub-market yard and market sub yard with the aim to enhance competition for the farmer's produce to the advantage of farmers.The ordinance also seeks to remove geographical restrictions on sale of agricultural produce and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere within the state. It also seeks to promote e-trading to enhance transparency in trade operations and integration of markets across geographies.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance framed around Centre’s Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2017 is aimed at bringing comprehensive market reforms in the agriculture sector.The ordinance approved by the state Cabinet for re-promulgation on Tuesday was supposed to be brought in as a Bill in the last assembly session in September last year along with the Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill. But the government developed cold feet due to the opposition to the three farm reform laws passed by the Narendra Modi government.Also Read: Odisha to build memorial to honour fallen Covid warriorsFarmer leader Lingaraj, who has been vociferous in his opposition to the Central farm laws as well as the state's ordinances on agriculture, said the Naveen Patnaik government's decision to re-promulgate the ordinance to repeal the Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Amendment Act showed that the party is in a bind."It clearly wants to junk the marketing yards as they have proved to be its bugbear with farmers all over the state accusing the government of inefficient paddy procurement. However, it does not publicly want to be seen on the same side as the BJP. I don't know if the government can bring it as a Bill in the Budget session this month. The ordinance is just a way to keep the legislation alive in case it fails to bring it up as a Bill," said Lingaraj.As agriculture falls under the state list of the Constitution, the Centre has been urging the states to amend the respective APMC acts to free agricultural markets from the clutches of politicized market committees and infuse investments and competition. In November 2019, the 15th Finance Commission headed by N. K. Singh in its report had said that states which enact and implement all features of the Model Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2017 will be eligible for certain financial incentives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-approves-re-promulgation-of-farm-reform-ordinance-amid-farmers-stir-101612925788814.html
10-02-2021||India||Environment of enmity must end: Farm unions||A day ahead of a crucial meeting of farm unions, leaders of the over two-month-long protest against three farm laws said on Tuesday that direct talks with the government were the only way to end the agitation for which, they added, the government must end “the atmosphere of enmity” by lifting restrictions on the Internet and restoring essential services, such as water and electricity, at protest sites.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the platform of farm unions spearheading the protests, will hold its full working committee meeting on Wednesday, in which its leaders would discuss ways to scale up their campaign and reiterate their stand on being open to talks, said Darshan Pal, a key farm leader.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking in Parliament on Monday, had urged farmers to end their agitation and resume dialogue and assured them that a system of minimum floor prices for key crops would continue as usual. The farm unions, however, lashed out at the PM for calling supporters of the farmers’ agitation “andolan jeevi,” or protest parasites.So far 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers had called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months, demanding their repeal .“The Prime Minister has said the government is open to dialogue. We are open too. It is up to the government to follow up on what the prime minister said,” Pal told HT.Pal said the unions would continue the protests and discuss the agitation’s next course, especially on strengthening it in other states, in their general body meeting.Tens of thousands of farmers, braving cold weather, have been camping in the open since November 26 on national highways leading to Delhi to demand the repeal of three pro-reform farm laws.The government has said that the laws will bring investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce. Farmers say the laws will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants instead of government-run markets.Wednesday’s full meeting of the SKM willl brainstorm on ways to scale up protests in multiple states. “We will organize many more mahapanchayats (rural meetings). Farmers across the country are united and we will continue to protest until the black laws are repealed,” said Rakesh Tikait, a farm leader who has organized several large rural rallies called mahapanchayats in the past week, as part of the protests.The farm unions, while emphasizing that they believed in talks even as the protests continue, blamed the government for creating a confrontational atmosphere.“Only direct talks with the government will end the agitation. But for the dialogue to resume, the government must end the atmosphere of enmity. The PM must show magnanimity and offer something new,” Hannan Mollah, another working committee member of the SKM, said.He said the government must restore the internet at protest sites and resume essential facilities, such as water and electricity. “Such steps would help in restarting the dialogue”.His views were echoed by descriptor Kavitha Kuruganti, who said while farmers were open to a resumption of talks, “attacks on farmers must stop”.Police have summoned or arrested several farm leaders after turmoil on Republic Day, when farmers clashed with police and breached the Red Fort during a planned tractor rally in the national capital.The issue has also garnered global attention with celebrities such as popstar Rihanna and environmental campaigner Greta Thunberg announcing their support for the farmers. The external affairs ministry has slammed international comments in support of the farmers’ agitation as “inaccurate and irresponsible”, saying “vested interest groups” were trying to build opinion against the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-direct-talks-with-govt-can-end-stir-farm-unions-101612908054518.html
10-02-2021||India||Will hold mahapanchayats in all states to unite farmers: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday said the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha will hold Kisan Mahapanchayats in all states of the country to unite and mobilise farmers against the three new farm laws.Addressing a gathering at Gumthla Garhu in Kurukshetra, Tikait said, “The Prime Minister (PM) said the andolan is restricted to only a few states. We have decided to unite all farmers in the country by holding mahapanchayats in every state. We will organise such panchayats in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, and bring 40 lakh tractors to the agitation.”Reacting to the PM’s statement in which he warned the country against “andolanjeevis” (those who live off protests), and the influence of FDI (“foreign destructive ideology”), Tikait said, “This government has lost its conscience. They are terming us as Parjeevi (parasites) and andolanjeevi. I want to ask them whether freedom fighter Bhagat Singh was also a Parjeevi for he led the andolan for the freedom of this country.”“Hum andolankari hai, par jumlebaaz nahi (We are agitators, not those who make false promises),” he said in an interaction with mediapersons.Urging farmers to stay united and support the agitation, Tikait said, “They are trying to divide us on the basis of religion, region and size of land holdings. But a farmer is a farmer and we all are united against these laws.” He added that the agitation will go on till October 2 and beyond if required.Later in the evening, Tikait also reached Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza on the NH-44 where farmers were protesting.Reacting to the arrest of Deep Sidhu, he said that he police should investigate this case to find out if there was a conspiracy behind this incident. On being asked about chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement wherein he asked Tikat to interact with the farmers of UP and not to make Haryana his Kurukshetra, Tikait said he was a resident of Haryana and the whole country was his home.‘Laws will affect every citizen, especially poor’ On PM’s proposal for talks, Tikait reiterated that farmer leaders were ready to talk with the government if they are invited through a proper channel. In an attempt to garner support of labourers and small shopkeepers, Tikait said the new laws will affect every citizen of this country, especially the poor as they will have to buy food grains at higher rates from big corporations.Yudhvir Singh, another farmer leader, said, “The government tried to divide farmers. Our unity has defeated their attempts to end this agitation. We want to tell the government that our agitation is disciplined and peaceful.” He said they will not allow the government to end the Mandi system which was a gift of peasant leaders like Late Chhotu Ram.He further said, “The PM’s ego will ruin the country. Even in the Parliament, he called us a new zamat of andolanjeevis. Either the PM is trying to befool us or he does not know anything about agriculture.”Harinder Singh Lakhowal, a farmer leader from Punjab and Khap panchayat leaders, also urged the farmers to get united for the protest. In support of the agitation, Punjabi singer Rupinder Handa also announced to return the award she was given by the Haryana government in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hold-mahapanchayats-in-all-states-to-unite-farmers-tikait-101612898338471.html
10-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu spent 13 days as fugitive with friends, was active on Facebook||Farmers protesters at Singhu border never allowed actor-activist Deep Sidhu to speak from the stage because of his “association with the ruling party” and his “extremist views”, said Harinder Happy, a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha -- a group of 40 farm unions that is spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws.But, around 8pm on January 25, Sidhu allegedly hijacked the stage and addressed the people. “He delivered a provocative speech. We asked him to leave the spot immediately. Nobody saw him after that,” Happy said.Also Read | Come forward: Delhi Police appeal for information on Jan 26 violenceProtesters at the Singhu border claim that was the last they saw of Sidhu until he was seen again at the Red Fort during the Republic Day’s tractor parade.Delhi police are now trying to piece together the sequence of events from that evening to the afternoon of January 26, when Sidhu was seen among those who stormed the Red Fort, vandalised the monument and hoisted two flags —one of the farmers union and another a religious flag.Police are also probing if someone else was also involved with Sidhu in planning the vandalisation at Red Fort. Police have alleged that the violence during the rally and the events at the Unesco World Heritage site, were not spontaneous acts but were planned as part of a conspiracy. At least 394 police officials and 10 farmers were injured when protesters deviated from the pre-approved routes of the tractor rally and clashed with police when they were stopped from entering parts of New Delhi and Central Delhi.Police officials, who are privy to the details of Sidhu’s interrogation, said on January 26, as soon as his photographs and videos started circulating in the media, the actor quietly fled to Sonipat, about 20 km away from Singhu border. He was with many friends and supporters, but their numbers thinned as the calls for his arrest grew louder. Police suspect that he borrowed vehicles from his friends as some of the vehicles that Sidhu was using, until January 26, were not spotted by any CCTV camera installed at the toll plaza on the GT Karnal Road.“For the first 24 hours, his phone was on. He was staying at a friend’s place in Sonipat. On January 26, he released his first Facebook Live, claiming innocence and hitting at those who branded him a traitor” said an investigator associated with the case.At 8pm on January 27, the Delhi police held a press conference reiterating that no person involved in the violence will be spared.“Within two hours of the media briefing, at around 10pm, Sidhu switched off his cell phone. His last location was Sonipat. Then, he started changing his location,” the first investigating officer added.After the January 27 press conference, at least 12 teams of the crime branch, special cell, and the local police were conducting raids at multiple locations in Punjab and Haryana to find Sidhu. Police also tapped the phone number of many persons related to Sidhu. A team even visited his wife’s house in Purnea, Bihar.“He was not in Bihar either. We found that during all these days, Sidhu visited Chandigarh, Bilaspur(Himachal Pradesh), Amritsar, and then Karnal from where he was finally arrested. He has claimed that he stayed at his friend’s house. We are verifying this. He even removed his turban to avoid being identified. The videos of Sidhu at the Red Fort and in the days before the violence show him with a turban,” a second police officer added.On Monday night, when police arrested Sidhu, he was waiting for a car to flee to Purnea. “He was waiting at the Karnal bypass for a car that was offered by his associate for the journey, when the police team caught him around 10.30pm. He was hiding in Karnal and was dropped at the bypass by another associate on a bike, just 10 minutes before his arrest,” the officer said.A third police officer, who did not wish to be identified, said on February 3, after Delhi police announced ₹1 lakh reward on Sidhu’s arrest, Sidhu found himself cornered and could not find many friends to shield him while in hiding.“He could have passed off as one of the farmers among the thousands already on the GT Karnal road with their tractors. But the farmers union had distanced themselves from Sidhu, so this made it more difficult for him to hide. He had to stay away from the protest sites. We have information that he visited some of his friends near Singhu (not the main stage or near farm leaders) on February 1 but he did not stay there for long. We will question him on why he visited the border again,” the third officer added.But even while in hiding for 13 days, Sidhu was active on his Facebook account. Between, January 26 and February 8(until his arrest), he uploaded five videos and claimed that he was not among the rioters; reiterated that lies were being spread against him; and asked people to stay united. He also wrote posts about how the protest started after the farm laws were passed in September and the “reality of the political and social structure” and alleged that he was “set up by the farm union leaders”.On Tuesday afternoon, hours after Sidhu’s arrest, special cell deputy commissioner of police Sanjeev Yadav said such posts and videos were uploaded by Sidhu’s friend from the US and that Sidhu was careful to not do it himself to avoid arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-sidhu-spent-13-days-as-fugitive-with-friends-was-active-on-facebook-101612897601631.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||FIR registered to trace man who went missing from tractor rally, police tell HC||The city police on Tuesday told the Delhi high court that an FIR has been registered to trace a 27-year-old man who had gone missing while participating in the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day.A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani was informed by the police that three teams have been constituted to trace the missing man, Bajinder, and assistance is also being sought from the Haryana Police.The court was hearing a habeas corpus plea moved by the brother of the missing farmer, alleging that Bajinder was illegally detained. Petitioner Baljeet, represented by advocates Benipal Naginder and Aditi Pundhir, has claimed that Bajinder had participated in the tractor rally on January 26 and was missing since then.On Tuesday, the bench told the senior superintendent of police, Jhajjar, to render all possible assistance to the Delhi Police to locate the man, advocate Naginder said.The court also asked the police, represented by Delhi government’s standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, to file a status report before the next date of hearing on February 17.The police have also told the court that they have not arrested any such person in connection with the violence on January 26.The tractor parade on January 26, held by farmers to highlight their demands to repeal three new farm laws, had turned violent as police clashed with protesters. A section of farmers had also reached the Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag there.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fir-registered-to-trace-man-who-went-missing-from-tractor-rally-police-tell-hc-101612893657398.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||One village, 10 people, 8 days- Farmers’ formula to maintain a show of strength||On November 26, thousands descended at Delhi’s border to protest against three contentious farm laws that had been passed by the Centre in September last year.Fast forward 77 days and the Capital’s borders continued to remain chock-a-block on Tuesday, with protesting farmers managing to continue their ‘show of strength’ at the protest sites against the three new farm laws — courtesy their novel “one village, 10 people and eight days” formula.A majority of the protesters said that their eight-day rotation helps them maintain a balance between the ongoing movement and their work. Many others also find it a way to counter “anxiety and depression” among the agitators.Under the “one village, 10 people and eight days” rule, at least 10 people from each village of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh (UP) participate in the ongoing agitation for eight days and then are replaced by another set of people from the same village. This way, farmers shuffle between their villages and the protest site after every eight days.Darshan Pal, a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a group of several farmer organisations protesting against the three new farm laws across the country, said that the idea behind rotating protesters regularly was to avoid “stagnation”. “People from different villages have left their trolleys at the protest site. They come and go in small cars or tractors and use the same trolleys during their stay at the protest sites. There are trolleys from different villages across all districts in Punjab at the Singhu border.”Also read 'Farm laws not religious scriptures that cannot be changed': Farooq AbdullahAlso read: Eye on mahapanchayats, Samayukt Kisan Morcha to decide future of farm stir todayFarmers generally shuttle between their villages and the protest sites -- Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur -- on Sundays. Pargat Singh, a protester from the Tikri border, said he has returned back to his village in Ferozpur in Punjab on Sunday after spending eight days at the protest site. “It looks like the protests are going to continue and that’s why it’s important to keep protesters motivated towards the cause. The rotation recharges protesters. They can take care of their families, fields, and cattle back home while also participating in the movement. Besides, it helps countering cases of depression among farmers. So many protesters have already died by suicide after getting disheartened during the protest,” he said.A 52-year-old farmer died by suicide at the Tikri border on Saturday. He had left behind a suicide note blaming the government for delay in resolving the farmers’ issues. Last month, a 42-year-old farmer from Rohtak ended his life at the same border and in December last year, a Sikh preacher died by suicide at the Singhu border over the ongoing agitation.Protesters at the Ghazipur border said they are encouraging more people in their villages to visit the protest site. “Even if protesters travel back to their homes for work, people assume that the protest has started to weaken. That’s why this rotation is necessary to maintain sufficient strength at the protest sites all the time in order to keep the spirit of the movement high,” said Akshit Chaudhary, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar.Also watch: Delhi violence: 2 farmer groups withdraw from protest, condemn R-Day chaos||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-village-10-people-8-days-how-farmers-maintain-show-of-strength-at-delhi-borders-101612893357947.html
10-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Actor Deep Sidhu, key accused in Jan 26 violence case, arrested by Delhi Police||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday in his reply to the motion of thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Rajya Sabha said that the government is working towards empowering small farmers. He also reiterated that minimum support prices (MSP) will continue and mandis will be modernised. “MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain there in the future,” PM Modi said. After the speech, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait responded by saying that a law was needed on MSP. "Prime Minister said 'MSP hai, tha aur rahega' today but he did not say that a law will be formed on MSP... the country does not run on trust. It runs on the constitution and law," said Tikait.In a symbolic protest on Saturday, farmers staged a 'chakka jam' for three hours, nationwide, during which farmers blocked major state and national highways. The protest was largely peaceful and the farmers said that they are ready to resume talks with the government, reiterating their demand for repeal of the three contentious laws. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November 26, demanding a rollback of the three farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Follow all the updates here:Harsimrat Kaur Badal accuses Centre of passing farm laws without consultationHarsimrat Kaur Badal said that the Centre did not listen to the opposition, or their own allies regarding the implementation of the farm laws.Harsimrat Kaur Badal slams use of tear gas, water cannons against farmersHarsimrat Kaur Badal said that protesting was a basic human right but tear gas, water cannons were used to break down farmers protests by the government was not. "No politician expressed remorse for the death of the 150 farmers, no speech expressed any regret," she added.Akhilesh Yadav questions govt's decision to not rollback farm lawsSP leader Akhilesh Yadav questioned why the Centre was not withdrawing the farm laws if the farmers were not accepting them. "If Govt says that laws are for farmers, why is it not taking it back, if farmers aren't accepting it? People, for whom it has been formed, don't want it. Who is stopping Govt? Are allegations that you rolled out carpet for corporates & brought these laws not right?" he asked.Deep Sidhu remanded to seven day police custodyBreaking: Delhi Court remands Deep Sidhu to 7 days police custody in connection to the violence and flag hoisting at Red Fort on R- Day. @htTweetsDelhi Court remands Deep Sidhu to 7 days police custody in connection to the violence and flag hoisting at Red Fort on R- Day.Defense counsel says that Sidhu is not running awayDefense counsel says that Sidhu is not running away. He is not evading the process. He just happened to be at the wrong place and the wrong time. Sidhu got to know from the media that the flag is hoisted. @htTweetsDefense counsel says that Sidhu is not running away. He is not evading the process. He just happened to be at the wrong place and the wrong time. Sidhu got to know from the media that the flag is hoisted.Sidhu seen entering with swords, sticks, flags: PolicePolice say he was seen entering in a video with swords, sticks and flags. He provoked the people and gave speeches with a loud hailer thus inciting violence. Defense counsel opposes the remand application and says that police should not require such a long remand. @htTweetsPolice say he was seen entering in a video with swords, sticks and flags. He provoked the people and gave speeches with a loud hailer thus inciting violence. Defense counsel opposes the remand application and says that police should not require such a long remand.Police say 140 personnel were injuredPolice also tells that 140 policemen were injured and the protestors breached the security and they deviated from the actual route which was assigned for the Tractors' Rally during R- Day. @htTweetsPolice also tells that 140 policemen were injured and the protestors breached the security and they deviated from the actual route which was assigned for the Tractors' Rally during R- Day.Sidhu's permanent address in Nagpur: PolicePolice says that his permanent address is in Nagpur and they have to also visit Punjab and Haryana to ascertain the links. Says that he congratulated the person who hoisted the flag at Red Fort and also did a Facebook Live from the spot. @htTweetsPolice says that his permanent address is in Nagpur and they have to also visit Punjab and Haryana to ascertain the links. Says that he congratulated the person who hoisted the flag at Red Fort and also did a Facebook Live from the spot.Delhi Police inform court that Sidhu was main instigator of R-Day violenceDelhi Police inform city Court that actor Deep Sidhu was the main rioter and instigator in the R- Day violence. Police alleges that Sidhu instigated the protestors, destroyed public property. Seeks 10 days remand saying that his social media has to be searched. @htTweetsDelhi Police inform city Court that actor Deep Sidhu was the main rioter and instigator in the R- Day violence. Police alleges that Sidhu instigated the protestors, destroyed public property. Seeks 10 days remand saying that his social media has to be searched.Delhi police seeks ten-day custody of Deep SidhuThe Delhi police has sought a ten-day custody of Deep Sidhu after the former actor was produced before a metropolitan Magistrate at Tis Hazari Court for his role in the violence that unfurled during the tractor rally on Republic Day.SC stays arrest of Shashi Tharoor, journalistsSupreme Court stays arrest of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, & senior journalists, while hearing the petition challenging registration of multiple FIRs against them for allegedly sharing certain unconfirmed news on death of a protester, during the tractor rally on Republic Day.Deep Sidhu, an accused in January 26 violence case, arrested: Delhi PolicePunjabi actor-turned-activist ctor Deep Sidhu, who was allegedly involved in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26, was arrested by Delhi Police's special cell late on Monday night, officials said on Tuesday. Read moreAdditional deployment at Delhi borders withdrawnAdditional deployment of Delhi Police personnel at the three borders points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, where farmers are camping for over two months to protest against the three farm laws,was withdrawn from Monday evening. The security arrangements in these places will now be taken care of by personnel belonging to the police districts concerned, senior police officers privy to the development said. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-live-farmer-protest-updates-february-9-hindustan-times-101612837803279.html
10-02-2021||India||Farm Laws: PM cites 'Churchill Cigar Assistant' anecdote to underline need for change||Defending the farm laws as much needed reforms, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday underlined that change is essential and cited the case of CCA, a British era post in Tamil Nadu for supplying cigars to then UK Prime Minister Winston Churchill that was not abolished till several decades after independence.Speaking in Lok Sabha on the motion of thanks to the President for his address, Modi said change and reforms are essential for the progress of every modern society.He also mentioned social reformers like Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Jyotiba Phule and B R Ambedkar who had the courage to push for reforms in society against the prevailing norms.Stressing that still water leads to diseases while moving water instills new energy, Modi said he opposes the mindset of "status quo" and asserted that the young generation wouldn't wait long for change."One should take responsibility and decide according to the needs of the country. This mindset of 'status quo' has also played havoc in stopping the country's progress. Till when will we continue with this status quo," Modi said.To buttress his point for change, Modi cited a story of CCA, Churchill Cigar Assistant, in the office of Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu. The post was specifically created for ensuring the supply of cigar to Churchill from Tiruchirappalli in the state.Despite Churchill losing in 1945 and India becoming independent in 1947, the post continued till several decades later and the fact came to light when the state government set up a commission for raising the salaries of government employees.The CCA wrote to the Commission seeking a raise but no one was even aware that such a post existed.This incident is the biggest example of a need for change in governance for the progress of the society, Modi suggested.He said a country cannot be run by just "cutting ribbons" and photo-ops. "We should make every attempt to bring changes. There may be mistakes, but if the intention is fair, there will be good results," he said.Not acting due to fear of failure does not benefit anyone, the prime minister said.He also took potshots at those asking why the laws were introduced when farmers didn't ask for them, saying that India is a democratic country and not a feudal set up where people should seek something from those who are in power.The government should be sensitive towards the people and take decisions that are good for the country, Modi said, while noting that people did not demand Ayushaman Bharat, Jan Dhan Accounts and Swachh Bharat, but still the Centre initiated these welfare programmes.He said laws against dowry, triple talaq and child marriage were also not demanded, still, the governments brought these laws as they were required for the overall well-being of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-pm-cites-churchill-cigar-assistant-anecdote-to-underline-need-for-change-101612974688764.html
