14-02-2021||India||Won't let govt sit in peace till farmers' demands met: Rakesh Tikait||Upping the ante against the government, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said they won't let it sit in peace till the farmers' demands are met.Addressing a farmers' "mahapanchayat" at the Indri grain market in the district, Tikait said the 40 leaders spearheading the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws will tour the entire country to drum up support for the stir."Till the time the government does not decide in our favour, talks to the committee (spearheading the agitation) and does not agree to the demands, we won't let it sit in peace," Tikait said, demanding the repeal of the laws.He once again reiterated that the Centre's farm laws "will finish the public distribution system."The laws will not only impact farmers but also small traders, daily wagers and other sections, he said.Questioning the government's intention behind bringing the laws, Tikait said, "Godowns were built first and the laws came later. Don't farmers know these laws are in favour of big corporates? Business on hunger will not be allowed in this country."Tikait reiterated that the “panch” (leaders spearheading the stir) and the "manch" (stage) will remain the same."Whatever decisions are taken by the committee are acceptable to all. Farmers of the country stand behind it," Tikait said.Apart from Tikait, farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal and Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni were also present on the occasion.Rajewal said farmers have been protesting for months but the government is not listening to their demands.Pal said over 200 farmers have sacrificed their lives during the agitation said their sacrifice will not go in vain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-let-govt-sit-in-peace-till-farmers-demands-met-rakesh-tikait-101613318863385.html
14-02-2021||Lucknow||SBSP chief claims Jat farmers have 'left' BJP in 18 districts of UP||Accusing the BJP of eyeing eastern Uttar Pradesh only to garner votes ahead of the panchayat elections, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Omprakash Rajbhar on Sunday claimed that the Jat farmers have left the party in the state."In the coming days, the panchayat and the assembly elections will be held. The Jat farmers in 18 districts have left them (the BJP). So, now they have turned towards the eastern part of the state, and are focusing on this area, which has a sizable Rajbhar voters. Their sole aim is to garner votes," he told PTI in an interview.Hitting out at the BJP, the former ally of the saffron party said, "They name Mughalsarai station after Deen Dayal Upadhyay, write Sardar Vallabhai Patel at the statue of Sardar Patel and also write Prithviraj Chauhan, we have no problems with that. Why do they have a problem in writing the name of Rajbhar after Suheldev."The BJP should start liking the name Rajbhar while writing the name of Maharaja Suheldev, who is said to have killed the Ghaznavid general Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud in the early 11th century.The former Uttar Pradesh minister also claimed that owing to the intense hardwork of SBSP workers over the past few decades, almost all the political parties in the country, the Centre and state governments are celebrating the birth anniversary of Suheldev Rajbhar.At present, the SBSP has four MLAs in the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly.On February 11, the Uttar Pradesh government released the reservation policy for the upcoming three-tier panchayat polls in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sbsp-chief-claims-jat-farmers-have-left-bjp-in-18-districts-of-up-101613303389437.html
14-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab civic body polls: Farmers protest against farm laws in Amritsar||Amritsar (Punjab) [India], February 14 (ANI): Farmers on Sunday raised slogans and protested against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the new farm laws as the polling for the civic body elections in Punjab were underway in Ward number 37 of Amritsar.Polling for 117 local bodies including eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats is underway in Punjab.Sonu Mahal, a farmer present during the protests said, "Today, during the local body elections in Amritsar, we are protesting against the BJP. A large number of our farmer brothers are riding on bikes and arriving in ward number 37 to participate in the protests.""The BJP government is not taking back the new farm laws. So today we will not allow the BJP booths to be set up on election day and we shall oppose wherever the party's booths are installed," he added.Meanwhile, Congress MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria who had arrived to cast his vote at a polling booth said, "Even the British are opposing the BJP because the farmers are the backbone of our economy and the whole country is with the farmers. The Congress stands in solidarity with the farmers."The polling for Punjab civic body elections began at 8 am and will continue till 4 pm.Bathinda recorded the highest voters' turnout with 48.42% polling till 12 pm on Sunday.Ludhiana's Sahiwal Nagar witnessed 20% voter's turnout till 10 am while the polling percentage in Ludhiana's Jagraon was 13%.The voters' turnout in Ludhiana' Payal was recorded at 14.6% till 10 am.The voting trend at Jalandhar Municipal Corporation was 14% while it was 22.62% in Nihal Singh Wala in Moga district.The counting of votes will take place on February 17 while the results of the polls will be declared on February 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-civic-body-polls-farmers-protest-against-farm-laws-in-amritsar-101613299486554.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police announce reward for information on whereabouts of Lakha Sidhana||The Delhi Police on Sunday announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information on the whereabouts of gangster-turned-activist Lakhbir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana. Various teams of Delhi Police, along with the special cell, are conducting search operations across Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR, news agency ANI reported.Cops are probing Sidhana's role in instigating violence during the tractor rally on January 26 and his relationship with actor Deep Sidhu who was arrested earlier by Delhi Police.Sidhana came into focus once more after he released a video on social media demanding the release of Sidhu and was also seen asking the representatives of farmers unions to demand his release before holding another round of discussions with the government.Earlier this week, the special cell of the Delhi Police had arrested Iqbal Singh and sent him seven-day police custody by a local court. Cops said that he was among the main conspirators of the Republic Day violence.143 people along with, actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, have been arrested in as many as 44 cases registered in connection with the Republic Day’s violence during a tractor rally by farmers, who have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 for almost three months at Delhi’s borders.The violence during the tractor rally had led to the loss of life of one protesting farmer and resulted in injuries of 10 farmers and more than 300 police officers. A police officer familiar with the developments told HT on Saturday that Sidhu was present at Singhu border protest site on January 25 and also delivered a “provocative speech”. The official also further added that technical investigation revealed the presence of Lakha Sidhana at Tikri on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-announce-reward-for-information-on-whereabouts-of-lakha-sidhana-101613293600911.html
14-02-2021||India||Bengaluru activist Disha Ravi held in Greta Thunberg's protest toolkit case||The Delhi Police's cyber crime unit on Saturday arrested 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from her house in North Bengaluru for her alleged role in spreading the 'toolkit' related to the country-wide farmers' protest against the three farm laws on social media.The Delhi police had registered an FIR for sedition, promoting hatred among groups and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on February 4 after the Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted the 'toolkit' while expressing her support to the farmers’ protest in India. The police have claimed that the ‘toolkit’ was put together by a "pro-khakistani group" named poetic justice. The 18-year-old had, however, later deleted the original tweet.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said Ravi was picked up for questioning related to her role in spreading the toolkit. "We are ascertaining if she was in touch with more people who were involved in this," the officer said.Officials who did not want to be named said Ravi was arrested and will be produced before a court later in the day. The Delhi police, however, did not officially confirm the arrest.Ravi is founder of a group named Fridays For Future and is a graduate in bachelor of business administration.According to the Delhi Police officials, Disha is a key lead in the "toolkit" case as she had admitted during the initial interrogation to editing, adding some things in the "toolkit" and spreading it further.The special cell will now make further inquiries after her remand.More arrests in this case have not been ruled out, a news agency said quoting unnamed police officials.Last week, the Delhi Police sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which a "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest was created and uploaded on the social media platform.Also Read: In meeting with Twitter, ministry mentions Greta's toolkit, US Capitol violenceTwo e-mail IDs, one Instagram account, and one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) were mentioned in the toolkit and police had asked for details from the respective platforms.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-activist-disha-ravi-held-in-greta-thunberg-s-protest-toolkit-case-101613284834307.html
14-02-2021||Bollywood||Taapsee Pannu, Richa Chadha furious at Haryana minister's comment on farmer deaths: 'Utterly disgraceful'||Actors Taapsee Pannu and Richa Chadha took to Twitter on Saturday to express their disappointment at the comments made by Haryana agriculture minister Jai Prakash Dalal. The minister talked to the press about the farmers who have died on the borders of Delhi while protesting against the farm laws. He had said that the farmers would have died even if they had been back home.Retweeting a news clip about Dalal's comments, Taapsee wrote, "Value of human life ‘zilch’! Value of ppl who grow your food ‘zilch’ Mocking their deaths .... priceless ! Slow claps." Richa wrote, "Utterly disgraceful! We deserve better."During a press conference in Haryana's Bhiwani on Saturday, Dalal said, "Would not they have died if they were at home? Had they been at their homes, they would have died there also. Out of one to two lakh, do 200 people not die in six months? Someone is dying of a heart attack and someone after falling ill... They died of their own will. I have my deepest sympathies for them," Dalal said on being asked about the alleged death of 200 farmers during the ongoing stir against farm laws.Later, while giving clarification over his remarks, Dalal in a video said: "During the press conference, I condoled the demise of farmers who died during the protest. Even if a person dies unnaturally, it is painful. As far as the matter of giving the status of martyred is considered, the Jawans are given this status as the government has made policy for it.""My statement was twisted and the wrong meaning was given to it. I saw the video on social media. I tender my apologies if somebody was hurt by my statement. As Haryana's Agriculture Minister, I am working for the welfare of the farmers," he added.Also read: Radhe Shyam teaser: Prabhas is no Romeo to die for Pooja Hegde's love in a modern romance with fairytale visualsThe central government has offered to put the farm laws "on hold" for 12-18 months, an offer rejected by the farmers' unions protesting against the laws. Several rounds of talks have been held with farmers over their demand for the repeal of three new laws.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/taapsee-pannu-richa-chadha-furious-at-haryana-minister-s-comment-on-farmer-deaths-utterly-disgraceful-101613281805843.html
14-02-2021||India||‘Would’ve died at home too’: Haryana minister on farmers’ deaths during protests||Haryana agriculture minister Jai Prakash Dalal’s comments on farmers' deaths during the ongoing protests against Centre’s new farm laws on Saturday gave rise to a controversy as he said the farmers "would have died at home too".When Dalal was asked about the death of farmers, the minister said, "Wouldn't they still die if they were at home?” In a viral video, the minister can be heard saying in Hindi, "Tell me what's that average age in India and how many (farmers) die every year? They have died in the same ratio. Out of one to two lakh, do 200 people not die in six months? Someone is dying of a heart attack and someone after falling ill."When asked why no condolences have been offered to those who died during the agitation while the Prime Minister expresses grief when people are killed in accidents, Dalal said, "but they didn't die in accidents. They died by choice... Anyway, I offer my deepest condolences to all those who died."The Haryana minister said, “The common farmer is naive, some joined (the protests) due to sympathy, some due to community or for some other reason.”आंदोलन में संघर्षरत अन्नदाताओं के लिए इन शब्दों का प्रयोग एक संवेदनहीन और संस्कारहीन व्यक्ति ही कर सकता है।शर्म, मगर इनको आती नहीं।पहले किसानों को पाकिस्तान व चीन समर्थक बताने वाले हरियाणा के कृषि मंत्री जेपी दलाल को कैबिनेट से बर्खास्त किया जाना चाहिए।#Farmers_Lives_Matter pic.twitter.com/la71GiA7ivAs the video went viral, Congress national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also took to Twitter to slam the minister. “These words can only be used by an insensitive and riteless person for the struggling contributors in the movement. Shame, but they don't know Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, who first described farmers as pro-Pakistan and China, should be dismissed from the cabinet,” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi.Dalal later apologised for his comments and alleged that they were "twisted" and a "wrong meaning" was given to his statement. "During the press conference, I condoled the demise of farmers who died during the protest. Even if a person dies unnaturally, it is painful. As far as the matter of giving the status of martyred is considered, the Jawans are given this status as the government has made policy for it," the minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."My statement was twisted and the wrong meaning was given to it. I saw the video on social media. I tender my apologies if somebody was hurt by my statement. As Haryana's Agriculture Minister, I am working for the welfare of the farmers," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wouldve-died-at-home-too-haryana-minister-on-farmers-deaths-during-protests-101613280935872.html
14-02-2021||India||Cong MP Reddy says BJP implementing East India Company model, says rules empower corporates||Slamming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Telangana Congress working president Revanth Reddy has compared the Centre with the East India Company, alleging that the ruling party is adopting the model of the former coloniser by bringing corporates into every sector, including agriculture.This comment came as Telangana Congress working president's padyatra (foot march), in support of farmers protest, entered Hyderabad on Saturday.The Member of Parliament from Malkajgiri is holding a 10-day-long padayatra which started from Achampeta in Nagarkurnool district and will culminate at Raviryal in Rangareddy district on February 16.Revanth Reddy told ANI, "After trying a lot to convince the Central government to take back the three farm laws that harm the farming community, Centre has not responded to it in a proper way. So, now we from Congress have decided to go on 'padayatra' (march) to support the protest farmers against the farm laws that have been passed by Union Government."Drawing parallels between the Central government and East India Company, Reddy said," This is what happened when East India Company came to the Indian subcontinent. They came for trade and then gradually took control over several kingdoms and rules for several hundred years. BJP is trying to bring the corporates into every sector of work. They are trying to bring in the East India Company Model."On Centre's stand on the farm laws, the Congress leader alleged, "The BJP is bluffing the people and especially the farmers, by making promises about MSP and other promises by word of mouth. There is no guarantee on minimum support price (MSP), there is no provision in the bill that a farmer can approach the courts when they have a problem with the corporates."Further slamming the BJP, Reddy said," The BJP is trying to divert the people of this nation and the farmers of this nation by saying that Congress party is trying to mislead the farmers."He also targeted the Telangana government and alleged that it was walking hand in hand with the Centre. "TRS has shown it support to BJP since the beginning. KCR and Modi are the two sides of the same coin," he alleged.The Central government has offered to put the farm laws "on hold" for 12-18 months, an offer rejected by the farmers' unions protesting against the laws. Several rounds of talks have been held with farmers over their demand for the repeal of three new laws.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-mp-reddy-says-bjp-implementing-east-india-company-model-101613277039560.html
14-02-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena says PM's 'andolanjeevi' jibe also insults freedom movement||Shiv Sena on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ridiculing protesters including farmers agitating against the three farm laws and those who fought for India's independence after he used word 'andolanjeevi' (one who thrives on protests).The editorial of Shiv Sena's mouthpiece Saamana pointed out that the BJP would not have witnessed such a meteoric rise if it had not held protests on several issues, including the Ram temple movement and inflation."Prime Minister Modi has made fun of the country's agitations. The BJP continued its agitation from the emergency to the Ayodhya movement, from inflation to the removal of Article-370 from Kashmir. Had the Ram movement not happened, the BJP would not have been seen today. When PM Modi of that BJP ridicules protesters as 'andolanjeevi', the freedom movement is also insulted," it said."Stop protests in the country. Protest means conspiracy of foreign powers. Some people are only living on the movements. The Prime Minister has ridiculed the activists who took to the road by mentioning the word 'andolanjeevi'. Not only farmers who have been protesting against the agricultural law for three months, those who protested for the country's independence were also ridiculed with his remark," it said.The Shiv Sena also took a jibe at BJP saying that Jana Sangh founder Shyama Prasad Mukherjee protested against the revocation of Article 370 and now his sacrifice is being called 'andolanjeevi'."What should the agitations by BJP be called? BJP held many agitations. Then they were done for political interests and to gain power, that is to say. The abrogation of Article 370 from Kashmir was the biggest movement of BJP's life. Syama Prasad Mukherjee did protest to revoke Article 370. Mukherjee's sacrifice is now called 'andolanjeevi'. When revolutionaries come to power, they take the sacrifice of ideals of revolutionaries first. This is happening in our country," read the editorial.PM Modi first mentioned 'andolanjeevi' word while replying to the motion of thanks on President's address in Rajya Sabha on February 8.He had said a new community has come up in the country - 'andolanjeevi' -- who can be spotted in every protest and are parasite for the nation."We are well aware of some terms like 'Shram Jivi' and 'Buddhi Jivi'. But, I am seeing that from some time a new entity has come up in this country- 'Andolan Jivi'. This community can be spotted wherever there is a protest, be it agitation by lawyers, students, or labourers, sometimes at the forefront and sometimes from behind. They cannot live without protests. We have to identify such people and protect the nation from them. They are parasites," the Prime Minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-says-pm-s-andolanjeevi-jibe-also-insults-freedom-movement-101613275921125.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||As farmers’ stir enters day 81, several Delhi borders remain closed||As farmers continue their agitation against the Centre's agricultural laws, several borders of Delhi remained shut on Sunday, leading to traffic jams and disruption in the national capital. The Delhi Police has advised commuters to take alternative routes.Ghazipur border that connects Delhi with Uttar Pradesh, one of the key borders where protesting farmers have been camping for the past 81 days, continues to be closed. “Gazipur border is closed both carriage way Traffic going Ghaziabad through Murga mandi & Gazipur R/A,road no. 56, Vikas marg, Aanand Vihar IP extention, NH 24. Pl commute from other borders,” the Delhi Police said in a tweet.Follow latest updates on farm stir hereIn another post on the microblogging site, the police informed that Tikri, Dhansa and Jharoda Border are also closed for traffic on both carriageways. Singhu, Piau Maniyari,Harevli, and Mungeshpur borders - all connecting Haryana with the national Capital - also continue to be shut for vehicular movement, according to Delhi Police.“Auchandi, Saboli, Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school & Palla toll tax borders are open,” the police wrote in a post on Twitter.Agitators have been camping at Delhi borders for over two and a half months now to demand the repeal of three farm laws enacted by the government in September last year. Security at the borders was intensified following the violence in the national capital, especially at the Red Fort and central Delhi, on Republic Day during the tractor rally called by farmers. Several arrests have been made in connection with the clashes on January 26, in which one protester died while several were injured on both sides.While the central leadership has ruled out a complete rollback of the legislation, it has again offered to hold talks with farm union leaders. On the other hand, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said that the demonstration may go on for an indefinite period. "Farmers' protest will go on for an indefinite period as there is no plan currently. It might continue till October," he told news agency ANI earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-farmers-stir-enters-day-81-several-delhi-borders-remain-closed-101613272499208.html
14-02-2021||India||Soon, protesters will pay for damage: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said his government is planning to bring a law under which protesters will have to pay for the damage to public properties during any protest.Khattar made the statement on the sidelines of his meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah. “We talked about party matters. We also talked about the farmers’ protest and I gave the Home Minister all the information that I had about dharnas and Kisan mahapanchayats in the state,” he said.Asked about his government’s proposed law against protestors, Haryana CM said, “No, we have not talked about the laws. We have been planning to bring this law even before the farmers’ movement started. Once Supreme Court in its decision had said that nobody had the right to vandalise public property, and we are bringing a law under which people have to pay for damage to public property.”The statement comes amid farmers’ protests across Delhi borders for nearly 3 months over the three new laws, which they say favour big corporations. The Centre has refuted the concerns, and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate.Reiterating the Centre’s stand, Khattar said the three laws are for the benefit of farmers and will give a boost to the agricultural sector. Some people are protesting just for the “sake of protest” and it shows their “vested political intent”, the CM said according to the statement.Farmers would have died even at home: MinisterHaryana agriculture minister JP Dalal on Saturday said farmers would have died even if they had stayed back home. Responding to a query over the “death of 200 farmers” in the ongoing protests, Dalal said: “Had they been at their homes, they would have died there also.” “Listen to me, out of one to two lakh, do 200 people not die in six months?” he asked in response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-protesters-will-pay-for-damage-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-101613251968093.html
14-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu, Iqbal Singh taken to Red Fort to recreate sequence of R-Day clashes||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu and Iqbal Singh, both arrested in connection with the January 26 Red Fort violence, were on Saturday taken to the monument by Delhi Police’s special investigation team (SIT) to recreate the sequence of events leading to vandalism and clashes that erupted there during a tractor rally by farmers protesting against three new agricultural laws.The two were arrested between Monday and Tuesday from near Karnal Bypass in Haryana and Punjab’s Hoshiarpur, respectively. They are presently in the custody of the SIT of the crime branch, which is probing their alleged role in the Red Fort violence on Republic Day. Police have alleged that the two were “prominent players” behind the violence and “instigated the mob” by delivering “provocative speeches”.During the recreation of the crime scene, SIT members asked Sidhu and Iqbal to describe their movements and activities at the Red Fort on January 26, a police officer who did not want to be identified said. They were asked about the passage through which they entered the iconic structure and exited it after religious and farm union flags were hoisted by some protesters.The investigating team inspected the entire scene of violence at the fort to corroborate their claims and to ascertain how things unfolded at the monument, the officer said.The Delhi Police have registered at least 44 cases in connection with the January 26 violence and the incident of January 29, when a group of people, claiming to be locals, entered a farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border and clashed with farmers and police.Three more arrested in Burari violence casePolice on Saturday said they arrested three more persons for the violence near Burari on Republic Day. A total of 146 persons have been arrested for the violence that broke out in different parts of the city on that day.Sukhmeet Singh,35, his brother Gundeep Singh,33, and Harvinder Singh,32, were arrested on Friday, after their presence at the scene were confirmed from video clips and photographs collected by the investigating team, a senior police officer said, requesting anonymity.“We have arrested the three men on the basis of the video footage and cellphone location analysis. Their bikes are also seen at the scene of the violence in Burari. Their exact role in the violence is also being investigated,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-sidhu-iqbal-singh-taken-to-red-fort-to-recreate-sequence-of-r-day-clashes-101613250074727.html
14-02-2021||India||Delhi Police framing innocents: Farm union||Accusing the Delhi Police of framing and arresting “innocent” farmers, the legal team of Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Saturday urged farmers receiving notice from the police to seek their help before making an appearance.The legal team of SKM, the umbrella body of 40 farmer groups protesting against three contentious farm laws, also accused the police of booking farmers under sections of dacoity and attempt to murder with the aim to “implicate” them in “fake cases” and to ensure they don’t receive bail.The legal team also demanded that the cases against farmers be taken back and the Republic Day violence be investigated by a “high-level judicial” team comprising a high court judge and a retired Supreme Court judge.Also Read | Uttarakhand farmers destroy crops after failing to get buyers, proper rates“Since the police are arresting farmers by calling them by issuing notice, we urge all such farmers to first approach our legal team who will assist them at every step. The farmers receiving these summons should not visit the police without our lawyers,” Prem Singh Bhangu, convener of SKM’s legal team, said at a news briefing at Singhu Border. “All arrested farmers are sons of the SKM. We’ll fight your battle,” Bhangu added.So far, the police have arrested 122 people for their alleged involvement in violence and vandalism during a tractor rally on Republic Day. These arrests were followed by the registration of 44 FIRs related to the violence.Bhangu said that since these arrests were based on only a few of the FIRs, more arrests on the pretext of appearance in response to police notices were expected in the near future.“The police booked farmers under sections of dacoity and attempt to murder. We are agitators, not criminals. Did the police receive even a single complaint from any shopkeeper on Republic Day of theft of even peanuts that they registered cases of dacoity?” Bhangu said.On Friday, members of the legal team visited farmers lodged in Tihar Jail and informed them that a team of around 150 lawyers was working to seek bail for them. “We will also be sending monetary help to the jailed farmers by Monday,” said Bhangu.Bhangu also promised help from Monday in recovering farmers’ tractors and other vehicles that are currently in police custody.Members of the legal team also said that of the 38 farmers reported missing after the Republic Day incident, most have been traced and only 16 remain to be found. They said that while some of the missing men were traced to jail, others reached their homes.“Investigation is going on and whoever is served the notice has to join the investigation,” said Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson for the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-framing-innocents-farm-union-101613244573983.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||Two elderly men nabbed for Republic Day violence make bail||Two elderly men from Punjab — Gurkmukh Singh,80, and Jeet Singh, 70 — who had been arrested by Delhi Police for assaulting security personnel during the Republic Day violence, were granted bail by a city court on Friday.The two are the eldest, among the 146 persons arrested for the violence on January 26, so far. The court while granting the bail took into account the age of the two men, the fact that they had no criminal past and the fact that they had served in the defence forces.Friday’s bail for the elderly duo also meant that the number of people who had received bail after being arrested for their alleged involvement in the Republic Day violence so far jumped to six. Papers seen by Hindustan Times, show that in these six cases, the courts observed that the men had no criminal record and were merely picked up from the spots of violence. In one case, where three men were arrested, the court noted that police are yet to connect them directly with the violence.To be sure, the six are only out on bail and are yet to be cleared of the charges. As part of the probe and legal process, police will gather evidence against the six men and present it in their charge sheet. The court will then start trial against the six men. The courts have directed the six men to not leave the country without permission and not to threaten or influence witnesses or complainants.Sample this observation by a city court in FIR 50 registered by the Baba Haridas Nagar police. Police had arrested three men for allegedly assaulting police personnel when they were asked not to deviate from the pre-approved route of the farmers tractor rally.The court observed that the alleged rioters Jaswinder Singh, Lovepreet Singh and Ramdeep Singh, were on a motorcycle at the spot of the violence on January 26 but police are yet to link them to the violence. “...It is observed by the court that nowhere in the reply, it has been averred as to what was the role of the accused/applicant...The court has also observed that there is no specific involvement of the accused/applicant in any violence or breaking of the barricade in the present case,” the court said, while granting bail to the three men. The court also observed that the three did not have a criminal record.Jaswinder, Lovepreet and Ramandeep were the first to get bail on February 8.In another case, related to the violence in Uttam Nagar, police had arrested Sandeep Kumar. Delhi police had alleged that Kumar was part of an unlawful assembly that indulged in riots and caused injuries to nine persons. Police also said that the mob, of which Kumar was a part, damaged public property. The court while granting Kumar bail observed that the police report was “conspicuously silent” about the role of Kumar’s criminal antecedents. Kumar’s lawyers had said that he was a bystander who owns an iron rods shop where the violence happened. The court observed that because police had not given any report of Kumar’s antecedents, there was no reason to his submission that he had clear antecedents. The court during the hearing also observed that in the same case, another accused person was released by the police after issuing a notice, but Kumar was arrested.In response to the release of the six men on bail, former MLA and president of the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, said, “Delhi police have arrested many innocent farmers for the violence that day. The DSGMC is working with a panel of lawyers and offering pro-bono services to ensure that all innocent people arrested are released on bail at the earliest.”While Delhi police spokesperson DCP Chinmoy Biswal was not available for a response, a senior Delhi police officer who did not wish to be named, said, “Bail is a legal process and the right of the accused. We have arrested 143 persons. We have evidence, which is why the courts have not given bail in other cases. There are more than 100 people arrested for the violence. The circumstances of the arrest of each person and their specific crime are bound to be different, even if the main allegation is of rioting. There are also prominent people, like Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and Iqbal Singh, against whom we have concrete evidence. We have presented the evidence gathered (so far) against him in court. Also, we have arrest only 143 persons, when the mob comprised of a larger number. We arrest only those who were violent that day. Further investigations are on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-elderly-men-nabbed-for-r-day-violence-make-bail-101613238693813.html
14-02-2021||India||‘Would’ve died at home too’: Haryana minister on farmers’ deaths during protests||Haryana agriculture minister Jai Prakash Dalal’s comments on farmers' deaths during the ongoing protests against Centre’s new farm laws on Saturday gave rise to a controversy as he said the farmers "would have died at home too".When Dalal was asked about the death of farmers, the minister said, "Wouldn't they still die if they were at home?” In a viral video, the minister can be heard saying in Hindi, "Tell me what's that average age in India and how many (farmers) die every year? They have died in the same ratio. Out of one to two lakh, do 200 people not die in six months? Someone is dying of a heart attack and someone after falling ill."When asked why no condolences have been offered to those who died during the agitation while the Prime Minister expresses grief when people are killed in accidents, Dalal said, "but they didn't die in accidents. They died by choice... Anyway, I offer my deepest condolences to all those who died."The Haryana minister said, “The common farmer is naive, some joined (the protests) due to sympathy, some due to community or for some other reason.”आंदोलन में संघर्षरत अन्नदाताओं के लिए इन शब्दों का प्रयोग एक संवेदनहीन और संस्कारहीन व्यक्ति ही कर सकता है।शर्म, मगर इनको आती नहीं।पहले किसानों को पाकिस्तान व चीन समर्थक बताने वाले हरियाणा के कृषि मंत्री जेपी दलाल को कैबिनेट से बर्खास्त किया जाना चाहिए।#Farmers_Lives_Matter pic.twitter.com/la71GiA7ivAs the video went viral, Congress national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also took to Twitter to slam the minister. “These words can only be used by an insensitive and riteless person for the struggling contributors in the movement. Shame, but they don't know Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, who first described farmers as pro-Pakistan and China, should be dismissed from the cabinet,” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi.Dalal later apologised for his comments and alleged that they were "twisted" and a "wrong meaning" was given to his statement. "During the press conference, I condoled the demise of farmers who died during the protest. Even if a person dies unnaturally, it is painful. As far as the matter of giving the status of martyred is considered, the Jawans are given this status as the government has made policy for it," the minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."My statement was twisted and the wrong meaning was given to it. I saw the video on social media. I tender my apologies if somebody was hurt by my statement. As Haryana's Agriculture Minister, I am working for the welfare of the farmers," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wouldve-died-at-home-too-haryana-minister-on-farmers-deaths-during-protests-101613280935872.html
14-02-2021||Delhi||As farmers’ stir enters day 81, several Delhi borders remain closed||As farmers continue their agitation against the Centre's agricultural laws, several borders of Delhi remained shut on Sunday, leading to traffic jams and disruption in the national capital. The Delhi Police has advised commuters to take alternative routes.Ghazipur border that connects Delhi with Uttar Pradesh, one of the key borders where protesting farmers have been camping for the past 81 days, continues to be closed. “Gazipur border is closed both carriage way Traffic going Ghaziabad through Murga mandi & Gazipur R/A,road no. 56, Vikas marg, Aanand Vihar IP extention, NH 24. Pl commute from other borders,” the Delhi Police said in a tweet.Follow latest updates on farm stir hereIn another post on the microblogging site, the police informed that Tikri, Dhansa and Jharoda Border are also closed for traffic on both carriageways. Singhu, Piau Maniyari,Harevli, and Mungeshpur borders - all connecting Haryana with the national Capital - also continue to be shut for vehicular movement, according to Delhi Police.“Auchandi, Saboli, Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school & Palla toll tax borders are open,” the police wrote in a post on Twitter.Agitators have been camping at Delhi borders for over two and a half months now to demand the repeal of three farm laws enacted by the government in September last year. Security at the borders was intensified following the violence in the national capital, especially at the Red Fort and central Delhi, on Republic Day during the tractor rally called by farmers. Several arrests have been made in connection with the clashes on January 26, in which one protester died while several were injured on both sides.While the central leadership has ruled out a complete rollback of the legislation, it has again offered to hold talks with farm union leaders. On the other hand, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said that the demonstration may go on for an indefinite period. "Farmers' protest will go on for an indefinite period as there is no plan currently. It might continue till October," he told news agency ANI earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-farmers-stir-enters-day-81-several-delhi-borders-remain-closed-101613272499208.html
