15-02-2021||India||Supreme Court panel on farm laws holds consultations with agri-professionals, academicians||The Supreme Court-appointed committee on the new farm laws on Monday said it held consultations with eminent academicians and agri-professionals on the legislations against which farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders for over two months now.This is the seventh meeting the panel has held so far. The three-member committee is holding consultations with stakeholders both online and in person.In a statement, the committee said it held a detailed discussion with academicians and professionals on Monday through video conferencing."In total, 7 eminent academicians and professionals in the field participated through video conferencing for detailed deliberations with the committee members," it said.The committee members requested the participants to give their views on the three farm laws. "All the participating professionals and academicians gave their detailed views and suggestions...," the statement said.The Supreme Court had on January 12 stayed the implementation of the three contentious farm laws for two months and asked the committee to submit a report within two months after consulting the concerned stakeholders.Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over two months now seeking repeal of the new legislations, introduced by the Centre last year, saying they are pro-corporate and could weaken the mandi system.The 11 rounds of the talks between the Centre and 41 protesting farmer unions has so far remained deadlocked even though the former has offered concessions including suspension of the legislations for 18 months, which the unions have rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-panel-on-farm-laws-holds-consultations-with-agri-professionals-academicians-101613389915732.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for Jalgaon truck accident victims and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jalgaon accident: PM Modi approves ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each for victims' kinPrime Minister Narendra Modi has approved an ex-gratia amount of ₹200,000 each for the families of the labourers who were killed in a truck accident in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district. Read moreMark Butcher says Ashwin is a 'fine all-round cricketer'Former England cricketer Mark Butcher praised India off-spinner R Ashwin for his aggressive approach with the bat on Day 3 of the 2nd Test in Chennai. Read moreDia Mirza-Vaibhav Rekhi wedding: Actor poses as 'bride-to-be', shares mehendi picActor Dia Mirza may not be saying it in as many words, but she is all set to tie the knot with Vaibhav Rekhi. Read moreCitroen C5 Aircross SUV first drive review: Comfort food on four wheelsThere is something about French food that brings about a romantic flavour to the taste buds - something classy yet comforting. Much of the same delectable aura is what the Citroen C5 Aircross also brings about to the passenger vehicle segment in India. Read moreNeena Gupta goes walking in style, accessorises track suit with neon fanny packNeena Gupta is ageing like fine wine. The actor who is reversing in age has lately won a lot of accolades for her work. However, that is not all, Gupta is very famous for her fashion choices and her workout routines as well. Read more‘Pawri Hori Hai’ girl vibes to mashup track on her own video. Netizens love itPakistani influencer Dananeer Mobeen became the talk of the town after Yashraj Mukhate of Rasode Me Kaun Tha-fame dropped a fun mashup track featuring one of Mobeen’s clips. Read more‘Their sons guard our borders’: Priyanka Gandhi on PM Modi’s ‘parijeevi’ remarkPriyanka Gandhi said that the Prime Minister insulted and made fun of the protesting farmers by calling them ‘parijeevi’ in Parliament. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-101613386208850.html
15-02-2021||India||From opposition in the country to global leaders, all come in support of Disha Ravi||Internet in India is raging against the government's move to arrest a 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi for supporting the farmers' protest. Ravi has been accused of editing and sharing the social media “toolkit” document by Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg that promoted the protests. The Delhi Police arrested Ravi on Saturday from her home city Bengaluru. The police claimed that she was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and " key conspirator" in its formulation and distribution.On Sunday, a Delhi court ordered Ravi in police custody for five days.Leaders from all over the world and across the political spectrum have come together in her support while condemning the government for trying to kill dissent in a democracy. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter against what he said was an attack on democracy.Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, P Chidambaram, Shashi Tharoor and many others also tweeted in her support and demanded her immediate release.बोल कि लब आज़ाद हैं तेरेबोल कि सच ज़िंदा है अब तक!वो डरे हैं, देश नहीं!India won’t be silenced. pic.twitter.com/jOXWdXLUzYयदि माउंट कार्मेल कॉलेज की 22 वर्षीया छात्रा और जलवायु कार्यकर्ता दिशा रवि देश के लिए खतरा बन गई है, तो भारत बहुत ही कमजोर बुनियाद पर खड़ा है।
15-02-2021||Delhi||As law and order situation improves in Delhi, CRPF withdraws nodal officers||After considering law and order situation in Delhi, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has withdrawn all its nodal officers deployed in the national capital.The CRPF, which has contributed the majority of additional troops sent to Delhi, has asked officers to join back to their respective posts.These officers who were deployed after January 26 violence, were performing duty as nodal officers to maintain law and order situation. They were deployed after Delhi Police requested for paramilitary forces to control on ground mob situation.Follow latest updates on farm stir here Officers of ranks of Deputy Inspector General (DIG), equivalent to the Additional Commissioner in Delhi and Commandant who is equivalent to Deputy Commissioner of Police were deployed in Delhi.According to a recent letter, CRPF has said the decision has been taken after law and order has been improved in Delhi."Since law and order situation in Delhi has been improved, hence as desired by competent authority, DIGs, Commandants and other officers deployed by the headquarters as nodal officer for law and order deployment dated 26/1/2021 and 29/1/2021 are now withdrawn," CRPF said in a letter.This aside, CRPF has clarified that other unit heads will continue to supervise and coordinate in their respective units.Last week, CRPF DG had gone to meet Home Minister Amit Shah in the parliament, though the agenda of the meeting was not disclosed. Also, Commissioner of Police, Delhi held a meeting with top police officials to review deployment in the national capital.Recently, the ministry of home affairs had extended deployment of 31 Central Reserve Police Force companies including 16 Rapid Action Force (RAF) companies for Delhi-NCR, in view of farmers' protests.Earlier, the Centre had extended deployment period of four companies of Rapid Action Force till February 4 to maintain law and order in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-law-and-order-situation-improves-in-delhi-crpf-withdraws-nodal-officers-101613377485108.html
15-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi’s arrest in 'toolkit case' unprecedented attack on democracy: Arvind Kejriwal||A day after Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi was sent to police custody for five days over her involvement in the ‘toolkit case’, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that her arrest is an unprecedented attack on democracy.“Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime,” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.Follow latest updates on farm stir here Ravi was arrested by the cyber crime unit of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday as she was one of the editors of a toolkit that according to the police “indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence during the farmers' tractor rally in the national capital.The police have alleged that Ravi shared the toolkit with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, who posted it on Twitter, and later deleted it on the directions of the former after “its incriminating details accidentally got into the public domain”.Also Read: Who is Disha Ravi? Here’s how the 22-yr-old activist is linked to Greta Thunberg“In this process, they all collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State,” the Delhi Police’s official handle posted on the microblogging site.A court on Sunday remanded the Bengaluru activist to five day in police custody. The police had sought a remand of seven days to “unearth her connections with the Sikhs for Justice”. Ravi, who has been named as a "key conspirator" by the police in the document's formulation and dissemination, broke down during the hearing and refuted allegations of conspiring against the government. She said she edited “just two lines” as she supported the farmers.The police are also on the lookout for two more suspects - Shantanu and Nikita - in the toolkit case and are conducting raids in Mumbai and several other places, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported.Ravi is associated with a climate activist group called Fridays for Future, which was started by Greta Thunberg in 2018. The Bengaluru-based activist started the India chapter of FFF in 2019 and heads the organisation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-s-arrest-in-toolkit-case-unprecedented-attack-on-democracy-arvind-kejriwal-101613365664438.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farm laws protests affect traffic at Delhi's borders and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders shut, traffic divertedDelhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed at multiple points on Monday as the ongoing farmers’ agitation entered its 82nd day on Monday. Read more here.Dacoits gun down passenger in bus robbery in JharkhandThe robbery occurred between 3.30 am and 4 am while the bus was on the way to Biharsharif, Bihar from Kolkata. Read more here. Opinion: Delhi must take the long view on Dhaka The relationship is robust, thanks to Sheikh Hasina. But to rely only on the skills of one leader may not be enough. Read more here. India vs England: 'This Chennai pitch is unacceptable at Test match level,' says Mark WaughThe 2nd day of the Test between the two teams saw the surface assisting spinners in troubling the batsmen. Read more here. When Randhir Kapoor spoke about separation with Babita, denied need for divorce: 'I don’t intend to get married again'On Randhir Kapoor's birthday, let us look at his long endearing friendship with wife Babita. Read more here. Watch: Gujarat CM faints on stage during rally, PM Modi calls to check on him||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farm-laws-protests-affect-traffic-at-delhis-101613358398473.html
15-02-2021||India||Support pours in for Disha Ravi across quarters after arrest||Farmer unions grouping Samyukta Kisan Morcha, former environment minister Jairam Ramesh and activists from across the country on Sunday criticised the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with the probe into the ‘toolkit’, a document, related to the ongoing farmers protest against the three farm laws that seek to deregulate the agricultural trade.Delhi Police’s cyber crime unit arrested 22-year-old Ravi on Saturday night from her house in North Bengaluru. She has been booked for sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy, among other offences. A Delhi court on Sunday sent her to five days in police custody.“Samyukt Kisan Morcha condemns the arrest of young climate change activist Disha Ravi, who stood in support of the farmers. We also demand her immediate unconditional release,” said farmer leader Darshan Pal in a statement on Sunday.A statement, signed by at least 78 activists, academics and individuals from across the country, said, “Young environmental activists, that the country should be proud of, are the latest victims of the Centre’s continuing efforts to delegitimize the ongoing farmers’ protest and the nationwide solidarity it has generated. Disha has reportedly been picked up for sharing an advocacy toolkit inviting solidarity with the farmers’ protests outside Delhi, which was shared by noted teen climate change activist Greta Thunberg.”“Delhi Police’s actions are all the more sinister because the 21-year old was taken to Delhi from Bengaluru with no disclosure about her whereabouts, not even to her parents, an action that can be termed extra-judicial abduction,” read the statement signed by Ashish Kothari, Kalpavrish, Pune; Kavita Krishnan, AIPWA; Amit Kumar, Delhi Solidarity Group, New Delhi and Dunu Roy, Hazards Centre, New Delhi among others.Former environment minister Jairam Ramesh also criticised action against Ravi. “Completely atrocious! This is unwarranted harassment and intimidation. I express my full solidarity with Disha Ravi,” he tweeted.Ravi, a graduate from Mount Carmel college, is part of a climate activist organisation, Fridays For Future, started by Thunberg, a few years ago, to promote action against climate change across the world in 2018.She started FFF in India in 2019 and heads the organization in India. She also coordinated various campaigns across India on climate change. She also organised a protests in Bengaluru on climate issues and wrote in different media across the world on adverse impacts of climate change.“She was very vocal about her views on climate change and the issues she felt about strongly,” said a friend of Ravi, who was not willing to be named.In an interview to Auto Report Africa in 2020, Ravi claimed that her motivation to become a climate activist stemmed from watching her grandparents, who are farmers, struggle with the effects of climate change.The arrest of Ravi comes in the backdrop of a crackdown on those associated with violence during a tractor rally taken out farmers in Delhi on Republic Day. The rally, which was supposed to travel through pre-approved routes, descended into chaos after farmers on tractors broke police barricades and entered central Delhi, where they clashed with police and damaged public property.Some groups also reached Red Fort where they clashed with security personnel, damaged property and unfurled flags at the ramparts of the fort.At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers sustained injuries during the clashes. One farmer died in the protests after his tractor overturned after ramming into a police barricade at ITO.The Delhi police on February 4 registered an FIR for sedition, promoting hatred among groups and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after the Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted the ‘toolkit’ while expressing her support to the farmers protest in India.Meanwhile, students in Bengaluru held a symbolic protest in support of Ravi on Sunday.In a video circulated on social media on Sunday, a protester was seen handing over saplings to a police officer and asked how she was allowed to arrest by Delhi police without informing the local police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/support-pours-in-for-disha-ravi-across-quarters-after-arrest-101613342317896.html
15-02-2021||India||Cops announce ₹1 lakh reward for info on Sidhana in R-Day probe||The Delhi Police on Sunday announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for any information that may lead to the arrest of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted for his alleged role in the violence that unfolded during the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital on January 26.The Delhi police are conducting search operations to arrest Sidhana across Punjab, Haryana as well as the National Capital Region.Police are also looking into Sidhana’s connections with actor Deep Sidhu who was arrested earlier from Karnal in Haryana last week by a Delhi olice team.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, confirmed that ₹1 lakh reward was announced for Sidhana on Sunday.Sidhana’s role in the January 26 violence surfaced after he released a video on social media demanding Sidhu to be reased. Sidhu was also carrying a cash reward of Rs1 lakh on his arrest.Police suspect that like Sidhu, Sidhana is also switching locations between Punjab and Haryana. Multiple teams of Delhi police’s crime branch and special cell are raiding possible hideouts to arrest Sidhana, officials said.On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers stormed Delhi that led to violent clashes between the security forces and farmers. A group of farmers also stormed the Red Fort on the day, and hosted religious flags there. More than 500 police personnel were injured in the clashes on Republic Day.The Delhi police have so far arrested at least 143 persons in 40 cases registered at different police stations related to the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-announce-rs-1-lakh-reward-for-info-on-sidhana-in-r-day-probe-101613339249723.html
15-02-2021||India||22-yr-old activist, Disha Ravi, held for ‘protest toolkit’||Delhi Police’s cyber crime unit has arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from her house in North Bengaluru for allegedly sharing on social media the toolkit related to the farmers’ protests against the laws aimed at opening up trade in agriculture, police said on Sunday.Delhi police on Sunday said in a tweet that it was Ravi who had shared the toolkit document with Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg and later asked the latter to remove the document after its incriminating details accidentally became public knowledge.Ravi was arrested on Saturday night. Ravi, who was booked for sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy, among other offences, was produced at a city court on Sunday after which she was sent to five days in police custody.Delhi police’s additional spokesperson Anil Mittal confirmed that Ravi had been arrested from Bengaluru by a team of the special cell that is probing a conspiracy angle related to the toolkit document.“Investigation has revealed that she was one of the editors of the Google toolkit document and a key conspirator in the document’s formulation and dissemination,” Mittal said, adding that further investigations in the case were in progress. Police have not ruled out a possibility of more arrests in the case.Delhi police on February 4 registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 124A (sedition), 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after Thunberg tweeted the toolkit while expressing her support to the farmers’ protest in India.The police have claimed that the toolkit was put together by a “pro-Khalistani group” named Poetic Justice Foundation. Thunberg later deleted the original tweet. The FIR was registered against the people who created and spread the toolkit.On Sunday, Delhi police, in a series of tweets, said that Ravi had started a WhatsApp group and collaborated in the effort to prepare the toolkit document.One of the tweets read, “Disha Ravi, arrested by CyPAD Delhi Police, is an Editor of the Toolkit Google Doc & key conspirator in document’s formulation & dissemination. She started WhatsApp Group & collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc.”One tweet said Delhi Police had taken cognizance of a ‘Toolkit Document’ found on a social media platform that predates and indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the January 26 violence in the capital during a tractors rally organised by protesting farmers.The call was to wage economic, social, cultural and regional war against India, the tweet said.Another tweet said, “In this process, they all collaborated with pro Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. She was the one who shared the Toolkit Doc with Greta Thunberg.”The police also said that “she (Ravi) asked Greta to remove the main Doc after its incriminating details accidentally got into public domain. This is many times more than the 2 lines editing that she claims.”Ravi is founder of a group named Fridays For Future (FFF) and has a bachelor’s degree in business administration.According to the Delhi Police officials, Ravi is a key lead in the “toolkit” case as she had admitted during the initial interrogation to editing, adding some things in the toolkit and spreading it further.Last week, Delhi Police sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which a “toolkit” related to the farmers’ protest was created and uploaded on the social media platforms.Two e-mail IDs, one Instagram account, and one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) were mentioned in the toolkit and police had sought details from the respective platforms.Farmers have been protesting at different border points of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They claim that the laws would weaken their bargaining power, leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses and potentially lead to the dismantling of government-run farm produce markets and the system of minimum support prices for agricultural commodities.The Coalition for Environmental Justice in India said in a statement signed by at least 78 activists from across the country on Sunday: “Delhi Police’s actions are all the more sinister because the 21-year old was taken to Delhi from Bengaluru with no disclosure about her whereabouts, not even to her parents, an action that can be termed extra-judicial abduction.”Ravi sent to five days of police custodyA city court on Sunday allowed the police five days of custody to interrogate the 22-year-old.Metropolitan magistrate Dev Saroha remanded Ravi to custody of the Special Cell of the Delhi Police following her arrest from Bengaluru. The police had sought a remand of seven days to “unearth her connections with the organization, Sikhs for Justice and its founder Patwant Singh Pannu.”Ravi was not represented by any private counsel during the hearing, following which the city court provided her a Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) lawyer.During the hearing, she broke down and refuted allegations that she was conspiring against the government. She said she edited “just two lines” as she supported the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22yrold-activist-held-for-protest-toolkit-101613336381146.html
15-02-2021||India||Farmers, Hindutva, businesses: The trinity of political economy||On January 27, farm leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional appeal provided a fresh momentum to the farm protests, with Jats joining in large numbers. The Centre, fearing another January 26-like violent episode, responded with heavy police presence and barricades, and shutting down the internet in Delhi’s adjoining areas. These images added to the perception of State coercion, which led to global criticism, symbolised by the artiste Rihanna’s tweet. This, in turn, triggered a government response.But beyond these immediate responses, there is a deeper story of a shift in India’s political economy.Let us start with a simple question. Why did Tikait’s appeal, when faced with police attempts to vacate the protest site, go viral? Clearly, Jats perceived Tikait’s possible arrest or persecution as the State coming down on the legacy of his father, Mahendra Singh Tikait — a legendary farm leader, whose struggle earned him the status of a demigod in his community. When Rakesh Tikait was seen as facing the State’s might while fighting for a cause which his father championed, the community responded overwhelmingly.Read more: 'So much truth': Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter lends support to protesting farmersRemember, the same Jat peasantry consolidated behind the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the Muzafffarnagar riots of 2013. Even before the riots, Jat khap panchayats had gained notoriety for persecuting marriages in violation of what the community considered acceptable. Progressives who are, today, celebrating khap panchayats condemning farm laws used to describe them as medieval institutions back then. The BJP, having used the same khap institutions for its Hindutva project, is, now, in the unenviable position of discrediting them and inviting more backlash.But this does not necessarily mean that the dominant value system among Jats has undergone a shift. What is more likely is a shift in the dominant political contradiction. Jats may have been alarmed about the real or perceived clout of Muslims with a Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh. That is not the case anymore. Political friendships change with political equations. It is to be seen whether anti-BJP parties can exploit what seems to be the muting of Hindutva as the primary contradiction among a dominant peasant community such as the Jats. When clubbed with the discontent among other dominant peasant communities such as Patidars and Marathas, this can be a potential political game changer. But this is not inevitable. If the BJP continues to consolidate non-dominant communities, who have an antagonistic social relation with the dominant peasant groups, such attempts will fail. So the electoral implication of the current shift will hinge on how successfully the Opposition is able to manage the conflict between the landed and non-landed sections of the peasantry.Read more: Bengaluru activist Disha Ravi held in Greta Thunberg's protest toolkit caseLet us now come to the question of international liberal anguish over the protests. While the outpouring seems to be driven by State’s high-handed response, do remember that the origins of these protests are economic in nature as against the primarily identity-based discontent triggered by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.Interestingly, the Indian State is acting in keeping with the economic orthodoxy, championed by capitalist countries of the West, in pushing for the farm laws. World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules prohibit India from expanding the scope or coverage of the minimum support price (MSP) system, a key demand of the farmers. While it is unfair to raise this question to celebrities, is liberal opinion in the West willing to support the material demands of Indian farmers, which go against the interests of what continues to be heavily subsidised export-oriented agriculture in advanced countries?This contradiction does not limit itself to agriculture. Both international and domestic capital would like to see greater deregulation in India. However, each such attempt is likely to trigger deeper domestic unrest. This happened during the push to allow greater room for land acquisition. Farm protests are driven by fears that big business will abuse its dominant position in the farm-economy. Privatisation of government banks and insurance companies, where trade unions still have some clout, is not likely to be smooth either.Watch: Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter visits farmers' protest site in GhazipurEconomic reforms are not new. But, 30 years after the 1991 transition, what has changed? The Marxist perspective of character of the Indian bourgeoisie offers clues. After Independence, there was a broad consensus between the political and economic elite about a State-led growth strategy. Big business was willing to cede leadership to the State because it lacked access to capital and could not surmount the challenges of technology and competition from foreign producers.As the economy grew, at least a section of big capital in India gained the ability to compete. Their opposition to reforms dipped. To be sure, there have been attempts to tailor reforms, especially regarding allowing foreign competitors, to suit strategic needs of big business groups. But the big picture is of a new consensus between the State and big domestic capital to pursue reforms.The basic contradiction around reforms, in a way, has shifted from one between domestic and foreign capital to one between the organised and unorganised sector, where the former is interested in usurping a larger part of the surplus which is generated in the latter. Marxists describe this as the process of primitive capitalist accumulation. This process is likely to add to overall growth. However, it is also likely to leave a majority of stakeholders in the unorganised sector with less than what they were getting in the pre-reform phase.The BJP has attempted to politically neutralise any discontent from this distress with the implementation of various welfare schemes. While such programmes can attract the poorest of the poor, they are unlikely to pacify the more dominant elements in the unorganised sector. Although insignificant when compared to India’s big business, the economic standing of this class makes them less susceptible to such welfare inducements.Watch: 'On farmers’ protest, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau commended India's efforts': MEAThis class has, so far, suffered indirectly due to economic reforms. But it has not had reasons to directly confront them. The 1991 reforms, which altered the relationship between domestic capital, foreign capital and the State, have been called “reforms by stealth” — but worked because of their relatively limited scope. Those affected by reforms are a much larger pool now, and stealth isn’t an option. That the protests against the farm laws have erupted at a time when the non-farm economy has contracted and farming has emerged as a sort of employer of last resort might only have added to the sense of siege.All these developments mark the beginning of an impossible trinity for both sides in India’s political economy.The BJP can keep dominant peasant communities happy by focusing on Hindutva, but that is unlikely to help it in winning support from big business. The ideological commitment to belief in big-business led growth aside, the latter is crucial for the centralised political finance model that the BJP has institutionalised. And attempts to keep pushing Hindutva and reform are likely to ferment civic unrest, which is likely to draw international ire.For the BJP’s opponents, attempts to push social reform or radical secularism are likely to alienate the dominant Hindu social elite. Completely abandoning these principles is likely to push minorities towards their own political formations. Taking an outright hostile position against economic reforms will have costs — especially for the Congress, which too, has been historically dependent on big business funding. And not taking a critical position will lose it the support of the emerging constituencies of discontent.Indian politics is likely to be determined by how well both political camps handle these impossible trinities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-hindutva-businesses-the-trinity-of-political-economy-101613331779484.html
15-02-2021||NA||Highlights| PM hopping to poll bound states, but has no time for farmers: D Raja||The protest against the three farm laws which has been going on for the past 11 weeks have shown no signs of easing as the deadlock between protesting farmers’ unions representatives and the Centre remains unresolved.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday said that farmers did not deserve to be called parasites by the government and said that they will reply back with ‘diplomatic punishment’ while speaking in reference to PM Narendra Modi’s speech in Parliament.Farmers’ union representatives have also demanded that all those who were jailed for violence on January 26 should be kept in the same jail.Meanwhile, a Delhi court has remanded Disha Ravi, a climate activist who has been arrested for alleged role in spreading a "toolkit" on farmers' protest, to five-day Delhi Police Special Cell custody.Follow all the updates here:PM hopping to poll bound states, but has no time for farmers, says D RajaCPI general secretary D Raja hit out at the Centre on Sunday over the ongoing farmers' agitation and said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was hopping to poll- bound states but had no time to address farmers' concerns and meet their representatives.Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemns Disha Ravi's arrest, demands immediate releaseThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemned the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi by the Delhi Police during the investigation into the toolkit case and demanded her immediate release. "We demand her immediate unconditional release," SKM said in the statement.Farm laws will finish public distribution system: TikatiBKU's Tikait also said that the new farm laws will finish the public distribution system and added that business on hunger would not be allowed in the country.Won't let Centre sit in peace till demands are met, says TikaitWon't let govt sit in peace till the farmers' demands are met: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait at farmer 'mahapanchayat' in Haryana's Karnal district. #FarmLawsBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Sunday he won't let the Centre sit in peace till the demands of the protesting farmers are met.Farmers' participate in Candle march on 2nd anniversary of Pulwama attack at Ghazipur borderFarmers' protesting against the Centre's three news farm laws at the Ghazipur border in the national capital were seen taking part in a candle march on the second anniversary of the Pulwama attack. Pakistan based- terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed carried out the ghastly attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy of vehicles in Pulwama on February 14, 2019 which resulted in the death of 40 CRPF personnel.Disha Ravi 'key conspirator' in toolkit's formulation: PoliceDisha Ravi, arrested by Delhi Police, is an Editor of the Toolkit Google Doc & key conspirator in document's formulation & dissemination. She started WhatsApp Group & collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc: Delhi Police https://t.co/nsuXuuNZJ3 pic.twitter.com/fYB8koJnfjIndian diaspora groups in US launch rose campaign in support of farmersIndian diaspora groups in the United States launched a rose campaign in support of the farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three new farm laws. The Global Indian Progressive Diaspora (GIPD) launched the social media campaign on Valentine's Day, which is observed globally on February 14, according to PTI.Climate activist Disha Ravi remanded to 5-day Delhi Police Special Cell custodyA Delhi court remands climate activist Disha Ravi to 5-day Delhi Police Special Cell custodyA Delhi Court has remanded Disha Ravi, a climate activist who has been arrested for alleged role in spreading a "toolkit" on farmers' protest, to five-day Delhi Police Special Cell custody.Activist Yogendra Yadav remembers CRPF soldiers killed in Pulwamaदेश के लिए अपना सर्वोच्च बलिदान देने वाले सभी अमर शहीदों को नमन।जय हिंद, जय हिंद की सेना।#PulwamaAttack @crpfindia pic.twitter.com/zLMZP5gzsOActivist Yogendra Yadav, who has been actively supporting the protests by farmers' unions representatives paid tribute to the 40 slain CRPF officers who lost their lives in Pulwama.Farmer leader Joginder Singh says laws will empower major companiesJoginder Singh Ugrahan Talking About Dangerous Three Farm Laws#FarmersProstest @amaanbali @bhupenderc19 @HartoshSinghBal @Tractor2twitr @ndtv pic.twitter.com/0SydGjvdnUFarmer leader Joginder Singh said that the farm laws will pave the path for multinational companies to earn profits from the agricultural sector.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait remembers CRPF personnel murdered in Pulwama"पुलवामा हमले" में शहीद हुए मां भारती के लाल सभी वीर सपूतों की पुण्यतिथि पर उन्हें समस्त किसान परिवार की ओर से श्रद्धांजलि,कोटि-कोटि नमन l #पुलवामा_शहीद_दिवस #पुलवामाTikait said that all farmers and their families pay their deepest respect to CRPF jawans who were killed in the Pulwama suicide attack.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi to address Kisan MahapnachayatsCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi will address kisan panchayats at Chandpur, Mathura and Muzaffarnagar on Feb 15, 19 and 20 respectively, news agency PTI reported.BSP demands JP Dalal's resignationBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) asked Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar to take action against agri minister JP Dalal for his remarks on farmers' deaths during the protests. Sudhindra Bhadoria told news agency ANI that the lawmaker abused farmers who died amid the protests. "BSP believes in the Constitution and does not support violence anywhere. There is no place for violence during any kind of protest. The Constitution and democracy allow peaceful protests. But Chief Minister of Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar should also speak about his minister who is abusing the death of farmers during agitation. The Chief Minister should also tell the whole country and should take action against his minister." Bhadoria was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Police annouce reward of ₹1 lakh for information on Lakha SidhanaPolice have announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information leading to arrest of 26th January Delhi violence accused Lakhbir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana. Teams of Delhi Police Crime Branch and Special Cell are conducting search operations in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR.The gangster-turned-activist is being accused of instigating violence during the tractor rally on January 26. DPCC arrests climate activist for alleged role in spreading misinformationDelhi Police Cyber Cell arrested 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru on 13th February for her alleged role in spreading 'toolkit' related to farmers protestA climate activist Disha Ravi has been arrested by Delhi Police Cyber Cell. Disha is based in Bengaluru and was arrested on Saturday. Haryana Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash apologises for remarks on farmers' deathsHaryana Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal said that his remarks on farmers' deaths were twisted and contorted to give a wrong impression. The lawmakers issued an apology saying that he never intended to hurt farmers. "Would not they have died if they were at home? Had they been at their homes, they would have died there also. Out of one to two lakh, do 200 people not die in six months? Someone is dying of a heart attack and someone after falling ill... They died of their own will," JP Dalal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Dalal later clarified, "During the press conference, I condoled the demise of farmers who died during the protest. Even if a person dies unnaturally, it is painful... My statement was twisted and the wrong meaning was given to it. I saw the video on social media. I tender my apologies if somebody was hurt by my statement."Parasite reference deeply hurt us: SKMDarshan Pal, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Rakesh Tikait of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha told the press on Saturday and alleged that the PM through his speech on Wednesday in Lok Sabha hurt the farmers in a 'diplomatic fashion'. Rajewal said the prime minister has given “diplomatic gaaliyan” (abuses) to farmers in the Lower House and said that the community has been deeply hurt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protests-live-samyukt-kisan-morcha-ghazipur-border-msp-tikait-farmers-union-tomar-minister-yogendra-yadav-pm-modi-essential-commodities-act-mandi-101613264782852.html
15-02-2021||India||Toolkit case | Zoom meet held before Republic Day to create Twitter storm: Report||MO Dhaliwal, the founder of pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation contacted activist Nikita Jacob through his colleague Puneet, a Canadian citizen, to create a storm on Twitter ahead of Republic Day, police sources revealed on the 'Toolkit' document case related to the ongoing farmers' protest.According to the sources, an investigation into the toolkit conspiracy has revealed the deeper conspiracy associated with the Google document.There was a zoom meeting before Republic Day which was attended by MO Dhaliwal, Nikita and Disha, among others. The motive of the meeting was to create a Twitter storm ahead of Republic Day. They also spoke about the death of a farmer.According to the sources, four days ago Special Cell team went to Nikita Jacob's house and examined her electronic gadgets. Delhi police told her that they would again question her but she is currently not available.A day after Disha Ravi was arrested and sent to five days of police custody the Delhi Police have now issued a non-bailable warrant against activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu.Disha Ravi, a 21-year-old climate activist was arrested from Bengaluru in connection with the formulation and dissemination of Toolkit document, in the ongoing farmers' protest. She was one of the editors of 'Toolkit' document."Disha Ravi is an editor of the Toolkit Google Document and a key conspirator in document's formulation and dissemination. She started a WhatsApp group and collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc," tweeted Delhi Police.According to CyPAD Delhi Police, the editors of the toolkit collaborated with the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. Ravi was the one who shared the Toolkit Doc with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg.Ravi later asked Thunberg to remove the main document after its incriminating details accidentally got into the public domain, said Delhi Police.On Sunday, Ravi was presented before a Delhi Court that remanded her five days of police custody. Disha Ravi broke down inside the courtroom and told the judge that she has edited only two lines and she wanted to support the farmers' protest.Earlier, the Delhi Police sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which a "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest was created and uploaded on the social media platform.Two e-mail IDs, one Instagram account, and one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) were mentioned in the toolkit and police have asked for details from the respective platforms.The police had registered an FIR against unidentified persons in connection with the creators of the 'toolkit'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-zoom-meet-held-before-republic-day-to-create-twitter-storm-report-101613378436262.html
