19-02-2021||Bollywood||Kangana Ranaut takes down minister who allegedly called her 'naachne gaane waali'||Actor Kangana Ranaut has responded to the comments of a politician, who reportedly described her as a 'naachne gaane waali (item girl)'. Kangana, in her Twitter response, retaliated by calling Sukhdev Panse a 'fool'.Reacting to a tweet from news agency IANS, which described Panse's alleged comments against her, Kangana wrote that not only has she refused to do item numbers in films, she has also turned down opportunities to appear in star vehicles featuring the Khans.ALSO WATCH | Kangana Ranaut responds to Congress MLA’s ‘nachne, gaane wali’ jibe﻿She wrote, "Whoever this fool is does he know I am no Deepika Katrina or Alia.... I am the only one who refused to do item numbers, refused to do big hero (Khan/Kumar) films which made entire Bullywoodiya gang men+women against me. I am a Rajput woman I don’t shake a** I break bones."Kangana recently had made comments of a similar nature against singer Rihanna, who'd tweeted about the ongoing farmers' protest, much to Kangana's disapproval. Retweeting a post explaining to the local public who Rihanna is, Kangana wrote, "Yes please India wants to know, to simplify to Indians, she is a singer much like Sunidhi Chauhan or Neha Kakkar ...what is so special about her, well... she can shake her bum cheeks and expose her a** crack right in to the camera lens while singing..ya that’s all. Nothing else."Also read: Kangana Ranaut launches new attack against Rihanna, compares her to Neha Kakkar, suggests she's been paidPreviously, Rihanna had shared a news story about the protests with her over 100 million followers, asking, "Why aren’t we talking about this?!" Kangana reacted to this, and wrote for her 3 million followers, "No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA... Sit down you fool, we are not selling our nation like you dummies."Kangana is currently shooting for Dhaakad, in Madhya Pradesh. She has been tweeting updates from set, aside from attacking celebrities, both Indian and international.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/kangana-ranaut-slams-minister-who-allegedly-called-her-naachne-gaane-waali-says-fool-doesn-t-know-i-am-no-deepika-katrina-101613743151138.html
19-02-2021||India||Farmers ready to sacrifice one crop for protest, Bharatiya Kisan Union ups ante||As Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait asked farmers to be ready to sacrifice one crop in the interest of continuing the ongoing protest against the farm laws, it has been made clear that the protest on Delhi borders will not be withdrawn. Either the farmers will accept the loss of one crop or farmers will take the help of more workers to harvest crops. But the protest sites will not be vacated, the union leader has said.After rail roko on February 18, the Bharatiya Kisan Union is now planning to reach Kolkata on tractors, as Rakesh Tikait said at Hisar mahapanchayat on Thursday.Following Republic Day violence in Delhi, the focus of the protest has shifted to garner more support from other states through mahapanchayats to counter the government's claim that only Punjab farmers are protesting the laws. A number of mahapanchayats of Kisan Sabhas have been held in January-February in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab. Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi, Sachin Pilot have attended these gatherings. The BKU leadership has upped the ante against BJP leaders and said they will not be invited to any family function or programme until the farm crisis is resolved. The decision was recently taken at a panchayat of farmers held at Muzaffarnagar. "Consider this an order or advice, but nobody should send them (BJP leaders) invitations (for functions)," BKU chief Naresh Tikait said.Farmers have been protesting against three agriculture laws since November, making little headway in the stalemate situation. The implementation of the laws has been put on hold by a Supreme Court order. While the government has reiterated that room for more discussion is open, no date for further discussion has been fixed yet. Farmers union leaders are travelling and attending Kisan sabhas.The image of the protest has been sullied after Republic Day when protesters entered Delhi resulting in a stand-off with the police. After the Republic Day tractor march, the farmers observed 'chakka jam', 'rail roko' across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-ready-to-sacrifice-one-crop-for-protest-bku-ups-ante-101613734445267.html
19-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi’s petition in Delhi High Court in ‘toolkit case’: Who said what||The Delhi High Court on Friday heard 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi’s plea seeking to restrain the city police from leaking information related to its probe of the 'Google toolkit’ on farmers’ protest to the media. While the police have denied leaking any information to the media, the Bengaluru activist in her plea stated the police had prejudged her guilt in the matter and had been putting out a “biased and defamatory narrative”.The Delhi Police have submitted an affidavit in the matter denying any leak of information accessed during the investigation. The court has directed the police to stick to its stance in the affidavit and told media organisations to ensure their information came from authentic sources. Here’s who said what at the hearing What the police saidDelhi Police told the court that the plea by Ravi is an attempt to defame and vilify the police and put pressure on the investigating agency. Additional solicitor general SV Raju, representing the police, told the court that the climate activist’s messages which have allegedly been leaked are from February 3 and she was arrested on February 13. “She must have sent the messages to several people, why only blame the police,” he said during the hearing. Ravi was arrested from her home in Bengaluru for her alleged involvement in creating and editing a ‘toolkit’ related to the farm stir in the national capital. On February 14, she was sent to five days in police custody by a court in Delhi. What Delhi High Court directedBefore dictating the directives for the police and media personnel, the court told the counsel of TV news channel Network 18, “There is no doubt that the video is sensational, extremely sensational.” The bench was referring to the broadcast of a news report on the case by the channel. The Delhi HC directed the police to stick to their affidavit that they have not leaked anything and also asked them to adhere to the office memorandum of 2010 on press briefing. The court said they were entitled to brief the media but must strictly follow guidelines laid down by the Union ministry of home affairs. Media houses were directed by the court to ensure that their sources are authentic. The editorial team at news organisations must note that such news breaks should be verified and the sources should be authentic, the court underlined. “While a journalist cannot be asked to reveal his source, it must be authentic,” it said.The court has also told editors to exercise proper editorial control so that dissemination of information does not hamper the investigation. There is an important role of the media and they should not sensationalise the same. The leak ought not to be disseminated that it prejudices the right of an individual,” the court noted, adding that there is no doubt that regulation of content has been a very contested issue across the world and India was no exception.The court, however, refused to take down the articles already published and said that the issue would be considered at a later stage. Three factors considered by the court are—the balance between the privacy and dignity of an individual and public interest, sovereignty and integrity of the country, and the right to free speech.The high court told Ravi to ensure that people related to her did not share information regarding the case. What Disha Ravi saidThe Bengaluru climate activist asserted that she would not make attempts to malign the police in sharing scandalous information. The matter will next be heard on March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-s-petition-in-delhi-high-court-in-toolkit-case-who-said-what-101613726951726.html
19-02-2021||India||Republic Day violence was not due to intel failure, says police commissioner||Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Friday said he doesn't consider Republic Day violence as an intelligence failure as police had inputs of possible disruptions during the tractor march of the farmers and that was the Capital was barricaded off on the day farmers took out their tractor march.The tractor march of the farmers turned violent as protesters entered the Capital and clashed with police. The protesters reached Red Fort and hoisted religious flags atop it.Delhi Police launched an investigation into all angles related to what led to the mayhem — the leaders of the farmers' union were served notice, Deep Sidhu has been taken in custody, the cyber cell is parallelly probing into the toolkit that Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg shared on social media. There was copycat execution of what was mentioned in the toolkit, police said. Briefing about the progress in the ongoing investigation, the commissioner on Friday said 152 people have been arrested so far for Republic Day violence. The farmer leaders have responded to the notice served on them. "We had permitted them (farmers) to take out their tractor rally, with some terms and conditions but they betrayed us by not following the designated route and resorted to violence. Police discharged its duties very well," Shrivastava said.On the question of intelligence failure, he said there were inputs and apprehensions. Delhi Police, before the tractor march on January 26, flagged over 300 Twitter handles, accusing them of spreading confusion, misinformation regarding the tractor marc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-violence-was-not-due-to-intel-failure-says-police-commissioner-101613727905171.html
19-02-2021||India||On Disha Ravi’s plea, HC tells cops to stick to affidavit on ‘leaked chats’ and media to ensure authentic sources||Delhi High Court on Friday directed the city police to stick to the affidavit that they had filed regarding the leaked WhatsApp chats of climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested in connection with the ‘toolkit’ case. The court also refused to restrain media houses from reporting on the matter but asked them to ensure that their sources were authentic and to not sensationalise the issue. “The leak ought not to be disseminated that it prejudices the right of an individual,” the court said.The court also refused to take down the articles already published and said that the issue would be considered at a later stage. It directed the editors of media houses to exercise proper editorial control so that dissemination of information does not hamper the investigation. “While a journalist cannot be asked to reveal his source, it must be authentic,” it added.The court also told Ravi to ensure that people related to her do not share information. The Bengaluru-based climate activist asserted she would not make attempts to malign the police in sharing scandalous information.The court dictated the order based on three factors—the balance between privacy and dignity of an individual and public interest, sovereignty and integrity of the country and the right to free speech.It was hearing a petition filed by Ravi seeking to keep the Delhi Police from leaking “any investigation material” accessed by them as part of the probe into the ‘toolkit’ case. The police claim that the Bengaluru activist was the one who shared the document on farmers’ protest with Swedish teen activist Greta Thunberg. Ravi, however, said that the police had pre-judged her guilt and were giving “biased and defamatory narrative.”During the hearing, the Delhi Police told the court that the 22-year-old activist’s petition to stop them from leaking probe material to the media was an attempt to defame and vilify the force and put pressure on the investigating agency.Additional solicitor general SV Raju, who is appearing for the police told the court that the messages which have allegedly been leaked are from February 3 and Ravi was arrested on February 13. “She must have sent the messages to several people, why only blame the police,” Raju said.The court also rebuked television channel Network 18 for the news report they had broadcast. “There is no doubt that the video is sensational, extremely sensational,” the court told the Network 18 counsel.The police have denied leaking any investigation material contained in the first information report to the media following which the court had asked the police to file an affidavit.Justice Prathiba M Singh, who is hearing the activist’s plea, had issued notices to the News Broadcasters Association Network 18 and Times Now news channels on Ravi’s petition.Ravi was arrested on February 13 from her home in Bengaluru and produced before a Delhi court on the next day for her alleged involvement in sharing the toolkit related to the ongoing farmers’ protest on Delhi’s borders with Thunberg. The police have alleged that Ravi had later asked the Swedish activist to take down the post that comprised the document after its incriminating details accidentally got into the public domain.The police have also issued warrants against Mumbai-based activist and advocate Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, an activist from Beed, for creating and sharing the document for creating and amplifying an online campaign related to the ongoing farmers’ protest on Delhi’s borders. According to the police, a second toolkit of similar nature was also in the works but could not be executed. Investigators said the second document was created by Jacob and Muluk and a UK-based activist Marina Patterson, who is allegedly linked with the global movement “Extinction Rebellion” also referred to as “XR”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-s-plea-an-attempt-to-defame-cops-put-pressure-on-investigating-agency-delhi-police-tell-court-101613710812703.html
19-02-2021||Bangalore||'You have to stay strong': 102-year-old freedom fighter's message to Disha Ravi||Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy was 23-years-old and had joined a new job as a school teacher when he was first arrested and imprisoned for 14 months for organizing strikes against the British government. His second visit to the prison was at the age of 57 when he took on then prime minister Indira Gandhi during the emergency.In an interview with Arun Dev, the 102-year-old draws parallels between the times he has lived through and the present state of affairs in the country. He says that a leader or a movement has always emerged whenever democracy was threatened in the country. He also has a message for 22-year-old activist Disha Ravi, who was recently arrested on charges of sedition in connection with the toolkit case – “you have to stay strong”. Edited excerpts:How do you look at the government using sedition against voices of dissent?Isn’t it clear? Those who do not support or speak up against the government are called traitors. What is even more concerning is that most of them have not been given a trial. Even the British had done the same (registered sedition cases) but when cases were filed against Gandhiji and (Bal Gangadhar) Tilak, they were produced before the court. By not producing them before the court, their (government’s) intention is to harass and create an environment of fear for the others. They want to see people silenced.How old were you when you were arrested during the freedom movement?I was 23-years-old when I was arrested. I had just got a new job as a teacher in a high school then. I started working in June but by then, the Quit India Movement has begun. I helped organise a 14-day strike at the mills across Mysore state and also blew up government record rooms and postboxes with very small time-bombs. Our intention was to disrupt the British government’s daily functioning.By December, I was arrested, and I lost my job as well.Was the jail term a difficult experience?Not at all, it was a learning experience. I had a purpose in life, to fight the British rule. I was not worried at all; in fact, it was like a university for me. The other leaders in jail used to give lectures. I learnt new languages when I was there.You lived through the Emergency also…Oh yes, there was an interesting incident from the time of Emergency. After the Emergency was announced, I wrote a letter to Indira Gandhi (then prime minister), saying she was a dictator. In the letter, I threatened to go village to village and mobilise the people against her dictatorship. Soon after that, I held the first meeting in Gandhi Bazar (in Bengaluru). I was arrested. But I was in jail only for four months.During the trial, the prosecution said that I had criticised the prime minister and that I was an enemy of the state. But that judge who was hearing my case said that I had every right to criticise the government and there is no proof to say that I am an enemy of the state. The judge then told the prosecution to ask the government under what charge should I be booked and released me.I hope our current judiciary will stand up for justice as that judge did then.What are your views on the recent arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi by Delhi Police?The police took a woman from Bengaluru to Delhi without informing the local magistrate… it is very harsh on their part. But she has braved it. It is very brave of her.If you could tell her anything, what would you say?You have to be strong. We are facing a dictatorial regime that is merciless, you need to stay strong.There are reports of parents telling their children not to take part in protests in the wake of the arrests of young activists. What are your views on it?You don’t worry about it. Today’s youngsters are smart and wiser. The youngsters of the country have always fought for the right causes. They know what should be done and no one can stop them.As someone who has seen the freedom struggle and emergency, what do you think of our country’s future?Nothing is permanent. There will be ups and downs. During the freedom struggle there was Gandhi, during the emergency there was JP (Jayaprakash Narayan) and then Anna Hazare also came, even though he was misguided later. If not a leader, there will be a movement that takes on what is wrong in our country.I see hope in the farmers’ protests, this has the power to unite people against this dictatorial government. The longer they stay on the streets, the stronger the resistance becomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/we-are-facing-a-dictatorial-regime-disha-has-to-stay-strong-doreswamy-101613708637584.html
19-02-2021||India||Activist Disha Ravi seeks restraint on private chat leaks||The Delhi high court said on Thursday that a plea filed by detained climate activist Disha Ravi, seeking to restrain the city police from leaking information related to its investigation of the “toolkit” related to the farmers’ protest to the media, needed to be considered even as the police denied responsibility for any such leaks.Justice Prathiba M Singh, who will hear the petition on Friday, issued notice to the News Broadcasters Association and two news channels — Network 18 and Times Now — on Ravi’s plea that the police had prejudged her guilt in the matter and had been putting out a “biased and defamatory narrative”.Emails sent to the channels by HT had elicited no response as of press time.Read more: Disha Ravi's arrest: 'False to say there were lapses', says Delhi Police chiefThe court also asked the police to file an affidavit after solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma, appearing for the police, told the court that Delhi police had not leaked any investigation material contained in the first information report against Ravi to the media.Ravi, 22, was arrested on February 13 from her home in Bengaluru and produced before a Delhi court on February 14 for her alleged involvement in sharing the toolkit (for creating and amplifying an online campaign) related to the ongoing farmers’ protest on Delhi’s borders with Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg. Ravi broke down in the courtroom and said she had edited two lines in the toolkit in support of the farmers’ movement against three agricultural reform laws.The same document was shared on social media by Thunberg and later deleted.Read more: Disha Ravi can get warm clothes, masks and books in police custody, says Delhi courtRavi’s plea, filed in the high court, said that she was “severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the police and several media houses.”On Thursday, senior advocate Akhil Sibal appearing for Ravi, told the court that the police was behind the leak of information.He also sought a statement by the police that no information on the case would be shared with the media in future. The solicitor general opposed this and said the demand was designed to attract media attention.In her petition, Ravi said that police took away her mobile phone on February 13 and forced her to provide them with the credentials of her private accounts.“Thus, only police had access to the contents of Ravi’s private conversations and any leaks of the same necessarily constitutes the commission of a cognizable offence and is a violation of the petitioner’s dignity, reputation, and fundamental right to privacy, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the petition said.Read more: Were informed about activist Disha Ravi's arrest later, says Bengaluru policeThe plea has also said the police first “leaked investigative material” such as her WhatsApp chats which were only in their possession. It said that the chats were published and disseminated by various media houses.The petition has also claimed that the “media houses published one-sided, defamatory suggestive innuendo, and half truths about the petitioner”.Ravi said that police took away her mobile phone on February 13 and forced her to provide them with the credentials of her private accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-disha-ravi-seeks-restraint-on-private-chat-leaks-101613679925718.html
19-02-2021||India||Movement of trains hit as farmers block rail tracks||The “rail roko” call given by farmers’ bodies impacted rail movement in Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and parts of Rajasthan on Thursday with reports of sporadic blockades reported from other parts of the country. Railway officials said there was negligible impact of the strike even as some trains were stopped as a precautionary measure.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a group of about 40 farmers’ bodies protesting against three new farm laws, had given a call for a four-hour nationwide rail blockade from noon till 4pm.According to farmers’ bodies, the strike received massive support across the country with trains being stopped. “In many places trains were not stopped for long to prevent inconvenience to passengers,” the All India Kisan Sabha said in a statement.In Punjab and Haryana, farmers at several places squatted on railway tracks, which led to disruptions. Protests were also staged at some places in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka.Read more: 'Rail roko agitation passed off without any untoward incident': Indian RailwaysIn Punjab, trains passing through rural areas were stopped at several places, especially in agriculture belts of Malwa and Doaba areas. In several places, tea and snacks were offered to stranded passengers. Some trains coming into Punjab were stopped at Jammu, officials said. In Haryana too, hundreds of farmers, including women, peacefully participated in the agitation at multiple locations in Dadri, Bhiwani, Jind, Sonepat, Rohtak, Hisar and Fatehabad, said Dayanand Punia, state secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha. Due to the blockade, the busy Delhi-Ambala-Amritsar railway track was affected, leading to the diversion of six trains and the stoppage of many others.Read more: Rail roko: Trains halts in Punjab as hundreds of farmers lay siege to railway tracksThe affected trains waiting at various railway stations were allowed to commence their journeys after farmers lifted the blockade at 4pm.In Rajasthan, officials said the Rewari-Sri Ganganagar special train was the only one cancelled due to the agitation, while a few others were delayed. Most of the protests were in western Rajasthan. “The train movement remained almost unaffected. There were reports of minor blockade on two of our routes. However, it was ensured that the issue is addressed. Hence, train movement remained unaffected,” said Ajit Kumar Singh, chief public relation officer (CPRO), North Central Railways — the zone which covers a large part of Uttar Pradesh.Read more: Rail roko will be peaceful, will not join politics: Rakesh TikaitIn Bihar, trains were blocked in Patna-Buxar, Gaya-Patna, Mokama-Barauni, Siwan-Chhapra, Kiul-Gaya, Muzaffarpur-Samastipur, Bhagalpur-Jamalpur and Patna-Darbhanga stretches. Supporters of the CPI (ML), the RJD and the JAP took part in the agitation. Railway officials said that around 20 trains were affected by the agitation.The protest saw a mixed response in Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu with some sporadic protests by Left organisations. Some members of Left farmers’ bodies were arrested in Madhya Pradesh for trying to disrupt rail traffic. No disruption in rail traffic was reported from Goa, Kerala and north-eastern states.“Majority of the zones have reported not a single case of any stoppage of train by the agitators. Few trains were stopped in some areas of some railway zones, but now train operation is normal and trains are being operated smoothly,” said a railway spokesperson. The railways deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force across the country.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses.The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/movement-of-trains-hit-as-farmers-block-rail-tracks-101613675319767.html
19-02-2021||Delhi||40 tear gas shells missing after R-Day violence, says police report||A quick audit by Delhi Police after the January 26 tractor rally, which subsequently descended into violence and saw protesters fighting pitched battles with security personnel, has found that at least 40 tear gas shells were stolen by rioters in north Delhi’s Burari.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana had proposed the tractor rally inside the national Capital on Republic Day to protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. it was during this rally that violence broke out when the protesting farmers deviated from the pre-approved routes between them and police; assaulted police when they were stopped from entering parts of Central and New Delhi areas. At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured in the violence.Police across the city have so far arrested 146 persons, mostly from parts of Punjab and Haryana. Of them, 34 are from Delhi.Read more: Farmers’ protest: Union minister Sanjeev Balyan chairs meet on Jat outreachPolice said they have registered a separate case of robbery and are probing the missing tear gas shells. A senior Delhi police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that all 40 tear gas shells had been traced back to Punjab and a police team has been sent to the state to recover them.“We even know the district in Punjab where the shells have been hidden. We are coordinating with the Punjab police. We have registered a case of robbery and will recover them at the earliest,” the officer added.A tear gas shell is used by the riot-control personnel of the police to control mobs who resort to rioting. Along with water cannon and canes, tear gas shells are usually the first line of defence adopted by law enforcement agencies to control unruly crowds.Read more: Farmers’ protest: India tries to dispel misgivings among British lawmakersAccording to a report filed by police, on the afternoon of January 26, a mob of about 1,000 persons had indulged in rioting near Burari ground and attacked police personnel, when they were stopped from moving towards the Red Fort. Police have said that most people, who later stormed the Red Fort premises — and ransacked offices inside the ASI protected structure, besides damaging the structure inside itself — were part of this Burari mob. The mob in Red Fort had also tried to snatch two guns and 20 bullets from two magazines from two constables there, but were unsuccessful.Though police did not comment on how the tear gas shells were actually stolen, the report filed just mentions that the shells had gone missing.Separately, the report also mentions that on January 26 afternoon, three trucks parked on the Burari flyover were also stolen by the mob. The trucks were, however, later recovered .As part of the probe into the robbery and rioting in Burari, police have so far arrested 14 people. Police have registered a case (FIR number 64) under sections of attempt to murder, rioting, robbery and criminal conspiracy against them.In the Burari case, all 14 arrested persons are Delhi residents.A second police officer said investigators are looking at footage from CCTVs and their own video recording to identify those behind the theft of the tear gas shells. On February 13, three men from west Delhi -- Sukhmeet Singh (35), Gundeep Singh (33) and Harvinder Singh (32)- -were arrested for rioting in Burari after their alleged act was caught on tape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40-tear-gas-shells-missing-after-r-day-violence-says-police-report-101613672203109.html
19-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Will march towards Kolkata, announces BKU's Rakesh Tikait||As farmers' protest against the Centre’s agricultural laws entered day 85, a four-hour rail blockade was held across the country on Thursday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had appealed for a peaceful protest between 12noon and 4pm. For railway passengers who will be stranded during the ‘rail roko’ protest, spokesperson of the Kisan Andolan Committee Jagtar Singh Bajwa had said that they would offer refreshments to the passengers to avoid inconvenience.In the wake of the blockade call, the railways had deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPF) across the country with a focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.The farm unions have demanded that the government must “immediately” resolve the farmers' issues or they will intensify the agitation and mobilise more farmers for support.The farmers have been campaigning at Delhi borders since November 26 and have asserted that the protests will go indefinitely till the laws enacted by the government in September last year are completely rolled back.Follow all the updates here:Farmers began their protest in Delhi on November 26Farmers have been protesting in Delhi since November last year. They have been camping at Singhu and Tikri, both of which are Delhi's border with Haryana, and Ghazipur, the border with Uttar Pradesh.Be ready to go to Kolkata: Rakesh Tikait to farmersFarmers are camping in Delhi for past three months. Govt thought farmers would return within two months. We'll not return. We'll reap our crops and march towards Kolkata. Be ready to stay away from your home for a month to go to Kolkata: BKU's Rakesh Tikait at a farmers' meeting in HisarInappropriate to link Punjab local body poll results with farmers' protest: Narendra TomarIt is inappropriate to link the result of municipal corporation polls in Punjab with farmers' agitation. We were weak in Punjab and used to fight polls in alliance with Akali Dal. But we fought separately this time, which caused losses to us: Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh TomarNo permission for Tikait's rally in Yavatmal, says collectorDistrict Collector of Maharashtra's Yavatmal denies permission for a `Maha Panchayat' of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on February 20 due to Covid-19 surge in state.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's 'kisan panchayat' in Mathura postponedCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's Kisan panchayat' scheduled in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura on February 19 postponed to February 23, due to the demise of former Union Minister Captain Satish Sharma.'Utmost patience' exercised by those concerned: RailwaysWhile dealing with the Rail roko agitation, utmost patience was exercised by all concerned, says Indian RailwaysRail roko passed off peacefully: Indian Railways'Rail roko' agitation passed off without any untoward incident. There was negligible or minimal impact on running of the trains across the country. Train movement in all zones is normal now. Few trains were stopped in some areas but now train operation is normal: Indian RailwaysBKU stages rail roko protest at Hapur, UPUttar Pradesh: Members of Bharatiya Kisan Union stage 'Rail Roko' at Hapur during their nationwide protest against agriculture laws pic.twitter.com/SHzB0FquAOBKU members stage rail roko protest in Uttar Pradesh's Hapur.BKU members shower petals on police personnel at ModinagarModinagar: Members of Bharatiya Kisan Union shower flower petals on police personnel and offer sweets to them during farmers' 'Rail Roko' protestPolice appeals to BKU members to end their agitation pic.twitter.com/wiBvvxbuRKMembers of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) shower flower petals on police personnel at Modinagar.Will take our tractors to West Bengal as well, warns TikaitCrops' prices are not increased, but fuel prices have gone up. If Centre ruins the situation, we'll take our tractors to West Bengal as well. Farmers not getting MSP there also: Rakesh Tikait4-hour rail roko agitation nears endThe four-hour nationwide rail roko agitation is scheduled to end at 4pm, as announced by the SKM last week. The blocakde began at 12 noon and has been largely peaceful.Govt shouldn't think stir will end in 2 months: Rakesh TikaitCentre should not be under any misconception that farmers will go back for crop harvesting. If they insisted, then we will burn our crops. They shouldn't think that protest will end in 2 months. We'll harvest as well as protest: Bharatiya Kisan Union's (BKU) Rakesh Tikait.Utkal Express stopped at farmers sit on tracks at ModinagarUtkal Express, that plies from Odisha's Puri to Uttarakhand's, Haridwar stopped at Ghaziabad railway station as farmers have blocked railways tracks at Modinagar railway station.Farmers block railway tracks in Haryana's AmbalaHaryana: Farmers block railway tracks in Ambala during their nationwide 'rail roko' agitation against agriculture laws. pic.twitter.com/gbp3PmJgUFFarmers sit on railway tracks in Haryana's Ambala as 'four-hour rail roko' agitation continues.Rail roko will be peaceful, will not join politics: Rakesh TikaitBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said that 'rail roko', the blockade of trains as part of protests against farm laws, will be done in a peaceful manner and food and refreshments provided to people stranded due to the protest. He also stated that he will not join politics as he considers it "a big disease".DMRC closes entry and exit points of four metro stationsEntry/exit for Tikri Border, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Bahadurgarh City, and Brig. Hoshiar Singh metro stations have been closed: Delhi Metro Rail CorporationUP Budget Session begins today, Opposition to corner govt on farmers’ protestAs the Uttar Pradesh assembly’s Budget Session begins today, major Opposition parties are set to corner the state government on issues concerning farmers, unemployment, rising inflation and the law and order situation.Read full story here'Will provide water, milk, fruits to the stranded': TikaitBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday asserted that the 'rail roko' protest will be held peacefully. "We'll provide water, milk, lassi & fruits to people who will be found stranded. We will tell them our issues," he told news agency ANI.Farmers call for 4-hour rail blockadeFarmers, who have been protesting against Centre's new agricultural laws for the past two and a half months, have called for a 'rail roko' protest between 12noon and 4pm today. They are expecting support from farmers across the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-latest-updates-farmers-call-for-4-hour-rail-roko-protest-101613622579375.html
19-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi’s petition in Delhi High Court in ‘toolkit case’: Who said what||The Delhi High Court on Friday heard 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi’s plea seeking to restrain the city police from leaking information related to its probe of the 'Google toolkit’ on farmers’ protest to the media. While the police have denied leaking any information to the media, the Bengaluru activist in her plea stated the police had prejudged her guilt in the matter and had been putting out a “biased and defamatory narrative”.The Delhi Police have submitted an affidavit in the matter denying any leak of information accessed during the investigation. The court has directed the police to stick to its stance in the affidavit and told media organisations to ensure their information came from authentic sources. Here’s who said what at the hearing What the police saidDelhi Police told the court that the plea by Ravi is an attempt to defame and vilify the police and put pressure on the investigating agency. Additional solicitor general SV Raju, representing the police, told the court that the climate activist’s messages which have allegedly been leaked are from February 3 and she was arrested on February 13. “She must have sent the messages to several people, why only blame the police,” he said during the hearing. Ravi was arrested from her home in Bengaluru for her alleged involvement in creating and editing a ‘toolkit’ related to the farm stir in the national capital. On February 14, she was sent to five days in police custody by a court in Delhi. What Delhi High Court directedBefore dictating the directives for the police and media personnel, the court told the counsel of TV news channel Network 18, “There is no doubt that the video is sensational, extremely sensational.” The bench was referring to the broadcast of a news report on the case by the channel. The Delhi HC directed the police to stick to their affidavit that they have not leaked anything and also asked them to adhere to the office memorandum of 2010 on press briefing. The court said they were entitled to brief the media but must strictly follow guidelines laid down by the Union ministry of home affairs. Media houses were directed by the court to ensure that their sources are authentic. The editorial team at news organisations must note that such news breaks should be verified and the sources should be authentic, the court underlined. “While a journalist cannot be asked to reveal his source, it must be authentic,” it said.The court has also told editors to exercise proper editorial control so that dissemination of information does not hamper the investigation. There is an important role of the media and they should not sensationalise the same. The leak ought not to be disseminated that it prejudices the right of an individual,” the court noted, adding that there is no doubt that regulation of content has been a very contested issue across the world and India was no exception.The court, however, refused to take down the articles already published and said that the issue would be considered at a later stage. Three factors considered by the court are—the balance between the privacy and dignity of an individual and public interest, sovereignty and integrity of the country, and the right to free speech.The high court told Ravi to ensure that people related to her did not share information regarding the case. What Disha Ravi saidThe Bengaluru climate activist asserted that she would not make attempts to malign the police in sharing scandalous information. The matter will next be heard on March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-s-petition-in-delhi-high-court-in-toolkit-case-who-said-what-101613726951726.html
19-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Will march towards Kolkata, announces BKU's Rakesh Tikait||As farmers' protest against the Centre’s agricultural laws entered day 85, a four-hour rail blockade was held across the country on Thursday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had appealed for a peaceful protest between 12noon and 4pm. For railway passengers who will be stranded during the ‘rail roko’ protest, spokesperson of the Kisan Andolan Committee Jagtar Singh Bajwa had said that they would offer refreshments to the passengers to avoid inconvenience.In the wake of the blockade call, the railways had deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPF) across the country with a focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.The farm unions have demanded that the government must “immediately” resolve the farmers' issues or they will intensify the agitation and mobilise more farmers for support.The farmers have been campaigning at Delhi borders since November 26 and have asserted that the protests will go indefinitely till the laws enacted by the government in September last year are completely rolled back.Follow all the updates here:Farmers began their protest in Delhi on November 26Farmers have been protesting in Delhi since November last year. They have been camping at Singhu and Tikri, both of which are Delhi's border with Haryana, and Ghazipur, the border with Uttar Pradesh.Be ready to go to Kolkata: Rakesh Tikait to farmersFarmers are camping in Delhi for past three months. Govt thought farmers would return within two months. We'll not return. We'll reap our crops and march towards Kolkata. Be ready to stay away from your home for a month to go to Kolkata: BKU's Rakesh Tikait at a farmers' meeting in HisarInappropriate to link Punjab local body poll results with farmers' protest: Narendra TomarIt is inappropriate to link the result of municipal corporation polls in Punjab with farmers' agitation. We were weak in Punjab and used to fight polls in alliance with Akali Dal. But we fought separately this time, which caused losses to us: Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh TomarNo permission for Tikait's rally in Yavatmal, says collectorDistrict Collector of Maharashtra's Yavatmal denies permission for a `Maha Panchayat' of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on February 20 due to Covid-19 surge in state.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's 'kisan panchayat' in Mathura postponedCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's Kisan panchayat' scheduled in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura on February 19 postponed to February 23, due to the demise of former Union Minister Captain Satish Sharma.'Utmost patience' exercised by those concerned: RailwaysWhile dealing with the Rail roko agitation, utmost patience was exercised by all concerned, says Indian RailwaysRail roko passed off peacefully: Indian Railways'Rail roko' agitation passed off without any untoward incident. There was negligible or minimal impact on running of the trains across the country. Train movement in all zones is normal now. Few trains were stopped in some areas but now train operation is normal: Indian RailwaysBKU stages rail roko protest at Hapur, UPUttar Pradesh: Members of Bharatiya Kisan Union stage 'Rail Roko' at Hapur during their nationwide protest against agriculture laws pic.twitter.com/SHzB0FquAOBKU members stage rail roko protest in Uttar Pradesh's Hapur.BKU members shower petals on police personnel at ModinagarModinagar: Members of Bharatiya Kisan Union shower flower petals on police personnel and offer sweets to them during farmers' 'Rail Roko' protestPolice appeals to BKU members to end their agitation pic.twitter.com/wiBvvxbuRKMembers of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) shower flower petals on police personnel at Modinagar.Will take our tractors to West Bengal as well, warns TikaitCrops' prices are not increased, but fuel prices have gone up. If Centre ruins the situation, we'll take our tractors to West Bengal as well. Farmers not getting MSP there also: Rakesh Tikait4-hour rail roko agitation nears endThe four-hour nationwide rail roko agitation is scheduled to end at 4pm, as announced by the SKM last week. The blocakde began at 12 noon and has been largely peaceful.Govt shouldn't think stir will end in 2 months: Rakesh TikaitCentre should not be under any misconception that farmers will go back for crop harvesting. If they insisted, then we will burn our crops. They shouldn't think that protest will end in 2 months. We'll harvest as well as protest: Bharatiya Kisan Union's (BKU) Rakesh Tikait.Utkal Express stopped at farmers sit on tracks at ModinagarUtkal Express, that plies from Odisha's Puri to Uttarakhand's, Haridwar stopped at Ghaziabad railway station as farmers have blocked railways tracks at Modinagar railway station.Farmers block railway tracks in Haryana's AmbalaHaryana: Farmers block railway tracks in Ambala during their nationwide 'rail roko' agitation against agriculture laws. pic.twitter.com/gbp3PmJgUFFarmers sit on railway tracks in Haryana's Ambala as 'four-hour rail roko' agitation continues.Rail roko will be peaceful, will not join politics: Rakesh TikaitBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said that 'rail roko', the blockade of trains as part of protests against farm laws, will be done in a peaceful manner and food and refreshments provided to people stranded due to the protest. He also stated that he will not join politics as he considers it "a big disease".DMRC closes entry and exit points of four metro stationsEntry/exit for Tikri Border, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Bahadurgarh City, and Brig. Hoshiar Singh metro stations have been closed: Delhi Metro Rail CorporationUP Budget Session begins today, Opposition to corner govt on farmers’ protestAs the Uttar Pradesh assembly’s Budget Session begins today, major Opposition parties are set to corner the state government on issues concerning farmers, unemployment, rising inflation and the law and order situation.Read full story here'Will provide water, milk, fruits to the stranded': TikaitBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday asserted that the 'rail roko' protest will be held peacefully. "We'll provide water, milk, lassi & fruits to people who will be found stranded. We will tell them our issues," he told news agency ANI.Farmers call for 4-hour rail blockadeFarmers, who have been protesting against Centre's new agricultural laws for the past two and a half months, have called for a 'rail roko' protest between 12noon and 4pm today. They are expecting support from farmers across the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-latest-updates-farmers-call-for-4-hour-rail-roko-protest-101613622579375.html
