20-02-2021||India||'PM Modi visited so many countries, but has no time to wipe tears of farmers': Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday once again targeted the central government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over farm laws, saying the PM visited many countries across the world but didn't meet protesting farmers to "wipe their tears'."The farmers have been protesting near Delhi for 90 days. At least 215 farmers died during this period, the electricity and water supplies to them were cut, and they were assaulted. They were protesting peacefully, but Delhi's borders were turned into international borders," she said while addressing a Kisan Panchayat in Muzaffarnagar.The Congress general secretary said that farmers, who send their sons to defend our borders, were called terrorists."The Prime Minister ridiculed the farmers, calling them 'andolan jivi'. When farmer leader Rakesh Tikait cries, our Prime Minister thinks it's funny" said Vadra.Alleging that PM Modi's brand of politics if for his big corporate friends, the Congress leader tore away the three laws. "One of the three laws says that private mandis (marketplace) will be organised where no tax will have to be paid. This means, government mandis will be finished. The second law talks about contract farming. Your compaints won't be heard in courts, you won't be able to fight for your rights," Vadra said while addressing the farmers.She once again claimed that the three new laws will finish the minimum support system (MSP).Farmers have been camping on the outskirts of Delhi since late November, and calling for the repeal of new agriculture laws.The Centre has offered to hold the laws in abeyance and water down some the provisions.But the farmers want Modi government to repeal the laws altogether and provide legal backing for MSP for their produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-visited-so-many-countries-but-has-no-time-to-wipe-tears-of-farmers-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-101613819064690.html
20-02-2021||India||At Disha Ravi's bail plea hearing, Delhi Police says a cover-up was carried out||A Delhi court is hearing a bail application moved by climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested on February 13 for allegedly creating an online "toolkit" intended to help farmers protesting against government's three farm laws.Twenty-two-year-old Ravi has been accused of sedition by the Delhi Police. She was sent to three-day judicial custody on Friday after the expiry of her police custody.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju, appearing for the Delhi Police, opposed the bail plea saying that after the toolkit got leaked in the social media, a cover-up operation was carried out and many of its parts were deleted. After this, sections 201 and 204 of the Indian penal Code (IPC) - which deal with destruction of evidence - were added against the activist.The ASG also said that the toolkit had a cheatsheet which contained information which defames the Army and had nothing to do with farmers' protest."Ravi had the right to edit the toolkit and she later deleted everything. This is the working of a guilty mind," said the lawyer, adding that the toolkit was part of a "sinister design".Twenty two-year-old Ravi is part of an organisation founded by Swedish climate change activist Greta Thunberg.Police allege that Ravi was involved in creating and sharing an online document containing advice for protesters. Police say this document stoked the violence that took place on Republic Day last month.Late on Friday, Thunberg posted two tweets with a hashtag supporting Disha."Freedom of speech and the right to peaceful protest and assembly are non-negotiable human rights. These must be a fundamental part of any democracy. #StandWithDishaRavi," Thunberg said in one of her tweets.During the hearing on Friday, additional public prosecutor (APP) Irfan Ahmed told the court Ravi had been “evasive” during interrogation and shifted the blame onto the co-accused Nikita Jacob and Muluk. Ahmed also said the police want to question her again and bring her face-to-face with the co-accused in this case.Ravi's lawyer Siddharth Agarwal countered the public prosecutor, saying the case diary was not properly given.Meanwhile, the Delhi high court directed the media and the police to exercise restraint while giving out the details of the case. The order came on a Ravi's plea. The high court, however, said that there should be a balance between the right to privacy and freedom of speech of people, and sovereignty and integrity of the country.Thunberg had briefly tweeted a link to the toolkit - a Google document - earlier this month that police are investigating before replacing it with an "updated" one.The Delhi Police have sought to link the toolkit with the January 26 violence in the national capital, and to pro-Khalistani organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-opposing-disha-ravi-s-bail-say-toolkit-part-of-sinister-design-101613810903803.html
20-02-2021||India||Chennai school asks students to write on R-Day 'diabolical violence'||A particular question of a Class 10 English exam paper in a CBSE school in Chennai has stoked a row on social media after musician TM Krishna shared a photo of the question paper on Twitter. In a five-mark question, students were asked to write a letter to the editor of a daily newspaper condemning the Republic Day violence on Delhi in 100-120 words. Students were also asked to suggest a few measures to "thwart such violent maniacs who act under external instigation".This is a sample fm a Class X English paper of a popular Chennai school. The incident and the much larger farm bills issue is still being discussed but here this is being said 'violent maniacs under external instigation' pic.twitter.com/N27ooheHJVThe exam was held on February 11. The question was part of the second revision exams, reports said.Republic Day violence was not due to intel failure, says police commissioner"The diabolical violence that broke out in the national capital on Republic Day filled the hearts of the citizens with condemnation and abhorrence after the farm law protesters went on a rampage destroying public property and attacking police personnel in broad daylight. Write a letter to the Editor of a daily newspaper in your city, condemning such terrible, violent acts of miscreants who fail to realise that country comes before personal needs and gains. Destroying public property, disgracing the national flag, and attacking police personnel are few of the various illegal offences committed, that can never be justified for any reason whatsoever. Suggest few measures from your end to thwart such violent maniacs who act under external instigation," the question read.“This is a sample from a Class X English paper of a popular Chennai school. The incident and the much larger farm bills issue is still being discussed but here this is being said 'violent maniacs under external instigation',” said TM Krishna in his tweet.While many online users agreed with Krishna and denounced the choice of words in the question, many said there was nothing wrong with the question as protesters desecrated Red Fort, National Flag on January 26.Protesters took out a tractor march on Republic Day and, deviating from their pre-decided route, entered Delhi, resulting in a clash with police. Protesters then went to Red Fort and hoisted religious flags on its top. Delhi Police are investigating the case and have arrested 152 people in connection with the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/write-on-r-day-diabolical-violence-chennai-school-question-paper-stokes-row-101613810364566.html
20-02-2021||India||Farmers don’t need sympathy, they need support: Sachin Pilot||Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Friday said the farmers protesting against the three farm laws do not need sympathy but support. Addressing a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Kotkhawada area of Chaksu (Jaipur), Pilot pointed out how farmers have been agitating for months now. “This crisis should help everyone realise that the three farm laws by the Centre are not just anti-farmer but against the middle class, youth, and true patriots,” he said.In the mahapanchayat, attended by over a dozen Congress MLAs, a resolution was also passed which sought to ask the Centre to repeal the three new farm laws; a law for purchase on MSP; and reduction in fuel and LPG prices.Calling the public the biggest power in a democracy, Pilot said, “Through this mahapanchayat, we want to warn the government that the youth and farmers are standing united. The people of 36 communities have taken an oath that all will stand united against the steps taken against farmers.Also Read | Farmers ready to sacrifice one crop for protest, BKU ups ante“Farmers don’t need sympathy, they need support. They aren’t begging but asking for their rights. The government assured them double their income but has that happened? Such laws will make our children run from pillar to post. They are misleading– there is no one to listen to farmers in the Central government,” he said.“They talk of caste and religion. The one who produces grain or the one who protects the border doesn’t have a caste. They want to divide us in the name of caste and religion,” said the former deputy CM. He appealed to the farmers to ask the public for support.Earlier this month, Pilot had addressed a mahapanchayat in Dausa and Bharatpur districts of Rajasthan, organised by MLAs who supported him during the political crisis in the state which had threatened to topple the government.In the mahapanchayat on Friday, organised by MLA Ved Prakash Solanki in Chaksu, over a dozen party MLAs were on the dais with Pilot. “An invite was sent to the CM and the state party chief but they chose not to attend. The presence of over a dozen MLAs is sending a clear political message that all’s still not well within the party,” said a senior party leader on the condition of anonymity.Reacting to the Congress mahapanchayat, BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said farmers need to understand that the farm laws are in their interest. Majority of the farmers are in favour of the laws,e said. The protesting farmers should think about the government proposal, and call off the protest, he added. “The Congress leaders must stop misguiding the farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-don-t-need-sympathy-they-need-support-sachin-pilot-101613734970595.html
