25-02-2021||NA||Highlights: False narrative that farmers will lose land: Union minister||The farmers' protest against the Centre's three new farm laws is continuing at Delhi's border as the deadlock between the protesting farmer unions and the government continues over the repeal of the laws.Rakesh Tikait, leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said on Tuesday that the protesting farmers would gherao Parliament, if the Central government does not repeal the three laws, during his address to a Kisan Panchayat in Sikar, Rajasthan. Earlier on Tuesday, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, too, addressed a similar panchayat in Sikar.Meanwhile, the political battles in poll-bound states have been centred largely around the farm laws and the farmers' protests. Union minister Prahlad Joshi of the BJP attacked Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday saying that Gandhi is an "actor on tractor." The remarks came a day after Gandhi held a tractor rally in his constituency in Kerala supporting the protesting farmers. Gandhi too had been attacking the Centre in his political rallies, saying that the government wants to take away the agriculture business from farmers and "and give the entire business to two or three friends of PM Modi".In other developments around the issue, climate activist Disha Ravi had been released from the Tihar jail on Tuesday after a Delhi court granted bail to her on grounds of "scanty and sketchy" evidence. She was earlier arrested in connection with the 'toolkit' case. Also, Lakha Sidhana, one of the accused in the tractor rally clashes during the republic day, addressed a farmers' rally in Mehraj, Bathinda, calling for the protests to be intensified.Follow all the updates here:False narrative that farmers will lose land, won't get MSP: Union minister BalyanBJP leader and Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan on Wednesday said the the protest against Centre's three new farm laws has become "emotional" and acknowledged that his party and the government might not have been able to explain the benefits of the laws to farmers. "Farmers are facing problems today and no one can deny that. They are vulnerable and need protection from the government," Balyan told news agency PTI. The Union minister however pointed out that a false narrative has been created that with the implementation of these laws, farmers would lose their land and wouldn't get support price for their crops. Govt extends paramilitary force deployment on Haryana border till Feb 28The Centre has extended period of paramilitary forces' deployment in Haryana till February 28 for law and order duties during farmers' agitationNarendra Singh Tomar says Government ready for discussions with farmers, after Tikait's parliament march commentGoI is committed to double farmers' income & work towards agriculture's welfare. Discussions have been held many times, if they've a point to raise even now, we're ready to discuss: Agriculture Minister NS Tomar when asked about Rakesh Tikait's remark about 40 lakh tractors march pic.twitter.com/J54uTeFWQ5Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said that the government is ready to discuss the problems of farmers in the farm laws, reports ANI.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to address Kisan Panchayat in Agraअभी कुछ समय पश्चात् ग्रामीण मिनी स्टेडियम मौनी बाबा आश्रम किरावली आगरा में आयोजित किसान पंचायत को संबोधित करुंगा।@RakeshTikaitBKU @OfficialBKUBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait had said that he would address a Kisan Panchayat in Agra.Maharashtra youth Congress leader says government has given no relief measures for farmersFarmers Protesting from last 2 months.More than 250 farmers lost their lives during protest.Pm Modi maintains silence & his govt has no relief measures 4 farmers demands.Still BJP trends #KisanKaSammanPMKisan shame!Ppl of India will not be fooled.#ModiIgnoringFarmersDeaths pic.twitter.com/lVzIVF8dW9Maharashtra Youth Congress vice president Brijkishore Dutt has said that the central government has not provided any relief measures to the farmers.'Justice has been done' says Disha Ravi's father after bail in toolkit caseJustice has been done. My daughter had done nothing wrong. We believe in our country's judiciary: Ravi Annappa, Disha Ravi's father on her bail in the toolkit case pic.twitter.com/wKm31gLWY1Disha Ravi's father said that "Justice has been done. My daughter had done nothing wrong. We believe in our country's judiciary," reports ANI.Delhi court seeks police response on Shantanu Muluk bail plea, adjourns matter for ThursdayA Delhi court seeks a response from Delhi Police on anticipatory bail moved by Shantanu Muluk, co-accused in the ongoing 'Toolkit'. Court adjourns the matter for tomorrow. Court also noted the public prosecutor's submission that Shantanu has interim protection till 26th FebruaryA Delhi court sought response from the Delhi police on the anticipatory bail plea by Shantanu Muluk in the 'toolkit' case, reports ANI.Posters only precautionary, no action against farmers: Delhi police clarifyA poster warning of action was put at Delhi borders on 26th January. Similarly, other posters were also put 8-10 days ago as a precautionary measure. No action is being taken against the farmers: Delhi Police pic.twitter.com/Q3Lr7vGd8JDelhi police has said that the posters at Delhi borders were put up only as a precautionary measure and no action is being taken against farmers, reports ANI.Punjab Ekta Party president urges PM Modi to repeal farm lawsFarmers have been suffering from almost three months outside Delhi. All they want is to live with dignity, not under any crony corporations pressure. Land is mother of every farmer, Modi ji do not make them suffer more. Repeal Farm Laws. #ModiDontSellFarmersPunjab Ekta Party (PEP) president and Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira has called for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the three farm laws against which the farmers have been protesting.Farmers’ protest: Multiple Delhi borders remain closed for trafficSeveral borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for vehicular movement on Wednesday because of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws.Click here to read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protests-live-feb-24-2021-rakesh-tikait-disha-ravi-singhu-border-kisan-panchayat-bharatiya-kisan-union-congress-bjp-narendra-singh-tomar-rahul-gandhi-tractor-rally-farmers-protest-delhi-border-101614136332151.html
