28-02-2021||India||New agriculture reform laws death warrant for farmers: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday described farmers as true patriots and alleged that fake cases were being lodged against them in the context of the agitation against three new agriculture reform laws. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader was speaking at a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh.He termed these new laws as a “death warrant” for farmers. Kejriwal said the farmers were in a “do or die” battle because they felt the government would hand over their land to corporates and they would become labourers on their own land.The chief minister said that all the governments in the past 70 years cheated farmers on their demand for an appropriate price for their crops, “but nothing happens after elections”.He also indicated that farmers had nothing to do with the violence that took place on Republic Day at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally.“What happened at Red Fort on January 26 was organised by them,” he said without mentioning any names.Also read: 6 states contributed to 86.37% of new Covid-19 cases, says govt“People met me thereafter and told (me) that protesters were deliberately diverted from the prescribed route and those who hoisted a flag at Red Fort were their workers. Our farmers can be anything but anti-nationals,” he added.Kejriwal demanded that fake cases should not be registered against farmers.He also presented a formula for giving a guarantee to purchase 23 crops at minimum support price (MSP).Kejriwal said that every day BJP leaders claimed MSP existed and it would remain.“I challenge Yogiji (UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath) to mention to me one mandi (market) in UP where crops were purchased at MSP,” he said.The Delhi chief minister also spoke about the issues of sugarcane payment, escalating electricity bills, rising prices of fuel and fertilizers.He appealed to the gathering to bring a government with clear intentions in the state and solve all their problems.“Bring a government with clear intentions and farmers would receive the payment before reaching their home after supplying sugarcane to mills,” he said as the crowd hailed him with slogans like “Arvind Kejriwal zindabad (long live Arvind Kejriwal)” and “desh ka neta kaisa ho Arvind Kejriwal jaisa ho (nation's leader should be like Kejriwal)”.The Aam Aadmi Party has already announced it would contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due in February-March next year.Kejriwal said he was the first person who contacted Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait after he burst into tears because of the “atrocities” on farmers at the Ghazipur border.“I was the first person to contact Rakesh Tikait on the phone and made arrangements for drinking water and toilets for the farmers on his appeal,” the AAP chief said.Referring to the Delhi government’s free electricity scheme, he said, “I was also under tremendous pressure and told that power companies were powerful, therefore, we can't do much to minimise power cuts and providing free electricity. But we did that.”AAP Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh, local farmer leaders and the party's state president Sabhajeet Singh shared the dais with Kejriwal. Sanjay Singh and Sabhajeet Singh had visited many leaders of khaps (clan-based councils) to mobilise support for the mahapanchayat.The stage had photographs of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, one of the tallest farmer leaders of the country, and the late BKU chief Mahendra Singh Tikait.Kejriwal ended his speech with the slogan “Chaudhary Charan Singh Amar Rahe”.He also honoured khap chaudharies (khap leaders) on the stage and sought their blessings.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-agriculture-reform-laws-death-warrant-for-farmers-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101614523019519.html
28-02-2021||India||'Could not see his tears': What Kejriwal said on farmer leader Rakesh Tikait||Addressing a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Meerut, a stronghold of the Tikaits, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said he reached out to Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, one of the farmers’ leaders spearheading the protests against the three central farm laws, after he was manhandled by the police in January this year."I could not believe what I saw on television on January 28. India's famous farmer leader Baba Mahendra Singh Tikait's son who has been protesting on Delhi borders for so long for farmers was crying after the police sent by the government misbehaved with him. He has everything by god's grace but what he is doing is only for the farmers," Kejriwal said"I called Sanjay ji (Sanjay Singh) and he made me talk to Rakeshji. I told him don't worry, we are with you. I asked him what he needs. I asked him to be strong, not to worry. He said the Ghazipur site needs water and toilet infrastructure. We send our MLAs at night and ensured the needful was done. I told him don't give up, the entire country is watching you," Kejriwal said.After Republic Day violence, which Kejriwal said was orchestrated by BJP, sullied the image of the so-far peaceful protest of the farmers, protesters at Ghazipur border were asked to vacate the site by the Ghaziabad administration. As the crowd started becoming thin, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait broke down and his emotional appeal revived the energy of the protest.Coming down heavily on the BJP, the Delhi CM said Red Fort violence was staged. He said farmers didn't know the roads of Delhi. "Those who reached Red Fort and hoisted flag were BJP workers. Our farmers can be anything but anti-nationals," Kejriwal said.Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party announced that it would contest in the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2022. His highly charged address at Meerut Kisan Mahapanchayat also came as a poll pitch, as he enumerated the welfare steps that his government has taken in Delhi.Taking on Yogi Adityanath government, Kejriwal said, "Show me one mandi where minimum support price is there. BJP ministers are claiming everywhere that MSP is there and will always be there. I want to ask the Yogi government to show me where it is implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-not-see-his-tears-what-kejriwal-said-on-farmer-leader-rakesh-tikait-101614506590283.html
28-02-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait to tour 5 states in March to drum up support for farmers' protest||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait will be touring five states in March to drum up support for the ongoing farmers' protest against Centre's new agriculture laws, a Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) office-bearer said on Saturday.Tikait, the national spokesperson of the BKU and a prominent face of the farmers' protest, will begin the tour from March 1, the office-bearer said."Farmers' meetings will be held in Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana, while two meetings will also be held in Uttar Pradesh in March," BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said.Two meetings will be held in Rajasthan and three in Madhya Pradesh. The last three meetings will be held on March 20, 21 and 22 in Karnataka, Malik said."One event is scheduled on March 6 in Telangana, but we have not got permission for it yet due to some election in the state. If permission is granted, the meeting in Telangana will be held as per schedule," he told PTI.Thousands of farmers are camping at Delhi's border points at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur since November with a demand that the Centre should repeal the contentious farm laws enacted in September last year and frame a new one guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP) on crops.Tikait is leading the protest at Ghazipur.The government, which has held 11 rounds of formal talks with the protesting farm unions, maintains that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-to-tour-5-states-in-march-to-drum-up-support-for-farmers-protest-101614473960302.html
28-02-2021||NA||Highlights: PM doesn't have time to meet protesting farmers, says Andhra Cong||The protest against the three farm laws have entered its 92nd day on Saturday. The farmers protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 have shown no signs of letting up as discussions failed between farmers’ unions representatives and the Centre.All India Kisan Congress leaders protested outside Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar's residence demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws. Meanwhile, after the United Nations asked India to find an ‘equitable solution’ to the farmers’ agitation. India responded by saying that the Centre has shown ‘utmost respect for protests by farmers and has remained engaged in dialogue with them to address their concerns.’Follow LIVE updates here:Follow all the updates here:PM Modi doesn't have time to meet protesting farmers, says Andhra CongAndhra Pradesh Congress leaders said on Saturday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not have time to meet the farmers protesting at several border points in Delhi. They added that it was the Congress that had brought the Food Security Act while the Centre's "anti-farm laws claimed the lives of 200 farmers." PM-Kisan scheme proved to be 'election stunt': BSP's Danish AliBSP MP Kunwar Danish Ali on Saturday alleged that the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' has proven to be the BJP's election "stunt" to win the 2019 polls, citing the declining number of beneficiaries in his native Hapur district in Uttar Pradesh.Surjewala requests farmers not to destroy their cropsकिसानों की सुनवाई क्यों नहीं हो रही ?भाजपा सरकार उनकी अनदेखी क्यों कर रहे हैं ?मोदी सरकार अहंकार में चूर है। किसानों के मुद्दों पर सरकारी अनदेखी के परिणाम भयावह होते जा रहे हैं। किसान भाई-बहनों से मेरा हाथ जोड़कर अनुरोध है, अपनी खड़ी फसलों को नष्ट न करें 🙏🏻#FarmerProtests pic.twitter.com/ZHoxbtTKc7Congress spokesperson Surjewala says government is too ignorant to not pay attention to the plight of farmers. He also requested farmers to not destroy their crops sharing news reports of farmers destroying their crops in protest against the three laws. Raj Babbar denounces arrests of protesters, activistsसोनीपत में अधिक पारिश्रमिक की मांग के प्रदर्शन में गिरफ्तारी। बाद में वसूली, फ़साद जैसे आरोप चस्पा। हाई कोर्ट ने लेबर एक्टिविस्ट #NodeepKaur को जमानत दे दी लेकिन 50 दिन जेल में बीते। गिरफ्तारी के दम पर जनांदोलनों के हौसले तोड़ने का पुराना तरीक़ा आजकल कुछ ज़्यादा ही पॉपुलर है।The Congress lawmaker via a tweet said that arresting activists and protesters to break down popular movements is becoming a trend. Tikait to hold more than 10 Mahapanchayats all over Indiaप्रस्तावित किसान महापंचायत में कार्यक्रम#FarmersProstests @AHindinews @PTI_News @aajtak @ndtvindia @Kisanektamorcha @ASHAKisanSwaraj @HansrajMeena @BRajewal pic.twitter.com/8vkJNIim7oTikait is also planning to travel to southern states like Telangana and Karnataka to garner support against the farm laws. Chidambaram says only 6% of farmers able to sell at MSPYet he will claim that he has doubled the farmers’ income He will also claim that all farmers get MSP when the truth is only 6% of farmers are able to sell at MSPThe former finance minister said that PM should travel to Delhi's borders to mitigate the longstanding issues with farmers' unions representatives. Farmers' group asks people to join protests against farm lawsAs a mark to celebrate Guru Ravidas Jayanti, farmers call for an open invite to all the supporters to join in and strenghten the ongoing movement at Delhi borders. Celebrating #MazdoorKisanEktaDiwas pic.twitter.com/khbit5Qj5jFarmers' group Kisan Ekta Morcha tweeted on the occasion of Guru Ravidas Jayanti sharing an open invite to people to join protests against farm laws. BKU leader pays tribute to freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azadदेश की स्वतंत्रता के लिए अपना सर्वोच्च बलिदान देने वाले, अदम्य साहस की मिसाल अमर शहीद मां भारती के लाल चन्द्रशेखर आज़ाद जी की पुण्यतिथि पर उन्हें कोटि कोटि नमन ।#चन्द्रशेखर_आजाद pic.twitter.com/SIHqlySFtrBKU leader Rakesh Tikait paid his tributes to freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azad on his death anniversary via a tweet on Saturday. BKU-Ugrahan expresses relief over Nodeep Kaur's releaseAfter bail in last pending case registered u/s 307 of IPC, #NodeepKaur released from Karnal Jail on bail today after nearly 45 days of incarcerationWe condemn the system that allow the government to use the law through unlawful means to harass ordinary people#FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/QxW4iB3Tv3BKU Ugrahan says that the government is trying to silence the critics of farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protest-live-feb-27-2021-nodeep-kaur-disha-ravi-narendra-tomar-rakesh-tikait-kisan-pm-modi-rahul-gandhi-bku-skm-101614390121949.html
28-02-2021||India||'Centre can buy farm produce at MSP', says Kejriwal; shares formula||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday addressed a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Meerut in Uttar Pradesh where he lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government. He said that farmers who are protesting for their livelihood have been branded as traitors.He also said that these protesters have braved biting cold and water cannons, but are still continuing their protest because it's a do-or-die situation for them. He also termed the three farm laws as "black laws".Kejriwal then focussed his attention on the issue of Minimum Support Price (MSP), which is one of the main demands of the protesters. The farmers want the system of MSP to continue, but the AAP chief claimed Centre doesn't want to buy crops at MSP.He then shared a formula how it can be done. "I heard from a central minister that buying crops at MSP us not possible because it will cost the government ₹17 lakh crore. But I have a formula using which the government won't have to spend a penny. You say ₹17 lakh crore will be spent but farmers are not asking the money for free, they will give you their crops," said Kejriwal.Further elaborating, the AAP chief said, "If the government buys the farm produce, it will sell it in the market, right? The government will sometime get ₹18 lakh crore, even ₹20 lakh crore. And at other times, it can also result in some loss and the government could earn ₹16 lakh crore," said Kejriwal."I think the government can afford a loss of ₹1-1.5 lakh crore, but keep the families of crores of farmers happy. All the losses will be recovered in 10-15 years," he added.He shared the steps taken by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi to regulate price of electricity. "I was told not to make tall promises of bringing down the rate of electricity in Delhi as the discoms are very powerful. But as you can see, our government fulfilled its promise in five years," said Kejriwal.He said that AAP was able to achieve the target because of its good intention."The Centre can waive ₹8 lakh crore of some of its friends, so why can't it implement this formula? That's because they don't have the good intention," the chief minister said.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. They are also demanding a law to guarantee that.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured the farmers that the MSP system will continue. Speaking in the Rajya Sabha earlier this month, PM Modi had said the mandis in the nation would be modernised.“MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future. Affordable ration for the poor will continue. Mandis will be modernised," the Prime Minister had said.PM Modi also said that the central government has been making changes in the agriculture sector since 2014, aimed at improving the lives of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-can-buy-farm-produce-at-msp-says-kejriwal-shares-formula-101614507020443.html
28-02-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait to tour 5 states in March to drum up support for farmers' protest||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait will be touring five states in March to drum up support for the ongoing farmers' protest against Centre's new agriculture laws, a Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) office-bearer said on Saturday.Tikait, the national spokesperson of the BKU and a prominent face of the farmers' protest, will begin the tour from March 1, the office-bearer said."Farmers' meetings will be held in Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana, while two meetings will also be held in Uttar Pradesh in March," BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said.Two meetings will be held in Rajasthan and three in Madhya Pradesh. The last three meetings will be held on March 20, 21 and 22 in Karnataka, Malik said."One event is scheduled on March 6 in Telangana, but we have not got permission for it yet due to some election in the state. If permission is granted, the meeting in Telangana will be held as per schedule," he told PTI.Thousands of farmers are camping at Delhi's border points at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur since November with a demand that the Centre should repeal the contentious farm laws enacted in September last year and frame a new one guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP) on crops.Tikait is leading the protest at Ghazipur.The government, which has held 11 rounds of formal talks with the protesting farm unions, maintains that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-to-tour-5-states-in-march-to-drum-up-support-for-farmers-protest-101614473960302.html
