07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Garhwa cops bust 2 minigun factories, six arrested; Covid saviour Remdesivir crisis in Bokaro||The Garhwa police on Friday morning busted two minigun factories in the Ketar and Bhawnathpur police station area of the district, where illegal gun-making was being done, and arrested six persons on the charge of being engaged in illegal gun-making business. Seventeen country made pistols, one made in China pistol, one 315 bolt rifle, three semi-made native revolvers, one air gun, 105 live cartridges , two smart phones and Rs 1,25,000 cash has been retrieved. While addressing a press conference, SP Khotre Srikant Suresh Rao said that he received information about the gun making racket in the Bhawnathpur police station area. A task force was immediately constituted under the leadership of the Garhwa SDPO Brahman Tuti. Besides Garhwa thana in-charge Laxamikant, other thana in-charges and district police personnel were also included in the task force. A raid was conducted at the house of an arms dealer Pappu Chaudhary in Nawada village, where a large number of illegal firearms, cartridges, money related to illegal arms sales were recovered. On the tip off of Pappu, raids were  conducted at two places, Batokala village and Makari village under Bhawnathpur police station area early on Friday morning. The SP said that the three persons arrested on the charge of illegal gun making have been identified as Rajkumar Vishwakarma, Narendra Vishwakarma and Ramesh Vishwakarma, all residents of Batokala village under Kettar police station area. Two others, including Shiva Vishwakarma and Ranjan Jaiswal were arrested along with illegal weapons. The SP revealed that the clandestinely made weapons were supplied to the criminals of three states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. SP added that the cops, who were involved in the grand success against the illegal arms supply net, would be rewarded. Covid saviour Remdesivir crisis in Bokaro MLA, Bokaro, Biranchi Narayan and other political leaders on Friday raised their voices demanding anti-viral drug Remdesivir for the dedicated Covid Hospital of Bokaro. The district is facing a huge crisis of antiviral drug Remdesivir, which is said to be the only current effective medication available for Covid-19. Remdesivir is a very costly medicine that is not sold in the open market. The company as per government instruction only provides it to institutions. Narayan came to know about the drug crisis after Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) wrote a letter to the district health department asking to provide Remdesivir urgently witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases here. For critical patients Remdesivir is proven as a life-saving drug. Ever since BGH has been declared as a dedicated Covid Hospital, it has not received antiviral drugs from the state government. Till now more than 80 Covid-19 positive patients were cured here. Narayan wrote a letter to state health secretary, Nitin Madan Kulkarni requesting him to provide Remdesivir to hospitals here on an urgent basis. The MLA said to The Telegraph Online, “There are two serious patients in BGH, who were administered Remdesivir. They are recovering fast. BGH has arranged two files of Remdesivir from its own sources. Now it has no Remdesivir for other patients." Senior Congress leader Sweta Singh also requested state health minister Banna Gupta to provide Remdesivir to BGH as soon as possible. “I called state minister Banna Gupta and apprised him of the situation arising without anti-viral drug especially Remdesivir in Bokaro. If any Covid positive patient becomes critical, then doctors here become helpless in saving his life in absence of Remdesivir. Health minister told me that he is arranging it soon,” she said. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said that efforts are being made to obtain Remdesivir from the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Paramedics, nurses call off strike for pay parity after talks with govt||Health services, particularly Covid testing, that were intermittently disrupted in some districts over the last few days, would be streamlined from Saturday, the state health minister said on Friday after around 12,000 contractual paramedics and nurses decided to postpone their planned strike to demand full-time jobs and better pay. Several rounds of meetings were held on Friday with representatives of the paramedics and nurses during which the government was able to convince them to call off the indefinite strike plan after promising to look into their demands later. “We had extensive talks with the agitators and have assured them that all their issues will be sorted out once the coronavirus period is over,” health minister Banna Gupta said. “In the evening, chief minister Hemant Soren took stock of the situation. Ours is a sensitive government and paramedical staff are our family too. They have decided not to go on strike on humanitarian grounds,” he added. Gupta said in some districts where the strike was on, the local authorities tried to rope in an alternative workforce to ensure that Covid testing did not suffer. Around 12,000 contractual paramedical staff, pharmacists and nurses, under the joint banner of Jharkhand State Contractual Paramedical Staff Association and Jharkhand State NRHM (National Rural Health Mission) ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) and GNM (general nursing and midwifery) Sangh, have been on the warpath against successive governments’ sustained indifference towards their decade-long demand for regular jobs and better pay. On Tuesday, all the outfits held a day-long strike across district headquarters and medical college and hospitals as a prelude to an indefinite strike from Saturday. However, in several districts, various units representing paramedical and nursing staff and lab technicians haven’t been reporting for work since then. District administrations were in a tizzy and tried their best to organise additional workers in the face of a steady increase in the number of Covid cases. In places like Dhanbad, Bokaro and parts of Ranchi, the strike had impacted Covid testing, in addition to disrupting general health services. Manju Minz (33) of Lalpur, who is eight months pregnant, had to return from sadar hospital without undergoing her scheduled check-up. “Covid testing has been made mandatory for all those turning up at the hospital before any treatment. However, when I went to sadar hospital for a check-up, I was told there was no one because of the strike,” she said. Juhi Minz, president of Jharkhand State NRHM ANM and GNM Sangh said they had put off the strike in public interest. “We were forced to strike (on Tuesday) to ensure the government woke up from its slumber.There is no one to take care of us. Many of our colleagues died due to Covid but got no help,” she said. On their key demands, general secretary of Jharkhand State Contractual Paramedical Staff Association Raghav Kumar said they were fighting for job regularisation and pay. “We are working at state health centres for over a decade but still on contract without any incentives. Even in case of on-duty casualty, we don’t have insurance,” he said, adding that they were now hopeful that the government would help. “We have been given a positive and time-bound assurance,” he said. There are 23 district hospitals, 113 sub-divisional hospitals, 330 primary health centres, 188 community health centres and 3,958 sub health centres in the state. Of the 12,000-strong paramedical staff, over 6,000 are auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), 2,000 general nursing midwifery (GNMs), 1,000 pharmacists, 1,500 lab technicians and 500 X-ray technicians. All work on contract.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Gun-shot attack at Adityapur by drug peddler gang, one arrested||Barely a fortnight after Dolly Parveen the lady kingpin of an infamous drug supply racket was arrested, associates led by her husband on Thursday night shot and wounded his brother-in-law in a twisted family drama after the latter, suspected to be  police informant, decided to install CCTV cameras to expose the continuing sale of drugs in Adityapur Muslim Bustee under Adityapur thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about four kms away from here.  The victim, Ramzan Hussain (30) sustained gun-shot injuries in his waistline and has been admitted at MGM Medical College Hospital, where his condition is described as serious.  Police have arrested one of the attackers, Moiuddin Chisti, from his house at Adityapur Muslim Bustee early on Friday morning, whereas the three others, including the main culprit Mohammed Kadim, who is Dolly's husband, are absconding.  Officer in charge (OC), Adityapur thana, Rajesh Prasad confirmed that they have arrested one of the four accused, who were involved in a gun-shot attack on Ramzan at Adityapur Muslim Bustee.  "From the preliminary investigation it is learnt that Kadim, who had conspired the attack on Ramzan had suspicion that the latter had informed the police leading to the arrest of Dolly on July 19. This was the reason that Kadim, alongwith his associates, Saddam, Aurengzeb and Moiuddin had swooped over the house of Ramzan at Adityapur Muslim Bustee late on Thursday night. The attackers had fired several rounds of shots at Ramzan, causing him to sustain two shots in the waistline," said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online.  According to sources in the police, a section of the Adityapur Muslim Bustee residents was opposed to the sale of narcotic drugs at the slum.  Dolly's brothers Ramzan and Sabir also opposed to the racket of brown sugar sale at the slum.  "So long as Dolly was not arrested, the act of running the racket was under her control completely. But after she was arrested on July 19, her husband Kadim started to run the business by engaging criminal elements like Saddam and Aurengzeb. Having come to know about the resumption of the brown sugar sale at the slum once again, Ramzan who was opposed to this illegal business, had decided to install CCTV cameras at some strategic points at the Adityapur Muslim Bustee and also at home. Kadim had opposed the act of installing the CCTV cameras at the slum, fearing that the police will get easy access to the drug peddlers," said the sources while talking to this website.  Sabir said his brother-in-law Kadim had first tried to convince Ramzan not to install the CCTV cameras having come to their house at the Adityapur Muslim Bustee on Thursday afternoon.  "But as my brother refused to oblige and expressed his intention that he wanted to keep his surroundings clean of any drug business, Kadim had swooped over our house along with four-five criminals. After shooting at my brother, all the accused fled the scene by crossing the nearby railway line," said Sabir, who claims to be an eye-witness.  According to police, Moiuddin was arrested from his house at about 5.30 am on Friday. The police are trying to arrest the rest of the accused and have been conducting raids at different places in Adityapur and its adjoining areas.  In another incident, a 35-year-old man, Mohammed Javed was shot at and injured by a gang of three youths near Albela Garden under Azadnagar thana area in Mango at about 10.30 pm on Thursday.  OC, Azadnagar thana, Vishnu Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online said "Javed, who is a civil contractor and resident of Old Purulia Road in Mango, was returning home and had stopped at Albela Garden after seeing some youths fighting. As he intervened to disperse the warring youths, one of them fished out a pistol and fired a shot which hit the victim's left hand. We are trying to identify the one who had fired the shot."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant files civil suit against Nishikant Dubey for ‘baseless’ tweets||Chief minister Hemant Soren has filed a case against Nishikant Dubey in response to a tweet of the BJP’s Godda MP which he and the JMM had then dismissed as baseless and defamatory. Hemant’s lawyer Prashant Kumar filed a title suit online in the court of sub judge 1 at Ranchi civil court on Tuesday, August 4, under section 26 of civil procedure code (CPC). The case, bearing registration number 151/2020, will be heard on August 22. Besides Dubey, the case also mentions Twitter Communications India Private Limited and Facebook India Online Services Pvt Ltd. A Ranchi civil court lawyer explained that a case under CPC section 26 was a title suit. In the next hearing, the case would first get formally admitted in court and notices issued to the concerned parties. Thereafter, the court would ask the pleader about the nature and kind of defamation suit he wants to file to proceed with the case. Dubey had on June 28 announced via his twitter handle that he had written to the Maharashtra government demanding reopening of a rape case, which was lodged against Hemant by a Mumbai based woman in 2013. Dubey further alleged that Hemant, who was also chief minister of Jharkhand then, had used his influence to force the complainant to withdraw the case. Hemant refuted Dubey’s charge on twitter, calling them baseless, saying that the MP would be given a befitting reply legally within the next 48 hours. “We shall fight such baseless allegations and cheap politics legally. We shall respect healthy debate and politics but not such wild allegations,” said an aide of Hemant. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee had last month criticised Dubey for making wild allegations at a press meet in Ranchi. He warned the BJP against pursuing “below-the-belt” politics, adding that the JMM too had enough ammunition to counter Dubey and his party. Dubey conceded he had received a communication regarding a case filed against him by Hemant. “Rape and kidnapping case against Hemant Soren was levelled by a girl in Mumbai not me. Rather than filing a case against her, CM has filed a case against me. Thank You! It is my honour, just like veteran Saryu Roy (ex-BJP) to have got a chance to fight against CM,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro hotels may offer paid Covid isolation for asymptomatic patients||With the rising number of positive cases and limited number of beds in government isolation centres, the district administration of Bokaro is planning to turn hotels into paid isolation centres for asymptomatic affluent patients. Sub-divisional officer (SDO), Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh, along with civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak on Friday held a meeting with the owners of about a dozen hotels to understand their views on the matter. Earlier in March, the district administration had turned 10 luxurious hotels into pay and use quarantine centres. Now the administration is trying to turn these hotels into paid isolation centres for the residents, especially those belonging to the affluent class in the district. The paid isolation facility model is already functional in Ranchi and a few other cities of Jharkhand. Of the 211 active cases in the district, barring three, all are asymptomatic and undergoing treatment in dedicated Covid Hospital, Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) and Covid Care Centre in Camp-2 of the district health department. Among the recent spike of 71 cases on Wednesday and 12 positive cases on Thursday, there are many people belonging to affluent families, who are hesitating in getting admitted in the Covid wards due to lack of adequate facilities. They requested the administration to come up with paid isolation centres in hotels similar to the ones available in other districts. SDO Singh said, “In the meeting, I asked hotel owners to turn their hotels into paid isolation centres. They will have to declare room charges before the administration so that we can have a discussion on it. Health department will provide doctors and other medical help to the patients availing the paid isolation facility in these hotels. However, it is upto the hotel owners whether they want to come up with a paid isolation centre or not.” Administration and health department will closely monitor the patients in hotels. Hotels will have to make arrangements of hygiene, regular sanitisation, medical gadgets like oximeter, sugar and BP testing tools, etc. The medicines including multivitamins, vitamin-c will be provided by the health department. The hospitality industry which has been badly affected in this Covid crisis can see this as an opportunity of earning revenue. Zaika resort situated in the outskirts at Pindrajoda near the Jharkhand- West Bengal border has started a paid isolation facility that got functional from Thursday night. It got its first lot of seven Covid-19 positive patients, all officials of banks, for its deluxe rooms. They all are asymptomatic. “We have a hanging basket in the balcony of each of these rooms through where food and snacks are served to patients. Waiters or anyone are restricted to go on that floor,” said Vikram Shanan, proprietor of Zaika Resort. The SDO and civil surgeon inspected the resort and gave necessary instructions to Shanan. The resort is situated in a secluded place on the Chas-Purulia road, and the amenity belongs to the tourism department which it has outsourced to Zaika group. However, a few hoteliers fear that keeping positive patients may affect their business in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Trio of minor girls drown in Koderma farm pond while taking a bath||Three minor girls, who were also cousins, drowned in a pond in the Kari Khokho village of Markachcho block in Koderma on Friday afternoon. Officials said the trio went to a nearby forest to graze their cattle but died when they went to take a bath in a pond. The victims, all school-going students, were identified as 16-year-old Kajal Kumari, Vinita Kumari(12) and Pinki Kumari (11). Their fathers were brothers. The girls had taken their goats to a nearby forest for grazing, as they would do every day, about 1km away from their village, and decided to take a bath in the dobha (farm pond). When, Pinki slipped and started drowning. Hearing her screams, Vinita who was near to her rushed to help but was trapped in the deep water. Kajal also reached and tried to save the duo, but they all drowned one after another.  At that time, Pramila Devi, an aunt to the trio was also present with her cattle. When she came near the dobha, she spotted the trio girls’ clothes but didn’t find them. Within no time, she understood that girls had drowned and shouted for help. The bodies were fished out after half an hour.  Nawalshahi police station officer-in-charge Abadulla Khan reached the spot and sent the bodies for post-mortem to the Koderma sadar hospital. A pall of gloom has descended the village with residents gathered outside the houses of the victims’ families to console them. “We saw the girls so happy during Raksha Bandhan,” said a villager Kishori Mahto. He added that the dobha was made for the purpose of irrigation and fishery. “But no one knew that it would claim the lives of three young girls,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Raipur trust ensures these boys and girls will have healthy hearts||A Chhattisgarh-based trust that had facilitated a telemedicine connect with a district hospital here last year, has now ensured that six girls and boys with congenital heart disease will get the medical attention they deserve. Collaborating with the state government, the Sri Sathya Sai Aarogya Vahini Trust organised ambulances for the six patients, who left on Thursday to undergo surgeries at the Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Heart Hospital in Naya Raipur, Chhattisgarh. The oldest of the group is 19 and the youngest is four. Notably, in September last year, a telemedicine centre was started at the Sadar Hospital at Khasmahal, on the outskirts the of steel city, following an initiative of the then civil surgeon, Dr Maheshwar Prasad. The telemedicine centre, which was inaugurated by then deputy commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla, connected Jharkhand with Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Heart Hospital in Naya Raipur. Since then, a list of 42 children, from various Jharkhand districts, have been prepared, from which the first batch of five children were referred to the Sanjeevani Hospital last year. They got operated upon and are now leading a normal life. Due to the ongoing pandemic, the case load at Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospital at Raipur is now low and they requested the local chapter of the trust to send a second batch of youngsters in separate ambulances. "We had requested Ravi Shankar Shukla, mission director, National Health Mission, for a vehicle and after his approval a batch of six boys and girls and their parents left for the hospital by two ambulances on Thursday. The cost of travel will be borne by the state government while the trust will bear the cost of surgery," said Dr Maheshwar Prasad, the brain behind the project. He, along with Dhalbhum SDO Chandan Kumar, flagged off the two ambulances from Sakchi on Thursday evening. Civil surgeon H.N. Jha and members of the trust were also present. The six girls who would undergo surgeries are from Jamshedpur, Giridih, Chatra, Bokaro and Dhanbad. All are suffering from congenital heart disease. Their ailments were detected at the telemedicine centre at the Sadar Hospital here. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dr Maheshwar Prasad said after reaching Naya Raipur, the girls and their families would be provided separate rooms for five days of quarantine. After that a Covid test would be done, followed by surgery, depending on the test results. "We thank the Mission Director of NHM Ravi Shankar Shukla, U.C Sinha state nodal officer, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) and Dr Maheshwar Prasad without whose support this would not have been possible, " said Krishna Mohan, a functionary of the trust. The trust, he added, provided dinner packets and dry snacks to all the families for a comfortable journey. "Once they reach Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospital will take care of their stay and other requirements free of cost," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC’s new head coach cherishes memories of the ‘Furnace’||Newly-appointed Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle may have been to the steel city just once, but the Englishman hasn’t forgotten his experience at the “Furnace”, the affectionate title for the JRD Tata Sports Complex. “Well, Jamshedpur is magnificent. It’s good as any other city I’ve been to. I loved the wonderful support of the fans for the home side and also the hospitality. The playing surface at the Furnace was superb and the stadium and training facilities are fantastic. It’s a wonderful opportunity and I am really excited to be on the JFC board,” said the 54-year-old, joining in at an online press meet on Friday from his home at Langho, 30km from Manchester. Jamshedpur FC chairman and vice-president (corporate services), Tata Steel, Chanakya Chaudhary, club CEO Mukul Choudhari and chief of Tata Steel sports wing Farzan Heerjee were also present at the virtual press meet. The Telegraph Online had reported on August 3 that Coyle was likely to be the JFC head coach. Coyle, who had been to Jamshedpur as coach of Chennaiyin FC in a match against JFC last year, added playing the Indian Super League (ISL) at a single venue would be totally  challenging. “But everybody (read franchises) will be on the same page. It will be a level-playing field for every team. I would like to maximise the opportunity,” he added. On how difficult it was to leave Chennaiyin FC, the JFC head coach said, “Chennaiyin FC is a wonderful club and the people are also great. I had a good time with the club,” he recalled. The former Burnley and Bolton Wanderers manager had a highly successful stint with Chennaiyin FC. He steered the team to the final in the last season. Coyle, an avid golfer who replaced Spaniard Antonio Iriondo, added he has plans to work for the ongoing grassroots football programme of JFC and would be happy to nurture young talent and see that their potential grows to the maximum. Welcoming the head coach, JFC chairman termed Coyle as the “White Star” who lifted Chennaiyin FC from rock-bottom. “We are looking at a top 2 finish under Coyle. We are sure he is in tune with our vision and thoughts.” Chaudhary added. JFC CEO Choudhari said while dealing with the pandemic, all club officials had been working in the background. “We’ll be coming up with more announcements later this week,” he added On dealing with Covid during the tournament, he said it would be very demanding. “Adhering to social distancing guidelines, travel and training logistics will have to be taken care of,” Choudhari added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation sanitation staff resume work after assurance||The age-old practice of boycotting work clicked once more, when more than 100 sanitation workers of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) on Friday who had sat on dharna in front of the DMC office demanding pending salaries for around two months were assured by the local governing body's commissioner Satyendra Kumar that their demands will be looked into. The protestors, who staged dharna under the banner of district unit of Bhartiya Karmchari Mazdoor Union, were also demanding payment of arrear of more than one year of assured career progression (ACP) scheme benefit, besides restoration of jobs of those who have been removed without any valid reason. Its 18-point demand charter included leave and leave encashment facility for the regular workers, insurance facility, besides provision of mask, sanitisers and gloves and other facilities, including medical check up for sanitation workers on a regular basis and Covid 19 tests. State working president of Bhartiya Karmchari Mazdoor Union, Baibhav Sinha, who led the agitation, said, “We had several rounds of meeting with the Municipal Corporation authorities with regard to our long pending demands like payment of arrear of ACP, implementation of seventh pay commission, pending arrear of the retired employees. Assurances have also been given but no positive result has come out compelling us to boycott work." One of the protestors, requesting anonymity said, “We are risking our life working in containment zones carrying out santisation work, saving the life of others but our own life is at stake as we are deprived of protective gears like masks, sanitisers, face shield and in some cases PPE kits also.” “When Covid testing of policemen are being carried out then why can’t our sample testing be carried out, especially when we are working in such an exposed situation?” asked another protestor. The work boycott came to an end after the meeting between the protestors and DMC Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar during which he assured them of paying pending salaries within a day or two and also providing  protective gears like masks, gloves, santisers and PPE kits in sufficient quantity soon. Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar in his brief reply said, “We had a meeting with the sanitation workers after which their agitation came to an end.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Effigy of priest cremated after burial of body sparks row ||The burial of a priest, who died of Covid seven days ago, sparked controversy among relatives who were not happy at the way his last rites were conducted. The administration in Ramgarh allowed the family to make an effigy and conduct the priest’s last rites on Thursday evening in a selected spot. After taking permission of his family, the body of the priest, who was identified as Sitaram Mishra, was buried 9-feet deep at the IFCO ground. However, relatives of the priest as well as some elderly people claimed that burying of his body was against the rules of Hinduism, and that the body should be consigned to flames. They also got the support of some political parties. Ramgarh circle officer Bhola Shankar Mahto said that the relatives were told that it was not possible to exhume the body. “We suggested they take up the last rites with an effigy in the spot where the body was buried, and they agreed,” he said. Officials agreed and allowed some relatives of Mishra to carry out the rites. They were given PPE kits, gloves and face shields to avoid any infection. Mishra’s two sons, Arvind and Chintu, consigned the effigy to flames. His grandsons, Abhishek Mishra and Bablu, were present at the ceremony, during which the IFCO grounds were sealed. Sub divisional police officer of Ramgarh Anuj Oroan and officer-in-charge of Ramgarh police station Vidya Shankar were also present on the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Health workers’ strike hits Covid testing at PMCH||Covid testing at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) has been adversely affected because of a strike by health workers launched on Tuesday, even though the local administration made fresh appointments to ensure more and mor people could be tested. As many as 82 lab technicians and six data entry operators were appointed by the district administration to speed up swab tests. But the timing of the strike upset all plans. “The testing might have been accelerated following the appointment of lab technicians but more than the number of those who joined work went on strike,” rued PMCH principal Shailendra Kumar. “We are currently carrying out 600-700 tests per day, which is slightly more than the 500-600 samples we were testing. We expect the situation to improve after those who are on strike join work,” he told The Telegraph Online. Besides samples from Dhanbad, PMCH lab also tests samples coming from several adjoining districts, namely, Giridih, Koderma, Chatra, Deogarh, Dumka, Godda, Sahebganj, Pakur, and Jamtara. Ever since he joined office on July 15, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh has focussed on accelerating Covid testing. He inspected the PMCH microbiology lab on July 19 and spoke to the staff there, after which he decided to add manpower. Two microbiologists, namely, PMCH biometrics head of the department Sunil Verma and microbiology head of the department B.C. Banerjee, were deputed at the PMCH microbiology lab on July 28 to step up Covid testing. Apart from them, 92 others, including 86 lab technicians and six data entry operators, were appointed on August 2 across the district. While 17 lab technicians were deputed at PMCH to work with TrueNat machines, 35 were posted at Dhanbad Sadar Hospital to work on both RTPCR and TrueNat machines, in addition to six data entry operators for compiling reports. The district administration has also constituted block-level mobile teams to collect swab samples. For Dhanbad block, two teams of six persons each have been set up. Baghmara, Jharia and Baliapur have been assigned one team of four technicians each, while Govindpur, Topchanchi, Tundi, Purbi Tundi,  Egyarkund, Kalisol and Nirsa have been assigned one team of two technicians each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Coking coal production picks up after lockdown slump||Production at Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), the Dhanbad based subsidiary of Coal India Limited, has picked up and is expected to rise to about 29 to 30 million tonnes in August, marking a swift turnaround after a downturn during the first quarter of the new financial year 2020-21 due to lockdown and resultant lack of demand.  This was divulged on Friday by Chairman cum Managing director of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), PM Prasad, who expressed hope that production will reach breakeven position soon.  Not only other industries but powerhouses and steel factories, which are major buyers of coal from BCCL, had also demanded lesser coal from BCCL leading to stockpiling  of huge amounts of coal during April. The usual production which was around 80 thousand tonnes to 1 lakh tonnes per day before lockdown had reduced to around 40-50 thousand tonnes during the month of April.  Talking to The Telegraph Online, Prasad said, "The monsoon has not impacted the coal production much, the impact was more due to the lockdown as only only 10 million tonne of coal destpatch took place during the month of April. The situation slightly improved in May with some of the industries opening up and the process of gradual increase in production and despatch continued in June which finally rose to around 19 million tonnes during July making it almost double of that of April.”  The situation has further improved during the first week of August. "We are expecting the total despatch to increase to around 29 to 30 million tonne as the per day despatch is inching towards 2 million tonne. We are expecting the situation to further improve by next month when the per day despatch is expected to reach around 2.8 million tonne per day,” said Prasad.  Asked about the impact of monsoon on production and despatch, Prasad said, "Around  40 per cent rains out of total 1000-1100 mm of rains, which takes place in area, has already taken place so we are expecting the remaining part of monsoon to not significantly affect the production as we are continuously monitoring the situation through area-level control rooms as well as the control room at the BCCL headquarter."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||False ceiling of Assembly building library caves in due to seepage||Within a year of its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Rs 465-crore Jharkhand Assembly building witnessed another mishap with a large chunk of a false ceiling of the library caving in on Thursday following seepage because of the ongoing monsoon downpour, damaging portions of the common study table and few other infrastructure.  While no injury or casualty was reported as the library was vacant when the incident occurred late evening, the episode can become a political hot potato similar to the major fire that had gutted the newly-inaugurated assembly building and damaged the entire infrastructure on the first floor within two months of launch.      Officials in the Assembly secretariat on Friday told The Telegraph Online that they have summoned officials from the building construction department to put things in order after taking stock of the damages. Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad said, “A human disaster was averted as the library was vacant when the roof caved in. Seepage seems to be its cause. We have asked the building construction department to probe the mishap and take corrective steps.”  Rajesh Kumar, executive engineer of the building construction department (Ranchi division), too, blamed seepage as the reason. He said, “Since the building has a large dome on it, rain water may have seeped inside the building through it. Usually in any new construction, there are chances of such seepage during first rainfall. We have begun assessing the damages to initiate repairs soon.” Seven months ago on December 4, a major fire had gutted the newly-inaugurated assembly building, just two months after its grand launch by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run up to the 2019 Assembly elections. The incident had prompted the Hemant Soren government to raise question marks over the quality of construction.  The sprawling building, which is spread over 39 acres of land in Kute on the outskirts of Dhurwa. Its foundation stone was laid in 2014 by erstwhile Raghubar Das government and work began in 2016. The dome-shaped building, having a height of 37 metres, partially resembles that of Parliament building, and boasts of manicured gardens, seating arena for 150 lawmakers in the central hall, separate rooms for speaker, chief minister, leader of opposition and legislators, conference hall among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Vegetable ‘thief’ lynched, 6 held ||Six persons have been arrested on charges of lynching a man from the minority community for allegedly stealing vegetables from a farm in Jamtara district of Jharkhand on Tuesday night. Jamtara police arrested the accused on Wednesday evening on the basis of an FIR filed by one Binod Mondal, who was grievously injured in the incident. Another accused is still absconding, the police said. “We were informed about the incident late on Tuesday night. On reaching the spot, we found Binod, 50, writhing in pain near a bush close to the farm in Karmatar. He said his friend Yusuf Mia alias Lal Mohammed, 46, had been thrown in the well. We recovered the body from the well and sent it for post-mortem to Jamtara Sadar Hospital on Wednesday. On the basis of the FIR lodged by Binod, we have arrested six of the named accused while one is absconding,” said R.S. Tiwary, officer in charge of Karmatar police station. Binod was referred to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad on Thursday. Tiwary said Yusuf and Binod were residents of Kashitand village under Karmatar police station. “Both the deceased and the injured were from Kashitand village which is close to Karmatar village where the incident took place. There have been incidents of vegetables (like ridge gourd, bitter gourd and cucumber) being stolen from farms in the last fortnight. Subsequently, villagers of Karmatar had started night vigil. On Tuesday night they spotted four persons entering the farm of Mahendra Singh. On raising an alarm, two persons fled while the villagers managed to catch hold of Yusuf and Binod and beat them with rods, sticks and rained blows,” said Tiwary. When Yusuf and Binod lost consciousness, they were thrown in a well by the irate villagers. But, Binod managed to climb out using the ladder in the well but lost consciousness near a bush. But Yusuf could not climb out and died in the well, the officer said. “On getting information from the village chowkidar, we rushed to Karmatar and recovered Yusuf’s body from the well and sent it for post-mortem to Sadar Hospital on Wednesday. Binod was also rushed to Sadar Hospital from where he was referred to PMCH Dhanbad. We have lodged a case under Section 302 (murder) along with other sections of the IPC against the accused,” Tiwary said. Jamtara superintendent of police Anshuman Kumar ruled out that it was a communal incident. “It was merely a violent reaction by villagers against thieves. There is nothing communal in it and there has been no untoward incident or reaction anywhere in the district,” he said. Karmatar is around 220km northeast of state capital Ranchi. Jharkhand, which has witnessed over 22 cases of alleged mob lynching between 2015 and December 2019, was termed the “lynching capital” by CPM politburo member Brinda Karat last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Unicef official clears air on moms||A mother, who has tested positive for Covid-19, can safely breastfeed her newborn, experts have said. The question on whether a Covid-19 positive mother could breastfeed her newborn was put frequently to a Unicef team in Jharkhand during an interactive orientation session with youths and volunteers on the occasion of World Breastfeeding Week, which is being observed from August 1 to 7. “A large section that we interacted with had a misconception that a newborn could be exposed to the infection if the baby is breastfed by a mother, who is Covid-19 positive. However, breastfeeding is totally safe and beneficial,” said Prasanta Dash, chief of Unicef field office in Jharkhand. “A Covid positive mother can breastfeed her baby safely provided she wears a mask and washes hands before taking the baby,” Dash said, adding that even the World Health Organization has recommended breastfeeding. According to WHO, mothers with suspected or confirmed Covid-19 should be encouraged to initiate or continue to breastfeed as the benefits substantially overweigh the potential risk of transmission (of the disease). Unicef has been organising the interactive sessions with stakeholders like volunteers, youths and members of rural communities for encouraging breastfeeding. “We couldn’t organise any gathering due to the (lockdown) restrictions but held virtual orientation sessions this year,” said Unicef communications officer Astha Alang. “We always encourage new mothers to start breastfeeding within an hour of delivery as the colostrum or the first milk after delivery is very helpful for newborns,” said Unicef nutrition specialist Preetu Mishra. Leading medical journal The Lancet published on July 23 a research article titled “Neonatal management and outcomes during the Covid-19 pandemic” confirming the benefits of breastfeeding. “Our data suggest that perinatal (time immediately before and after birth) transmission of Covid-19 is unlikely to occur if correct hygiene precautions are undertaken and that allowing neonates to room in with their mothers and direct breastfeeding are safe procedures,” the article, quoting the research team, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
