08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Seven arrested in Garhwa minors' gangrape case; plasma therapy in Dhanbad within a month||Garhwa Police on Saturday arrested seven persons in connection with the gang rape of two minor scheduled tribe girls of Uttar Pradesh under Banshidhar Nagar police station around 40 km from the district headquarter. The incident occurred on July 29 at Baraitand forest near Banshidhar Nagar Sub-divisional headquarter. On the statement of the victims, a case was registered with the police station against 12 unknown men. “The girls, aged around 17, were returning to their village Kone of bordering Uttar Pradesh with two friends after updating their Aadhaar card during the evening and stopped near the spot to attend the call of nature, when they were intercepted by the men, who took them towards the forest. They later took turns to rape both the girls," said SP K S S Rao. A task force was immediately constituted under the leadership of the Banshidhar Nagar SDPO  Ajit Kumar. After conducting several raids, police arrested some of the accused men. The accused have been booked under IPC Section 376 (D) (rape), 341, 323, 506, 34 and Section 4 of POCSO Act for the aggravated offence of gang rape,” the SP added. Arrested accused identified as Saddam Khand alias Saddam Saudagar alias Mukhtar Alam ( 28), Vicky Khan (20), Javed Khan alias Bhola Khan (20), Ali Raja (21), Sufrail Khan (18), Syed Khan (19) and Neyamat Khan (20), all natives of Checharia and Bisunpur under Banshidhar Nagar police station. Plasma therapy in coal capital within a month Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Saturday held a meeting with the doctors and medical officers to explore the possibility of launching plasma therapy for Covid treatment in Dhanbad and fixed a deadline of one month for it. He instructed the persons concerned to procure information with regard to equipment, cost involved and manpower needed from ICMR and RIMS for this purpose. The blood bank in-charge of PMCH Dr AK Singh told DC Singh that they would require plasmapheresis, a refrigerator to maintain minus 40 degree centigrade temperature to keep plasma and ph meter in order to start plasma therapy. He also said that they have a trained technician at their blood bank, who can help in plasma component separation. Illicit liquor den busted in Dhanbad A joint team of Dhanbad police and excise department on Saturday conducted a raid at Bhalwa Pahari area of Tundi block and busted a liquor den operating from the house of a villager Shidho Hembrom. Hembrom, however, fled away from the site before the arrival of the cops. Police have lodged a case against him and launched a manhunt to arrest him. The team led by DSP of Tundi,  Himanshu Manjhi also seized 27 liters of locally made liquor packed in bottles bearing fake foreign liquor stickers and also 5O liters of spirit, besides empty bottles of Royal Stag RC etc. One dies of drowning in Gomoh Dularchand Ram alias Gariba Ram, a resident of Laludih village of Hariharharpur Police station area of Dhanbad, died due to drowning in a pond of his village on Saturday morning. The incident took place when Ram went out of his house in search of his missing buffalo and found it in a pond but slipped in the deep water. Some local women bathing in the pond started shouting after which local youths arrived and brought him out but he was dead by then. Mine pite cage wall collapses The dilapidated wall of an abandoned mine pite cage wall collapsed on Saturday morning in Bhuli Colliery area of Dhanbad due to minor subsidence that took place and led to crack in the walls of some adjoining houses. Notably this place falls in the subsidence-prone area of the underground fire affected zone and risk of subsidence increases in the monsoon due to seepage of water through cracks. Raid on illegal sand miners Bokaro district administration cracked the whip on sand miners and transporters who are carrying sand business unlawfully from rivers despite a ban imposed by National Green Tribunal (NGT) during monsoon. NGT has banned sand mining from June 10 to October 15. Massive raids were conducted by two separate teams headed by sub-divisional officer, Bermo, Nitish Kumar Singh in Bermo and Gomia areas. Two tractors loaded with illegal sands were handed over in Bermo police station, while three in Lalpania police station and one in Gomia. However 11 tractors caught in interior Chatro-Chatti areas were released giving last warning. Sand mining was done from Damodar River. SDO said, "Two stone crushers were also sealed by the team in Lapania under Gomia Block. FIR was lodged against crusher owners for illegally operating crushers in the area. One JCB machine, six tractors and two compressor machines were seized from the crushers.” Mining officer appealed to the people to follow the directions of NGT and not get involved in mining activities at riverbeds in the rainy season. Three SBI branches sealed in Bokaro after staff test positive Three branches of State Bank of India (SBI) were sealed for next 72 hours after eight employees were tested Covid-19 positive. This is the third banking company after Bank of India (BOI) and HDFC where positive cases surfaced in the past 15 days. SBI has been asked to ensure complete sanitisation after immediately closing these branches.  Contact tracing in the branches is being done and sampling of those who come under risk will be done. A Press release of the administration stated that “the employees of SBI Main Branch of City Centre, Chas branch and Court Area branch have been found infected with Coronavirus. To prevent the spread of coronavirus infection, Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh issued an order directing to seal the three branches”. Covid-affected women give birth to healthy babies in Sadar hospital Doctors of Sadar Hospital, who a few days ago fled leaving a pregnant woman after she tested positive, have come up claiming that two pregnant Covid positive women delivered babies in their institution in the last 24 hours. While caesarean surgery was performed on Friday, on Saturday a woman gave normal birth to a baby. Both mother and child are healthy. The woman belongs to Chandankiyari. The entire team of doctors followed SOP in completing the delivery process, said civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Fifty five discharged across Dhanbad Covid centres||Fifty five persons including four women and a prisoner were discharged on Saturday from different Covid treatment facilities across Dhanbad, including 23 from Tata Central Hospital, 20 from PMCH Cath lab based Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC), eight from Dedicated Covid Hospital, Jagjivan Nagar and four from sadar Hospital-based DCHC, after their sample test reports came negative.  Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the release of such a large number of people  is a good development and added that the discharged persons will have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days.  Hundred-bed DCHC inaugurated  A 100-bed DCHC meant for the treatment of asymptomatic patients or patients with mild symptoms was inaugurated on Saturday at Nirsa Polytechnic in Gopalpur area of Nirsa block in the presence of Singh and Nirsa MLA Aparna Sen Gupta.  Singh, who facilitated the inauguration with the hands of a nurse, said that the centre will be used for treatment of patients of Nirsa, Egyarkund, Kaliasol and Govindpur on priority basis and gradually the number of beds in the Centre will be increased from 100 to 300.  Allocation of Covid centres  In a bid to ensure better management of all Covid treatment centres of the district, Singh on Saturday made block-wise allocation of all centres as per which the Dedicated Covid Hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar will be used for treatment of serious Covid patients of all 10 blocks, while  SSLNT Hospital, Dhanbad will be used for treatment of pregnant Covid-affected women.  This apart, in the DCHC at PMCH, priority would be given to patients of Dhanbad followed by patients of  Topchanchi. In Zonal Training institute, priority would be given to  Dhanbad followed by Baghmara and then Jharia. In Regional Hospital Bhuli of BCCL, priority to Baghmara followed by Jharia will be given. In Nirsa Polytechnic priority wise patients of Nirsa, Kakiasol, Egyarkund, Govindpur would be admitted followed by patients of Baliapur, Jharia, Tundi and Purbi Tundi.  Similarly in Tata Central Hospital, patients of Jharia would be given priority.  Singh said that though block-wise allocation of hospital would be made, if a patient comes to any centre he would be duly admitted in that centre irrespective of him belonging to any block.  Singh instructed health officials to make deputation of required medical staff at DCHCs of Nirsa Polytechnic and Zonal training institute Bhuli, including 12 lab technicians, 30 ANMs, six male and female ward boys each besides 20 sanitation workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand State Karate Do Association gets national recognition||Karate enthusiats seeking to compete in national championships will have to come under the umbrella of Jharkhand State Karate Do Association (JSKA), which has been recognised by Karate Association of India (KAI) as the only bonafide outfit of the state, ending the row over martial art practice in Jharkhand.  Karate Association of Jharkhand (KAJ) and Sports Karate Association of Jharkhand  (SKAJ) have been claiming to be bonafide karate associations in Jharkhand.  KAI president Likha Tara has also informed the state sports director Anil Kumar Singh about granting recognition to JSKA. A copy has been marked to the president and secretary of Jharkhand Olympic Association.  The KAI president has requested the sports director to lend necessary support to JSKA in developing the game in the state. The letter also says karatekas will represent JSKA in national competitions organised by KAI.  Expressing happiness, JSKA general secretary L. Nageshwar Rao said they were the bonafide karate association now, and confusion among players about whom to represent in national championships has come to an end. "We will shortly convene a meeting to constitute a fresh committee,” he added.  Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Rao, a Karate black belt holder, said JSKA has been working hard to channelise the sport by honing the skills of budding karatekas in schools and colleges in the districts. “We have helped medal-winning tribal players get scholarships from the state government. We intend to promote karatekas and also prepare them for winning medals in national and international competitions,” Rao, who is an employee of Tata Steel sports wing, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||73 more inmates test Covid positive in Birsa jail||The count of coronavirus infected prisoners at Birsa Munda Jail reached triple digits on Saturday as at least 73 more jail inmates were found to be Covid positive, prison officials told The Telegraph Online. “As many as 105 prisoners at Birsa Munda Jail have been infected by the virus. All of them are in isolation within the jail premises,” said IG, Prison, Birendra Bhushan. On August 4, as many as 40 prisoners and 14 staff at Jharkhand's largest jail tested positive for Covid-19. At least 200 more jail inmates were tested on the basis of contact tracing after that, officials said. “All the 73 found infected on Saturday were tested on the basis of contact tracing of prisoners who were found infected earlier,” said Bhushan. Prison authorities have supplied prophylaxis, zinc, vitamin C and vitamin D tablets in sufficient quantity to the jail for treatment of infected patients. At least five doctors, including two MDs, are treating patients at the jail, which can accommodate around 2,000 inmates. Bhushan said the situation was particularly alarming in Birsa Munda Jail, while there were negligible cases of Covid infection in other jails of Jharkhand. Besides Ranchi, Jharkhand has four other central jails in Palamau, Hazaribagh, Dumka and East Singbhum. Additionally, there are over two dozen divisional and sub-divisional jails. Many high-profile political prisoners, including RJD chief Lalu Prasad, have been kept in Birsa Munda Jail in the past. While Lalu has been shifted to the director's bungalow at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), at least two MLAs serving their terms at the jail have tested positive. In a bid to prevent further spread of the virus among jail inmates and staff, the jail administration has prohibited unauthorised entry and exit in Birsa Munda Jail, officials said. Prison authorities have also clamped a restriction on meetings of prisoners and visitors, sources said. Jail authorities have begun to spread awareness about the coronavirus and its impact among prisoners. Prisoners are also being counselled in order to help them cope with the fear of Covid-19, jail officials said. “We are providing healthy food and immunity boosters to prisoners during this period,” said Bhushan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Not JAP-1, but Morabadi ground to host I-Day celebrations||In a U-turn, top officials of Ranchi district administration on Saturday announced that the iconic Morabadi ground will host Independence Day programme this year, too, merely four days after finalising Jharkhand Armed Police-1 (JAP-1) ground as the venue in the wake of the ongoing Covid outbreak and lockdown curbs that mandate minimum gathering.  On Saturday afternoon, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan with his team of officials and top brass of police inspected Morabadi ground to initiate preliminary works for the state-sponsored I-day programme.  Ranjan said that that the move to revisit Morabadi as I-day venue was taken by the state government even though the district administration had announced to hold the same in JAP-1 ground this year and began preparations.  He said, “Last night, we got a directive from state government about I-day programme at Morabadi ground itself. I am not aware what transpired but the state ceremony will now be held here. Today’s visit was a preparatory one to be ready for the programme.”  He conceded that hosting the ceremony here could be a challenge for crowd control but said they will be prepared to handle it. “We will be ready with a fool-proof plan to ensure social distancing at the venue and no entry without masks,” he said, adding that they are awaiting further directives from the state home department to know about the number of people to be invited for the programme.  The administration has planned to invite Covid warriors and those who defeated the virus as special guests for the occasion as a symbolic gesture to express gratitude towards such people to discourage any kind of stigma attached with the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Learn how to strike balance between chess and studies ||All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) is organising a discussion on how to maintain balance between chess and academics for young students and aspirants of the game on Sunday. The panel includes Deep Sengupta, the 22nd Grandmaster of India, Shalini Srivastava, business strategy consultant at Accenture Strategy, Nishant Kumar from BIT-Mesra and Satyam Kumar from AIIMS, Patna. The discussion will take place on Jiomeet from 6.30 pm to 8 pm. A Q&A session will also be part of the proceedings. “A commonly faced problem by students playing chess, is how they can balance their academics while being actively involved in the game,” said Basant Khandelwal, the host and joint secretary of AJCA. “Usually, kids lose way when they reach higher classes, unaware of how to rank and achieve success,” he said, adding that the game of chess is all about patience and wit. Speaking to The Telegraph Online over phone from Chaibasa, Khandelwal said their panel includes chess players who have achieved significant success in their respective careers. “Deep is Jharkhand’s best player while Shalini was once an active player who has done well in state-level competitions. Nishant was once an active chess player who has won state events and is now a fourth year student at BIT-Mesra. However, none of them have achieved better academic success than Satyam, who is currently a fourth year student at AIIMS Patna,” Khandelwal said. Students are also ready to ask the panel questions about what problems they faced while balancing chess and academics and when they decided to choose between the two. They also want to know their take on the present situation where many students are playing various online tournaments, mostly blitz, and how would that effect their game. Comments on the game making one’s brain sharp and thus inviting the desire of parents to teach their kids chess, will be sought. The discussion will be conducted under the supervision of Jamshedpur-based International Master NK Mishra, general secretary of AJCA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Why state electricity board cannot crack down on power thefts||Power theft is rampant in the Mango division of Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam but the electricity distribution company doesn’t have the wherewithal to prevent it even if instances of illegal connections are brought to its notice light by a vigilant citizenry. On Saturday, a senior JBVNL officer admitted how he could not organise a surprise raid against a construction company that had been drawing power illegally at a building site at Dimna Chowk even after a local resident had alerted him to it by providing pictorial evidence. The general manager-cum-chief engineer of Singhbhum electricity area board, Arvind Kumar, said the only trustworthy and honest officer who could be entrusted with the job was away in Ranchi on official work. Hence, he could take necessary action. In the meantime, word had spread that JBVNL had been informed about the illegal “hooking”, a procedure by which cables are connected to a transformer to tap electricity, that had been going on at the construction site. A group of JBVNL field workers apparently came and disconnected the wires and left. "It is a matter of grave concern that a very few officials are dependable. I had planned to get a raid conducted at Dimna Chowk, but before it could be materialised, the unauthorised connection was snapped,” said Kumar. It all started on Tuesday, when a resident of Dimna, also a JBVNL consumer, lodged a complaint with Kumar, telling him about the multi-storeyed residential complex that was being built using electricity tapped illegally from a nearby transformer. The resident also provided photographs of the transformer and the illegally connected cables. Kumar took all the details and told the resident that they would conduct a raid on Thursday when his only trusted official would be available. But JBVNL could not conduct a raid on Thursday or on Friday. Eventually on Saturday morning, some field workers of JBVNL appeared and removed the cables that had been hooked on to the transformer and left. Kumar admitted to The Telegraph Online that he failed to conduct a raid as there were very few trusted officials in his department. "The only trusted official who used to carry out such raids was on leave. The official joined work at the Jamshedpur Circle on Thursday but left for Ranchi on official work. When he turned up on Friday, I met him and informed the superintending engineer, Jamshedpur Circle, Sudhanshu Kumar in the evening,” Kumar said. But someone must have informed those in the construction company, he added, because of which the cables were removed from the transformer. “Someone from the department must have tipped then off about our plan," he rued. The superintending engineer Sudhanshu Kumar could not be contacted for a comment. An insider in JBVNL's Jamshedpur Circle pointed out that corruption was rampant in every section of the discom. “Any kind of illegal work can be done by influencing the concerned officials monetarily,” he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Air Aisa flight suffers bird-hit, grounded after snag||A total of 147 passengers and crew members onboard an Air Asia Ranchi-Mumbai flight had a narrow escape after the aircraft was hit by a bird just before take off on Saturday morning, a day after a major aircraft mishap took place in Kerela. But the flight had to be grounded eventually, as it developed a snag while taking off around 4.15pm. Airport director Vinod Kumar told The Telegraph Online in the evening that another flight was expected to come from Calcutta and fly the stranded passengers to Mumbai. "While taking off, the pilot sensed a spark in one of the engines, forcing him to abort take off," Kumar said. Earlier, explaining the bird-hit, Kumar said the bird-hit occurred when the aircraft was cruising on the runway before finally taking off.  He said, “At about 11.45am, a bird hit an Air Asia flight while it was rolling on for take off. Luckily, no untoward incident occurred and all 147 passengers who were on board are safe. Soon after the incident, the flight was manoeuvred towards the apron. After undergoing customary technical inspection, the flight will take off in an hour. Prima-facie, the aircraft is fit to take off.” The airport director added that unlike the earlier problem of bird hit due the menace of hordes of road side fish and meat sellers in Hinoo and airport road periphery, the situation around the airport has improved in the years after sustained drive by the district administration has minimised the risk. “Still, since birds can’t be bound by any geography, consider it as one of the stray incidents,” he noted, assuring that all passengers are safe and that the airport management is always on high alert to avert such situations. In September last year, a Delhi-bound Indigo flight carrying over 100 passengers had a narrow escape when a bird hit the aircraft at runaway in Ranchi. Again in April 2018, another Indio flight suffered bird hit, but no injuries were reported to any passengers. In July 2017 too, an Air Asia flight with 174 passengers on board for Delhi had to be aborted after bird hit damaged the plane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||BJP at governor door over Babulal Marandi||A three-member BJP delegation led by its Jharkhand unit president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash met governor Draupadi Murmu on Friday and submitted a memorandum seeking her intervention in appointing Babulal Marandi as leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. “In disregard for democratic norms, chief minister Hemant Soren wants that the House runs without a leader of the Opposition,” Prakash said after meeting the governor. He said they “met the state’s constitutional head after being fed up with the lackadaisical attitude of the ruling combine”. Prakash alleged that the Speaker had been dilly-dallying in appointing Marandi as leader of the Opposition though the BJP, with 26 MLAs, is the largest Opposition party in the Assembly. Before joining the BJP, Marandi was the supremo of Jharkhand Vikash Morcha (Prajatantrik) that won three seats in the Assembly elections in December 2019. Subsequently, Marandi merged his party with the BJP on February 11 this year and the BJP immediately declared him as the leader of its legislature party. While Marandi chose the BJP, the two other JVM (P) legislators, Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey, went to the Congress. The Election Commission accepted the merger of the Marandi party with the BJP on March 6 but it did not recognise its two MLAs as belonging to the Congress during the Rajya Sabha election in June and they voted as Independents. Prakash said “there was absolutely no problem in doing it”, and they urged the governor to intervene so that Marandi was declared as leader of the Opposition without further delay and given his constitutional rights. Meanwhile, the BJP continued its criticism of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD dispensation. State BJP secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Samir Oraon alleged that the state government had sent Prakash to quarantine when he returned to Ranchi after taking oath in the upper House of Parliament last month as well as Marandi but Umang Singhar, joint in-charge of the Jharkhand unit of the Congress had been allowed to attend party programmes in the state without following the quarantine protocol. When contacted, Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said: “Singharji came to the state on Wednesday after obtaining proper permission from the state government and was supposed to stay till August 9 (Sunday).” He said Singhar returned on Thursday evening after the permission was withdrawn. BJP spokesperson Saroj Singh, in a statement issued on Thursday evening, alleged the state government was treating former Bihar chief minister and RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav as a state guest and not as a convicted prisoner. He alleged that Lalu Prasad, unlike a prisoner, was shifted to a posh bungalow from the hospital to protect him from coronavirus infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
