09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Police nab five extremists in Hazaribagh; protest for jobs in Dhanbad fertilizer factory||Police on Saturday arrested five dreaded extremists of Jharkhand Prastuti Committee (JPC) from the forests of Jamuari under Katkamdag block in Hazaribagh district. Announcing this success, Vishnugarh sub divisional police officer Om Prakash on Sunday said information came to them that notorious extremists and former JPC commander Basant Ganjhu alias Purushottam Ganjhu was present in Jamuari with one of his associates. He said Basant was planning to commit some big crime in this area. Om Prakash said he led a team raiding that area and arrested Basant with Baijnath Rajwar from the spot. "Basant was wanted in around 22 different cases lodged in police stations of Hazaribagh, Giridih
and Chatra. On their information, we arrested their other associates RajeshKumar Yadav, Mohammad Waris and Sanjay Kumar Pandey from different places of Hazaribagh and Chatra. We have recovered pistols from each of the five," he said, adding that other than five country-made pistols, they have recovered 23-live bullets and five smartphones from their possession. He said Chatra police also co-operated in this operation with Tandwa sub divisional police officer Ashutosh Satyam and his team, who was also part of this operation. Bandh observed in Huntergunj against erratic electricity All shops and other business establishments remained closed and vehicles remained off the road to protest against the erratic power supply in Huntergunj block of Chatra district on Sunday. The bandh was called by residents, who were angry with the negligent attitude of the electricity department officials. They said that since the last few days they were facing regular power cuts and the area gets power only for one or two hours a day. “We don’t want electricity, better take away your poles, wires and meters. We don’t need it now,” residents shouted in anger. On Saturday evening, residents took out a rally raising slogans against the officials and said if the situation does not improve then they will launch phase-wise agitation. Residents said they want permanent posting of assistant engineer and junior engineer rank officials at Huntergunj so that they can approach them easily followed by action. Protest for jobs in Dhanbad fertilizer factory Members of a local organisation, Vam Janwadi Sangharsh Morcha on Sunday staged a demonstration in front of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited's (HURL) upcoming fertilizer factory at Sindri demanding Jobs for the local residents in the factory. The protestors also burnt the effigy of HURL administration. President of Vam Janwadi Sangharsh Morcha, Nripendra Jha said, "When the government is laying stress on providing jobs to local people, the HURL management is neglecting local residents and instead providing jobs to outsiders through different contractors." Four bike-lifters arrested in Dhanbad Dhanbad police on Sunday arrested four bike-lifters including Prince Kumar and Md Saif of Hariharpur police station area, and Md Salman and Sunil Kumar of Chandrapura police station area, and seized five bikes from their possession. Bagmara DSP Nitin Khandelwal said, "We arrested two persons Prince and Saif first in connection with a bike theft case from Hariharpur police station, and later on their identification arrested two more persons Sunil  and Salman from Chandrapura police station area."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
09-08-2020||Jharkhand|| Bhuiyandih-Telco Road, a nightmare for commuters||Potholes and craters on the Bhuiyandih-Telco Road, with an estimated daily traffic load of over 50,000 vehicles, after the current spell of monsoon rains have literally turned the thoroughfare unmotorable in some of its stretches, and making matters worse, the defunct street lamps in some of the stretches pose mishap threat after sunset.

The Bhuiyandih-Telco Road, which also connects the Jai Prakash Narayan Setu or the Mango bridge, is considered to be a lifeline for this industrial city as truck, trailers and other heavy vehicles use this road for carrying raw-materials for local  industries and also transporting finished products.

Apart from heavy vehicles, the road witnesses heavy rush of private vehicles including cars, auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers. A rough estimate suggests that the daily traffic load on that busy road is over 50,000 vehicles (of all categories).

The road is about 10 kms long. It starts from Bhuiyandih and passes through Bhalubasa, Sitaramdera, Agrico, Golmuri, Tinplate and ends in Telco. Of late, because of the monsoon showers craters and potholes have developed on the four-km stretch of the road between Bhuiyandih and Agrico.

The defunct street lamps in some stretches between Bhuiyandih and Sitaramdera pose a threat of mishaps, especially during night.

"The stretch of the road has simply turned unmotorable near the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus. The rainwater accumulates in the potholes and craters, inviting road mishaps," pointed out Ajay Sharma, a teacher by profession and a resident of Sitaramdera.

Mohan Rao, a resident of Agrico who daily commutes on that road, said the unlit road stretches added to his woes.

"We have found that in certain stretches of the road between Bhuiyandih and Agrico, the street lamps remain unlit after dusk. A couple of minor mishaps had taken place on that stretch of the road during the past one week," he said, adding that the damaged stretches of the road is a nightmare, especially for senior citizens and patients.

Local residents are demanding necessary repairs of the damaged portion of the road, for the safety of commuters.

Officials of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the local civic body, have assured that necessary action will be taken soon.

"Certain stretches of the road got damaged due to the recent spell of heavy showers. We are aware of this. We have taken up the issue with Jamshedpur Utilities and Services Company (Jusco). The damaged portion of the road would be repaired soon," said Ravi Bharti, city manager, JNAC, adding that they will get the street lights checked and sort out the problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Former Bihar Ranji player Jodh Singh no more||A pall of gloom descended on the city’s cricket fraternity as the news of former Bihar medium-pacer Jodh Singh’s passing poured in on Sunday morning. The 66-year-old breathed his last at his Telco residence in the wee hours of Sunday. He was unwell for some time but his condition worsened in the last two days. Singh is survived by his son and two daughters. He was cremated at the Subarnarekha ghat in the afternoon. Son-in-law Ishank Jaggi, a Jharkhand Ranji batsman, said Singh was a diabetic who was suffering from high blood pressure. “He was unwell and died of cardiac arrest at about 2 am. We are very sad over his demise,” he added. Former Bihar Ranji Skipper Avinash Kumar said, “I feel sad over the demise of Jodh Singh. He was a very good seamer and a gentleman.” Harbhajan Singh, an Olympian, said he knew Singh from his youth days. “We both used to play volleyball for Tata Club. I got the news about his death in the morning. My deep condolences,” he said. West Singhbhum District Cricket Association secretary and former JSCA office bearer Ashim Kumar Singh said he was shocked to hear about Singh’s passing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Protests in Dhanbad against privatisation of mines and railways||Different organisations on Sunday, including railway employees and the Left parties, separately carried out protests at various parts of the district against the central government's privatisation policies, especially against commercial mining. The railway employees carried out demonstrations under the banner of East Central Railway Karmchari Union (ECRKU) at Dhanbad railway station, while the left parties carried out protests on the occasion of August revolution against the commercial mining at Randhir Verma Chowk near district headquarters. The railway programme began during morning at around 10 am in front of Dhanbad railway station, during which the protestors also visited the closed coach depot of the station and held gate meetings. Talking to the media, PK Mishra, Central organising secretary, ECRKU, said, “We are protesting against handing over of the railways to private operators, surrender of 50 per cent of posts and demanding resumption of Ladli Yojna and old pension etc.” The regional joint secretary of ECRKU, Ak Dan said, “We held the protest on the occasion of August Revolution and also expressed our dissent against the government's reluctance to re-launch the Liberalized Active Retirement Scheme for Guaranteed Employment for Safety Staff.” Left parties accused the central government of helping foreign capitalists. Talking to The Telegraph Online,  district president of Marxist Coordination Committee, Hari Prasad Pappu, said, "On one hand Prime Minister Narendra Modi is claiming about Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-dependent India, while on the other hand all the steps taken by the central government are aimed at helping the foreign capitalists." Pappu, who is also the district general secretary of Central Industrial Trade Union, further said, “All trade unions have also decided to carry out a strike on August 18 in the coal sector for repealing of the decision of allowing commercial mining, and the decision to sell Singreni Collieries Company Limited, and a few other issues."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant celebrates Tribal Day, announces annual holiday||Donning the traditional Panchi, a tribal attire worn by men and women of Santhal Pargana, chief minister Hemant Soren indulged in true-blue tribal festivities by beating the mandar and shaking a leg to the beats of music after planting sal and karam saplings at a park here on the occasion of International Day of the World’s Indigenous People on Sunday. Before letting the festive mood soak in, Hemant announced that International Day of the World’s Indigenous People will be a government holiday in Jharkhand next year onwards. “This year, the festive fervour got marred by Covid-19 pandemic, but the day will be celebrated every year with great enthusiasm and extravagance in Jharkhand,” he said. The karam and sal saplings, which the chief minister planted at Nilamber Pitamber Park on Sunday, are symbolic too. While the karam tree is considered sacred and worshipped by the tribal community in Jharkhand,  the sal often finds presence in Sarna Sthal, the tribal place of worship. Sal is also considered to be the custodian of forest dwellers in Jharkhand, which has South East Asia’s largest sal forestd in West Singhbhum’s Saranda. “Although the tribal people have been given special powers by the Constitution, it is our duty to ponder upon the development that the community has seen over the past decades. On this day, we all must vow to preserve tribal culture and work for holistic development of tribal people,” said Hemant. The chief minister also raised concerns over unemployment caused by the lockdown and said that it was the government’s responsibility to come up with ideas to overcome the slump in the job market and other economic activities of Jharkhand. “We have maintained a close watch on Covid-19 since its entry in our state. These are tough times, but we have to fight this pandemic and emerge victorious,” he said. Hemant also extended his wishes to members of the tribal community living across the globe. “Johar,” he said, using the word that’s used in almost all tribal languages and dialects in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Four state athletes shortlisted for Mission Olympics Cell ||Four junior athletes from Jharkhand have found slots in the Sports Authority of India’s Mission Olympic Cell (MOC) for the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS), in a bid on part of the Union government aimed at grooming young talents for the 2024 and 2028 Olympics. Archers Gora Ho, Shrey Bhardwaj and Komalika Bari along with pugilist Selay Soy will train at the SAI’s National Centre of Excellence (NCOS). Training is expected to begin in October in a phased manner. The shortlisting has been done to bring athletes back to on-field training as the country ‘unlocks’ after the coronavirus-induced lockdown. As many as 258 athletes in 12 sporting disciplines have been shortlisted under the scheme. The athletes  will receive a monthly allowance  of Rs 25,000. Ho, a tribal who hails from Seraikela- Kharsawan trains at Army Sports Institute (ASI) in Pune along with Jamshedpur’s Soy. Bhardwaj and Komalika are cadets of the Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur. Both Ho and Komalika are from poor economic backgrounds, and have earned their place with talent and sheer dedication. Ho has received an award from the President for his extraordinary performances in national competitions. Komalika, whose father sells snacks in a push-cart, has claimed gold in the World Archery Youth Championship held in Madrid last year. Shrey is the son of a policeman and has won medals at national competitions, including school events. Soy, also a tribal, has already represented the country and won medals at international events. His father is a daily wager. “I am very glad to get shortlisted for the Olympics preparations. I have always dreamed of winning medals in the Olympics. I am raring to join the camp,” said Ho, who is presently honing his skills at the government-run archery cradle in Dugni, near Seraikela. The pandemic has forced him to remain anchored in the state since March. Ho picked archery lessons at the Dugni cradle in his formative years. Soy, who is currently living in the city’s Mango locality with his family, said he was keeping himself in tune with shadow practice. “This is a big opportunity for me. I will work hard at the camp and realise my dreams of bagging a medal for my country in the Olympics,” the boxer said. Soy is an ex-cadet of Tata Boxing Centre who has a penchant for flooring his rivals inside the ring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand|| Friendly neighbourhood studios hike charges||Facing financial constraints due to increase in cost of raw materials, photo studio owners of Dhanbad on Sunday during a meeting with Dhanbad District Photographers Trade Association (DDPTA) decided to carry hike service charges, the first one in 17 years.

Talking to the media after the meeting, president of the association, Sunil Kumar Singh said that though prices of almost every service such as camera, printer, photo paper and ink has increased over the years but the prices of studio photography service had not increased.

“The quality of photographs has also improved indicating the quality of service and use of latest technology,” said Singh.

Secretary of Dhanbad District Photographers Trade Association (DDPTA) Manish Shah said, “The increase in studio rent, electricity charges, salaries of staff, increased transportation charges and increased equipment charges have compelled us to increase in service charges as we were facing difficulty in sustaining life with the old charges.”

Adding to it, media in-charge of DDPTA, Ripudaman Jha said, “We earlier used to provide passport photographs at Rs 50 when only three photographs were given by the photographers but even after the gradual increase of passport photographs to four, five and finally eight they are still taking Rs 50 only.”

Treasurer of the association, Prakash Kumar said, “With the minimal increase in service charges we will take Rs 60 for eight copies of passport photographs instead of the earlier charge of Rs 50.”  Kumar added that they would request customers to take into the consideration the financial constraints of the studio owners and cooperate with them.

At the meeting held under the Chairmanship of the Singh at Saraidhela, it was also decided that the annual competition of the association on the occasion of World Photography Day on August 19 will be organised in different categories including Wedding, Journalism, Nature and Mobile Click for which the last date of sending photographs is August 17 on the e-mail ddpta2012@gmail.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Students prepare for delayed college admissions this year||Students who passed out class XII this year are finding themselves stranded when it comes to higher education, as many have no idea as to when the new sessions will begin. A majority of English-medium school students aspire to seek admission in some of the top universities of the country, and many aim to appear for competitive examinations, all of which has been stagnated by the coronavirus induced pandemic. Sheeba Grace, a bioscience student from Sacred Heart Convent School wanted to apply for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), but as the dates are yet to be announced, she has no clue as to what she should do. “As a bioscience student, I wanted to go into the medical field, but we have no idea as to when and how the competitive exams will be conducted. Now it is up to my parents to decide what route we should take,” said Sheeba. Ayati Mishra, a student of Hill Top School is spending her days watching YouTube lectures on economics and indulging in her singing hobby. Ayati has applied for a number of colleges in the University of Delhi, including Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Shri Ram College of Commerce, Hindu College, Miranda House, and Kirori Mal College. She has also applied to Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics in Pune and has also appeared for an online test. “My preference will be the University of Delhi but I have also applied elsewhere. Classes should have started already, but Covid is delaying the process. DU has been extending the dates for admissions application, which is now slated for August 31,” said Ayati, adding that previously the last date was July 31. Students say that universities like the University of Delhi have not even announced their cut off marks. ISC students expect that the cut-off marks for admission are expected to be lower as the evaluation process this year has been tough, with students procuring relatively lesser marks in English, the main paper. Even if the colleges successfully organize admissions, classes will be held online. This year, XLRI’s Jamshedpur and Jhajjar campuses have also decided to start online classes. Shravya Singh from Loreto Convent, Ranchi wanted to apply for the Media and Communications course in Fergusson College, Pune but didn’t find herself on the merit list, following which she sought admission in Visual Media and Film Making at St. Joseph’s College in Bengaluru. “Delhi is yet to announce its cut off but Pune colleges already have. This year many students were confused regarding admission. I personally browsed many websites, which was tedious as many college websites declared that admissions were over,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Doorstep vegetable delivery gets boost amid Covid||Even though the rising number of  Covid cases has drastically cut down human interactions, basic necessities like buying vegetables has got an image makeover, with the age-old handcarts replaced by swanky microvans, the shabbily-dressed vegetable seller has transformed to an educated delivery person and the rustic hawking has been upgraded to customers giving orders using tech and social media apps.

With the Covid outbreak in the district forcing people to avoid venturing out of the house let alone procure vegetables from the nearby shops, door-step delivery of vegetables through vehicles by taking orders from the customers on phone, WhatsApp, Facebook has got a boost.

Meet Vishal Singh (28), a resident of Polytechnic road in Dhanbad, who is engaged in door-step delivery of vegetables during the lockdown under the banner of Jharkhand Sabzi Express. His solution cuts the risk of contracting Covid infection compared to customers buying directly from the market.

This apart, another group led by a B Tech degree holder, Umesh Kumar Kushwaha (30), are also engaged in door-step delivery of vegetables since the last two years under the banner of sabzibazar.com offering a tech-powered solution to an age-old problem. They have also joined hands with Zomato and Swiggy, the online food suppliers, for door-step supply of vegetables during the lockdown period.

Talking to The Telegraph online on Sunday, Singh said, "We started our business in the month of February and purchased a microvan for transporting vegetables. Since then we got engaged in  door-step vegetable delivery by taking orders on phone or  social media (whatsapp number 6206382239)."

When lockdown was announced in March end, Singh had only one month of business and was apprehensive that this business opportunity may vanish in thin air. "But as the government allowed the sale of vegetables, our business slightly picked up  in the initial phase. After a month during April end, a large number of new vegetable sellers emerged at every nook and corner owing to unemployment caused by non-functional industry and commerce," says Singh.

“Our business has again come back on track after the rise of Covid Cases in the district since the last fortnight,” said Singh who was sitting idle at home after completing his plus two. He was planning to start door-step vegetable delivery along with a few friends, who joined work with him but due to covid threat, left him midway.

Echoing similar sentiments, Ajay Kumar (22) another partner of Umesh Kushwaha said, “Our business which witnessed a slight downturn in the middle phase of lockdown has again witnessed a surge with the more people preferring to avoid markets, and we are basically concentrating online business (whatsapp number-9334257272) although we have an outlet near Carmel School Dhanbad, where some people also come.”

“Majority of the people give orders to us on the phone. We also supply uncommon items such as mushrooms, broccoli etc,” said Singh, adding that he supplies fresh vegetables at cheaper rates as he buys them in bulk.

“My business is like a start-up, so a little support from the government can help us to pay the EMIs of the vehicle which is around Rs 9,600 per month,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Buried in mud, newborn survives ants, monsoon rains in Lohardaga village||In a shocking incident, a newborn baby boy was found almost buried near a graveyard in Lohardaga’s Kuru block, surviving ants, insects and monsoon rains for several hours before villagers came to his rescue, police said on Sunday.

“It is indeed miraculous how the baby survived. Although he has sustained injuries due to ant bites and moisture in the soil, he is healthy now,” said Anil Oraon, the officer in-charge of Kuru Police Station, under which the graveyard falls.

Some villagers heard the baby cry while they were passing by the locality in Chandlaso village, around 80 kilometers from capital Ranchi, at about 7.30 pm on Saturday and decided to check on him, police said. “Villagers found that the baby was semi-buried but still alive. They rescued him and subsequently informed us,” Oraon said.

The baby, police said, was born on Saturday itself, and even his umbilical cord had not been removed. He has been handed over to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), which admitted him at Rani Children's Hospital in Ranchi for treatment on Sunday.

“Prima facie, it seems that the baby was abandoned because he was illegitimate. Also, killing the baby was not the intention. His parents might have abandoned him and mud accumulated over his body,” said Rajkumar Verma, former chairperson of CWC Lohardaga.

The CWC has also written to Kuru police station asking them to lodge an FIR against the parents of the abandoned baby. Verma said the baby will be in custody of the CWC for the time being, and eventually will be handed over to eligible parents for adoption.

Incidents of babies being abandoned have been a concern for the CWC not only in Lohardaga but across Jharkhand. “Several babies are abandoned every year in our state. They are mostly abandoned to hide premarital pregnancy and illegitimate relationships,” said Tanushree Sarkar, member of CWC Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Tricolour themed masks banned in Ranchi||The district administration on Sunday issued a ban on the sale of masks themed on the Indian tricolour, asking all police stations to ensure no such trade takes place under their jurisdiction and warning violators of stringent action. Ahead of Independence Day, roadside vendors have put up shops with locally made masks designed with Indian flag themes at different market places in the capital. Ranchi’s additional district magistrate (law and order) Akhilesh Singh said that prohibitory orders were issued in harmony with the national flag code. “Use of masks has been made mandatory due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. We have recently come across instances where many are selling tricolour themed masks rampantly to encash on the Independence Day sale. However, after celebrations are over, there is every chance that such masks will be carelessly discarded by people, which will lead to disrespecting the national flag and violation of code,” he said. He added that all concerned officials and police stations have been asked to keep a tab on market places in their areas by conducting surprise inspections to seize such masks if found anywhere. “The administration shall take action on both the sellers and buyers of such masks,” he said. Meanwhile, after the district administration announced to hold the state I-day ceremony at Morabadi ground, Ranchi Municipal Corporation on Sunday sent over a dozen cleanliness staff members to deck up the area. Workers were found sanitising the main stage and cleaning the vicinity, besides filling the existing potholes with sand. A supervisor at the venue said that in the next couple of days, they will begin laying bamboo and iron barricades to set up hangers and create a seating arena once they are informed of the number of expected visitors. Coronavirus warriors and those who have defeated the virus will form part of the invitee list for this year’s I-day, the district administration had announced earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Cases cross 3000 mark in Ranchi as 926 test positive in state||Ranchi's Covid tally crossed the 3000 mark on Saturday as 308 of state's 926 cases of infection reported on the day were from the capital, health officials said. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported only 24 cases of infection on Saturday, and the tally in the district jumped to 2724, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Giridih reported 286 fresh cases on the day. As per government figures, Ranchi and East Singhbhum are two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand. These two districts account for a third of state's Covid-19 cases, government data reveals. The Covid tally in state reached 17468 on Saturday and the number of active cases drew close to 9000 as 822 patients recovered from the viral infection, the NHM bulletin, released on Saturday late evening, stated. Jharkhand has reported an unprecedented increase in Covid cases since June this year. On June 30, there were around 2500 cases in State, which means that Covid cases have increased almost seven times in a month. However, officials attribute the increase to intensified testings. The Covid toll also reached 160 on Saturday as six more patients died during treatment in 24 hours, health officials said. The government has so far collected samples of 3.8 lakh people for tests and tested around 3.5 lakh of them. The recovery rate in State stood at 47.65 per cent on Saturday, while the Covid mortality rate was 0.91 per cent. Dhanbad has seen the highest number of Covid cases after Ranchi and Jamshedpur. At least 53 cases surfaced in the district on Saturday, taking the tally to 942 there. Ranchi and East Singhbhum continue to be the only two districts where over 1000 cases have been reported so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Bird hits flight before takeoff at Ranchi ||Passengers on an AirAsia flight had a narrow escape after it was bird-hit just before takeoff from Birsa Munda Airport here around noon on Saturday. The Ranchi-Mumbai AirAsia flight was taxiing on the runway for takeoff when it was suddenly hit by a bird at around 11.45am. But the pilots were able to stop the aircraft and they returned to the apron area for a check-up. “There were 176 passengers and seven crew members aboard the Mumbai-bound AirAsia flight,” airport director Vinod Sharma said, adding the aircraft was brought back for another round of check-up. After it was attended by the technical team and found to be airworthy, the pilots attempted another takeoff around 4.15pm but they returned the second time as well. “The pilots reported some sparks while applying the throttle for accelerating the aircraft before taking off,” Sharma said. He said the technical department would check the aircraft again to find out if there was any fault. It could not be immediately ascertained if the aircraft flew again.“Another aircraft is coming from Calcutta for flying the passengers to Mumbai,” the airport director told this newspaper around 5.15pm. Incidents of bird-hit are not frequent in Ranchi, an airport official said. The official said the Ranchi Municipal Corporation and the district administration had earlier undertaken a drive for removing meat and fish stalls in the vicinity of the airport so that leftovers from those stalls did not attract crows and other birds. The incident occurred just a day after at least 17 people died when an Air India Express repatriation flight from Dubai skidded off a wet tabletop runway, dropped 40 feet, smashed into a wall and broke into two after landing during heavy rain at the Calicut International Airport in north Kerala on Friday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
