10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Highest single-day spike in casualties takes Covid toll to 189||Jharkhand on Monday reported the highest ever single-day surge in Covid casualties as a dozen patients died within 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in state to 189 while as many as 531 fresh cases of infection were reported taking the patient tally in the state to 18,786. Five of the 12 deaths were reported from East Singhbhum, a district that has recorded 72 Covid casualties so far, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. West Singhbhum and Sahibganj reported two deaths each, while Deoghar and Giridih reported one casualty each. The virus has so far claimed 31 lives in Ranchi, which means that East Singhbhum and Ranchi account for 103 deaths, nearly 55 per cent of the total number of Covid casualties in the state, government data showed. While the Covid mortality rate in the state jumped to 1 per cent on Monday, the recovery rate shot above 50 per cent as Jharkhand reported higher number of recoveries than fresh cases for two consecutive days. On Monday, as many as 531 new cases of infection were reported, while 699 patients recovered, the NHM bulletin highlighted. As per the bulletin, Monday's data takes the Covid tally in the state to 18,786 and the number of active cases to 9,748. Ranchi, which has been the hotbed of SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand so far, reported 62 fresh cases on Monday, while 233 patients recovered here. As per government figures, the Covid tally in Jharkhand's worst-affected district rose to 3,634 on Monday. The tally in East Singhbhum inched towards the 3,000 mark as 67 more people were found infected in the district and only 11 patients recovered. The district's Covid tally was 2,917, the second highest among 24 districts in Jharkhand, till the time this report was filed. The tally in Dhanbad, which has reported the third highest number of Covid cases in Jharkhand, reached 1,045 on Monday as 14 more people were found infected there. As many as 1,037 cases have been reported in Giridih so far. The government has collected swab samples of around 3.93 lakh people so far in state and tested 3.87 lakh of them. The number of Covid cases has also skyrocketed in Jharkhand lately, and the government attributed the spike to intensified testing efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mahto shows the way for Jharkhand’s ‘matric ministers’||Academic qualifications of Jharkhand ministers is bound to become a hot-button topic of gossip again after state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, a matriculate, got himself enrolled in a Plus-Two school that he had founded a decade back to pursue further studies. On Monday, after enrolling himself at Devi Mahto Inter College in Bokaro district, Mahto said the reason behind going back to class was to silence his detractors, many of whom had taunted about him about being a “mere matriculate” when he took oath as the education minister in the Hemant Soren-led coalition government comprising the JMM, Congress and RJD. But Mahto isn’t the only one in the ministry who is a matriculate. In the 11-member Hemant Soren cabinet, there are four others who have studied up to class 10. And all are in-charge of key portfolios. They are Congress’s Banna Gupta (47), who as the state’s health minister is at the forefront of the Covid crisis; RJD’s Satyanand Bhokta, who holds the labour and employment department at a time when jobs is what the state’s youth are talking about; JMM’s Joba Majhi (55), who is currently state social welfare and women’s development minister; and JMM’s Champai Soren (63), who now heads the state transport ministry. Champai, who has won Assembly elections several times from Seraikela, put his “education” in perspective when he recalled his long association with the Jharkhand andolan alongside the likes of party patriarch Shibu Soren. “Many of us like Jagarnnath, Joba and others, were part of the tribal movement for a separate Jharkhand. Although there is no age limit for studies, when I look back now, I realise I have learnt more from what life has taught me and not books. Despite being a matriculate, I am proud to have come this far, fighting for the cause of the landless and adivasis all my life,” said Champai who cleared his class 10 from RKM High School in Jamshedpur in 1974. Health minister Banna Gupta, who is an MLA from Jamshedpur West, moved to politics after completing his matric from Tata Worker’s Union High School (Bihar secondary education board, Patna) in the steel city in 1989. Gupta was a union leader of auto drivers and owners in Jamshedpur. This is his second stint in government. While he was with Hemant Soren in 2013, he had served as agriculture minister. Over seven lakh migrants who returned to Jharkhand in the wake of the Covid pandemic are looking at labour minister Bhokta with hope. He cleared his matric from Hindi Vidyapeth, Deoghar, in 1994, but discontinued studies thereafter. Bhokta was elected to the state Assembly from Chatra twice, in 2000 to 2009, as a BJP member and also served as state drinking water and agriculture minister in the former Arjun Munda government. Joba Majhi cleared her matriculation from Ram Janaki Kanya High School, Jugsalai, in 1982. She became an MLA for the first time in 1995 when she won from Manoharpur in a byelection held after the murder of her husband, Devendra Majhi. After the formation of Jharkhand, she went on to win from the seat in 2000, 2005, 2014 and 2019. After serving as a Union minister of state for housing in 1998, she was minister in the state in 2005 and 2009. Majhi could not be contacted, but an aide said, “Joba Majhi tried pursuing further studies but never got time, being an active politician who had run a home, too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Get Covid test reports through SMS from Tuesday||You can get your Covid test report via SMS from Tuesday, with state Health Secretary Nitin Kulkarni directing all district deputy commissioners to operationalise the system within the next 24 hours.

Timely testing is important and so is the timely availability of results, Kulkarni said to deputy commissioners on Monday in a letter seen by The Telegraph Online. An SMS is delivered to the person whose sample is collected through the RT-PCR machine, according to the top government official. But there is, at present, no mechanism to provide results of the test through SMS and in some instances, people had to wait for a few days to get information about their Covid-19 results.

The health department with National Informatics Centre (NIC) has developed a solution to send out results to the person concerned through SMS, who has undergone Covid-19 tests along with an option to print out the result report, Kulkarni said in the letter.

Deputy commissioners have been directed to activate a team in each and every district for proper functioning of the SMS system. Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) units of each district are to get in touch
with their respective district information officer for getting the login credentials. The district IDSP team will compile the entire list of the testing results sent to them by the government and private laboratories and by the state in case of any outsourced samples, the letter said.

Since conduct of tests and communication of results is a continuous process, in order to ensure seamless and timely communication, it is advisable to populate the portal with available reports in desirable format twice a day i.e at 10AM and at 8PM everyday, the state Health secretary directed.

The district TB officer will send the compiled report of all TrueNat tests done in the specified format to the district IDSP by 10AM and 8PM everyday. The district IDSP will compile all the reports of the Rapid Antigen Tests, TrueNat and from the private labs in the specified format on a daily basis keeping in view of the above mentioned timelines.

Kulkarni cautioned that utmost care needs to be taken while compiling the data as any wrong information may create confusion and a chaotic situation. The respective district information officer, who has been given the task to verify the files for any format errors that are submitted by the IDSP, shall facilitate the data correction. If required, two people from each district IDSP can be trained in this regard either by the respective district information officer or by the state NIC.

Asking deputy commissioners to personally monitor the progress in the initial days, Kulkarni directed them to constitute a dedicated team of two or three persons for smooth functioning and delivering of the results via SMS on a large scale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid takes heavy toll on young people in steel city||Covid is taking a heavy toll on young people in Jamshedpur, who seem to be unable to cope with depression and finding the noose an easy way out. Statistics provided by Jeevan, a Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre, reveal most of the 29 people who committed suicide in July were in the younger age group, with 25 of them being below the age of 45. “It’s very sad to note that young people are committing suicide. We understand that the Covid-induced situation is making people depressed and stressed. However, suicide is not the answer. We think that suicide can be avoided through counselling,” said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. Shedding light on the methods of suicide, 25 killed themselves by hanging, two by coming under a train, and one each by drowning and self-immolation. “Hanging seems to be the most common option as far as the method of suicide suggests,” Jain told The Telegraph Online. According to him, financial crises, family disputes, stress, depression, and for one, a failed love affair, have emerged as the reasons behind the suicides in July. The number of suicide cases was 16 in January, 10 in February, 12 in March, 18 in April, 20 in May and 30 in June. The list included people mostly in the younger age group. Jain said the number of distressed people dialling Jeevan has come down since their helpline numbers are not properly advertised. “A social organisation has come forward to help us out by distributing pamphlets with our helpline numbers mentioned. The pamphlets are being distributed at general and medicine shops across Jamshedpur,” Jain informed. During the days after coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown in March, Jeevan was receiving around 10-12 calls daily. However, now the number of distress calls has dropped to just 3-4 per day at Jeevan, which operates in collaboration with Tata Steel Foundation and district administration. Jain explained that people needing help used to call on a regular basis since the helpline numbers were displayed prominently during the lockdown. “Our volunteers are reaching out to a maximum number of people who need our counselling and help,” said Jain. Get in touch with Jeevan volunteers on 9297777499, 9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or WhatsApp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Search for more hospitals amid Covid surge in steel city||The East Singhbhum district administration has started scouting for health hubs to turn them into designated Covid hospitals in and around Jamshedpur as all existing facilities are full. On Monday, the district administration identified Abadh Dental Hospital, on NH-33 on way to Ghatshila, to turn into a Covid treatment facility.  Another hospital on the highway, Uma Superspeciality Hospital, was identified on Sunday and it will start functioning from Wednesday, setting aside 50 beds for Covid patients. District civil surgeon Rajendra Nath Jha confirmed that there was a shortage of beds for treatment of Covid patients. "Tata Main Hospital, which has the largest facility for the treatment of serious Covid patients and asymptomatic patients, besides providing isolation facilities, is almost filled,” he told The Telegraph Online. In all, Tata Main Hospital has 890 beds. Of these, 600 are on the hospital premises while the remaining 290 beds have been set up at GT hostel No 1, 3 and 4 beside Hotel Sonnet, Jha explained. He said MGM Medical College and Hospital had a 100-bed Covid ward, but the number of patients admitted there has exceeded capacity. Jha said the medical college authorities had converted several staff quarters on the premises into the Covid treatment facilities. The civil surgeon pointed out that other hospitals, like St John's Hospital along the NH-33 and Tata Motors Hospital where Covid patients were being treated, were also full. "On an average, 100 people are testing positive for the coronavirus every day from the East Singhbhum district. But, as the recovery rate is 62.2 per cent the volume of patients is increasing at hospitals," Jha stated. As of Monday afternoon, the total number of Covid cases recorded in East Singhbhum district was 2,812, of which 1,082 have recovered and 76 have died. Currently, there are 1,654 active cases in the district. On Monday, four persons, two of them women, died at Tata Main Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dialysis centre for Covid patients at Dhanbad Sadar Hospital||After the re-launch of dialysis facility at Central Hospital Dhanbad for Covid patients last month, another dialysis facility for Covid patients was unveiled on Monday at the Sadar Hospital here as per the direction of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. Talking to The Telegraph Online, M Hussain, in-charge of the dialysis centre at Sadar Hospital by DCDC Kidney Care said, “We are already running a two-bed facility for the general (non-Covid) patients but now we have also developed another two-bed facility for Covid patients." Hussain added, "There is usually a huge rush of non-Covid patients for dialysis facility so out of the two beds developed for Covid patients, we will allocate only one bed to Covid patients now as very few Covid patients require dialysis facility. We will increase it to two for Covid patients as and when required.” Talking about the challenges faced by the hospital in treating Covid patients, Hussain said, “We had to make separate arrangements of reverse osmosis water supply, separate drainage for the waste products of the Covid patients and also separate toilet facilities to avoid any infection to non-Covid patients.” He added that they also carried out counselling of non-Covid patients visiting Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad for dialysis to avoid any confusion among them. The dialysis facility at Sadar Hospital for non-Covid patients was launched about three months ago on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. “Though we have to install a total of 10 beds at the hospital, we will increase the number of beds as per the assessment of requirement of patients. Procuring machines and then keeping them idle will lead to exhaustion of battery and other issues,” said Hussain. Dhanbad DC Singh on July 22 instructed the Chief Medical Superintendent of Central Hospital, AK Gupta to relaunch the dialysis facility at the hospital lying non-functional for a while in order to provide the dialysis facility to covid patients by July 30. The BCCL management restored the facility by July 25 itself. Singh during the same day had also instructed different hospitals including Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality Hospital, Asharfi Hospital Limited and Pragati Medical and Research Centre to keep two beds each in their respective hospitals reserved for the  dialysis facility of Covid patients. The DC also pulled up the management of Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality hospital for denying dialysis facility to a Covid-affected patient despite the fact that the district administration has instructed the hospital on July 20 itself to provide dialysis facility to the patient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Free of cost oxygen for the poor in steel city||With the virus cases on the rise in steel city and many patients gasping for air, Marwari Yuva Manch (MYM) on Monday opened an oxygen bank where oxygen cylinders will be distributed free of cost to below-poverty line (BPL) patients.
 
Presently, the MYM has 11 cylinders at its disposal, each weighing 14.3 kg.

“There is a spike in Covid cases in Jamshedpur and there are very few beds available at the hospitals. Oxygen is vital for patients in these difficult times. We thought of opening an oxygen bank to help people overcome the crisis. Cylinders will be given free of cost to BPL patients. We felt it is our responsibility to help people who have tested Covid positive,” said MYM president Amit Khandelwal.

Two oxygen cylinders have already been made available to BPL patients.

The oxygen bank will be operating from Bistupur and Adityapur from where the cylinders will be made available to the needy. “Family members of BPL patients shall have to deposit photo copies of their (patient) aadhaar card, BPL card and doctor’s prescription, The documents have to be duly attested by ward councillors, mukhias (village head) and MLAs of their respective areas. The ward councillor or mukhia or the concerned MLA shall have to take guarantee of the cylinders,” Khandelwal told The Telegraph Online.

The initiative was launched at Adityapur in presence of office incharge Rajendra Prasad Mahto.

Khandelwal said non-BPL patients need to deposit a cheque of Rs 12,000 as security money which will be refunded once the cylinder is returned. “The oxygen cylinder will be free for seven days but Rs 50 per day will be charged after seven days,” the Manch president added.

Justifying the per day charge, the MYM president said there can be people who may keep the oxygen cylinder even when there is no need for an oxygen cylinder for the concerned patient.

According to him, the oxygen cylinders have been sponsored by well wishers from the Marwari community of Jamshedpur. “We have arranged the cylinders from suppliers in Jamshedpur and Adityapur. However, presently there is a shortage of oxygen cylinders,” Khandelwal added.

The needy can obtain the cylinder by dialling Khandelwal (7549777770) and Prakash Sharma (9334811006).

The MYM is also lending its support in arranging blood for the needy in Covid times. Members donate blood during camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Minister advocates home quarantine for those with mild Covid symptoms||The state health minister Banna Gupta, inarguable the one who is facing the brickbats from people battling a pandemic, agrees that the going has been tough, but says that Jharkhand is definitely better prepared to deal with Covid-19 now than it was four months ago. Gupta admits there is a crisis of hospital beds. Therefore, he advocates a change in the line of action. “After discussions with chief minister Hemant Soren we might decide on home quarantine for asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms,” he says. The minister agrees that the Jharkhand, and other poor states like it, would have to develop a far robust health infrastructure because “we don’t know what lies in the future”. He also seems to suggest that lockdowns are perhaps not the best way forward for a state like Jharkhand. We don’t want people to suffer any more. We may look at graded restrictions in red, orange and green zones,” he tells The Telegraph Online in an exclusive interview. Excerpts. TTOnline: How far has the state been successful in controlling the pandemic? BG: The government is working to its full capacity and with commitment. We started work even when there were few cases. This is not only a state problem. It is an international issue. The death rate in Jharkhand is lower than the rest of the country, but even one death is a loss to us. Yes, patients with high blood pressure, diabetes and kidney issues are at greater risk. Age is another factor. People are confused about costs, be it a Covid test or treatment in private hospitals. The government has arranged for free treatment. Four laboratories, approved for Covid testing by the state government, used to charge Rs 4,500 per test. But we reduced it to Rs 2,400. The problem is that nobody was ready to deal with the coronavirus. At the beginning people demanded ventilators and oxygen cylinders. But it was found that the line of treatment was different for patients. Someone who is asymptomatic or has mild symptoms can be cured with simple precautions. For private hospitals, the cost depends on the seriousness of the ailment. However, if any private hospital flouts state government guidelines, they will be penalised. The fear is that there aren’t enough beds for Covid patients. I agree that there is a crisis of beds in hospitals, but hospitals are trying to manage. We have to come up with more Covid hospitals. I have also asked the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner to set up more Covid hospitals, may be, at JRD Tata Sports Complex and DBMS School. People are being told they are Covid positive verbally. They are not getting their reports. There is a backlog of reports and we are trying our best to resolve it. Recently, paramedical staff went on strike which added to the backlog. We have plans to increase testing facilities. We have already made new BSL (bio safety level) labs in Palamau. Others will soon be established in Dumka and Hazaribagh. Compared to just one lab that conducted RT-PCR tests earlier, we have now established multiple labs with the permission of ICMR. Are you planning anything specific for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms? There is a need to change the line of action. After discussions with chief minister Hemant Soren we might decide on home quarantine for asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. The only way we can all be safe is through physical distancing and some changes in our habits. Has the government thought about insurance for doctors and health workers? They are our frontline workers and we are indebted to them. The government has linked health workers with insurance coverage of up to Rs 50 lakh. We are working on certain incentives too. Is there a monitoring mechanism for quarantine centres and hospitals? Nothing so far. But we are installing CCTV cameras to monitor cleanliness, hygiene and quality of food being served at quarantine centres and isolation wards. Any plan to deal with the social stigma associated with Covid? There is a lot of awareness. People will gradually understand that we need to care for each other. Many have Covid patients in their homes and are dealing with it. Do you agree the state needs better health infrastructure? We don’t know what lies in the future. We had never heard of Covid. Likewise, we hardly know what kind of diseases will emerge as a result of global warming. So, governments will have to invest in research. East Singhbhum now has the maximum deaths in the state. East Singhbum is surrounded by West Bengal and Odisha. Bihar isn’t too far. People migrate. The total number of deaths in the district also includes those who have come from elsewhere. What is the government’s thinking on lockdowns? The chief minister has to take the final call. But lockdowns affect states badly, especially a state like ours which comprises mostly poor people. We don’t want people to suffer any more. Our focus now is to reduce Covid numbers. We may look at graded restrictions in red, orange and green zones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Kolhan region to get 12 real-time air monitoring stations||The three districts of the Kolhan region will soon have 12 continuous, real-time air monitoring stations to be set-up by the Adityapur-based regional office of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB). The locations include the circle and block offices of East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts, apart from district collectorates, a few other government buildings and the office of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority (JIADA) at Adityapur formerly known as Adityapur Industrial Area Development Authority (AIADA). These stations would be equipped with advance dust samplers which will help determine ambient air quality, apart from sulphur-di-oxide and carbon monoxide content in air. Regional officer of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board Suresh Paswan said the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has okayed the move.  "We have started identifying the spots with the help of local district administrations. In each district we will identify four places. We’re zeroing on government buildings for safety and security of the monitoring stations," Paswan told The Telegraph Online. The monitoring stations would function round-the-clock and monitor ambient air quality on real-time basis, he explained. As continuous monitoring involves various processes, special software would be installed to provide direct and real-time measurements of air pollution. "It is an important tool for better compliance. The monitoring stations would help get accurate and real-time data at higher frequency with minimal manual intervention and manpower," Paswan explained. A senior scientific officer of JSPCB said the monitoring stations would be equipped with PM10 dust samplers, which measure particulate matter up to 10 microns. Currently, three manual monitoring stations are functional under the Adityapur regional office of JSPCB. They are based at Bistupur, Golmuri and Adityapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Back on the road for two months, auto drivers still face penury||Two months after the district administration granted permission to operate auto rickshaws, no significant improvement has taken place in the financial condition of auto rickshaw operators, who still face extreme penury. Passengers are unwilling to dish out higher fares fixed for the lockdown period, and operators are facing a crisis, as they have to pay hefty fines for permit charges and other fees. Owing to the lack of proper monitoring, many auto drivers are also ferrying more than the allowed limit of two passengers, thus violating social distancing norms. Talking to The Telegraph Online Sunil Singh an auto driver of Dhanbad who is also president of the auto driver association union Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union, said that nothing much has changed for them since the time that auto rickshaws lay stranded during the lockdown. “You can see auto rickshaw drivers jostling with each other when there are only a few passengers,” he said. “With the rise of Covid, very few people are taking the risk to travel in public vehicles. Furthermore, the high charges of fares fixed for the lockdown are deterring passengers. We are also facing losses
as we have to wander from one stoppage to another, spending fuel in search for passengers and then returning empty handed,” said an auto rickshaw driver, Shravan Kumar. “Though the transport department has waived off the fitness charges, other charges like permit charges are weighing too heavy on us at a time when we are facing extreme decline in our income” said Sunil Singh. The fine on permit charges renewal is a vexing issue since operators could not renew their permit during the three-month lockdown and are now being compelled to pay fines for non-renewal. “Public transport facilities like buses are still closed. How can we be expected to visit the Regional  Transport Authority office at Hazaribagh,” said Singh. District transport officer, Om Prakash Yadav said, “Though the state has relaxed fitness charges for the lockdown period to an extent, there is no provision for the relaxation in permit charges from same, so we can’t allow any relaxation at the district level also”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||10th pass education minister back to college at 54 to silence critics||Jharkhand's School Education and Literacy minister, Jagarnath Mahto, on Monday applied for admission in an inter college to complete his education in a move aimed at putting “scornful remarks” over his academic qualification to rest. Mahto, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) MLA, allegedly found himself in the crosshairs of some opposition leaders after he was sworn in as the education minister of Jharkhand earlier this year. Mahto, a son of the soil, was class 10 pass then, and many opposition leaders termed him incompetent in taking up the responsibility due to his poor academic achievements. “I had vowed to complete my education, on the day itself when I took oath as education minister and people taunted on me saying 'metric pass'. It’s a reply to all of them who at several occasions challenge my decision taunting my educational qualification. Now I will study and also elevate the standard of education in my state,” said Mahto to The Telegraph Online after taking admission in Devi Mahto Memorial Inter College in Nawadih. Mahto said that he would pursue class 11 and 12 in humanities, and also go for graduation in political science after successfully passing class 12. “I have been in active politics for years now. I think studying political science will help me understand politics better, and also keep me interested in academics,” he said. The 54-year-old completed class 10 under Bihar School Examination Board in 1995 from Nehru High School in Telo, which was very far from his house in Alargo under Chandrapura Block. He did not pursue any further studies. "I had passed with second division marks. I dropped my education as I got involved in Jharkhand Andolan (a movement demanding separate state),” said the education minister. Mahto said that his aim was not only to study, but also impart quality education to students in Jharkhand. Devi Mahto Inter College, where Mahto is set to take admission, is also run by the minister himself. “Hum sirf padhenge hi nahi, padhayenge bhi (I will not only study, but also teach),” he said in affirmation. When asked why he chose Monday to take admission, Mahto said “Today is very good for me and my party JMM as today is the birthday of our chief minister Hemant Soren.” Mahto is a two-time MLA from Dumri, which falls in Giridih Lok Sabha constituency. As education minister, Mahto recently took a decision of waiving all forms of additional school fees in private schools other than tuition fee in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. He also directed all private schools not to sack any teaching or non-teaching staff during the lockdown period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll jumps to 177 as nine more die||The Covid toll reached 177 in state on Sunday after nine patients, including three from East Singhbhum and two from Ranchi, died during treatment, figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. East Singhbhum, the 2nd worst-affected district in Jharkhand, has already reported 66 Covid deaths, which is more than 35 per cent of the total casualty count in state. Ranchi, which has the highest number of active cases, has reported 31 deaths so far as per government data. As many as 530 fresh cases of infection surfaced in state on Sunday, taking Jharkhand's Covid tally to 18156. However, state's Covid recovery rate touched 50 per cent on Sunday as 607 patients were discharged from hospital after recovering from the infection. Jharkhand's recovery rate had nosedived below 35 per cent in July, when cases skyrocketed and relatively fewer recoveries were reported, health officials said. On Sunday out of 5182 samples collected, 4953 samples were tested and 530 were found to be positive. The total number of recoveries in State surpassed the count of active cases on Sunday. As per NHM bulletin, as many as 8998 people have recovered so far and 8981 are infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand. As per government figures, Garhwa reported 85 fresh cases on Sunday, the highest among all districts. Ranchi, which has been witnessing triple-digit-spike in cases every day lately, reported 71 fresh cases of infection on Sunday, while East Singhbhum reported 48 cases. The tally in Ranchi was 3563 on Sunday. Meanwhile, Dhanbad became the third district to have over 1000 Covid cases after Ranchi and East Singhbhum. The tally in East Singhbhum was 2792 while in Dhanbad it was 1004. On August 8 night, Ranchi topped the list after detecting a maximum of 412 cases, the highest ever single-day spike of any district. Besides, Giridih reported the second highest number of cases adding 286 patients. Of the 14 deaths reported on Saturday, seven occurred in East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur, four in Dhanbad and one each in Ranchi, Godda and Koderma districts. The Centre on Saturday advised 13 districts including Ranchi across eight states and a Union territories to focus on ramping up testing and addressing delays in diagnosis results, flagging that the coronavirus disease case fatality rate in these regions was higher than the national average and that they contributed 14% of all deaths due to the disease in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid shadow on World Tribal Day in Ranchi||The International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples was a low-key affair in Ranchi this year because of the restrictions imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The state government decided that the World Tribal Day (as the day is also known as) will be a state holiday every year,” chief minister Hemant Soren declared. But since the day fell on a Sunday, people did not get a separate holiday. The theme of the World Tribal Day this year was Covid-19 and the indigenous peoples’ resilience, with focus on preservation and promotion of their traditional knowledge and practices. “The Constitution gave certain rights to the tribals but it is time to assess the achievements made since Independence,” Soren said in a video message to the people. “The pandemic has changed the world and the tribals must remain united and resolve how to go forward in this fast-moving, competitive world with focus on education,” he added. Despite restrictions, a few small groups came out on the streets to mark the day. Some activists like Prabhakar Tirkey and Ratan Tirkey who took active part in the movement for a separate Jharkhand state led one such small group at Albert Ekka Chowk. The state unit of the Congress also organised a small gathering at Bapu Vatika at Morabadi where the party followers led by state unit president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon observed both the tribal day and August Kranti Divas that commemorates Quit India Movement. Soren also went to Morabadi to attend another small function where he paid floral tribute before the statues of tribal freedom fighter brothers, Nilambar and Pitambar and also planted saplings. “I planted saplings of saal and karam with the hope that the trees would help us live in harmony with the nature as those did for centuries,” he said there. Jharkhand is often described as a tribal dominated state that is inhabited by 32 different scheduled tribes, including 9 belonging to particularly vulnerable tribal groups. According to the 2011 census, there were  86.5 lakh tribals residing in Jharkhand who constituted 26.2 per cent of the state’s population. Among the tribals, the Santhals were the largest group with 31.9 per cent of the total tribal population,  followed by the Oraons (19.9%), the Mundas (14.2%) and the Hos (10.7%).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
