11-08-2020||Jharkhand||Boiled eggs, kadha for Covid-positive prisoners ||In a bid to help prisoners fight Covid-19, authorities have included boiled eggs and kadha – a therapeutic Indian drink for boosting immunity– to the daily diet of infected inmates in jails across the state, officials said on Tuesday. “We are serving one boiled egg to each infected prisoner every day. Besides, Kadha, made in the jail kitchen, is also served to the inmates who are fighting the Novel Coronavirus,” said Inspector General, Prison, Birendra Bhushan. The addition to the regular menu for prisoners was incorporated in the beginning of this week in wake of the pandemic. The protein in eggs, jail officials said, helps boost immunity, while kadha has been used for several years in Indian households as an immunity booster. “Infected people need a nutritious diet in order to overcome the virus, so we are doing our bit to help prisoners cope with the infection,” said Bhushan. The count of Covid-infected prisoners at Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi reached 105 on Saturday as at least 73 more jail inmates were found to be Covid positive. On August 4, as many as 40 prisoners and 14 staff at Jharkhand's largest jail tested positive for Covid-19. At least 200 more jail inmates were tested on the basis of contact tracing after the findings on August 4, officials said. Meanwhile, prison authorities have supplied prophylaxis, zinc, vitamin C and vitamin D tablets in sufficient quantity to the jail for treatment of infected patients. At least five doctors, including two MDs, are treating patients at Birsa Munda Jail, which can accommodate around 2,000 inmates, Bhushan said. The additions to the menu in jail were only for infected prisoners and not for other inmates, jail officials said. The infected prisoners have been kept in a separate isolation centre within the jail premises. Bhushan said the situation was particularly alarming in Birsa Munda Jail, while there were negligible cases of Covid infection in other jails of Jharkhand. Besides Ranchi, Jharkhand has four other central jails in Palamau, Hazaribagh, Dumka and East Singbhum. Additionally, there are over two dozen divisional and sub-divisional jails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||Porters of Dhanbad station appeal to railways for help  ||Over 100 registered porters of Dhanbad Railway station are facing a tough time ever since train services were suspended following the announcement of a pan-India lockdown in March. Gorelal Yadav (45), a native of Jehanabad district of Bihar, who has been working as a coolie at Dhanbad station since the last 20 years, said, “With almost zero income for the first two and-a- half months of the lockdown, and nominal income after the resumption of some special trains in June, we are barely to support our families. I have to take care of my wife and three chidren. We have already lost all our savings. Somehow, we are managing with PDS foodgrains.” Yadav said with barely any income, they were unable to buy essentials liek dal, vegetables and cooking oil. "We can't afford the tuition fees of our children, besides our house rent," he added. “Due to the Covid crisis, many passengers arriving on special trains do not let us touch their luggage," he added. Before the lockdown, Dhanbad station would see a daily footfall of over 20,000 passengers. Echoing similar sentiments, Ranjit Kumar, another coolie working in Dhanbad for the last nine years, said, “With an income of Rs 9,000 per month, I have been somehow managing and taking care of my family of four. But the post-lockdown period had brought the biggest misery upon us as even the railway ministry is not helping us." Basant Paswan, (35), another coolie, pointed out that both Gorelal Yadav and Ranjit were better off as they had BPL cards. "But my position is even worse as despite applying for a BPL card several times, I didn’t get one. Thus, I am now dependent on the foodgrains distributed by some social workers." Divisional railway manager of Dhanbad A.K. Mishra could not be contacted for a comment. However, senior divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad Akhilesh Kumar Pandey said "there is no guideline regarding compensation or nor do we have a provision to engage them elsewhere but we are mulling options at the personal level to help them", adding that the porters had been given the option of working as sanitation workers with railway contractors .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI launches new session online at twin campuses ||For the first time in its history, XLRI-Xavier School of Management began its new academic session online from Monday, delayed by around two months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 477 students joined XLRI this year at its campuses in Jamshedpur in Jharkhand and Jhajjar in Delhi NCR. The welcome session, conducted online with an inaugural prayer, was addressed by XLRI Jamshedpur director Father P. Christie, XLRI Delhi-NCR campus director Father Sebastian George and dean (academics) Ashish Pani. “It’s the first time in the history of XLRI that we have the inauguration online due to the extraordinary circumstances created by the Covid-19 outbreak. With all classes online, this term will be a new experience for all of us. We are doing everything possible to provide you with a similar learning experience as in the classroom,” said Father Christie. “However, we look forward to seeing your bubbly selves on campus as soon as MHRD and the local district administration give us the green signal,” he added. There are 181 students each in business management and human resource management in Jamshedpur, while the new batch of business management in Delhi NCR has 72 students. This apart, the Jamshedpur campus also has 15 students in Fellow Programme in Management and 28 students in Executive Fellow Programme in Management. As a side effect of the Covid-19 pandemic, XLRI’s compulsory Village Exposure Programme has been dropped since it required students to stay for a couple of days in a rural area to understand grassroots level challenges. XLRI will take the new students through a special orientation programme to upgrade their knowledge. Both the campuses of XLRI have a standard curriculum, syllabus, pedagogy, e-library, and a common admission and placement process. All students will get the same opportunities. The faculty from the main campus will also be taking classes at the new campus virtually. “XLRI’s successful growth over seven decades has been guided by four important hallmarks of Jesuit education and we will continue to place a strong emphasis on them. One them is ‘Excellence’ – to strive continuously for the best, without getting easily satisfied and without becoming complacent with our achievements. The other is ‘Integrity coupled with Ethics’ - which describes the ethos of XLRI,” added Father Christie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||IMD issues lightning and thunderstorm alert across seven districts ||Several districts of Jharkhand are likely to witness bouts of thunder and lightning in the next 24 hours, the state disaster management department has warned, based on IMD forecasts. Among the vulnerable districts are East Singhbhum, Pakur, Godda, Koderma, Giridih, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Sahebganj. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre also issued a nowcast (short-term forecast) for moderate thunderstorm and lightning. "People in vulnerable districts should be careful in the next 24 hours. They should avoid venturing out to the fields and taking shelter under trees," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He also predicted heavy rain in southern, central and north western Jharkhand between August 13 and August 15. "A low-pressure area is developing over the northwest Bay of Bengal. It will result in heavy showers in isolated pockets of Jharkhand from August 13, " he said. A senior official at  IMD's  Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said lightning and thunder was expected in Jharkhand due to the formation of convective clouds, coupled with a low-pressure trough running from southwest Uttar Pradesh to south Chhattisgarh across east Madhya Pradesh between 1.5km and 2.1km above sea level. Bu Tuesday afternoon, there were reports of lightning from various places of Koderma, Godda, Sahebganj and East Singhbhum. The Chhotanagpur plateau region is vulnerable to lightning strikes as a result of which there are casualties every year. The monsoon activity was week over Jharkhand during the last 24 hours. Only a handful of IMD Met observatories recorded rainfall during the past 24 hours, according to Met data. Jharkhand, since the onset of monsoon, has so far received normal rain. Against a normal of 633.5 mm, Jharkhand has so far received 546.2 mm, a deficit of 14 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||Buses unlikely to hit the road anytime soon, says minister||Transport minister Champai Soren has said that the Jharkhand government was unlikely to allow resumption of bus services anytime soon, given the steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases across the state. There is no question of resuming bus services anytime soon. We haven’t even started thinking about it. The way coronavirus cases are on the rise, the situation is not appropriate yet. The chief minister is personally monitoring the overall situation,” he told The Telegraph online on Monday. Hit by several financial losses, bus operators across Jharkhand are now planning to approach Jharkhand High Court to press for a waiver of road and other taxes as none could ply their vehicles during the continued lockdown since March. The current lockdown in Jharkhand is scheduled to be in force till August-end. Earlier, during a phased withdrawal of lockdown curbs over a month back, the state government allowed autos, e-rickshaws and cabs to ply but with strict safety protocols. The standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the state transport department restricted the number of people on board each mode of transport besides issuing other dos and don’ts to prevent over-crowding. The minister conceded that bus owners were facing a huge crisis because their fleet had been grounded since March but added that allowing them to start plying now would lead to further chaos. “It will be virtually impossible to control crowds, their movement and behaviour if we allow inter-state and intra-state bus movement. We will think about resuming services only after August,” he said But bus operators are getting desperate. Uday Prasad Singh, the president of Jamshedpur Bus Operator’s Welfare Association, announced on Monday that they were left with no option but to knock the doors of the court. “We met with officials and leaders of the state government, including chief minister Hemant Soren, several times, demanding waivers in road and other taxes on humanitarian grounds as all our buses are grounded since March 24. But the state government has not responded. In such a situation, our only option is to take legal recourse. We will move court formally very soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||ASI shoots self after brawl with wife in Golmuri||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) committed suicide by shooting himself with his service revolver at his residential flat in Police Line under Golmuri thana area late on Monday afternoon. The ASI, identified as Tarun Pandey (37), fired a shot in his right temple soon after a brawl with his wife on the second floor of a four-storeyed police quarters at the police line at about 4 pm. As the incident unfolded, the cop's wife who was also at the residence screamed for help. Police men from the neighbourhood ran to the spot and rushed the critically injured cop to the Tata Main Hospital, but he collapsed while being carried from the upstairs to the ground floor. Soon a doctor was called in and finally he was declared as dead. The news of the ASI shooting himself spread like a wildfire in the police circle, leading senior SP M Tamil Vanan and city SP Subhash Chandra Jat to reach the spot at the Police Line. Jat later confirmed the suicide while talking to The Telegraph Online. "The ASI, Tarun Pandey shot himself and eventually died on scene of shooting.  The incident took place at his residence where his wife was also present.  It has not been known yet whether there was a quarrel with his wife or not.  The cause of the suicide is being investigated," the City SP told The Telegraph Online. The City SP said they tried to talk to the deceased's wife but she could not speak as she was terribly in shock.  He said the reason behind the cop taking such a drastic step will only be known when the widow gives a statement to the police.  He stated that they have seized the pistol that the ASI had used in shooting himself. A senior police officer, however, said that there was a brawl between the husband and wife, and the ASI had shot himself dead in an impulsive mood soon afterward. According to police sources, Tarun, who married in June, had returned from Nalanda district a week ago and was in home quarantine at the Police Line Quarters with his newly-wed wife. Originally a resident of Nalanda district of Bihar, Tarun Pandey was an athlete.  He had joined the police department as a constable, but due to his athletic background, he was promoted to the post of ASI a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand education minister sets example, signs up for intermediate classes at 53||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto set a unique example on Monday to prove that age is no bar for continuing education. The 53-year-old Mahto, who had discontinued studies after passing the school final examination 25 years ago, got himself admitted for intermediate classes on Monday. “Yes, I just took admission in an inter college today,” Mahto confirmed when The Telegraph contacted him immediately after he took admission in an inter college on Monday. “It’s Devi Mahto Smarak Inter Mahavidyalaya, a rural inter college at Nawadih in Bokaro district,” the minister informed when asked about the college where he took admission. A native of Alargo village in Bokaro district, Mahto, the oldest among five children of Nem Narayan Mahto, had also cleared his school final examination rather late in his life. He had passed the final examination of Class X in 1995. “It was Nehru High School at Telo in Bokaro district,” Mahto said when asked about the school from which he had cleared the school final examination. “I thought of resuming studies without further delay,” Mahto further said, adding he could not do it so far due to other pressing demands of his political and social life. After passing the school final examination, Mahto got actively involved in politics and were in thick of it. In 2005, when the first Assembly election was held in the state after Jharkhand was carved out of erstwhile undivided Bihar in November 2000, he got elected as an MLA from Dumri Assembly constituency in adjacent Giridih district as a candidate of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM). In the next three Assembly elections in 2009, 2014 and 2019, Mahto retained the seat, proving Dumri was a JMM stronghold. When Hemant Soren became the chief minister, he picked up Mahto as a member of the council of minister and allotted him the education portfolio. Though it never became an issue as such, some of the JMM adversaries would express their displeasure about the choice of the education minister who did not study beyond high school. It now remains to be seen if they appreciate, if not admire, the spirit of Mahto who resolved to resume studies after a really long gap of a quarter of a century.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||45 new Covid-19 cases reported in Garhwa; police bust illegal liquor business in Chatra||The biggest spike of Covid-19 cases across Garhwa district continued at an alarming rate with more than 45  new cases being reported on Sunday as the district’s cumulative case tally (including deaths and recoveries) surged to 584, said authorities. “A total of 49 cases have been reported on Sunday late evening. All positive people shifted to the various Covid-19 hospitals in the district. On Sunday, 25 people were cured and discharged from the hospital, while on Saturday 30 people discharged after they tested negative,” said Garhwa Civil Surgeon Dr N K Rajak. This is  the highest single day spike reported in the district since March when the first Covid-19 cases were reported from Maharashtra. There are 123 active cases in the district’s total tally while as many as 457 persons have been discharged so far. The district’s death toll currently stands at four with one fatality being reported on August 6 at RIMS during treatment. On Saturday, the district reported only three positive Covid-19 cases. As per figures given by the  Garhwa Health Department till Saturday evening, there were 123 (excluding Sunday’s surge) active positive cases in various hospitals across the district. Hazaribagh MLA demands for a better road Hazaribagh sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal on Monday chaired a meeting with officials of NTPC and Thriveni Sainik Private Limited asking them to stop coal transportation on Kusumbha road and to make a separate route for this purpose. Jaiswal who reached there after villagers of Kusumbha in Katkamsandi contacted him and apprised him about the poor plight of this road due to regular coal transportation by NTPC and Thriveni Sainik. NTPC's additional general manager Rajeev Ranjan said they were working on separate routes but were having some technical issues with railways. However, he promised to solve this issue at the earliest. Police bust illegal liquor business Chatra Sadar police station officer-in-charge Luv Kumar busted an illegal liquor manufacturing unit near police lines at Jitni Mor, destroying hundreds of litres of illegal alcoholic drinks and raw materials. Acting on various complaints, Kumar formed a team, led by assistant sub inspector Sushil Tuddu, which conducted the operation. Police officials said regular inputs were coming to them about this unlawful activity and residents were also demanding action to put an end to this menace. Kumar, who had recently taken charge, said no one will be allowed to take up any kind of illegitimate activity in areas under his jurisdiction. Father accuses son of physical torture One Rajesh Saw, resident of Bamandih village under Mayurhund police station allegedly beat his father Mohan Saw (65) mercilessly with a lathi. Mohan, who gave his complaint in writing to Mayurhund police on Monday, said he was cutting grass outside his house when his son Rajesh came and started shouting on him. He said he objected after which Rajesh forcefully dragged him inside the house and locked the door from inside. Mohan said Rajesh picked up a lathi and started hitting him. "I shouted but he didn't stop and hit me everywhere on my body," he added. Hearing his screams, local villagers rushed to save him and forced Rajesh to open the door. Mohan said he was provided treatment at a local health centre but said his son is now threatening to kill him. He requested officials to save him from his son and to punish him for this merciless act. Officials said they have started the process to lodge an FIR against Rajesh followed by suitable action against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
