12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Man shot at in Adityapur, another body found||A 32-year-old man was shot at and seriously injured at Majhitola, about 5km from here, late on Tuesday night in yet another instance of violence in Adityapur that has seen a spike in the number of criminal acts since June. Bittu Pandey, who sustained bullet injuries in the abdomen, is a resident of the area. A driver in a private finance company, Bittu has been admitted to Tata Main Hospital where his condition is said to be serious. Bittu’s father, Vipin Kumar Pandey, alleged to police and media that a local goon, Santosh Thapa, was behind attack on his son. Thapa, he said, had engaged a shooter for the job. "Santosh Thapa, who is a notorious criminal, had threatened my son five days ago. I am sure it was Thapa who organised the gun attack on my son," Vipin told the media at Tata Main Hospital on Wednesday. Bittu was found lying in a pool of blood near Kharkai river in Majhitola at 10pm on Tuesday. Local residents informed his family members who then took him to Tata Main Hospital. OC of Adityapur police station Rajendra Prasad Mahto said, “We are trying to get a statement from the victim. Then we will have a clearer picture about who is responsible for the attack.” The OC said prima facie, the shooting seems to be linked to a land dispute. Body found This apart, the body of a 28-year-old youth was found lying in a bush behind Tramco Company in Gamharia, also under Adityapur thana, late on Tuesday night. Police suspect the youth, a resident of Dhatkidih village in Seraikela, had been murdered. The body was been sent to the Seraikela Sadar Hospital for post-mortem on Wednesday. Residents of Adityapur, an industrial area, admit that the law and order situation has deteriorated over the past couple of months. On June 18, a teenaged girl was gangraped and forced to jump into the Kharkai river from where her dead body was recovered the next day. On August 6, a 30-year-old man, Ramzan Hussain, was shot at and seriously injured by members of the Kadim Khan gang. Kadim Khan is yet to be caught.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tests a must for Swiggy, Zomato delivery boys ||All delivery boys working for Swiggy and Zomato in Ranchi will have to be tested for Covid-19 as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of infection among consumers, officials from Food Safety Department of Jharkhand said on Wednesday. Even chefs, cooks and other staff working in restaurants have to be tested for the virus in a bid to adhere to the safety standards during the pandemic, said Ranchi's food safety officer, S.S. Kullu. “Third party food delivery companies and restaurants that have employed delivery partners have to ensure that all delivery boys are tested,” said Kullu. “There is no such mandate as of now, but food delivery companies and restaurants will soon be asked to get their employees tested for Covid-19 to maintain safety standards,” he added. Several families in New Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru were quarantined during the lockdown period after food delivery boys, who frequented the localities, were found infected. However, no such incident has been reported in any city in Jharkhand. “We are planning to conduct a survey to find out the total number of delivery boys working for Swiggy, Zomato, local food delivery companies and restaurants,” said Kullu. While there is no data available with the food department on the number of delivery boys in Ranchi, sources said that around 1,000 men were doing this for a living in the state capital. The health department has directed deputy commissioners of all districts to conduct Covid tests of vegetable and fruit vendors as they were likely to spread the infection among a large number of people. A directive from health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni on Tuesday said that vegetable vendors and roadside hawkers were often found flouting Covid-19 safety norms. Testing them, the directive said, was important as they come in contact with a large number of people every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Virus gets to 11 doctors, nurses, officials at Bokaro Covid centre||The dedicated Covid hospital of the district, Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), has been badly hit by the virus with as many as 11 doctors, nurses and officials testing positive in the last 48 hours. With the administrative head of the Covid ward also testing positive, the BGH management is hoping for support from the district administration. It wants the administration to provide BGH back-up teams of doctors from the private sector or from other government hospitals. BGH of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) is a unit of Steel Authority of India (SAIL). There are 23 positive cases in the Covid ward of the hospital. Of them, five are in ICU. As on Wednesday, there were 170 patients admitted at various BGH wards. “Some routine health services have been scaled down at the moment to manage Covid cases. We are trying our best within the available resources,” said BSL chief of communications Manikant Dhan, adding that the situation was being reviewed periodically to ensure smooth functioning of the hospital. “Covid-19 is posing challenges for one and all and BGH is no different. We are keeping a close watch on the developments as some senior doctors have also tested positive,” he said. The BGH administrative officer has also tested positive. He and the rest have all been sent on isolation. The officer, who got himself tested after a cold and cough, is stable. The doctor in-charge of the Covid ward has been admitted to ICU, but he is also stable. This is the second time when a SAIL unit has seen a spurt in Covid cases. In June, 40 senior and mid-level executives, including the chairman and a number of directors at SAIL headquarters in Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19. On June 10, Director (personnel) Atul Srivastava passed away at Delhi’s Apollo Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Independence Day at Gopal Maidan to be livestreamed on Facebook||The Independence Day celebration at the Gopal Maidan in Bistupur will be streamed live on Facebook. In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic the East Singhbhum district administration had earlier decided to organise a small event at the district collectorate to mark the 74th Independence Day on August 15. However, the administration changed their stance due to the grounds’ wide area. "The function will start at 9.05 a.m. with the hoisting of the national flag," said district public relations officer (DPRO ) Rohit Kumar, adding that for the first time the function will be aired live on PRD East Singhbhum’s Facebook page. The first rehearsals for the event took place at the Gopal Maidan on Wednesday. The rehearsal will continue tomorrow too. State health minister Banna Gupta, who is also the Congress legislature from Jamshedpur West constituency will be the chief guest. Apart from hoisting the national tricolour we will also inspect the parade where Indian Reserve Battalion( IRB), Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) and home guards will participate. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar, senior SP Tamil Vannan and a few other senior administrative officials will be present. One of the highlights of the Independence Day celebration will be felicitation of coronavirus warriors. The office of the district civil surgeon and special officers of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee  (JNAC), Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC ) and Jugsalai Municipality have been asked to furnish the list of coronavirus warriors so that they can be feted at the function. The administration banned participation of children at the event. The function will be organised with limited participants. It is mandatory for all participants to wear facemasks and follow social distancing norms. Deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said the I-Day function will be organised in accordance with the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. Meanwhile, the markets particularly Sakchi and Bistupur have turned into sale points for Indian flags, stickers and banners. The district administration is also taking necessary measures to maintain law and order. "Patrolling will be enhanced from tomorrow along with positioning of cops at all sensitive places including border check posts, " said a senior police official of East Singhbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhoni gets himself tested for Covid ahead of IPL||Mahendra Singh Dhoni, former Team India skipper and a long-standing captain of, and mentor to, Chennai Super Kings underwent a Covid test on Wednesday ahead of the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL), which is scheduled to be held in the UAE next month. A team from a city based private hospital, Gurunanak Hospital and Research Centre, arrived at the 39-year-old cricketer’s farmhouse on Ranchi Ring Road and collected samples. Dr Pooja Sahai, the hospital’s pathologist, said, “We collected his samples today (Wednesday). The report is expected tonight.” She, however, did not wish to divulge any further details, citing Covid confidentiality. The district administration remained tight-lipped. Neither state health secretary Nitin Kulkarni, nor Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra had any information about Dhoni’s Covid test. Civil surgeon V.B. Prasad also said he was unaware. “Nothing has come to my notice formally,” he said. This year’s IPL has been delayed due to the pandemic. It was only recently that the Centre agreed to the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI) proposal to hold the T-20 tournament in the UAE. Matches are scheduled to begin from September 19. Sources said that as soon as there was some clarity on this year’s IPL, Dhoni had started practising at the nets at Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA). “He came for two days a week back for practice. He looked fully fit. He has lots of cricket left in him,” said a JSCA source. Sources close to Dhoni said he was expected to join teammates at CSK in Chennai on August 16. The team is likely to head to Dubai on August 21. All players have been asked to get Covid tests done before reaching Chennai where they will have to undergo another round of testing. The Dubai IPL will also mark Dhoni's comeback to competitive cricket. His last match for Team India was in the 2019 World Cup semi-finals against New Zealand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) students hold twitter campaign to demand fee cut ||A fee reduction demand for the lockdown period, which began in schools and gradually reached colleges, has now reached IITs including IIT (ISM) students who joined the nationwide campaign, tweeting to the college administration as well as prime minister Narendra Modi and Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. “Aren’t (we) all affected by Covid 19? Then why should students suffer the fee burden? We stand against the injustice done to the students. Support is all we need,” a student of the institute tweeted to the prime minister, with the hashtag #reduce_IIT_semesterFee. In another tweet to the prime minister, a student of IIT (ISM) said, “Our parents have lost jobs and pay by major margins . We beseech the public educational institutions to conduct a deferral/cancellation of the fees for this semester”. Another student who is also participating in the Twitter campaign said that while the administration has waived off hostel and mess charges, students are still expected to pay other fees for sports etc. “This is despite the fact that the institute was closed in wake of Covid in March, and classes shifted online,” he said. “Since labs and workshops are not being used, why do students need to pay the same amount of fees as that of regular semesters?” questioned another student, speaking to The Telegraph Online, requesting anonymity. The students of the state’s IITs prepared a joint petition as part of their nationwide campaign for fee reduction. “There are certain fees which have included charges that are not applicable to us (such as Library fee, electricity charges and internet charges). The amount adds up to more than Rs 1 lakh” reads the petition. “For a semester which is expected to run online, why should we pay this sum?” further it said, adding that semesters are held on Google Meet and Zoom, while students’ families continue to have to bear internet charges and electric bills. “Ëven if the  fee payment is not waived off or reduced, there should be provisions for making the payments in instalments or the deadline for fee payment should be extended,” said another student of the institute. Director of IIT (ISM) Rajiv Shekhar said that students are availing of library facilities online. “We sympathize with the students, although we have limitations as we have to run the institute and some establishment costs have to be realized,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Policemen beat up doctor viciously after parking dispute||Doctors stayed away from their clinics on Wednesday in Koderma town in response to a strike call to protest police brutality against one of their own, the assault on Monday leading to counter FIRs lodged by both the victim and a police station officer in-charge. Virendra Kumar, a skin specialist, alleged that policemen tried to kill him after he was dragged to the Telaiya Chowk police station in Koderma. “Since local people had gathered outside the police station in large numbers, I was spared. I want justice… I have full faith in senior police officers,” he said. The incident occurred at Telaiya Chowk while Kumar was shopping. According to Kumar and a few bystanders who were present, first, a group of policemen asked him to park his car elsewhere. This led to an altercation after which policemen, led by officer in-charge of the local thana Ram Narayan Thakur, started beating him up. Kumar, the eyewitnesses claimed, kept screaming by which time more people assembled in the area. Later, the policemen took Kumar to the police station. By then word had spread and a number of doctors and representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) reached the police station after which Kumar was let off. SP Ehtesham Waquarib removed the OC, Thakur, and five other policemen who were with him from their posts and asked them to report to the police lines. On Tuesday, based on Kumar’s complaint, police lodged an FIR against Thakur and others under Section 307 of IPC. Thakur also complained against the doctor based on which an FIR was lodged against him for obstructing policemen in the line of duty under various sections of IPC Some eyewitnesses recorded parts of the incident on their phones, after which the clip is said to have gone viral on social media.  SP Waquarib has assured IMA of action after a thorough probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Rare sighting of a Luna moth in Canary Hill forests||Three evening walkers discovered a rare species of moth in the forests of Canary Hill in Hazaribagh on Tuesday. Mithilesh Kumar and his two friends, Jitendra Singh and Jitendra Kumar were walking on Kutcha road around this picturesque hill when they saw the moth, which was later identified as a Luna moth (Actias luna). Mithilesh said he had frequented the area for his evening walks but had never come across something like this before. Independent researcher Mritunjay Sharma, known for his various discoveries at Canary Hill as well as in the district, said he had spotted the species once in the past ten years. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sharma said that sighting the creature is a rare moment, adding that it was a matter of joy that evening walkers were showing curiosity and clicking pictures after
sighting rare creatures. The moths themselves are not uncommon, but are rarely seen due to their very brief, 7–10 day adult lives and nocturnal flying time. “It’s one of the most beautiful moths, with its long curving tails and pale green wings, each with transparent eyespots,” Sharma said, adding that the moth comes in three colours. Mithilesh, who is a teacher, lives in Prem Nagar colony near Vinoba Bhave University, and the hill is close to his house. “At first I had mistaken the moth for a butterfly with tails and clicked pictures. However, I soon came to know that it’s a moth,” he said, adding that he was happy to see such a beautiful creature for the first time. Sharma said Canary hill is a place full of surprises. “I discovered a few beautiful butterflies here, including the Peacock Pansy,” he said. Regarding the presence of rare moths and butterflies at Canary Hill, Sharma said it is possible that the British, attracted by the greenery and beauty of this place, had brought and released these creatures here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||BCCL eviction notice citing cave-in risks upsets garment traders||BCCL eviction notices issued to residents of localities within a radius of 8km from the district headquarters in the last two days citing the threat of subsidence during monsoon has angered traders of the 150-year-old wholesale garment market of Karkend, who fear they will lose business that has already seen a downturn because the Covid pandemic. Garment trader and secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association Umesh Heliwal said any disruption to the existing set-up would not only hamper business, but also hurt government revenues as garment traders paid huge sums by way of GST. “Any disturbance to the market will adversely affect our business and hit revenues of the government,” he said, adding that the 150-year-old market was once the biggest wholesale  market for grains, before it was shifted to the Agriculture Produce Market Complex at Barwaddah a decade ago. Haliwal said they have decided to approach the state government, seeking its immediate intervention. Letters and tweets are already being sent out. On Tuesday, the management of Gopalichak Colliery issued an eviction notice, in the form of a public appeal, to residents of Pasi Dhaura, Bauri Basti, No.2 Gopalichak Colony and No. 17 Dhaura, with a special reference to Karkend Bazar that is to the west of NH-32. The notice asked them to vacate the area, which, it explained, faced the threat of subsidence since it was within the underground fire zone. On Wednesday, the management Godhar Kusunda Colliery issued a similar appeal to residents of No.15 Kurmidih Harijan Basti/Mochi Basti, No. 9 Kali Basti, No. 15 Godhar Basti and No. 3, 4 Ghansadih Basti. Haliwal blamed their plight on alleged indiscriminate mining by BCCL. “We are facing the ill effects of reckless mining by BCCL. One of the largest parks in the area is Nehru Udyan. It was set up in the 90s and is the only place of leisure for the community. But now it has been turned into a den of pollution as nearby coal patches have been awarded to private contractors who are carrying out indiscriminate mining,” he alleged. GM of Putki Balihari area A Roychoudhary said the risk of subsidence in underground fire affected areas increases during monsoon. “We give notice to people during monsoon so that they remain alert. But we will see how a notice was issued to Karkend Bazar which is situated on NH-32,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad morning walkers demand opening of parks||In line with the opening of marketplaces and railway stations, Dhanbad fitness fanatics are demanding the opening of parks, with the pre-condition of observing strict social distancing norms. Some morning walkers and yoga practitioners have resumed activity outside the Rajendra Sarovar Park in the heart of the town, deprived of their daily dose of fresh air and greenery since the Covid pandemic-induced lockdown. The area has turned out be a hotspot for morning walkers, especially elderly people in the past year, since the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation renovated the park. Others, including youth have been known the frequent the spot during the evening for leisure. “Since the lockdown, we are confined at our houses although we sometimes go out as a habit and make rounds around the park. We use masks and follow social distancing norms,” said Anand Chaurasia (45), talking to The Telegraph Online. “We remain connected with each other on our WhatsApp group and share our whereabouts. It’s not the same as meeting someone while doing our rounds, which we could during the pre-lockdown period,” he said, adding that they demand the state government to allow the opening of parks by framing SOPs. Sexagenarian Anil Mookim, a renowned chartered accountant of Dhanbad who is also a regular morning walker, said that he goes for morning walks near the park. “I was a footballer in my youth and went to Asansol and Durgapur to play football. I started morning walks to keep myself fit for the last 30 years at different places but with the development  of the Rajendra Sarovar, our area got a new avenue filled with lush greenery and some facilities for yoga practice also, which we have been missing since lockdown,” he said. RP Singh (69) a retired area finance manager of Baghmara area of BCCL said that it has been a fortnight since he has resumed his morning walks while maintaining social distancing norms. 62-year-old Krishna Kumari, a government middle school teacher and resident of Jai Prakash Nagar locality at Dhanbad, said that she was looking forward to when things get back to normal. “I used to go for morning walks at the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research park before the lockdown, but since the park has been closed, we now traverse the circular area outside the park. I hope that better days will return, when we can resume our daily morning schedule, going for walks at the same place together,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries surpass fresh cases for third consecutive day||The number of Covid recoveries surpassed the count of fresh cases reported in Jharkhand for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, taking the recovery rate in state close to 54.21 per cent, government data highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday late evening, as many as 591 people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus in 24 hours, while 682 patients recovered from the infection during the same period. The dwindling Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand had become a cause for concern for the health machinery in late July and early August after the figure nosedived close to 30 per cent, officials said. Despite the rise in recovery rate, some districts in Jharkhand continue to suffer from an unprecedented spike in cases of Covid infection. Ranchi, which is the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, reported 103 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the tally in district to 3696, the NHM bulletin stated. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum, which has reported highest number of Covid casualties so far in State, reported 150 fresh cases, taking the tally there to 2994. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported one Covid death each on Tuesday, while a patient lost his battle to the virus in Deoghar. The Covid toll on Tuesday reached 194, the NHM bulletin stated. Besides Ranchi and East Singhbhum, the Covid tally in Giridih and Dhanbad has also crossed 1000 mark in state as per latest figures. As on Tuesday, 1140 cases were reported in Dhanbad and 1047 in Giridih. The government has so far collected swab samples of over 4 lakh people and tested 3.94 lakh of them in Jharkhand. As many as 19469 people have tested positive for the virus in State till date and 10555 of them have recovered, government figures state. The number of active cases in Jharkhand, as per the NHM bulletin, was 8720 on Tuesday. The Covid mortality rate in state was 0.99 per cent on Tuesday, while the doubling rate in the past one week was 15.27 days. The Covid growth rate in the past one week was 4.65 per cent, much lower than the national growth rate of 2.98 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Warning and praise for RIMS from Hemant Soren||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had both bouquets and brickbats for Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Jharkhand’s state-run premier medical college and hospital in Ranchi, on Tuesday. In two back to back tweets within an hour or so on Tuesday morning, Soren first asked RIMS to ensure that there would be no recurrence of an alleged negligence and then  appreciated  the corona warriors such as doctors for their "determination and dedication". His first tweet was in response to an allegation made by one Anup Kumar Singh who had tweeted to the CM alleging that a Covid positive cancer patient who fell off his bed in the Covid ward of RIMS lay unattended for a long time. The complainant had also attached a video clip from a new bulletin, telecast by a local channel, showing the patient was first lying and then continued to sit on the floor as no one helped him to get back to his bed. Soren asked health minister Banna Gupta to look into the matter and also directed RIMS “to ensure such things do not recur”. Just in about an hour, Soren tweeted once again to thank the corona warriors like doctors, paramedical staff, health workers, police personnel etc for their “determination and dedication”, adding a combined effort by all would help win the fight against corona. Soren’s second tweet was in a response to a tweet from RIMS, informing a Covid positive patient who was also infected with Hepatitis-B was successfully operated upon for mending intenstinal perforation. “Despite the risk of getting infected during the surgery,  the procedure was done to save the life of the patient,” the RIMS tweet informed, adding the patient was stable, post surgery. “The 40-year old male patient had come here two days ago with complaint of abdominal pain and was found to be infected with  both Covid-19 and Hepatitis-B,” Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of the Covid task force at RIMS, informed when asked. He added that the patient was diagnosed as suffering from gastrointestinal perforation and was operated upon on Tuesday morning. “The medical team is also under tremendous pressure,” a doctor said when asked about the alleged negligence, adding he was not aware about what had actually happened with that particular patient who fell off his bed. Ranchi is among the worst-hit districts and many patients from other districts are also reffered to RIMS that creates more pressure on the facility, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Constable kills colleague with axe ||A police constable was killed with an axe by his colleague after a heated argument in the police barrack of the Ghatshila sub-jail in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum district late on Monday night. The constable who died on the spot has been identified as Dharmendra Singh (52) while the accused has been identified as Manish Kumar (35). Another constable who had tried to prevent Manish from attacking Dharmendra, has also sustained head injuries and has been referred to MGM Hospital in Jamshedpur from Ghatshila sub-divisional hospital on Tuesday morning. Sources in the Ghatshila sub-jail said that the three constables, all from Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP-7) used to stay in the same barrack. At around 11 pm there were heated exchanges between the two constables on some issues at which Manish picked up an axe lying in the barrack and attacked Dharmendra. “The police constable were under the influence of liquor and there might have been an argument over sharing of money collected from those coming to meet undertrials lodged at the jail which led to the incident. Things will be cleared after the interrogation of the injured constable,” said a senior police official. Jamshedpur city SP Subhash Chandra Jat who is also the acting East Singhbhum rural SP, reached the Ghatshila sub-jail to start a probe. “We are investigating the incident and necessary action will be taken as per law against the accused,” said Jat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Paid isolation facilities in Dhanbad open today||Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and can afford paid isolation under the supervision of trained medical staff will be offered the facility from Wednesday at two Govidpur hotels in Dhanbad: Wedlock Greens Hotel and Resorts and King’s Resort. The district administration has given the go-ahead to the management of the hotels, located outside Dhanbad, to house the facilities. The hotel staff will be trained on SOPs, including those for serving food, taking care of the unwell and maintenance of hygiene, before patients are admitted, said Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. Nodal officers and magistrates will be deputed to the hotels for 14 days to supervise and coordinate between facility and hospital authorities and ensure quick referral of patients to other healthcare facilities in case of emergency. The hospitals will have to provide paramedical staff to the hotels. Vivek Poddar, director of Wedlock Greens, said the hotel has 50 rooms available and the daily charge for paid isolation will be Rs 4,000 plus taxes. The daily isolation charge at King’s Resort, on the other hand, is Rs 3,900 plus taxes. Wedlock Greens was the first hotel in the district to launch paid quarantine at the initiative of the district administration on April 14. A 67-year-old man and his daughter were killed in a road accident near Dhawa mines under Ramgarh police station in Palamau district on Tuesday. They were on their way to collect the 17-year-old's matriculation certificate from her school in Shahpur. Arjun and Indu Bala Tirkey died on the spot. The officer in charge of the Ramgarh police station, Dhuma Kisko, said the father and daughter were on a bike which collided head on with a speeding tractor. A crowd gathered at the scene of the accident and began protesting. A case has been registered against the tractor driver. The vehicle has been seized. Two Hazaribagh youths were caught by police for withdrawing around Rs 56,000 from the account of a woman who is the mother of one of the duo's friends. Leelawati Devi decided to forgive the youths who had got her bank details apparently to activate her Paytm account after they returned the amount and promised never to repeat their act. The duo had ostensibly found the idea for the fraud online. Leelawati, a resident of Baray village in the Vishnugarh police station area, noticed that Rs 56,080 had been debited from her account when she received a text message informing her of the withdrawal. She made a complaint to the police after which the cyber cell was informed. Its investigation led to the youths being caught following which she confirmed that they were her son's close friends. The police said such incidents were on the rise in the district. Bird's Buddy, a group of avian enthusiasts, will organise its annual photography competition in Hazaribagh on August 19, the World Photography Day. There will be three categories for contestants. The first category, for age group 14-15 years, have to take photographs of sunrise and sunset with other objects like trees, birds and hills. The second category is for the age group 16-18 years and the theme for this group is product photography. The third category is open to all age groups and the theme is natural photography. Organiser Shib Shankar Goswami, a teacher at St. Xavier's School, Hazaribagh, and a bird researcher, said the entries can be sent to birdsbuddy84@gmail.com by August 13. The photographs have be the original work of the participant and taken in 2020. "Our aim is to bring people closer to nature through such activities," Goswami said. A 14-year-old girl from Munda basti near Dhanbad's Bhowra railway station jumped into the Damodar river in Birsa police station area on Tuesday morning after an argument with her family. She was rescued by three youths. The girl was taken to the community health centre at Chasnala by a police team. She was referred to Patliputra Medical College for treatment. A two-bed dialysis centre for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those with mild symptoms was on Tuesday inaugurated at the Dhanbad sadar hospital. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the facility would be used for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms admitted at different dedicated Covid-19 health centres. He added that separate arrangements for drainage, water supply and soak pit had been made at the centre. Dhanbad police as part of its drive against coal smuggling on Tuesday conducted a raid and seized around 16 tonne from an illegally operated coal depot. The police, however, could not arrest the operators of the depot. A 45-year-old man, Gajadhar Sonar, who left his home at Tilaiya in Koderma after a dispute with his family about 20 years ago was united on Tueday with the family after being infected by the coronaviurs. Gajadhar was living in Lilori Pathra area of Jharia for the past 20 years with a fake name while working as a daily wage earner.  He developed Covid-19 symptoms recently after which neighbours informed the police. Though he tried to hide his identity from the police, he later buckled under pressure and revealed his real identity, after which his family members in Tilaiya were informed. His wife Anita Devi and son arrived at Jharia on Tuesday. The president of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI), Chetan Goenka, on Tuesday appealed to members of the industry body to keep shops open only from 11am to 7pm to check the spread of Covid-19. The FDZCCI about a fortnight ago had fixed the shop timings from 9am to 5pm but later modified it. There were complaints of shops remaining open even after 7pm, which prompted Goenka to make the appeal on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
