13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhoni tests Covid negative: Sources||Mahendra Singh Dhoni, former Team India skipper and long-standing captain as well as mentor of Chennai Super Kings (CSK), is believed to have cleared his Covid-19 test, sources in the state health department hinted on Thursday. Dhoni’s samples were collected by a private hospital in Ranchi — Gurunanak hospital and research centre -- on Wednesday afternoon. Dr Pooja Sahai, a pathologist associated with the Covid-19 lab of the hospital, last night said the report was submitted to the government as per the norms without elaborating any further. A source in Ranchi civil surgeon’s office on Thursday evening claimed that the 39-year-old cricketer tested negative. “His reports are negative but they haven’t been uploaded to the ICMR’s Covid-19 portal as per the norms,” he said, requesting anonymity. Ranchi civil surgeon V.B. Prasad and state health secretary Nitin Kulkarni declined to comment. Ahead of this year’s Indian Premier League which is scheduled to be held in the UAE from September 19, Dhoni got himself tested before flying to Chennai to join his team. The team is likely to head to Dubai on August 21. In the past five days, 116 people have been cured of Covid-19 in Bokaro. Of the 523 persons who tested positive for the coronavirus since March, 352 of have been cured while four died. Those who died included elderly patients with co-morbidity. Currently, there are 171 active cases in the district. Barring a few symptomatic patients, the majority of them are stable. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh on Thursday appealed to residents not to panic and follow Covid-19 protocols. There has been a spike in positive cases since June. Delays in the reporting of test results, which have affected contact tracing, are said to be the main reason behind the spurt. The district health department has said the majority of positive cases are asymptomatic. On Thursday, 35 fresh cases surfaced in the district. Twenty-seven people were released from Bokaro General Hospital, district Covid-19 care centre and Zaika Resort Isolation Centre. At least 43 patients were released from the Covid-19 centre on August 9. Another 31 patients were released on August 11. On Wednesday, 27 patients were released. Singh said the situation was under control. Testing has been ramped up. There were 541 samples collected and sent for examination on Wednesday, of which 357 were sent to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital, Dhanbad. District epidemiologist Pawan Srivastava said: “Efforts are on to increase the number of tests. The rise in the number of positive cases is a concern, but more people are getting cured. Our teams are visiting containment zones for sample collection. At sadar hospital, many people are coming for tests themselves.” The Garhwa deputy commissioner, who is also the chairman of the district disaster management authority, has decided to demarcate three communities as containment zones under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act. Rajesh Kumar Pathak in his order has prohibited the entry and exit of people at Jatpura, Tikar Ward 11 and Ward 8. Pathak has instructed the health department to complete the survey of houses in containment zones. Downloading the Arogya Setu app has been made mandatory for residents. Pathak has appealed to all the people living in the containment zones to stay home. Shops falling under the containment zones and private and public institutions will remain closed with immediate effect. Essential items and medicines will be supplied to the residents. The demand to restore the jobs of those who were laid off by Vedanta group’s Electrosteel Steels Ltd (ESL) during the Covid-19 lockdown is growing stronger. Chandankyari MLA and former revenue minister Amar Bauri met deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh on Wednesday and requested him to take necessary steps to restore the jobs. ESL should provide other basic amenities to people residing in peripheral areas of the plant, Bauri said. Around 700 workers were fired by ESL during the lockdown. After intervention by the district administration, ESL has started reinstating them back, but in phases. On July 31, many of the retrenched workers had met the deputy commissioner. They had pleaded with Singh for help in getting their jobs back. Based on their complaint, Singh had asked the labour department to conduct an inquiry and submit a report on the issue. On August 7, labour superintendent, Bokaro, Harender Kumar Singh wrote a letter to chief executive officer, ESL, Pankaj Malhan asking him to clarify the company’s stand. On August 8, ESL’s chief people officer S. Venkataraman submitted a reply to the labour department, which was sent to the deputy commissioner on Thursday. An official said: “ESL’s letter mentioned that as per company’s commitment, of the balance 629 workers, the company had engaged more than 437 contract workers through its contractors between June and July. ESL stated that there were a few Covid-19 cases reported among its employees. So, it is following the necessary protocols. As per its commitment, ESL tried to call back all the balance 192 contract workmen by July. “The employees have been called in batches starting from July 26 with a plan to make them join by August 1. But due to the Covid-19 cases, we advised them to continue to stay at home by protecting their 15 days’ wage,” the letter stated. The head of corporate communication, Vedanta ESL, Shilpi Shukla, has not commented on the issue. Bauri said he had handed a nine-point demand letter to the deputy commissioner requesting him to ensure that ESL restores all jobs. “I have demanded health and educational facilities for children of local residents, especially those who have given land for construction of companies in Siyaljori of Chandankyari block. A quality hospital and school should be constructed. Local unemployed youths should be given priority in small and big contracts. The ESL management should provide a list of welfare work done under CSR,” said Bauri. Two workers were injured when a sack full of crackers slipped from their hands and burst at a warehouse in Bazaar Samiti of Chas on Thursday. SDP, Chas, Bhagwan Das said police visited the spot and inquired into the matter. The incident occurred when a sack of “potato” crackers slipped from a worker’s hands, fell on the ground and burst. Two workers, Sanjay Sharma and Badal Lal Yadav, were hurt. Yadav suffered serious injuries. After the incident, both the injured were admitted to a private hospital in Chas. Das said an investigation was on to ascertain whether the cracker warehouse had a licence. A large quantity of firecrackers has been seized from the warehouse. Sharma told the police that the incident occurred when the crackers were being loaded onto a truck. Dhanbad subdivisional officer Raj Maheshwaram on Thursday carried out a site inspection of the shuttered FCI hospital in Sindri at the instance of deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. The visit was to explore the possibility of revival of the hospital as per a proposal of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL) in association with Associated Cement Company (ACC). Talking to media, he said: “As the condition of the hospital building is poor, there is no scope for the immediate launch of any Covid-19 treatment centre here; however, after repairs it can be used for treatment of non-Covid-19 patients in two-three months.” The 205-bed hospital established in the early 1950s was one of biggest hospitals of the region with all kinds of facilities, including OPD and emergency. The Dhanbad district administration will felicitate 22 frontline “coronavirus warriors” -- including nurses, lab technicians, ward boys, ambulance drivers, hospital sweepers -- engaged in the handling of dead Covid-19 patients during the Independence Day parade at Golf Ground. At the event, three persons who beat Covid-19, including the first person of district to recover, Md Allauddin; the youngest person who defeated the coronavirus, Ritwi Chaurasia (four months old); and cancer-affected 77-year-old Paramjit Kaur will also be felicitated. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the Intermediate science, arts and commerce toppers will also be felicitated at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||State scholarship for tribal students to study abroad||The state government is planning a special scholarship scheme which will allow meritorious tribal students to pursue higher studies in top foreign universities, sources from the chief minister's office (CMO) in Ranchi said on Thursday. The scheme is likely to be announced during the Independence Day celebrations on Saturday. The state government hasn’t released any official communication as yet. “The scheme may also cover meritorious students belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Other Backward Caste (OBC) categories,” the chief minister's aide said. A special secretary ranked official in the Department of Welfare said that the CMO has asked the department to work on a scholarship scheme for meritorious tribal students from the state. However, according to him, the scheme is at a nascent stage as the welfare department is still working on the scholarship amount and other details. “It would be too early to comment on the scholarship and the benefits that it will offer to students of the tribal community,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The Hemant Soren-led UPA coalition in Jharkhand has been vocal about prioritising tribal development in the state. Addressing an event on the occasion of International Day of the World's Indigenous People in Ranchi recently, Hemant had said that holistic growth and development of the tribal community should be prioritised. This scholarship scheme for foreign education is likely to help tribal students get 100 per cent scholarship for pursuing higher studies in 30 renowned universities, including Oxford University and Harvard University, sources from the CMO shared. The government already runs scholarship programmes for class 10 pass tribal, SC and OBC students. Students willing to pursue engineering and medical courses are encouraged to avail existing scholarship schemes. The chief minister will hoist the national flag at 9am on Saturday at Ranchi's Morhabadi Ground and also address a gathering of limited guests. He is likely to talk about the scheme during the event. Preserving tribal rights and developing the community were among the major agendas of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) during the 2019 elections. Since taking charge as the CM, Hemant has spoken about tribal uplift in almost all of his public addresses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Fresh SOPs ask govt officers not to use car ACs||All government officials have been told not to use their car air conditioners while travelling to work in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the instruction included in a fresh set of SOPs issued by the state health department on Thursday. All deputy commissioners have also been asked to ensure the presence of a minimum workforce at their official residences. Notably, over 2,500 police personnel and roughly over 1,500 government employees have so far tested positive for the coronavirus in the last month. On Wednesday, eight forest department officials tested positive in Simdega after they took part in a birthday bash hosted by one of them at his residence earlier this week. As per Thursday’s SOP, all officials were directed to keep a minimum workforce at their office/official residence. “There have been instances when officials/security posted at the office and official residences have tested positive for Covid-19. This led to the spread of the virus among family members of the official. Hence, it is now mandated to review the requirement of workforce/helpers/assistants at office/official residences,” read the order signed by state health secretary Nitin Kulkarni. The SOPs also stated that those deputed permanently official residences stay in the barracks. “However, keeping social distancing norms (six feet) in mind, it is possible that barracks get overcrowded. Hence, it is advised to cut down on manpower to ensure social distancing within the barracks round-the-clock,” the order noted, adding that all visitors to government offices or at official residences must be registered. “Most importantly, to curb the spread of the virus, avoid using air conditioners in vehicles during official movement and keep the windows open,” the SOP read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Graffiti 'in blood' baffles police in Daltonganj||The appearance of graffiti, with the letters PUBG painted apparently with human blood, on the railing of a bridge on Thursday has baffled police here, prompting SDPO Sandip Kumar Gupta to send samples scraped off the cement surface for testing. “The letters, PUBG, were written with blood. I went there and saw it myself. The colour suggests it is human blood and not of any animal,” he said. “We will have it tested,” he added. PUBG, or PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, is an online, multiplayer action-shooter which became one of the most popular smartphone games in India. The game involves a group of 100 players stranded on an island, from where only one person (or a group, if you decide to team-up) makes it out alive, emerging as the winner. Players land without weapons but can pick up a variety of guns, bombs, blades, camouflage clothing and various other equipment along the way to outdo their opponents. The Union government was considering prohibiting PUBG Mobile owned by tech giant Tencent Games, along with other China-backed apps, according to a report by NDTV. Gupta said police had spoken to local residents, but none of them had seen anyone. He said the bridge over river Amanat, barely 5km from the town, was a part of NH-75. “There is traffic here at all times of the day and night,” he said, adding that it was strange no one saw anything. “It looks as though the word, PUB G, was written with a lot of effort. No brush was used,” he said. There was blood on the edge of the road too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Road between Shramik Chowk to Katras More in bad shape||The condition of the 6km stretch of the Jharia-Dhanbad road between Shramik Chowk to Katras More in Dhanbad has turned from bad to worse, as potholes are inviting accidents and leading to traffic jams on a regular basis. Worse, is the scenario of the 100m stretch between Shramik Chowk to Bank More overbridge and another 200m stretch near Bastacola between Aina Kothi and RSP College, as large number of potholes have developed at both the places due to water logging during the recent spell of monsoon rains. The potholes on the narrow stretch under the railway overbridge near Shramik Chowk are overflowing with water from the adjoining drain. The poor condition of the Bastacola stretch has been caused due to a leakage from the underground water supply pipeline of the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), and due to an improperly slated road built by contractor Balkrishna Bhalotia. The 6km stretch of the road between Bank More to Katras More had been fourlaned and strengthened by the state road construction department at a cost of around Rs 44.83 crore in 2015-16. Ownership of the stretch between Shramik Chowk to Bank More Flyover is disputed as State Highway Authority of Jharkhand, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and state Road Construction Department are holding each other responsible for the repair of the road. “We are working on a project worth Rs 80 crore for the straightening of the 40km road from Bank More to the Purulia Border, part of NH-218, including the 6 km stretch of Bank More to Katras More. The proposal has already been sent to the state’s chief engineer of national highways for approval,” said Amrendra Saha, executive engineer of the road construction department. Regarding the stretch between Shramik Chowk to Gaya Bridge, a senior officer of the department said, “Though we handed over the road to National Highway Authority of India way back in 2016, we had carried out temporary repairs during the last year on humanitarian grounds and will repair the road again tonight temporarily.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Agriculture dept begins deliberations on farm loan waivers||The state agriculture department has also begun efforts to roll out a Rs 2,000 crore farm loan waiver scheme, among the key announcements in the Jharkhand Budget presented by the Hemant Soren government soon after coming to power seven months ago. On Thursday afternoon, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh held a meeting with officials to work out details of the scheme expected to benefit around 5 lakh small and marginal farmers. Agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddique said the meeting was aimed at chalking out modalities of the loan waiver plan. “Today’s meet was the first in line with the government’s vision to implement the scheme. It will take some time before a formal roll out is possible as we want to ensure everything is fool- proof before implementation,” he said. The agriculture secretary ruled out the possibility of a formal announcement on the scheme’s rollout at this year’s Independence Day programme. Earlier, Patralekh flagged off a consignment of over 1 tonne vegetables for Dubai, a first of its kind initiative undertaken by the state government to send locally cultivated horticultural produce to overseas markets. The consignment comprising close to a dozen varieties of green vegetables was sent to Calcutta via road. From there it is expected to be sent to Dubai by air cargo. Secretary of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Ranchi division, Abhishek Anand said they had tied up with All Seasons Farm Fresh, a private agency with offices in Jamshedpur and Mumbai, for this initiative. “Vegetables which were sent today (Thursday) included 300kg bitter gourd, 50kg ladies finger, 150kg bottle gourd, 50kg French beans, 100 kg coccinia grandis (kundru), 100kg long beans, among others. After procuring directly from farmers, we packaged them for overseas market,” he said. Anand said they were planning to export a similar consignment to Singapore next month, modalities for which were being worked out. Minister Patralekh said his department was also working out an export policy for agricultural produce which would be launched in the next few months. “Providing the right price and market to farmers is one of our election promises,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Brace for heavy rain this I-Day||It is likely to be a wet Independence Day this year. For IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued a red alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall (between 64.5mm to 115mm) over Jharkhand on August 15 and August 16 due to the impact of a low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal. The intensity of rain will be more in southern and western Jharkhand covering the three districts of Kolhan (East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan), Simdega, Gumla, Khunti and Lohardaga. Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre S.D. Kotal said, "Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal off Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts, a low-pressure area has formed over North West Bay of Bengal. This would result in heavy to very heavy rainfall over isolated places in Jharkhand on August 15 and 16. Heavy rain is also expected in northern parts of Jharkhand on August 17." Kotal said a north-south trough, extending 3.1km above sea level from north Bihar to west central Bay of Bengal across Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal, had merged with the cyclonic system. This would give further momentum to the rainfall activity. On Thursday, the monsoon trough at mean sea level passed through Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum. Meteorological data suggest that southwest monsoon activity was normal over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall was recorded at Latehar at 87.8 mm. Koderma, Daltonganj and Godda recorded moderate rainfall. Weathermen at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta also predicted heavy showers in Jharkhand on August 15 and 16. " The low-pressure area has formed over north west Bay of Bengal off Odisha and West Bengal coasts. It will trigger heavy rainfall in Jharkhand this weekend," said a duty officer at the Calcutta weather office. Weatherman said the downpour will help in bringing down the rain deficit in Jharkhand which was currently at 14 per cent. So far, Jharkhand has received 565.3 mm rain against a normal of 655.4 mm, leading to a deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid pushes tribal long distance runner into despair ||24-year-old long distance runner Arjun Tudu no longer looks at his medals and trophies with pride, as unemployment has pushed him into despair. The youth has won senior national championships but the state government has done little to look at his exploits, leave aside offering him employment. Arjun, a tribal who lives at suburban Nagadih in Jamshedpur, is forced to work as a daily wager to sustain his family. He is married and lives with his two brothers, their families and aunt. Arjun somehow manages to make ends meet thanks to Tata Steel sports wing’s monthly allowance of Rs 8,000. He trains at JRD Tata Sports Complex and the steel major, keeping in mind Arjun’s talent, is offering him dietary support. “I am jobless for more than five years now. The allowance from Tata Steel is not enough for my family’s survival. I am the sole breadwinner in my family since my younger siblings are also jobless. I have been working as a daily wager for some years but that engagement is not regular owing to the Covid-induced situation. I am very frustrated and hate to look at my accomplishments,” said Arjun. Arjun lost his mother when he was young. His father remarried and lives separately, leaving his three sons to fend for themselves. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Arjun said he used to get work as a daily wager before the nationwide lockdown. “I used to get a daily wage of Rs 280 earlier when work was regular but the lockdown has now snatched that little earning. Don’t know what to do,” he said, cursing the virus. Arjun used to manage the expenses of his family by competing and winning prize money in marathons organized by Tata Steel in Jamshedpur, Calcutta and Bhubaneswar. But these events look a non-starter thanks to Covid, and pressure is building for the young athlete. “I started athletics at the age of 14 with dreams of making a career out of it. I have donned Jharkhand jerseys in over 10 junior and senior national meets. I have won silver in the Federation Cup (Under-20)  National Meet in 2015, besides claiming two bronze medals at the East Zone event in 2017 . I also represented Jharkhand in the 35th National Games in Kerala. But my feats were not enough to land me a job,” Arjun rued. To make matters worse, his application for a direct employment in a government job under the sports quota was also rejected recently. His application to the government for a cash award for claiming medals has also not found any takers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Tatas back Dhanbad’s Covid fight with 10 ventilators||Dhanbad district administration's effort to beef up Covid treatment facilities by adding new treatment centres with adequate infrastructure received a boost on Thursday with Tata Sons supporting the efforts of deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. GM of Tata Steel Jharia Division Sanjay Rajoria presented 10 ventilators to the district administration on behalf of Tata Sons at the district collectorate in the presence of, among others, Tata Steel Jharia Division Head (administration) Gopal Nath Jha. Singh said they received 18 ventilators from the state government earlier, while Tata Sons provided 10 more on Thursday. “These ventilators would be used to treat Covid patients. These would be installed at the Dedicated Covid Hospital at Jagjivan Nagar, the Dedicated Covid Health Centre at PMCH Cath Lab, the Dedicated Covid Health Centre at Sadar Hospital, besides the Dedicate Covid Health Centre at Tata Central Hospital in Jamadoba,” he said. Singh said the district administration was trying to increase the number of beds for Covid patients to 1,000, but that the immediate target was 700. “We have sufficient workforce as per the requirement of treatment centres so there is no need to panic,” he said. Tata Steel GM of Jharia Division Rajoria said they had provided 3,500 face shields for the policemen working on the frontlines to SSP Akhilesh B Verior on August 6. Dhanbad district witnessed a sea change in Covid treatment facilities over the last month when there was only the 100-bed dedicated hospital at Jagjivan Nagar. Since then, five other dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC), meant for treatment of asymptomatic patients, have been established at PMCH Cath Lab (100 beds), Sadar Hospital (50 beds), Tata Central Hospital (25 beds), Nirsa Polytechnic (100 beds) and Bhuli Regional Hospital (50) beds. Efforts are underway to set up another Covid health centre at Zonal Railway Training Institute. A dialysis centre meant exclusively for Covid patients was inaugurated on Wednesday. The deputy commissioner has also augmented the workforce so that Covid testing can be ramped up significantly, from 500-600 per day to about 1,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Sohrai and Kohbar masks show up in Hazaribagh markets||Masks with Sohrai and Kohbar painting designs are now available in Hazaribagh markets, as the coronavirus pandemic has rendered the facemask an essential commodity which is in great demand. Various kinds of designer face masks are now available, and people young and old are spoilt for choice. Sohrai and Kohbar paintings are indigenous art forms also known as the wall paintings of Hazaribagh. Kohbar ("koh" means cave and "bar" means married couple), is generally associated with marriages, whereas sohrai celebrates harvest and fertility. Sohrai is a harvest festival celebrated in Jharkhand as well as in Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and West Bengal Artists use natural resources such as red, black, yellow and white soil, cow dung, coal and powdered leaves, to make the colours. They bring the soil from Barkagaon, around 65km from Hazaribagh, where the tradition has been kept alive, thanks to a few villagers. Anirudh Upadhyay whose NGO Maatimay has taken this initiative to replicate the indigenous art on the masks. Anirudh had made a film on the two art forms in 2016. “I became emotionally connected to these art forms. I decided to make these paintings on the three layered cotton masks to popularise it among people,” he added.  Upadhyay said the NGO team is clocking in eight to ten hours daily to paint the Sohrai and Kohbar masks. Anjali Mishra, Anamika Upadhyay, Prabha Singh, Naveen Upadhyay, Aman Upadhyay, Sejal Singh and few others are part of the team. “The team is making 100 to 150 masks daily,” Anirudh said. One such mask costs Rs. 50 and they are trying to sell the mask on various online platforms, especially Amazon. He said they will make it available in the shops of Hazaribagh city soon. “It’s the best way to let people know about these paintings, originally of Barkagaon,” he added.  Former union minister of state for civil aviation, Jayant sinha also praised Anirudh’s efforts and his team and said these ancient art forms of Hazaribagh are reaching people through these masks. “An ancient culture is reaching to houses in this way,” Sinha said. Local people appreciated Maatimay’s initiative and said it was a good way to spread awareness of their history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: State reports highest recoveries in a day||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported highest number of Covid recoveries in a day so far as over 1500 patients were discharged from hospital after testing negative for the viral infection and showing no symptoms associated to it, health officials said. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday late evening, as many as 1567 patients, including 285 in Godda and 274 in Dhanbad, recovered in 24 hours, taking the Covid recovery rate in state above 60 per cent. However, the Covid tally in Jharkhand crossed the 20,000 mark on Wednesday as 679 more people tested positive for virus, the NHM bulletin stated. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 119 and 117 fresh cases of infection respectively, while the number of recoveries stood at 156 in Ranchi and 111 in East Singhbhum, government data stated. East Singhbhum, which has reported the highest number of Covid fatalities in state so far, reported five of eight deaths in Jharkhand on Wednesday. As per government figures, the district alone accounts for 78 of state's 202 Covid casualties. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, has reported 3799 cases of infection so far, while the tally in East Singhbhum stands at 3182. Of the 20,257 cases of Covid infection in state, at least 12,197 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 60.21 per cent. However, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand is still lower than the national average of 69.34 per cent. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 4.08 lakh people and tested around 4.02 lakh of them. On Wednesday, health workers collected swab samples of 7138 people and tested 6272 of them, stated the NHM bulletin. The Covid tally has crossed the 1000 mark only in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Giridih. The remaining 20 districts in Jharkhand have reported cases in triple digits so far. However, over 900 cases have surfaced in Hazaribag and more than 850 in Palamu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vegetables going places||Vegetables grown in Jharkhand will now find overseas markets with the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee under the agriculture department tying up with a private agency for export of the produce. The first lot of nearly 2 tonnes of green vegetables will fly by air cargo from Calcutta airport to countries like Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates on Thursday evening. “This would be the first lot of green vegetables from Jharkhand which would be exported by the state government through the private agency (All Seasons Farm Fresh). Nearly 500 farmers from Jamshedpur and Ranchi will benefit in the first phase. Producers need to form a Farmers Progressive Organisation (FPO) and get registered with the nearest Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee in order to have their produce exported overseas. We plan to send cargo to other countries like Singapore in the next phase apart from western Asia,” said APMC Ranchi marketing secretary Abhishek Anand. There are 28 such APMCs functional in 24 districts of the state. State agriculture minister and Congress leader Badal Patralekh termed it as a fulfilment of their electoral promise to increase farmers’ income. “The APMC will take care of all quality testing and protocols required for export through the private agency right from permission from the Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (Apeda), packaging protocols, custom supervision, poisoning testing, etc. Farmers will get income credited to their bank account directly through e-NAM (National Agriculture Market), a pan-India online trading platform for agricultural commodities, as soon as their products are purchased abroad. Based on market surveys, the farmers will stand to increase their income by nearly three times through the initiative. It will go a long way in bringing smiles back to the faces of farmers amid the Covid pandemic,” said Patralekh. All Seasons Farm Fresh, with its office in Jamshedpur, has a licence under the Importer Exporter Code (IEC) of the Union commerce and industry ministry and is a member of Apeda. The agency also possesses unified license from e-NAM. “In the second phase, we will be roping in more farmers from districts like Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Gumla, Dhanbad, Dumka, etc. The farmers would not have to spend a single penny and only form a FPO. “The APMCs will extend technical support for export and also help in quality checks of their products so that it meets international marketing standards,” the minister said. State agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddiqui that the government will soon have an agri-export policy in place to facilitate export of agriculture products. “We are working on an agri-export policy and hope to have it ready within a few months which will help farmers in networking and market linkage and other necessary help for export of their products. At the moment, the vegetables are being exported through APMCs,” said Siddiqui.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Speeding van rams into electric pole in Hazaribagh, shutting off power supply||A speeding van hit a pole-mounted transformer in Hazaribagh on Wednesday evening, shutting down power supply to nearby areas. The accident took place at Bargada Chowk on Hazaribagh-Katkamsandi road, 17km from the town, Witnesses said the driver lost control of the vehicle, resulting in the mishap. The driver, whom the police suspect could have been drunk, managed to flee from the spot. Katkamsandi police said the driver would be traced soon on the basis of the registration number of the van. A coal-laden vehicle hit seven cattle at Budhna Ghati on the busy Hazaribagh-Barkagaon road, killing five on the spot and resulting in a traffic snarl. The villagers have demanded Rs 35,000 for each animal killed and asked for measures to prevent speeding. A 25-year-old woman and her son were killed when a goods train ran over them in Palamau on Wednesday in what appeared to be a suicide. Her two other children, who had also been brought to the tracks, survived. Bishrampur subdivisional police officer Surjit Kumar said Priyanka Devi of Sabouna village had taken her three children — all in the age group of 18 months to five years — to the tracks between 8am and 9am on Wednesday and began waiting for a train. While Priyanka and her five-year-old son sat on the tracks, her daughter and other son lay on the sleepers. The goods train that killed the woman and her son was on its way from Daltonganj. The survivors were taken to Palamu Medical College from where they were referred to Ranchi's Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. Priyanka's husband works at a chemical factory in Rehla. She was upset over daily quarrels at home, police said. A combined team of three assault units of Jharkhand Jaguar and Palamau police early on Wednesday seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition from cadres of Tirteeay Sammelan Prastuti Committee (TSPC), a splinter group of Maoists, after an exchange of fire on the border of the district and Chatra. Palamau superintendent of police Ajay Linda said the combined team found one regular Insas rifle, one 9mm CMG, one Springfield American rifle, one handgun, seven magazines, 334 rounds of fire, eight cell phones, one solar plate, two pouches, 10 bags, three pairs of shoes, two Aadhar cards and one notebook. The TSPC contingent involved in the exchange of fire was led by zonal commander Shashikant, alias Aarif. He and other rebels were on their way to extract levy from some contractors. Linda said the operation was carried out after a tip-off of a meeting of TSPC cadres. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday wrote to the chairman and managing director of BCCL, P.M. Prasad, recommending action against two doctors and five nurses of the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Jagjivan Nagar and dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the company's regional hospital in Bhuli over alleged dereliction of duty. Singh in his letter also called for explanation from BCCL chief medical superintendent A.K. Gupta for mismanagement at both facilities. Singh pointed out that Dr Vineeta Verma, Dr Tuhina Alok and nurses Vimla Kumari, Sumita Dutta, Asha Ahmad, Bindu Kumari and Indu Kumari remained either absent from duty or arrived late, severely affecting the treatment of patients. He demanded disciplinary action against them, including salary deductions. "If the doctors and nurses fail to mend their ways, severe action would be taken against them as per the Sections 51 and 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005," said Singh. An electric crematorium in Hazaribagh's Khirgaon will be revived by the municipal corporation, which wants to run it on LPG. The crematorium, inaugurated by former Union minister Yashwant Sinha in 2017 and constructed at a cost of Rs 1.81 crore, was lying unused. The new municipal commissioner, Madhavi Mishra, took the initiative to revive the crematorium and contacted an agency which suggested it be run on LPG. The facility had developed a snag soon after being inaugurated. Despite this, the electricity department had sent a bill of Rs 10 lakh to local authorities. The need to revive the crematorium was felt due to the pandemic with local residents clamouring for the safe disposal of dead bodies. At the next board meeting of the municipal corporation, the fund allocation for the conversion of the crematorium into a LPG-run facility will be discussed, officials said. A resident of Dhanbad's Brindawan Colony under the Saraidhela police station tried to commit suicide by consuming muscle relaxants. His family members admitted him to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital after informing the police. He is being treated at the hospital's critical care unit. The police have found a suicide note at his home in which he claimed that his wife had an extramarital relation, leading to regular quarrels. Saraidhela police, led by officer in charge A. Murmu, has launched an investigation into the case. A truck carrying pipes to Barhi caught fire on the busy Ranchi-Patna highway near Vinay Line Hotel in Hazaribagh wildlife sanctuary area in Ichak, around 17km from the town. The incident took place at 7 in the evening on Wednesday. The driver of the vehicle managed to jump out of the vehicle. Traffic on the highway was impacted. The Livelihood and Entrepreneurship Promotion Society (LESPS) will help set up 200 grassroots enterprises at the panchayat level in Bokaro. The president of the society, Sangram Singh, said they intend to help unemployed youth in villages to become self-employed by setting up grassroots-level industries. The society's first project is going to be launched at Gopalpur panchayat under Chas block on August, 16. “The migrant workers who had arrived from other states during the lockdown will be grassroots entrepreneurs, starting from muri (puffed grain) production to other small profitable ventures. Instead of starting big ventures, our focus is to engage unemployed migrant workers in small projects so that they can start earning their livelihood soon,” said Singh. An experiential learning programme through a webinar was organised by Pentecostal Assembly School, Bokaro, for commerce students on “The impact of Covid-19 on business and trade". Four guests were invited. They shared valuable insights with the students on how businesses are impacted due to the pandemic. The regional manager of State Bank of India, Hazaribagh, Ranjita Sharan Singh, highlighted the functioning of the banking sector during the pandemic. She also made the students aware about the policies and norms initiated to overcome the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
