14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Artistic triumph for Dhanbad children at card-making workshop for Independence Day||As many as 40 youngsters from Dhanbad and other parts made Independence Day-themed cards as part of the annual 4th Creative Card Making workshop organized by the Institution for National Amity, led by Jharia-based private tutor Pinaki Roy. The number included around 20 children of coal pickers of underground fire affected areas of Jharia. The cards focussed on issues including the significance of observing social distancing norms and wearing masks, besides the need for special education among children of daily wage earners of underground fire affected areas. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Roy (50) who also runs free of cost tutorials for coal pickers under the banner of Coalfield Classes said 35 groups of children participated in the workshop held under the guidance of Sanjay Pandit, an art teacher and member of the Institution for National Amity. “They a submitted their cards made on themes like patriotism and other issues and most of the participants used the colours on the Indian tricolour as part of their work,” he said. "The size of these cards is 5x7inches. On the front page, participants have to design the theme and explain their theme on the last page" said Roy. “21-year-old Suman Kumari from Kendua , a BA first year student and daughter of a daily wage earner, made a card where Mother India can be seen fighting against the Covid pandemic. Another girl from a coal picker family, Sapna  Kumara (13), a Class VIII of Gujrati School Jharia, emphasised the educational development initiative of the government for children like her, who pick coal to support their families,” he said. A major part of the workshop was held online and paintings made have been displayed at his home in Jharia as part of a three-day exhibition from August 14 to 16. “Some paid tribute to the soldiers of the country who gave up their lives defending the borders of our country from aggressors,” said Roy, an alumnus of Vishva-Bharati University, Bolpur. Participants included Tulika Sharma (23) a student of LLB of Dhanbad Law College, and BIT-Mesra student, Bhavi Rathore (22). Roy said that some of the students who participated in the workshop live in other metropolitan cities, but are staying here due to lockdown “The aim of organizing the workshop since for the last four years on Independence Day is to develop creative thinking among school-going students and youth,"  said Roy, who also imparts free of cost English and Mathematics lessons to around 80 children of the underground fire-affected areas of Dhanbad regularly in Jharia and at Gansadih in Kendua.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant launches job scheme for urban poor||Chief minister Hemant Soren rolled out an employment guarantee scheme for urban unskilled workers on the eve of Independence Day on Friday, claiming that the MGNREGA-like initiative would initially benefit around five lakh poor families. Titled Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rozgar Manjuri For Kamgar) Yojna, the scheme aims to provide guaranteed work for 100 days (man days) a year within 15 days of receiving an application. “In case we fail to give a job within the stipulated period, we shall provide them unemployment allowance. The idea is to ensure no one lives or dies of hunger,” Hemant said while launching the scheme online from Project Building to reaffirm the state government’s commitment towards the wellbeing of labourers. As a symbolic gesture, the chief minister distributed job cards to five persons. Hemant said that while the lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic had brought everything to a halt, it also exposed several unknown realities about Jharkhand to him. “Honestly, we didn’t know the magnitude (of our workforce)… the number of our people working in other states as labourers, even though it was an open secret that many have been migrating to other cities in search of a livelihood for years. This is when we envisaged the scheme. The idea is to provide equal opportunities for our shramik brothers in urban areas,” the chief minister said. Hemant said that as per his government’s estimates, around 10 lakh labourers returned to Jharkhand after the lockdown using various modes of transport. He also pointed out how Jharkhand showed the way for other states while facilitating the return of migrant labourers. “Even before shramik trains had begun, we were the first to ask the Centre to allow us to run our own trains. While we later got permission, other states too followed on our footsteps. Jharkhand was the first to run a shramik special train which came from Telangana in May. Thereafter, we were also the first to fly our labourers via aerial routes from hard-hit areas like Andaman, Ladakh and so on,” he said. The state urban development department will be the nodal agency for executing the employment scheme. Secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey said anyone who was above 18 and has been living in an area run by a civic body since April 1, 2015, was eligible to apply for a job. “That is the only criteria for applying for a job either through our portal (http://msy.jharkhand.gov.in) or through ward-level resource persons under respective civic body limits,” he said. Citing priority areas, Choubey said the first target would be to provide jobs under various projects undertaken by civic bodies. “In case jobs (man days) aren’t available there, then we will look at other sectors of urban development, followed by forest department and other wings of the government. Guaranteed job is our mandate in this scheme,” he promised, adding that every year the government would make special provisions for creating man days (jobs) and allocating funds in the state budget. Choubey said the scheme would help civic bodies that are starved of manpowered to undertake projects centred around daily city management and beautification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Special Vistara flight takes Dhoni to Chennai||Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Chennai Super Kings (CSK)’s long-standing captain and mentor left for Chennai in a special Vistara flight from Ranchi’s Birsa Munda International Airport on Friday afternoon ahead of the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020. The 39-year-old former India skipper, whose Covid test report was negative, was joined by another Ranchi cricketer, CSK teammate Monu Kumar, both of whom took the flight together, said Ranchi airport sources. Birsa Munda airport director Vinod Kumar confirmed that it was a special flight service for Mahi and his teammate. “A Vistara chartered flight came to Ranchi to fly out Dhoni and another cricketer today. They headed to Chennai,” Kumar told Telegraph Online. On Wednesday, a Covid lab associated with a city-based private hospital—Gurunank Hospital and Research Centre _ took Dhoni’s swab samples from his farmhouse on Ranchi Ring Road. The report was later submitted to the state health department as per ICMR’s Covid protocol. Although none of the officials in the state health department wished to comment on the test results, but Dhoni’s flight to Chennai indicated what sources close to the cricketer had told this website on Thursday. Other key CSK teammates also reached Chennai by special flights flown by the IPL franchise. A flight from Delhi reached Chennai with the team’s vice-captain Suresh Raina and other players, namely, Deepak Chahar, Piyush Chawla and Karn Sharma. As per mandatory Covid protocol, after reaching Chennai, CSK team members will begin training from August 15 for about a week, before heading to the UAE where this year’s IPL is scheduled to be held from next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Smoother ride between Dhanbad and Bokaro||Travelling between the twin towns of Dhanbad and Bokaro will be a smoother and faster experience within two months with the broadening and strengthening of the 33.89km Govindpur-Mahuda road being carried out by State Highway Authority of Jharkhand (SHAJ). The ongoing work, part of a Rs 179 crore project, is inching towards completion. The laying of bridges and culverts at three different places is pending for which work is in progress at a fast pace, done by Ranchi-based contractor, Ms Ram Kripal Construction. The roadwork is divided into two separate projects including one from Govindpur to Sharmik Chowk in Dhanbad and another from Birsa Chowk in Bank More to Mahuda near Bokaro. “Around 80% work of the road has already been completed and only some structural work related to construction of culverts near Matkuria in Dhanbad, Giljoria in Kusunda and on Katri river near Mahuda, is going on full swing as the laying of slabs has already been completed,” said Highway Engineer of SHAJ, Satyendra Narayan. “If everything goes as expected, we will be completing the project by next month's end or maximum within two months” said Narayan. When asked about the crucial stretch lying between Shramik Chowk near Dhanbad Railway station and Birsa Chowk at Bank More not being included in the project, Narayan said, “As the area belongs to the railways, we didn’t include it.” Earlier, the 52km Govindur-Mahuda road project, for which construction began way back in November 2017, was expected to be completed during May 2019. The work had been further extended for 16 months due to land hurdles. Land acquisition hurdles spread over different places at Gaydahra, Amaghata, Bhuiphore, Kolakusma, Steel Gate, Saraidhela, Police line, Hirapur, Naya Bazar, Bank More, Matkuria, Godhar, Kendua, Karkend, Putki, Kapuria and Mahuda, led to a delay in completion of the project. Delayed shifting of water supply pipelines of the Mineral Area Development Authority as well as the electric cables of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), also led to the delay in the completion of the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC head coach Owen Coyle may join squad in October||Owen Coyle will take charge of Jamshedpur FC only after the Indian Super League season VII fixture is released. The 54-year-old Coyle, who was appointed head coach of the Tata Steel-owned club on August 7, is presently at Langho, his village near Manchester in United Kingdom. The ISL fixture was supposed to be announced earlier this month but was postponed and is now likely to be declared in the last week of August. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said they will start preparations for the next season after the fixtures are released. “The ISL fixture is expected later this month. We’ll decide on our pre-seasons only after the schedule is declared,” he added. Talking about the possibility of Coyle joining the squad, Choudhari told The Telegraph Online, “He (Coyle) is presently in the UK and likely to join our men sometime in October. But things depend on when the ISL fixture is announced,”. Apart from the fixture, Coyle's travel to India will also depend on the resumption of commercial flights, which has been discontinued owing to the pandemic. “We expect the flights to resume operations next month. This way, the head coach will have no issues travelling to India,” a member of JFC’s team management said, requesting anonymity. Asked about the possible destinations for pre-season training, the member named Kerala or Goa. “Again, the ISL venue would be clear only after the fixture is announced. We  may conduct the pre-season in Jamshedpur if the 14-day quarantine protocol for players and support staff was relaxed,” he added. The Football Sports Development Limited (FSDL), organisers of the cash-rich tournament, had announced November 19 as the start of the glamourous event. However, nothing has been given in writing to the participating clubs, the JFC CEO informed. Choudhari said the squad was almost in place and they would like to announce the same later this month. Coyle played a stellar role in helping bottom-placed Chennaiyin FC reach the final of the ISL last season. He is expected to make a turnaround for JFC in the ensuing season, who has so far not made it to the play-offs in the three seasons it has played.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||On I-day, new logo unveiled to represent real Jharkhand||Jharkhand government on Friday launched a new state emblem which chief minister Hemant Soren said was in sync with true contours of the tribal heartland that is home to numerous flora and fauna, ethnicity and ethos. The ceremony to unveil the new logo, which replaces the one adopted on November 15, 2000 when Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar, was held at Aryabhatta auditorium in the presence of governor Droupadi Murmu, cabinet ministers and other officials. The new logo is primarily in green and has the national emblem at the centre with “Satyameva Jayate” etched below. The Ashoka emblem, representing cooperative federalism, is enclosed in concentric circles depicting the state’s culture and its abundant natural resources. The colour symbolises the greenery across the state which is blessed with natural beauty and is endowed with the raw materials required for the state to take a giant leap towards development and progress. The second ring showcases elephants in white colour hemmed in by a green border. The elephant, a vehicle of the kings, symbolises Jharkhand’s grand past, strength, collective wisdom and the resolve to move ahead as one, even as it removes impediments that stand between now and the envisaged future. The third inner ring depicts palash flowers, also known as flame of the forest, reflecting the natural beauty of Jharkhand. The fourth ring bears motifs of dance to celebrate art forms unique to the state. Soon after assuming power in January, Hemant had plans for a new state emblem. Thereafter, he appealed to people to send in ideas and designs. Commenting on the need for a new logo earlier, Hemant had said the existing logo did not reflect Jharkhand’s ethos adequately. “The new emblem is symbolises the abundant natural resources, vibrant and diverse culture, rich tribal heritage with innumerable tribes which give Jharkhand a special place in the nation. As the state continues to leap ahead towards a new future, it is imperative that it’s intent and vision, the renewed vigour and enthusiasm are properly reflected through the new emblem. “This Independence Day, the state government recognises and celebrates the rich heritage of the state by releasing a new logo.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Covid tally close to 4000||The Covid tally in Ranchi drew close to 4000 on Thursday as 629 people, including 78 from the capital testing positive for the virus in 24 hours, government data revealed. A bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Thursday evening put Ranchi's Covid tally at 3996, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum, which accounts for the highest number of Covid casualties in state so far, reported 138 cases of infection on Thursday, taking the tally in the district to 3499, the NHM bulletin stated. As per the bulletin, Dhanbad continues to be the third worst-affected district in Jharkhand with 1383 cases. After Covid recoveries surpassed the number of fresh cases in the past three days, Jharkhand's Covid recovery rate crossed 60 per cent. However, on Thursday, the number of recoveries was a tad less than the fresh cases. As per government data, as many as 601 patients recovered from the infection on Thursday. The number of active Covid cases in Ranchi dropped to 1882 on Thursday as 178 patients recovered from the infection here and were discharged from hospital. At least 168 Covid patients recovered in East Singhbhum, bringing the count of active cases down to 1842 on Thursday, government data stated. Besides Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad, Giridih is the only district to report more than 1000 cases so far. These four districts account for more than 35 per cent of total cases reported in Jharkhand, figures compiled by the NHM state. The Covid toll in state reached 209 on Thursday as five patients – one each from Saraikela, Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro – lost their battle against the desease. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand is 0.99 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 2 per cent, claims state government. The government has so far collected swab samples of 4.17 lakh people and tested 4.11 lakh of them. As many as 20950 of the 4.11 lakh tested have been found infected by the virus, states government figure. As per NHM, their are 7728 active cases in Jharkhand, while 13013 patients have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant’s I-Day project ||Jharkhand will witness the launch of a 100-day employment scheme for urban unskilled workers along the lines of MGNREGA in the form of Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rojgar Manjuri for Kamgar) Yojana at Project Bhavan in Ranchi on Friday. The move is aimed at increasing the livelihood security of over 4 lakh urban poor residing under the jurisdiction of over 40 urban local bodies across 24 districts of the state. “Chief minister Hemant Soren will launch the project at Project Bhavan around 4pm,” state urban development authority director Amit Kumar said. Like MGNREGA, the scheme will also have a provision for unemployment allowance if any urban local body fails to provide work to job seekers within 15 days of registration. A worker will be entitled to one-fourth of the wage for the first 30 days of unemployment and half the wage in the second month. If the worker does not get a job for the third month, he will be entitled to an amount equal to the the basic minimum wage, officials in the state urban development department informed. “The job seekers will be given priority in the existing schemes. If they cannot be accommodated in the existing schemes, exclusive schemes will be created and urban local bodies will be given separate funds for this. There are lots of job opportunities in urban areas right from sanitation to development projects,” state urban development secretary Vinay Choubey said. Like labourers in MGNREGA, urban workers will be registered and provided job cards. A special website has been also been designed for purpose. The scheme will be implemented by the urban development and housing department through the state urban livelihood mission. “It was the idea of our chief minister (who also holds the urban development portfolio) to address the livelihood issues of migrant workers who came back during the pandemic. So far, MGNREGA was addressing the issues of workers in rural areas,” Choubey added. The chief minister is also scheduled to announce a full scholarship scheme for tribal, backward and minority students to help them pursue higher studies in reputed institutions during Independence Day function in Ranchi on August 15. “It will be meant for meritorious students hailing from the poor tribal, minority  and backward communities. The concept note is being finalised and the project would be announced by the chief minister tentatively on August 15,” state welfare minister Champai Soren said. According to sources in the welfare ministry, over 25 meritorious students selected by reputed overseas higher educational institutions can avail the benefit of these scholarship schemes provided they serve Jharkhand for a minimum of three years after completing the course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
