15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hometown Ranchi, like others, caught off-guard||Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s sudden announcement that he as retiring from international cricket, although true to his character of spinning surprises, caught everyone off-guard in his hometown of Ranchi. Chief minister saluted the 39-year-old cricketer who led Team India to stellar heights, on twitter within minutes and appealed to BCCI to hold an exhibition match with Dhoni in Ranchi so that his fans in Jharkhand could watch him live, in person, for one last time. “He made Jharkhand proud with his contribution to the game, and gave his fans lots to cheer. He won’t be able to don blue jersey again, but I appeal to BCCI to hold one farewell match in Ranchi so that everyone can see him play in Team India jersey one last time,” Hemant tweeted. Chanchal Bhattacharjee, one of Dhoni’s childhood coaches and a veteran sports journalist said the news of his retirement was a bolt from the blue. “Not that we hadn’t anticipated his retirement, but the way he decided and made the announcement gave one goose bumps. Even at this age, his reflexes are very sound and in shape,” he said. “I had an inkling that he may call it a day the day after the T20 World Cup. Only yesterday, he left Ranchi to return to the 22 yards after a gap of about a year, fully confident. He even training hard. Today, he took the world by surprise,” Bhattacharya said. Adil Hussain, Dhoni’s former captain at Central Coalfields between 1998 and  2003, maintained that the uncertainty over the T20 World Cup, due to the coronavirus pandemic, may have forced him to call it a day. “No one ever gets to know what goes on in his mind. All through his career in Team India, his unconventional decisions made him the leader he became,” he said. In a glittering career spanning around 15 years since his debut in 2004, Dhoni spent most of the years leading India in all three formats of the game and became the only captain in history to win all ICC trophies. Under his captaincy, India won the 2007 ICC World Twenty20, 2016 Asia Cups, the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup and the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy. Bhattacharjee recalled that Dhoni’s explosive 148 vs Pakistan in Vishakapatnam, months after his debut in 2005, will by far remain the most cherished innings for him. “I think I would want to watch that innings again and again because this was the game where Dhoni was born as a star after failures in around four earlier innings,” said the coach. Hussain, however, rates Dhoni’s match-winning knock of 183 against Sri Lanka in the 2011 World Cup final as his standout innings. “Dhoni didn’t score much in the entire World Cup… but in the final, to promote himself up the order against in-form batsmen requires lots of guts and confidence. But he gambled, took the risk, and the rest is history,” said Hussain. Simat Lohani, Dhoni’s childhood friend and a close confidant, remarked, “India’s Kohinoor will no more glitter on the 22 yards. Throughout his tenure, he gave the entire nation, immense joy to watch the game.” Dhoni’s IPL franchisee Chennai Super Kings tweeted, “Truly bolt from the blue! Nandri (Thank You) very much #Thala (head of the gang) and #ChinnaThala! #WhistlePodu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid claims well-known doctor in steel city||As Covid-19 continued to spread in the steel city, the deadly virus claimed the life of a doctor, leaving the medical fraternity in shock. Dr MM Agrawal, a government doctor and resident of Golmuri died of Covid at the Tata Main Hospital on Friday night, along with eight others, including a 16-year-old boy, who died at the Covid ward in MGM Medical College Hospital. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon RN Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online said the nine were the highest number of deaths to have taken place on a single day in the district so far. 163 new cases were also detected, taking the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the district to 3,541. "All those who are dying are coming with complaints of high fever and breathlessness. A majority of them had comorbidity.  We are doing our best to save the patients.  Moreover, a greater number of people are returning home having recovered from the disease. On Friday, 196 people returned home after recovering," Dr Jha said. While the number of Covid patients continues to grow significantly in the city, the district health department are making several patients stay at home despite testing coronavirus positive. One of them, a 45-year-old man and resident Sankosai in Mango said, "I tested positive after I consulted the district health department on Wednesday.  Prior to going to the health department, I was running a mild fever for the past four days. But even after I was tested positive, the health department officials asked me to remain in home quarantine and my house has also been sealed. Though two days have passed since then, there is no improvement in my condition.  The fever ensues.” District surveillance officer, Dr AK Lal said they are asymptomatic patients are being asked to stay at home in isolation. "Besides being asymptomatic, the patient must prove that he or she has sufficient space in one's house where the patient concerned can stay in isolation.  Such patients who are allowed to stay at home have to get connected to the Arogya Shetu App so that we may monitor his or her condition and provide the treatment accordingly," said Lal while talking to The Telegraph Online. Coronavirus has spread to almost all localities in the steel city, including in the posh Circuit House area in Bistupur. Similarly, those who are dying also come from all sections of people, including traders, doctors and students. Meanwhile, Dr Mrityunjay Singh, president, Jamshedpur unit of the Indian Medical Association said they lost a very good member. "Dr Agrawal was not only an amicable person, he was also the former treasurer of the association," said Dr Singh while talking to this website Another IMA member, Dr Nirmal Kumar said, “Despite the fear of getting infected, Dr Agrawal did not distance himself from attending to the patients who came to him for consultation and ultimately he himself got infected and finally died."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Four medical colleges to be renamed after freedom fighters||Four medical colleges, three of them newly launched, will be renamed after freedom fighters, chief minister Hemant Soren said while delivering his Independence Day address at a low-key function at the iconic Morabadi ground here on Saturday. Hemant said the idea behind renaming the medical colleges was to honour the contributions of all those who played a crucial role in the country’s freedom struggle. “Palamu Medical College will now be known as Mednirai Medical College, the one in Hazaribagh will be named Sheikh Bhikari Medical College and Hospital and the one in Dumka will be called Pholo-Jhano Medical College and Hospital. This apart, Patliputra Medical College (PMCH) in Dhanbad will henceforth be known as Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Medical College,” the chief minister said. The medical colleges in Palamau, Hazaribagh and Dumka were conceptualised and set up during the former BJP government headed by Raghubar Das in 2019. In all, the three colleges offer 300 MBBS seats. The existing three medical colleges, in Ranchi (Rims), Dhanbad (PMCH) and Jamshedpur (MGMCH), together offer 280 seats. The total number of MBBS seats in Jharkhand is, therefore, 580. Hemant also reaffirmed his commitment to boost education and sports, stating that the government was working on upgrading about 5,000 schools with all-around facilities. “For players, we will soon come up with a sports policy wherein we will be making provisions for direct recruitments. The plan is in the final stages,” he said. The chief minister also said that the state government would soon launch CM Pashudhan Yojana to promote the rural economy by extending assistance, including financial incentives, to farmers engaged in animal husbandry. Modalities of the scheme are under making, he said. Hemant’s I-day address stressed on Jharkhand’s fight against the pandemic and the state government’s commitment towards its people and shramiks (workers).  On Friday, he rolled out a job guarantee scheme for unskilled workers of urban areas on the lines of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Scheme (MGNREG). On the occasion of Independence Day, Hemant felicitated 10 corona warriors. They are Dr Akhilesh Jha (government), Shama Parveen (community health officer), Uma Kabra (lab technician), Tara Tirkey (auxiliary nurse midwife), Samni Nag (sahiya), Ashok Rana (108 ambulance driver), Sukur Topp (ASI), Dilip Prasad (inspector), Parveen Akthar (anganwadi worker) and Paras Ram (cleanliness worker). In Dumka, state’s second capital, governor Droupadi Murmu unfurled the Tricolour as is customary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city celebrates I-Day, felicitates health workers||State health minister Banna Gupta unfurled the Tricolur at Gpal Maidan in Bistupur on Saturday to launch the 74th Indpendendence Day celebrations in stell city held amid strict adherence to Covid-19 norms. Among those present at the main function were East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior superintendent of police M Tamil Vannan and other senior district administrative officials. Soon after unfurling the national flag at 9.05am, the minister inspected the parade. The one-and-a-half hour function was marked by the felicitation of corona warriors, including officials and staff of three civic bodies - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, Mango Notified Area Committee, Jugsalai Municipality _ doctors and health workers of Tata Main Hospital and MGM Medical College and Hospital and the two Covid hospitalsn. They were handed over a certificate of appreciation and a memento. During the function the minister also flagged off anti-tobacco awareness campaign vehicle. The function was also live streamed on the Facebook page of PRD East Singhbhum. Tata Steel also celebrated the day at its Jamshedpur Works. Sanjiv Paul, vice-president (Safety, Health & Sustainability), Tata Steel unfurled the national flag. Addressing a small gathering, he said, “Independence Day has always been a day of great celebration, a social event marked by people getting together, congratulating each other for having upheld the values and principles that India’s freedom fighters held dear and resolving to work harder to strengthen that legacy and leaving behind an even stronger India. The ambience of fun, gaiety and general revelry, however is missing this year.  It’s not lost on any of us that we stand under our Tiranga today at a time which is unprecedented. Never in the history of independent India have we seen a crisis as grave.” Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (TSUISL),  formerly Jusco, also organised a function on its premises at Bistupur to mark the day. Managing director of TSUISL Tarun Daga hoisted the national flag. Others, like Tata Motors and its ancillaries based at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district, also celebrated Independence Day, adhering to Covid protocols. Several educational institutions including Kerala Public School at Kadma and Kerala Samajam Model School in Golmuri organised small functions with limited participation to mark the day. Teachers and students of the school attended the function through online platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||On I-Day, Dhanbad honours Covid warriors ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city flying club gets DGCA nod for drone training||Local flight training institute Alchemist Aviation Private Limited got a nod from the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for drone training, making it the first flying institute in the state to have received such an approval. Sources in the aviation industry said that so far, 10 institutes across the country have been given permission to conduct drone training. Confirming the development, director of Alchemist Aviation Private Limited, Mrinal Kanti Pal told The Telegraph Online that training for the first batch will commence in October this year. "Drones are the need of the hour and the industry is expanding rapidly, being applied to various fields like disaster management, weather forecast, geographic mapping, search and rescue, aerial photography, surveillance,  agriculture, and mining, to name a few,” said Pal. “Keeping this in mind we applied to the DGCA, the apex body which gives the nod for drone training," said Pal adding that the duration of course will be 10 days, including theory and practical lessons. According to Pal, the granting of permission is in line with the objectives of the ministry of civil aviation and the Union government's efforts to regularise and regulate drone operations in the country. The training institute will provide the right skills and guidance to those who aim to build a successful career in the UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) industry. The focus on drone training is also expected to give a boost to young drone entrepreneurs. The Sonari-based Alchemist Aviation has been providing commercial pilot training in Jamshedpur since 1996. The flying training institute has so far added more than 100 pilots to the aviation ecosystem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad's close shave ||Congress MLA from Barkagaon, Amba Prasad had a miraculous escape in a road accident on Ramgarh-Patratu road on Saturday morning, on her way to a flag hoisting event. Prasad’s bodyguard and driver are also safe. The incident took place close to Subhash Chowk on Patratu road in Ramgarh district, 57km away from Hazaribagh district headquarters. Prasad was going to Patratu, part of her Barkagaon constituency via Ramgarh on her Toyota Fortuner SUV. Near an army school close to the telephone exchange office, three buffaloes suddenly intercepted the escort vehicle, also an SUV, forcing the driver to apply the brakes all of a sudden. Due to this, Prasad’s vehicle, which was right behind, hit the escort car. Due to this, the front of Prasad's SUV was badly damaged. The escort SUV escaped damage during the mishap.  Prasad is part of the icon category of Fame India’s list of 50 best MLAs of the country. AJSU supremo and Silli MLA Sudesh Mahto is the only other legislator from Jharkhand to have made the list, in the special category. Prasad said she will keep working for the people of her constituency selflessly and never let them down. She said it was the support of all that she made it to the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||I-Day celebrations in Jharkhand||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||17 Covid patients discharged in Koderma||Seventeen patients were on Friday discharged from Covid-19 care wards in Koderma. Civil surgeon Abhay Bhushan Prasad underscored the significance of the day which saw 17 recoveries. Doctors, nurses and other paramedical staffers showered flower petals and clapped for all the 17 patients. Prasad said Covid-19 can be defeated with the co-operation of the people. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Friday met officials to assess preparations for the Covid-19 rapid antibody testing (RAT) drive scheduled for August16-17. The drive is being conducted as per a state government directive. Altogether 10,000 people will be tested. The testing of CISF, CRPF, JAP-3 and RPF personnel, besides employees of HURL, ACC, DVC, MPL and the railways, will also be conducted. Special camps will also be organised at Dhanbad, Jharia, Baghmara and Govindpur block. Singh added that a training of lab technicians for sample collection will be conducted on Saturday by five master trainers. Chatra deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha on Friday said work was on to set up a 10-bed ICU with ventilators at the sadar hospital’s burns unit even as the number of Covid-19 patients kept increasing in the district. Jha also spoke of a plan to establish a 500-bed Covid-19 care centre at the polytechnic college in Chatra town. “We had sent two doctors for training to Ranchi so that they can manage the ICU,” he added. Currently, a 150-bed Covid-19 care centre is already functional at the newly constructed subdivisonal office. Jha said there is a proposal to start three new Covid-19 care centres in the district, including one at Simaria subdivisional office with 90 beds and a community health centre in Itkhori with 100 beds. The third and the biggest will be set up at the ITI college with 500 beds, Jha said. The novel coronavirus seems to have smothered the sweet business in Daltonganj. Every Independence Day, sweet sellers would have bumper business selling to schools, colleges, institutions, government offices, NGOs, etc. Schoolchildren, teachers and officials would line up at sweet shops. However, this year, none of it can be seen. Basant Halwai, who has two sweet shops in Daltonganj, said: “The coronavirus has devastated our sweet business.” “Last year on Independence Day, I had orders for 50-60kg laddoo and 1,000 pieces of syrup-based sweets,” he added. “DAV School, Daltonganj, used to buy from us two quintal of sweets but this time we do not have any such order.” He said: “This time I have an order for only 200kg laddoo. No one is ready to buy syrup-based sweets because of the coronavirus.” Sudhir Shoundik, another sweet shop owner, said: “I have no order except for a few kilograms of laddoo. It is a real hard time.” Chandra Bhushan Sinha, principal of Holy Cross School, Daltonganj, said: “This year, only teachers and non-teaching staff are to attend the I-Day function. We will distribute small packets of sweets and snacks only among the attendees.” Microbiologists and lab technicians at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital, Dhanbad, on Friday abstained from work for some time to protest the selection of only five among them for felicitation as “Corona Warriors” during the Independence Day celebrations organised by the district administration at Golf Ground. The protesters accused the hospital authorities of bias while choosing names for the awards. Only five microbiologists and lab technicians were chosen for felicitation. The protesting employees relented and returned to work after the operator of the hospital’s manpower agency, Sujit Kumar, held talks with them. The Dhanbad district administration had on Thursday announced that it would felicitate 22 frontline Corona Warriors, as well as three Covid-19 patients who recovered. A team of Bokaro administration officials on Friday slapped fines on 14 shops for selling tobacco-based pan masala. The shops are in Sector 2 Nayamod and Ram Mandir Market area. Each shop was fined Rs 2,250. The sale of 11 tobacco-based pan masala brands is banned. Yet, shops were found selling them, said Rajesh Singh, deputy commissioner, Bokaro. The nodal officer of the district tobacco control programme, Dr N.P. Singh, said that despite the ban, some shopkeepers were buying pan masala from the Bengal border and selling it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
