16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh sadar SDO injured in road accident||Hazaribagh sadar subdivisional officer Megha Bhardawaj suffered minor injuries on Sunday when her official SUV overturned on the Ranchi-Patna highway (NH-33) in Charhi, about 15km from the district headquarters. Bhardawaj, a 2016 batch IAS officer, was referred to Ranchi for treatment. A Charhi police officer said Bhardawaj was on way to Ranchi when the accident took place around 1 in the afternoon. He said the driver veered to avoid a collision with a speeding vehicle and lost control. The SUV hit a divider and overturned near Fauzi Hotel in Charhi. Local people gathered on the spot and informed the police following which Bhardawaj, her bodyguard and driver were pulled out from the vehicle. They were taken to the government health centre in Mandu. On Saturday, the Congress MLA from Barkagaon escaped unhurt when her car rammed into an escort vehicle which had stopped suddenly to avoid running over some buffaloes. In another accident in Ramgarh district late on Saturday, a truck carrying pipes to Ranchi overturned in Kejhia Ghati in the Dulmi police station area, killing driver Khesari Singh on the spot. It took four hours for the police to extract the injured cleaner from the damaged vehicle. The cleaner has been identified as Dablu Kumar. He is hospitalised. The police line ground at Sector-12 in Bokaro has been named after martyr Ranjit Mahto. The state education minister, Jagarnath Mahto, made the announcement at an Independence Day event on the ground. The minister paid rich tribute to those who have sacrificed their lives for the country. He said the government will develop the ground by building a shed and conducting a beautification drive. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh, superintendent of police Chandan Jha and other officials were present on the occasion. In a first for the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), the Independence Day celebrations were held without the CEO. The executive director, project, Rajiv Khuswaha, hoisted the tricolour. Harinand Rai, the in-charge CEO, was not in town. The post of BSL’s CEO has been lying vacant for the past eight months. The celebrations which used to be organised at M.K.M. Stadium every year were shifted to Ispat Bhawan due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Khuswaha felicitated “Covid warriors” and awarded CISF and BSL employees for their exemplary work. He also announced plans to enhance production to 6 million tonnes from the existing 4.5 million tonnes in the next three years. A pellet plant with a capacity of 4 million tonnes will also be set up in Bokaro. Garhwa police late on Friday night arrested a wanted criminal who was in hiding in Chatra.  Satyendra Paswan, alias Satya, was wanted in 13 cases by the police in Garhwa and Bihar’s Aurangabad. He had changed his name and was operating his gang over the phone, the police said. A team led by subdivisional police officer Bahman Tuti conducted a raid in Chatra after a tip-off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad cricketers recall playing days with Mahi||Cricketers of Dhanbad who knew, or had played with, M.S. Dhoni admitted they were taken aback by Mahi’s retirement announcement on Saturday, but all were unanimous in their view that it was perhaps the only way the former Team India skipper would do things given that no one really knows what’s on his mind. Ratan Kumar (36), who played with Dhoni between 1998 and 2005-06 till MS was chosen in Team India, said, “He is known for taking bold decisions. So, he may have decided on his retirement to give an opportunity to newcomers.” Kumar, who works as an office superintendent in the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway, said they wanted him to play his farewell match in Ranchi. Satya Prakash (42), another Dhanbad cricketer who has played Ranji matches for Jharkhand, said, “Although it is his personal decision and nobody should question it, no one expected it as we were hearing lots about his serious T20 practice sessions.” Prakash, who works as senior collector with Eastern Railway at Kharagpur, added that as a fellow cricketer and fan, they still wanted him to don India colours. “We played together and against each other on several occasions both for Ranji Trophy and inter-district matches. Once when I asked him the reason for pasting an MRF sticker on his bat and he said it was because he was an ardent fan of Sachin Tendulkar. So, he copies Sachin’s bat too. He treated Sachin like a god. I am amazed at, and appreciative of, the manner in which he handled senior players like Sachin and Rahul (Dravid) as captain,” said Prakash. Chandra Mohan Jha, a middle-order batsman who has played 34 first class matches, and with Dhoni in Ranji Trophy, said he was sure Dhoni would achieve new heights in IPL too. “Although I was only three years senior to him, he was humility personified and always respectful of his seniors even though we were playing together," added Jha, who is with the mechanical engineering department of Dhanbad division of East central railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Wear a mask, for traffic cops are on the prowl in steel city||Police in Jamshedpur are stepping up vigilance to ensure commuters wear masks, the initiative that started on Friday having already led to around 50 violators being fined Rs 500 each. Deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Shrivendra Kumar made it clear that using a handkerchief or a dupatta (in case of women) as a face cover wasn’t enough. Everybody would have to wear a proper face mask, he said, adding that these measures were being taken in view of the rising number of Covid cases and related fatalities. Even while in a vehicle or riding a two-wheeler, masks were compulsory, he said. "Those found without masks are being asked to pay a fine of Rs 500. The penalty under Motor Vehicle Act-1988 is being charged in accordance with a notification issued by the state transport department," Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The DSP pointed out that from Monday, traffic police would carry out a drive to check for masks at all police station areas, beside Sakchi, Bistupur, Jugsalai, Golmuri and Mango traffic stations. In the past 24 hours, 89 new Covid-19 cases were recorded, taking the total number of cases to 3,630 in East Singhbhum district. Four patients at Tata Main Hospital died, taking the total number of Covid deaths in the city to 130. The local chapter of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has demanded a change in bank working hours, citing the relatively high number of bankers who were testing positive for the virus. The forum’s Jamshedpur convenor, Rintu Rajak, said that bank employees dealing with customers were getting infected. "As of Sunday, more than 70 employees posted in various banks in the city have been infected with the coronavirus. As more and more bank employees are getting infected, we want banking hours to be restricted till 2pm instead of 5 pm, he said in a press statement. “Otherwise, banks should be allowed to function every alternate day to ensure bank staff are safe,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||One-time teammates want Mahi to mentor Jharkhand cricket||Ranji players, past and present, want M.S. Dhoni to start his second innings as a “monitor” for cricket in Jharkhand. Some welcomed Mahi’s decision to retire from international cricket, while others felt the former Team India skipper should have stuck on till after the World T-20. “As players we always loved Dhoni to be with us every time. We need him. MS is very sound in taking decisions. His retirement is a great loss... He has changed the face of Indian cricket,” former Team India pacer Varun Aaron told The Telegraph Online from Bangalore. Jharkhand Ranji skipper Saurabh Tiwary said over phone from Mumbai that Dhoni came up with regular tips to players during Ranji camps in Ranchi. “He (Dhoni) is one of the best persons I’ve met. We happened to meet more during the past two-and-a-half years. I learnt a lot from him,” he added. Southpaw Saurabh recalled Dhoni’s captaincy in one Ranji one-day match versus Maharashtra in Calcutta. “Jharkhand was dismissed for 103 in 50 overs and we thought we will not be able to defend such a low total. But Dhoni instilled confidence in us and we went on to stop our opponents for 92. We need his regular tips even now,” he added. Ishank Jaggi, one of Jharkhand’s Ranji mainstays, said Dhoni’s retirement was a personal decision. “But for the Covid crisis, he would have played the World T20. I have learnt a lot from him during Ranji camps. He is a master is reading match situations,” he said. Former Bihar Ranji captain Avinash Kumar has fond memories of Mahi, but regrets he hasn’t met Dhoni for nearly two decades now. “He has achieved everything in cricket. I would like him to administer the game in Jharkhand and someday also head BCCI and ICC. Dhoni’s Ranji debut (at Keenan Stadium in 2002) happened to be my last match. Dhoni scored 64 in that tie. I told him to convert scores into hundreds,” Kumar, now a senior officer at Tata Steel sports wing, recalled. “I remember Mahi used to stay at my home in Dhanbad when he played the summer cricket tournament we organised in the memory of my father in 2000. My wife Amita used to ask Dhoni about his food preference. He loved omelettes,” Kumar recalled, adding that Dhoni and Ranchi’s Anshuman Raj were the most sought-after cricketers at that time with all teams wanting to hire them. Former Ranji allrounder Satish Singh feels Mahi should operate as a “monitor” to take cricket in Jharkhand to new heights. “I think Dhoni should act as a monitor for cricket in the state. There can be no one better than him. I played alongside him in his Ranji debut. A cool man who was different from others. Always looked confident and committed,” he added. Kajal Das, an ex-Bihar allrounder, opined that Dhoni should have retired after the World T20. “Dhoni was part of the team when I was the coach of the under-19 and Ranji sides. He loved Jamshedpur more than Ranchi. I remember when I asked him to open the innings in a Ranji match against Haryana (in Gurgaon) in the early 2000, Dhoni struck 98 before lunch in that match. Dhoni was different and seldom said no to workouts,” he said, and seconded the idea that Mahi  could be a monitor or coach for Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Remote East SInghbhum village gets library on Independence Day||The children of the remote Bhandarshol village in Baharagora block of the East Singhbhum district celebrated freedom from ignorance on the 74th Independence Day, when the village got its first library on Saturday. The library, which started with a mere 100 books donated by various Samaritans in and around Jamshedpur, was named after Galwan martyr Ganesh Hansda. On Saturday, the library, which is within a village building was inaugurated by Hansda’s elder brother Dinesh. “Children in remote areas face problems getting access to books. This village library named after Ganesh will cater to many children in nearby villages. I am happy that the library is named after Ganesh and that it will be able to ignite the quest for knowledge for many,” said Dinesh Hansda, who also hoisted the tricolour. The library will comprise of daily newspapers, magazines, motivational books, and literature along with course materials for intermediate exams and graduation. Nischay Foundation in Jamshedpur supported the formation of the library by collecting the books. A library committee was also formed on the spot where around four members were entrusted with the responsibility of the library. The members aim to make it a full-fledged library for school and college-going students and for those who aim to appear for competitive examinations. The residents of the villagers also aim to start two more libraries in the other two villages of the panchayat. “We aim to start another library on Teacher’s Day, September 5. We have already started getting calls from youth organisations from other panchayats that have showed interest in opening a library in their respective villages. The objective is to connect people to libraries and create a habit of reading books and gaining knowledge,” said Tarun Kumar, founder of Nischay Foundation. Bikas Bhuiyan, a 15-year-old student in Bhandarshol is happy for the first library in his village. “Desh duniya ke bare me zyada jaan sakte hai. Pustakalay humara gyan badhata hai. Dheere dheere hum koshish karenge ki zyada se zyada bachhe yahan samay bitaaye (We will know more about the world. Libraries increase our knowledge. Gradually, we will try to get students to spend more time at the library,” said Bikas who recently received the Veer Shaheed Ganesh Hansda Fellowship 2020 established by the Nischay Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||8-feet-long rock python caught in Hazaribagh village||An 8-feet-long rock python was caught by villagers in Bahronpur village of Sitagarha area under Sadar block, some 10kms away from Hazaribagh town on Saturday night. The snake was entering the house of one Baleshwar Toppo, after which the family cried for help. Local villagers didn’t kill the python but instead, packed it in a jute bag. On Sunday morning, they made a call to Binod Miachel, who works in Vinoba Bhave University and is known for rescuing snakes.
Miachel reached the village, retrieved the jute bag, and released the reptile into the forests of Churu close to Canary hills.
Sharma said the Churu forest is safe for snakes and they had released snakes here earlier also. He said he was happy to see that villagers caught the python safely and kept it in a bag, instead of killing it. “If people behave in such a responsible way, it will help in saving these creatures. Many times, people of urban and rural areas have killed the snake after seeing it near their houses,” he said.
According to Sharma, pythons are found in large numbers around Sitagarha Pahad as well as a hill in Mukundgunj close to town. He said the rock python is in the list of endangered species and killing invites punishment. “It’s non-poisonous and people should catch and leave them in forest areas,” he said. He said snakes come out of their habitat during monsoon and so every year, cases of snakebite increase in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Coach who pulled Dhoni away from football wants No.7 jersey retired too||Keshav Ranjan Banerjee, M.S. Dhoni’s childhood coach who weaned him away from football to take up cricket during his school days in hometown Ranchi,  believes that criticism and speculation around his long sabbatical may have played a role in his decision to call it quits. "Of late, there has been a lot of criticism about him in the media about  how he could return to international cricket as he's not played a single match since the 2019 World Cup semi-final in July,” Banerjee said referring to last year’s match against New Zealand.
"I don't know but it may have played a role in this decision. Only he (Dhoni) can throw some light into it," Banerjee told PTI from Ranchi.
Thirtynine-year-old Dhoni bid adieu to international cricket on Saturday, via cryptic Instagarm post accompanied by video and song, surprising all and bringing the curtains down on a glorious career. Ever since he went on a sabbatical after that semi-final match, speculation raged over his future but he stoically avoided a response for over a year. Banerjee, who first introduced “footballer” Dhoni to cricket during his school days at the Jawahar Vidya Mandir at MECON, maintained that his "favourite student" was still fit to play for India for another year.

"Yes, I had said he could have played for one more year easily including the next T20 World Cup. And I still maintain that.

"Looking at his fitness level, he could have easily played. It's not just my opinion but many others think the same way," an emotional Banerjee said.

"There is an end to everything. Yes I'm heartbroken but, at the same time, you have to take control of your emotions."

The two-time former World Cup-winning captain will go down as one of the finest to have played the game for India, turning up for the country in a whopping 350 ODIs, 90 Tests and 98 T20 Internationals.

Banerjee said Team India should retire Dhoni's No 7 jersey.

"I'm sad for just one thing that we won't be able to see the No.7 jersey anymore. Everyone has to retire at one point of time. But it's a sad moment. I don't think Team India should give this jersey to anyone. He is a legend and No.7 will always be for Dhoni."

Dhoni will, however, compete in this year's IPL, which gets underway in the UAE from September 19 after being moved out of India due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Dhoni's announcement came a day after he joined his IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings for a camp ahead of its departure for UAE.

Asked whether the COVID-19 pandemic impacted his decision, Banerjee said it's all hypothetical.

"He's not the only sportsperson to be affected by the pandemic. All players are affected. It's a hypothetical situation. T20 World Cup is postponed for now. He has made up his mind. It's his decision. Like always this too was a surprise for all of us."

When asked how eager would Dhoni be to fire in the IPL, Banerjee said: "Only we will see how he will do. Every match is like an examination for a cricketer and everyone will see how he does for CSK this time."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad corporation identifies site of waste-to-energy plant||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has identified a 21-acre government plot at Govindpur for establishing a waste-to-energy plant, about which it has already sent a letter to the district administration. The corporation is also planning to hold talks with BCCL authorities for transfer of land for establishing a new compactor station. The city needs more such stations urgently as only seven of the required 30 have been set up so far. Project officer of DMC’s solid waste management project Ravi Kumar said, “We have already written a letter to Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh for transfer of land” Last year, DMC had identified a 30-acre plot belonging to FCI in Sindri to set up the waste-to-energy plant. But it had to look elsewhere as FCI’s lease charges were too high. Earlier this year, DMC identified a 17-acre plot at Aamahata at Baliapur belonging to Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA). It wrote to JMADA too, but a delayed response regarding transfer formalities forced DMC to zero in on Deoli in Govindpur. The proposed waste-to-energy plant and dumping yard is expected to produce 6MW of electricity per day. The capacity of the plant will be 1MW of power from 100 tonne garbage. All 55 wards of Dhanbad, spread over five circles, are expected to produce 600 tonne garbage per day. While dry waste will be used to produce power, besides additional products like tiles, wet waste in the form of food leftovers and kitchen waste will be used to produce manure at a proposed processing plant. DMC is finding it difficult to dump garbage because of a shortage of compactor stations that serve as primary dumping sites. The final dumping site would be the waste-to-energy plant. Notably, the move is aimed at mopping up revenue collection through user charges. But unless the solid waste management service, particularly door-to- door garbage collection, is fully functional, DMC will find it difficult to charge residents. Last month, DMC finalised charges for various categories of houses and commercial establishments. Housing societies for the economically weaker sections will have to pay Rs 20 per month, lower income group, middle income group and higher income group societies/houses will have to pay Rs 30, Rs 50 and Rs 80 per month, respectively For hotels and guest houses with 10 rooms, the user charges are Rs 1,000 per month, for hotels and guest houses with 11-20 rooms, 21-30 rooms, 31-50 rooms and 50 rooms the user charges are Rs 1,500, Rs 2,000, Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000 per month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mega Covid testing drive across Ranchi on Tuesday||The district administration will hold a daylong special Covid testing drive on Tuesday, August 18, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan announced on Sunday, explaining that the move was to boost testing in the capital by scanning a large section of the untapped population. Talking to reporters, Ranjan said that the drive, using rapid antigen kits, would be held across 20 centres that would be set up at strategic locations to cover the length and breadth of the capital. He appealing to public step forward and give their samples. "In addition to the existing Covid testing process which is underway on a daily basis, we have decided to hold a daylong mega drive on August 18 to cover vulnerable pockets. This will also help in timely detection of more cases for preventive steps." The locations identified for testing include CMPDI (Kanke Road), Jharkhand High Court, Red Cross building (Morabadi), Hotwar jail, Marwari Bhawan (Ratu Road), Sainik Market (Main Road), the warehouse near Kanke CHC, block offices in Ratu, Nagri, Namkum, Silli, Angara, and Piska. Tests will also be done at 10-plus high school in Mandar, middle school in Bero, Beer Budhubhagat Inter College in Chanho, Bundu sub-divisional Hospital, community health centres in Tamar and Sonahatu. Ranjan appealed to people to follow social distancing norms and wear mandatory masks while turning up for providing samples. As per Sunday night's bulletin, Ranchi's tally rose to 4,376 cases of which 2,101 are active and 39 have died since the virus outbreak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Stuck IITian comes up with smart village plan in Jharkhand ||An IIT Mumbai alumnus stuck in Jharkhand because of the lockdown has conceived a project to transform his native place into the state’s first greenfield smart village. Amitesh Kumar, 27, who completed his MTech in power system and power electronics from IIT Bombay in 2019 and landed a job as an executive engineer at ONGC, had arrived at his native village Daiher in Chouparan block of Hazaribagh district to celebrate Holi in March. He was scheduled to return to Mumbai in the last week of March. But destiny had other things in mind. “I had to cancel my flight tickets due to the lockdown. During my stay, thoughts of doing something to solve the vexed problems of my village came to my mind. I had been to Dholera in Gujarat, which is one of India’s greenfield smart cities. I incorporated the ideas in making a project for my village and approached ONGC Foundation, Ola Foundation and Tata Power Foundation when I reached Mumbai in July. “My persuasive skills while arranging sponsors for IIT Mumbai Mood Indigo (considered Asia’s largest college cultural fest), helped me in arranging sponsors for the project. The ONGC Foundation also approached Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan who consented to lay the foundation stone online from Delhi on August 15 (Saturday),” said Amitesh, who completed his schooling and intermediate from Hazaribagh. However, the project could not be launched on Independence Day as Pradhan had to attend a medical check-up as part of Covid-19 protocols. The minister had tested positive for the coronavirus on August 4. “The Union minister’s office intimated that due to medical check up for Covid, the online launch could not be held today. They have assured to fix a date later this month once the minister tests negative,” said Amitesh. The first phase of the greenfield smart village project will have a 4km-long piped water supply, LED streetlights and plantation of fruit bearing trees and Wi-Fi enabled CCTV cameras at strategic locations across Daiher panchayat, which has over 500 households. The project is scheduled to be completed in four months. “I have hired a project in charge and two engineers who will be monitoring the execution of the first phase of the project. I would be coming to Daiher every month to inspect its progress during my off days as I work in an off-shore project of the ONGC. We have already set up a submersible boring pump and overhead reservoir of 1,000 litres capacity and laying of pipes has already begun. Drinking water was one of the biggest problems of the villagers as more than 3,000 people depended on a handful of hand pumps. Installation of CCTV cameras and streetlights will also commence this month. Tree plantation was scheduled to start from today,” said Amitesh, who also has a BTech from Meerut. The second phase of the project envisages construction of concrete houses for the needy, with each unit costing around Rs 3 lakh, a 25MW solar power plant to be set up by Tata Power and bituminous roads with a completion timeline of nearly three years. “We have estimated a cost of nearly Rs 15 crore under the greenfield smart village project. We will be also approaching the district administration for necessary logistic support,” said Amitesh, whose father Naresh Prajapati works in a private company in Jaipur, Rajasthan. The second phase also has plans for a 50-bed hospital in the village. Daiher is around 116km north of Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Coronavirus patient commits suicide in Ramgarh||A 45-year-old coronavirus patient committed suicide by jumping from the third floor of a Covid-19 care centre in Ramgarh district on Saturday. The reason behind the suicide of Vijendra Prasad Nirala, a resident of Kaitha village, is not yet known, subdivisional police officer Anuj Oraon said. Vijendra’s father-in-law Sitaram Barnwal said he was working at a private company in Ranchi and had returned recently to Ramgarh. He had started feeling uneasy, after which he went for a Covid-19 test, he added. The result came back positive. Vijendra was admitted to the Covid-19 care centre in Nayi Sarai area of the town seven days ago. According to his relatives, Vijendra was tensed for the past few days. Nilamber-Pitamber University (NPU) in Daltonganj has announced that it has “re-extended” the schedule for filling up exam forms for the B.A., B.Sc., and B.Com Honours/General/Vocational courses of Part III for session 2017 -20. Sources said NPU has done “lots of ground work” for the final-year exam as the UGC had set a deadline of September 30. Officials said the Supreme Court had been petitioned by states and various student bodies against organising the exam which the UGC has contested on the ground that it deems all fit and necessary to hold the final-year examination. A notification of the re-extended schedule for filling out the exam form has been issued by the controller of the examinations of NPU, S.K. Pandey, under the order of the vice-chancellor, Ram Lakhan Singh. The re-extended dates are from August 16 to August 23. Students must fill out their forms online at www.npuuniv.in. They can also use the payment options on the website. The NPU has publicised the following fees for the exam: Rs 1,150 for undergraduate non-practical exams; Rs 1,250 for undergraduate practical exams and Rs 1,400 for undergraduate vocational exams. For students who have failed, the fees range from Rs 400 to Rs 650. Vice-chancellor Singh said: “This is the second extended schedule for filling the form. We have asked students to fill their examination forms online and they need not come to the college for it.” He added: “The exam will be conducted in the pen-and-paper mode and there will be no online test. Students will have to wear masks and maintain social distancing.” Deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap addressed the people of Koderma after hoisting the national flag on the measures taken by the district administration to put a check on the spread of the novel coronavirus infection. He praised “Corona Warriors” for their work in these tough times. Gholap spoke of the developmental work in the district. Eighteen persons who recovered from coronavirus infection were discharged from the Covid-19 care centre at Domchanch in Koderma on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
