17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro district runs out of ventilators, all 27 in use now||Hospitals in Bokaro are headed for a serious crisis with the district health authorities declaring that there were no ventilators available if more Covid patients were to need them. The district has 27 ventilators across three hospitals. Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), the dedicated centre for treating coronavirus patients, has 16 ventilators, K.M. Memorial Hospital four and Muskan Hospital seven. As of Monday evening, Bokaro has 157 active Covid-19 cases. In all, the district has recorded 592 Covid cases. As many as 413 people have been cured while four persons have died. Manikant Dhan, chief of communication of BGH, which is run by Bokaro Steel, admitted that they did not have adequate number of ventilators.  “We have patients using all our ventilators in the hospital,” said Dr Vikas Pandey, the owner of K M Memorial Hospital, said all their ventilators were in use too. It was the same story at Muskan Hospital in Chas. “We have seven ventilators in our hospital. But all are being used,” said paediatrician Dr S.C. Munsi, who is also the owner of the hospital. To add to the challenges, a 10-bed intensive care unit (ICU) that is supposed to come up at Sadar Hospital is unable to start operations because there is no doctor yet. A doctor was appointment head of the ICU one and-a-half months ago. But he hasn’t joined yet. “This is causing a delay in the functioning of the ICU,” said Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak, The district health department has already purchased ventilators and other equipment, all of which are to be installed once the new doctor takes charge. Sources said the doctor who has been appointed is now working at AIIMS, Patna. But since he is a resident of Chas, he agreed to the posting. “We are lucky to have a good doctor only because he is a resident of the district. He is an MBBS, MD from PMCH and had done senior residency from AIIMS, Patna. He had assured us that he would join before August 15. But he hasn’t arrived yet,” said Pathak, adding that the Sadar Hospital ICU would start functioning as soon as he took charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant’s new BMW grabs eyeballs, attracts barbs||Chief minister Hemant Soren’s brand-new BMW sedan marks the end of the journey for the nearly-a-decade-old Toyota Camry, which was used as the official vehicle of three Jharkhand chief ministers, including Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das. The specification-loaded BMW 520d, from the global car manufacturer's luxury line series, is worth over Rs 60 lakh, and will now be used as the official vehicle of the chief minister. The Toyota Camry, which it replaces, was also a premium sedan worth around Rs 40 lakh. It was bought in 2012 when a BJP-led coalition government was in power in the state. The brand-new bluestone metallic BMW grabbed eyeballs when Hemant took it for a spin on August 15. The 1995cc machine is matched to power of 187.74 bhp at 4000rpm and it can notch a top speed of 235 kmph. The car has airbags for all passengers, sunroof, automatic transmission and five driving modes. Besides, it can achieve a speed of 0 to 100 kmph in only 8.1 second. The eight-speed gearbox matched to the four cylinder diesel engine is expected to provide a comfortable ride for the CM and his kin, sources from the chief minister's office said. “The BMW was registered in Jharkhand on August 14. It has been registered with a VIP number, JH01-DZ-3333,” said a close aide of the CM. While the car has received attention for its features and looks, the Opposition has termed the purchase untimely and extravagant. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator-turned BJP leader Kunal Sarangi said that riding a BMW car should not be prioritised at a time when welfare schemes were being halted due to financial crunch. In response to BJP's jibes, JMM leaders clarified that the Toyota Camry, which was being used by the CM so far, was found to be unsafe during inspection. “The new car was purchased to ensure safety of the CM,” said JMM spokesperson Vinod Pandey. The JMM, in retaliation, has raised questions on the alleged purchase of six Mitsubishi Pajero SUVs during the former Raghubar Das-led government. After taking charge as the chief minister, Hemant had said that state's coffers were empty, and the government was thinking of ways to generate revenue. He had accused former CM Raghubar Das of spending too much money on “show business”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||30-year-old woman killed by neighbours after being branded 'witch'||Neighbours killed a 30-year-old woman after branding her a witch on Monday at the Maoist-prone Khesnaro village in Giridih. The incident occurred at 1.30 pm. The superintendent of police (SP), Amit Renu, sent a team headed by SDPO Khori-Mahua Naveen Singh to assess the spot. The police team recovered the body of Geeta Devi lying in front of her house. The SDPO said the incident occurred when Devi came home from the bank. The accused, a group of mostly her neighbours, punched her and attacked her with sticks and traditional weapons. She was hit by an axe on her head following which she collapsed and died. And when her brother and mother-in-law came to save her, the accused bashed them up as well. The two are injured. Police found that the dispute between the deceased with her neighbours was continuing for the past few years. Police are recording statements of the deceased family members and other eye-witnesses. The husband of the deceased, Manoj Yadav, alleged that a neighbour sent his wife to jail in a false case about a year and -a-half ago. They had a dispute with their neighbours for a long time. The police have sent the body for post-mortem. Preliminary investigation revealed that on the day of Raksha Bandhan, a son of one of the accused had died due to some disease. For this, they blamed Geeta. “The deceased was said to have been practicing witchcraft in the village. The accused blamed the deceased for killing her son, and so, they attacked her along with other people and killed her, branding her a witch,” said SDPO. The matter is still being investigated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur southpaw Virat gears up for the IPL challenge ||Virat Singh is geared up to let his bat do the talking in the 13th edition of Indian Premier league (IPL) starting in Dubai next month. The 23-year-old left-hander will be making his IPL debut for Sunrisers Hyderabad, who signed him for Rs 1.90 crore during the auction in Calcutta last year. Virat has used the coronavirus-induced lockdown to keep himself in fine fettle – mentally and physically. He worked out at his Kadma home gym, where he also played badminton, and sprinting was reserved for the Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Stadium. The youngster is aware that stamina and endurance would be key in the glamour-rich tournament. “I am looking forward to the IPL. It’s my debut tournament and I would like to cash in on the opportunity. I am fully geared up for the challenge,``said Virat, who captained Jharkhand under-19 team and is a member of the senior (read Ranji Trophy) side. Speaking to e, Virat said he will leave for Mumbai on August 21 to join the team. “I will be having my coronavirus test tomorrow (Tuesday) and leave for Mumbai via Ranchi on August 21. I will be required to undergo a Covid test once again in Mumbai. We leave for Dubai on August 23. Hope things go well,” the southpaw with good reflexes who knows how to excel in crunched situations, added On being asked if missing out on outdoor training sessions has affected his preparation, Virat said the case was the same for a majority of cricketers. “But I used the lockdown to keep myself in good shape. That way I will not lose out on the preparation front. I am fully prepared mentally and physically,” he said. Virat’s last competitive outing was a Ranji match against Odisha early this February in Cuttack this year. “I am looking towards just one solid knock in the IPL. Things will fall in place after I get that knock,” he said. Virat’s performance in the Syed Mushtaq Ali tournament last year tilted the situation in his favour when it came to IPL. The young batsman, who also bowls a leg spin, has the ability to hold the innings while accelerating. In the tournament’s 10 matches, Virat had amassed 343 runs at an average of 57.17. Virat has played 56 T20s for Jharkhand, scored 1,552 runs at an average of 35.3 with a strike rate of 124.5. He has led the Jharkhand Under-19 side and made his debut for state Senior Sides in the Vijay Hazare Trophy in 2014. He lives with his businessman father Binod Singh, homemaker mother Renu and brothers Vivek and Vishal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||ATMs run dry after 35 SBI staff members test positive||Blame Covid-19 for the prevailing cash crisis in State Bank of India ATMs in and around the steel city. Around 35 staff members associated with the bank’s currency administration cell that is responsible for ensuring ATMs are topped up with cash, have been infected with the virus. Even driver and guards based at the Bistupur regional office of the bank from where the cell operates have tested positive for Covid-19. "I was in need of cash on Sunday. I went around three SBI ATMs in Sonari locality. But all of them displayed a ‘No Cash’ sign. Later, I got the money by using the ATM of another bank," said Sumanta Ghosh, a self-employed resident of Sonari West Layout. Complaints that SBI ATMs had run out of cash in the last three-four days poured in from several other parts of the city, including Telco and Kadma. The only place where cash was available was at the ATM Hub located on the premises of Bistupur and Sakchi branches of SBI. “We are facing a problem in refilling cash in ATMs as all officials and staff of the currency administration cell have tested Covid positive. The cell is literally non-operational for the last few days which has resulted in the cash crisis at our ATMs," said SBI chief manager Rakesh Sinha. He, however, said that they were trying to deploy staff from other departments. "Hopefully, we will be able to start the process from tomorrow (Tuesday)," he said. Sources in SBI said that earlier the cash refilling job was outsourced to a private agency. But as the bank was not satisfied with the service, the currency cell ttk over the job. Rintu Rajak, convenor of National Confederation of Bank Employees and deputy general secretary of All India SBI Staff Association, has appealed to customers to bear with them. "It is an unforeseen problem. Over 30 staff members have tested Covid positive. They are undergoing treatment. We pray to God that they recover and join duty as early as possible, " he said, adding that necessary Covid protocols were  being followed at all branches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||RJD leader shot at in Chatra over land dispute||A local RJD leader had a narrow escape when a group of men, whom he was later able to identify, fired on him in the market area of Chatra on Sunday night. Indradev Yadav (50), who was injured in his right shoulder, is however, now out of danger. Police officials said Yadav was involved in a longstanding dispute with one Mithilesh Srivastava, who was among those present at Kalyanpur More on Uraili-Tilhet Road when he was shot at. Police said Yadav had identified his attackers as Amit Yadav, Chotu and Mithilesh Srivastava. Yadav said he and Amit Lal went to the local market at Kalyanpur More to buy medicines for his mother when he was attacked. “I was returning to my village of Tilhait when I was fired upon. I suffered injuries on my right shoulder. There is a longstanding dispute over a piece of land. I was being threatened by them regularly. Finally, they tried to kill me,” Yadav said. Yadav was first brought to Huntergunj health centre and provided with first aid after which he was referred to Magadh Medical College in neighbouring Gaya district of Bihar. But Yadav went to Chatra Sadar Hospital and later left for RIMs in Ranchi. Sources there claimed he was out of danger. Extremists arrested Three extremists belonging to Jharkhand Prastuti Company who were demanding a levy from an associate company of NTPC in Tandwa were arrested on Monday. Police recovered a country made pistol, two live bullets and few SIM cards of various service providers from them, said SP Rishabh Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Randhir Prasad Verma stadium to be revamped by year end||Residents of Dhanbad will get a new stadium in Golf Ground, equipped with a gymnasium, roller-skating zone, children’s playing arena, meditation centre and yoga centre, scheduled for October this year. Construction work is in progress as part of a Rs 5.60 crore project by the  Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, contractor for the DMC project Shamsher Singh said that half of the work has almost been completed, though progress has been relatively slower during the monsoon. “The soil gets muddy and is not ready, but we have targeted to to complete the work with 45 days after the end of monsoon,” said Singh. “We may have to stop work for a short period of time during Durga Puja due to the unavailability of labourers,” he said, adding that the equipment for the children’s playing arena, the gymnasium and roller-staking zones etc has already arrived, and will be installed once the work on the ground is complete. “We will be installing swings and see-saws besides some seating arrangements,” he said. Construction work at the grounds began during the last year as part of a dream project of outgoing Dhanbad Mayor Chadrashekhar Agarwal. Work was suspended during the coronavirus induced nationwide lockdown period in March, April, May and began after the relaxation provided the central government to resume the development work in urban areas. The DMC in June 2019  prepared a detailed project report worth Rs 9.72 crore for the developement of the stadium but later revised the plan and divided the development plan of the ground into two phases. The stadium, which was earlier used as a golf course in pre-Independence times, and a shooting range later in the sixties, will be situated less than 500 meters away from the residence of Dhanbad Senior Superintendent of Police. The area is set to witness the development of a host of other facilities including a football and basketball stadium and lawn tennis courts during the second phase. After shooting practice stopped during the end of the 70s due to increased population in the vicinity, and ground was used for morning walkers and for organizing local football matches during the 80s. In 1991, the park was rechristened Randhir Prasad Verma stadium. The Dhanbad Football Association organized several local football tournaments in the grounds periodically, including the Randhir Prasad Verma Memorial Football Tournament, but due to the land’s unevenness, it could not be used as a full-fledged football ground. The ground was thus being managed by the district administration and houses the office of Dhanbad Cricket Association on rented arrangement. It was also used for organizing fairs like Disneyland and for political meetings etc. besides morning walks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Temple keeps date with secular Tricolour||Pahari Mandir, the temple atop Ranchi hill, hoists national flag on every Independence Day and there was no exception this year, too. “Owing to the current pandemic restrictions, only four of us were present this year, besides the priests,” said Prem Shankar Choudhary, member of Pahari Mandir Vikash Samiti. Choudhary said he had been hosting the flag for the past 25 years. Scores of people visit Pahari Mandir during Shivaratri and the month of Shravan to pray to Lord Shiva — the presiding deity here. The temple hoists the national flag every Republic Day, too. In the initial years of British rule, it is believed there was a gallows on the hillock where many freedom fighters were executed and the hillock became known as Fansi Dungri. When the country became independent, the residents of Ranchi went there in a procession  and hoisted the national flag atop the hillock on the midnight of August 14, 1947, before it was done anywhere else. The flag grabbed national headlines when then Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar inaugurated hoisting of the country’s largest national flag there on January 23, 2016. The flag, measuring 99ftx33ft and weighing 60kg, was put on a 293ft-high mast that was hoisted by a mechanical device. But the flag fluttering at about 500ft above the ground could not withstand air pressure and suffered tears a few times, causing embarrassment to both the temple committee and district administration. It also experienced glitches like the steel wire that was used slipped out of the rotation wheel placed on the top of the mast. Following this, a public interest litigation alleging disrespect to the Tricolour was filed in Jharkhand High Court which, in turn, directed in August 2016, that the flag be hoisted there on special occasions only and the flag code followed. Subsequently, no one took the risk of hoisting the largest flag again and the practice of hoisting a normal flag on the top of the temple was resumed next year. And the tradition continues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
