18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Five grid substations launched, boost to power supply infrastructure ||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday inaugurated new power supply infrastructure, including five power grid substations, boasting that his government did not let a pandemic come in the way of improving public utilities, a claim vehemently disputed by the BJP that had initiated these projects when it was in power in Jharkhand. The projects, worth Rs 600 crore, include a double circuit power transmission line between Godda and Dumka, that, the state government said, would alleviate the miseries of thousands of people in the power-starved districts of Garhwa, Palamau, Chatra, Deoghar and Giridih. Dedicating Monday’s launch to the people of the state, Hemant said the government was now focusing on Jharkhand becoming a power surplus state with zero outages. “Our focus now is to get rid of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC)-supplied power in about seven districts to overcome regular threats of blackouts issued to us by the Discom. Also, we shall save on expenditure for procuring power from other sources. The newly launched grids will solve most of these problems,” the chief minister said after launching the projects online from Project Building in the presence of his cabinet colleagues and senior officials of the state energy department. The five grids that were inaugurated are Bhognaidh Garhwa (220/132 kva), worth around Rs 123 crore; Jasidih grid substation (220/132/33 KVA), worth around Rs 137 crore; Giridih substation (220/132/33 KVA). worth Rs 146.50 crore; Jamua substation (132/33 kva), worth Rs 72.50 crore; Saria substation (132/33 kva), worth Rs 80 crore; and the 71km-long Godda-Dumka transmission line (220kva), worth Rs 57 crore. Garhwa is among the worst-hit districts, reeling under acute power shortage since Independence. Executive director of Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam K. K Verma said Garhwa barely got two-four hours of power. “However, the new sub-station in Bhognadih in Garhwa will solve that problem. We were mostly dependent on Uttar Pradesh to source power for Garhwa but people used to barely get two-four hours of power. As a result, not just houses, many industries too ceased to function,” he said, adding that all the new grids would now usher in rapid all-round development. The BJP, however, went all out to claim credit for the new grid sub-stations, with former chief minister Raghubar Das and a host of other senior party leaders taking to social media to point out how it was their government that had worked to make Jharkhand self-sufficient in power. State BJP president Deepak Prakash said, “The Hemant Soren government should have given due credit to his predecessor as it was because of the past regime’s vision that power-parched districts can now hope to get relief from unending darkness. We would have acknowledged the new government’s contribution had they laid the foundation stones and ensured its completion. Ironically, they are now taking credit for the work done by our government in the last five years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC rope in Jackichand Singh||Jamshedpur FC on Tuesday announced the signing of Jackichand Singh, a Manipuri winger who turned out for FC Goa in the last season. Jackichand joined the Tata Steel-owned franchise after having an impressive campaign last season in which he scored 5 goals. Upon signing, Jackichand, fondly known as Jacki said: “Playing for Jamshedpur is a fantastic opportunity for me.  Jamshedpur is one club in India that has everything a player needs, and the entire country knows how passionate and vocal the people of Jharkhand are for football. I hope to contribute with my heart and soul to help the club achieve much-deserved success. Of course, I am looking forward to achieving this under the robust leardership of Owen Coyle.” The addition by Jamshedpur has firmly bolstered the midfield as the club looks to build the squad to match its ambitions. Jackichand has signed a three-year deal, which will see him don the team’s jersey till 2023. The 28-year-old winger has had a consistent performance over the past three seasons. He is known for his quick pace and ball control as he takes on defenders while being a constant threat in front of goal with his quality finishing. Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle said. “Mesmerising – one word to describe Jacki. He is a highly rated and talented winger who was wanted by many teams in the ISL. Signing up a top class winger has been one of our key objectives, and I’m delighted he is joining. He will add pace, power and creativity with the aim of bringing more goals to our team.” Club CEO Mukul Choudhari said a player of Jacki’s calibre is something all in India want and we are glad that he is on our side for the next three years. “Jacki is a technically sound player with great speed and a massive desire to win,” he added. The Indian international will be handed the squad number 12 for the upcoming ISL 2020-21 season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Durga Puja will be without bhog, dhakis and lavish pandals||This year's Durga Puja will be sans bhog, dhaki, fairs and lavish pandals, the steel city’s apex committee that coordinates and monitors the annual festival has decided. This year, Jamshedpur will host 320 community pujas, said Ram Babu Singh, the general secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity. "There will be no new addition. A decision in this regard was taken because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of pujas will remain the same as last year,” he told The Telegraph Online. The five-day Durga Puja festival will be celebrated from October 22 to October 26. Kalash Sthapana for Navratri will take place on October 17. Immersion of idols will take place on Maha Dashami on October 26, a Monday. The samity also issued a list of dos and don'ts for puja organisers. All Puja committees have been asked to refrain from serving bhog or any other form of prasad at the puja pandals. Dhakis have been banned, while pushpanjali will take place in a restricted manner with only five persons allowed at a time. There will also be no lavish pandals, fairs or melas. But there are no restrictions on illuminations. "The five-day festival will be organised in a simple manner. We have asked Puja organisers to restrict the height of idols to 5 feet, while pandals will be simple and small. We have conveyed this message to all the Puja organisers, " said Singh. He said organisers of community pujas in flats and housing societies have been asked to do away with idols altogether. Instead, they have been asked to use photographs of Goddess Durga. According to Singh, some puja committees have volunteered to distribute free sanitisers and masks at pandals. "We have allowed them," he said. With two months left for the Pujas the apex body also asked organisers not to indulge in forcible donations. Singh said all Puja organisers will have to follow Covid protocols of social distancing during the festival. He said the samity would soon discuss Puja-related issues with the district administration and hold a meeting with various Puja organisers later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi unveils mobile app that can connect you to a doctor instantly||The district administration has come up with a user-friendly mobile application titled, Doc Talk Ranchi, which allows residents irrespective of whether they have/had Covid-19 or not to seek any kind of medical advice free of cost from a panel of doctors. Developed in association with Noida based IT firm Sanganan IT Solutions, the app currently has over 140 doctors, both from private and public entities, who have empanelled themselves to offer voluntary service, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said on Tuesday. While the mobile application was initially rolled out at the end of July, the district administration is promoting it vigorously only now to curb non-essential movement by the people in the wake of a steady surge in Covid-19 cases in the capital. As per Monday night’s Covid bulletin, of the 4,633 total cases in Ranchi district, 2,152 are active. “The app provides telemedical consultations. So far, over 200 people have availed of it. We appeal to the public to use it as much as they can so that they can get free of cost consultation for their medical needs without having to take pains visiting clinics or hospitals,” Ranjan said. The deputy commissioner said that the district administration was also asking doctors and medical practitioners to get themselves registered and offer their services. “Since it is completely voluntary, we can only appeal to doctors to come forward in public interest,” he said, adding that the app can run on any Android or IOS phones. Sharad Upadhyay (50), a resident of Kokar who downloaded the application on Tuesday, said he was able to seek advice for a dental issue instantly. “I was suffering from a toothache since Monday but wasn’t keen to immediately rush to a dentist fearing infection. “One of my friends told me about this application after which I downloaded it to give it a try. Initially, I couldn’t find any dentist available in the morning. But around noon, I could get help after finding one doctor online, who asked me to take a few medicines,” said Upadhyaya, who runs a milk parlour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s Bank More flyover a risk for commuters, vehicles||No one is ready to take up repairs of the busy Bank More Flyover used by around 2,000 vehicles every half hour, leading to perennial traffic snarls very day. “Such is its condition that any pedestrian walking on the footpath on both sides of the 30-metre-wide flyover, may fall since the railings are broken,” said Madhurendra Singh, an outspoken social worker, explaining the dangers of the 812-metre flyover that connects Dhanbad town with other parts of the district, including Jharia, Sindri, Katras, Putki and Loyabad. “This apart, several potholes towards Netaji Subhash Chandra Chowk also leads to frequent traffic jams,” said Singh, a former president of Bartand Chamber Commerce, adding that the pillars holding up the bridge were in a dilapidated state, posing severe risk to all. Singh also questioned the rationale behind allowing the main Maithon water supply pipeline to pass through the bridge. “The heavy pipeline passing through a dilapidated flyover may endanger the life of many people,” he feared. The district administration had in August last year used the services of the road construction department to repair some of the potholes and the railings. Earlier in March 2015, the road was strengthened as a part of the Rs 11-crore project to repair a 17-km stretch of NH-32 from Kapuria to the district board office in Dhanbad. The bridge was in good condition for about four years when potholes began to surface again. Some pillars also developed cracks in 2019 after which a repair was conducted. Executive engineer of the road construction department Amrendra Saha said, “We carried out repairs of the bridge last year. The bridge was transferred to National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in 2016. Hence, we can’t repair it again and again.” NHAI executive engineer Sudhir Prasad said the state highway authority of Jharkhand, which was now strengthening the 33.8km Govindpur-Mahuda Road, should have repaired the bridge since it is a part of the road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll crosses 250 mark as tally nears 25,000||The Covid toll in Jharkhand crossed the 250 mark on Monday, while the tally in state drew close to 25,000 as over 700 people were found infected, figures released by the health department stated. As many as 733 fresh cases of infection reported in 24 hours took the count of Covid cases in State to 24067 on Monday, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) said. As per the bulletin, the virus claimed eight more lives since Sunday midnight, taking the toll to 255. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, reported 153 fresh cases of infection on Monday, which took the tally in the capital above 4500. The virus has killed 41 people in the district so far; however, no fatalities were reported here on Monday. Meanwhile, the Covid tally in East Singhbhum neared 4000 on Monday as 50 people in the district were found to be infected. The tally in East Singhbhum, which has reported the highest number of Covid fatalities in state, was 3910. Three of the eight deaths reported on Monday were from East Singhbhum, which has reported 101 Covid deaths so far. As per government records, Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad account for more than 60 per cent of state's Covid-19 deaths. More than 30 per cent of state's total Covid cases have also been reported from these three districts. Besides these three districts, only Giridih and Hazaribag have reported over 1000 Covid cases till date. The Covid tally in each of the remaining 19 districts in Jharkhand is below 1000. While the count of cases have surged in state, the number of Covid recoveries has also increased. As many as 549 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Monday and were discharged from hospital, data released by the health department stated. So far, 15348 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in the state, taking the recovery rate to 63.77 per cent. The national recovery rate was 72.51 per cent on Monday evening. The government has so far collected swab samples of 4.83 lakh people for Covid tests and tested 4.73 lakh of them. On Monday, the state tested swab samples of 16682 Covid suspects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
