19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Property dealer shot dead in Dhanbad||Motorcycle-born assailants on Wednesday shot dead a property dealer at Matkuria, 4km from the Dhanbad district headquarters. The incident took place around 3pm when Satish Singh, 40, a resident of Kustore in Dhanbad, arrived at Matkuria Chhath Talab in an SUV and started heading towards Vikash Nagar on foot while talking on his mobile phone. Footage from a nearby surveillance camera showed two youths arriving on the scene on a motorcycle. The pillion rider got down from the two-wheeler, followed Singh for some time and shot him in the head after getting close to him. The duo fled towards Vikash Nagar after the incident. A team from the Bank More police station arrived at the site and took Singh to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Deputy superintendent of police (law and order) Mukesh Kumar, who also went to the site, scanned the footage of the incident and took details from some passers-by and others from the adjoining areas. He also spoke to Singh’s family members. Singh was known to be close to Dhanbad BJP MLA Raj Sinha. Sinha said: “The murder in broad daylight in the heart of the town indicates the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.” Kumar said: “We have obtained footage of the incident and are trying to arrest those behind the murder.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Doctor who ran Ranchi’s first x-ray clinic dies of Covid||Dr Sujit Kumar Pal, a well known radiologist who ran the oldest x-ray clinic of the region, died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Ranchi on Wednesday. The 71-year-old doctor was admitted to a hospital a week ago after he was diagnosed with coronavirus. His condition started deteriorating on Tuesday and he died on Wednesday morning, his friends informed. Dr Pal was an active member of Chikitsak Sangh (Doctors ' Club). He was involved in establishing and successfully running K.C. Roy Memoroal Hospital on Circular Road in Ranchi. The Ranchi X-Ray Clinic, the oldest such facility in the entire Chotanagpur region, was run by Dr Pal. The facility was established in 1942 by his father Dr Saket Niwas Pal who was inspired by two renowned doctors of Ranchi of that time, Shishir Kumar Basu and Jadugopal Mukherjee The clinic completed 75 years in 2017. A first of its kind facility at the time of its establishment, the clinic has maintained its standard through the years. The funeral was organised by the Ranchi administration. Well wishers and friends could not attend as social distancing protocols had to be maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||CM, 6 ministers home quarantined||Chief minister Hemant Soren and six of his cabinet colleagues quarantined themselves at home on Wednesday, the day after health minister Banna Gupta tested positive for Covid-19, health officials said. All the seven of them had attended a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday when Gupta was also present. “The ministers who attended the Cabinet meeting have been quarantined at home. The due procedure as per the set protocol will be followed hereon,” said state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni. Rural development minister Alamgir Alam, transport minister Champai Soren, finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, labour minister Satyanand Bhokta, women and child welfare minister Joba Manjhi, health minister Banna Gupta and the chief minister had attended Tuesday’s cabinet meeting. State drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur, who was the first minister in Jharkhand to get infected by the SARS-COV-2 virus, did not attend the meeting. Gupta’s Covid test reports arrived on Tuesday night, and it is being assumed he was already infected when he attended the cabinet meeting, sources close to the minister said. Other staff and officials of the state cabinet have also come under the Covid scanner since the development, health officials said. Last month, the state cabinet secretary was also found infected by the coronavirus. Hemant is likely to be tested for Covid-19 for the third time, sources in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said. He was tested for the first time in July after his cabinet colleague Mithilesh Thakur was found infected. In August, the CM got tested again after several staff members in his office tested positive for Covid-19. As per the SOP, all the ministers who came in contact with Gupta should be tested. However, health officials in Ranchi are yet to get any directive from the authorities regarding Covid test of the ministers. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr. V.B. Prasad said that a team of health workers was ready to test the ministers and their kin, but they were yet to get a go-ahead from senior health officials. Besides Gupta, former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Mahto, a Silli legislator, is the president of AJSU Party. At least three legislators and two ministers have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far. JMM’s Tundi legislator Mathura Mahto and BJP’s Ranchi MLA C.P Singh tested positive in July, Several members of the political fraternity in Jharkhand have also been under the Covid scanner. RJD chief Lalu Prasad, undergoing treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), was tested for Covid-19 last month. Besides, BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi was quarantined for 14 days after returning from New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid cases cross 4,000 in East Singhbhum, most are from steel city  ||The number of coronavirus cases the crossed 4,000 mark in East Singhbhum district after the district health department launched a drive to conduct at least 10,000 rapid antigen tests on Tuesday. In all, 8,600 people were tested in 11 blocks of the district, including Jamshedpur. As many as 345 people tested positive. This apart, 16 positive cases came up from regular lab tests, thereby taking the total number of new cases to 361 and the total number of coronavirus cases to 4,108. East Singhbhum civil surgeon R.N. Jha said that despite having made all necessary arrangements, the target of testing 10,000 samples could not be achieved because people did not turn up. "Those willing to get themselves tested were supposed to turn up at primary health centres (PHCs). We had also conducted extensive awareness campaigns in both urban and rural areas to ensure people came to PHCs that were designated Covid testing centres. But only 86 per cent of the targeted 10,000 turned up," Jha told The Telegraph Online. He pointed out that unlike lab tests for the coronavirus, rapid antigen test results are available in 30 minutes. All results from across the district had been compiled by 11pm on Tuesday. He said 85 per cent of those who tested positive were from Jamshedpur, indicating that the virus may not have spread as extensively in rural areas.  "As Covid is caused by droplets, health department will now take steps to spread awareness about the need to wear masks and adhere to social distancing in rural areas," Jha pointed out. The health department, he said, would conduct rapid antigen tests on the remaining 1,400 people on Wednesday so as to fulfil the target. Test centres had already been set up at Ghaghidih Central Jail in Parsudih, Transport Nagar in Mango and Police Lines in Golmuri. In Jamshedpur, businessmen belonging to the Sikh community have decided to keep their shops open till 3pm every day in Jugslai. On Sundays, they will keep shops closed. Dr Sahir Paul, who was district surveillance officer in Jamshedpur and had been transferred to Chaibasa a year ago, has now been transferred back here. A senior health department official said that Dr Paul had years of experience as a district surveillance officer and had done remarkable work to check the spread of dengue and other water-borne diseases in the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Leaking roof, no electricity, landmark stadium in Jamshedpur turns bad to worse||Pitch darkness will greet you if you happen to walk into the landmark Mohan Ahuja Stadium in Bistupur. A leaking roof and cracked walls disembellish the nearly seven decade-old stadium, which in its glory days was host to top shuttlers in the likes of Prakash Padukone, Syed Modi, Saina Nehwal and P.V. Sindhu. The condition of the stadium is turning from bad to worse with no scope of its revival in the near future, thanks to a legal wrangle between the Jharkhand Badminton Association (JBA) and Tata Steel over custody of the venue. The tin roof over the practice courts is riddled with holes, mirroring the condition of the reinforced cement concrete (RCC) cover over three wooden courts. The stadium caretaker remains busy flushing out accumulated water when it rains heavily. The tarpaulin cover arranged by JBA to prevent water from slipping through the tin roof two years ago has been blown away by the wind. “The stadium cannot be revived as the case filed by us is pending in the local court. Neither party (JBA and Tata Steel) can do anything in this regard. We are very much aware about the condition of the stadium,” said JBA secretary K. Prabhakar Rao. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Rao, also joint secretary of Badminton Association of India (BAI), said the concrete roof over the wooden match courts has also started leaking. “The court may be rendered useless if immediate attention is not paid,” he added. An official from the Tata Steel sports wing declined to comment on the issue. The matter went to court when Tata Steel, which owns the stadium, had asked JBA to vacate it in September 2014 However, the JBA filed a title suit against Tata Steel at the local court with the plea that the venue had been leased out to it until December 2017. In 2018, Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (formerly JUSCO) disconnected electricity supply to the stadium for pending dues amounting to over Rs 50 lakh. The JBA filed a case against Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd deputy general manager (electrical) Manmohan Singh for illegally disconnecting power supply under the alleged influence of some of his “friends” who held a grudge against the shuttle outfit. The JBA had also filed a defamation case against Singh, and one against the utility major in the local court. With neither party inclined to budge an inch, the aspiring shuttlers are paying a heavy price. The number of outstation trainees who used to hone their skills at Shuttle Zone run by national coach Sachin Kumar Rana at the stadium has come down. Similar is the case with local players. “I have stopped training at the stadium. The wooden courts have become slippery and lighting is also not up to the mark,” a local shuttler said. People who play badminton for fitness’ sake presently use the venue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||50 cops who beat Covid to donate plasma at RIMS||Jharkhand’s policemen are emerging as one of the biggest hopes for the state government to fight the coronavirus, with 50 personnel, who have recently recovered from Covid, expected to join a special drive at RIMS for voluntary donation at the newly set up plasma bank on Friday. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan and senior SP S.K. Jha held an introductory meeting with the district police force, including many personnel who overcame Covid-19, at police lines to apprise them about the importance of donating plasma. Over 2,700 police personnel have so far tested positive for Covid-19 across the state since the outbreak of the virus. In Ranchi, over 150 policemen contracted the virus. Figures available with the district police suggest that about 54 cops have so far recovered while others are in the process of beating the virus. “Everybody was in a tizzy when police and other frontline workers were getting infected. However, the brighter side of it now is that we have several cops who have recovered and are ready to donate plasma. There is always a positive side to every aspect,” Ranjan said on Wednesday. “All policemen of the district force who qualify will be donating their plasma after mandatory tests,” he said. Police have played a stellar role in the fight against the virus, from being frontline warriors by handling law and order and feeding thousands during the lockdown through community kitchens at police stations to creating awareness about various safety measures. Senior SP Jha acknowledged this, saying the pandemic had revealed various aspects of policing. “Not only did we work hard to maintain law and order, the entire police force walked the extra mile to feed the hungry, enforce lockdown rules without ever worrying about the safety of our families and ourselves. Now, cops will also donate plasma to save lives,” he said. Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Jharkhand’s lone government-run tertiary care centre, began plasma donations in the last week of June. However, barely half a dozen recovered patients have so far donated plasma, sources said, adding that the poor response was because of several factors like inadequate antibodies in a cured person to the fear of re-infection, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Camera Club celebrates World Photography Day||The Dhanbad Camera Club (DCC) on Wednesday celebrated the 181st World Photography Day with an online competition of 75 photographs taken by shutterbugs across Dhanbad during the March 25 –August 12 Covid induced lockdown. The declaration of results was done at 10am by Anil Risal Singh, former President of the Federation of India Photography (FIP) via Zoom, and followed by a slideshow of the winning photographs. Arun Kumar Banerjee and Sanjay Das won first and second prize respectively for their topic Covid-19, while the Sagar Parmar’s entry on ‘fashion show’ placed third. Renowned photographer and FIP secretary general Barun Kumar Sinha, who is also the chief guest of the function, addressed the participants and presented a slideshow of images taken during his travel to nine countries in 2019. Arun Kumar Banerjee, secretary DCC conducted the programme. Talking to The Telegraph Online, DCC president Mukesh Srivastava, himself a renowned photographer said, this was the first online exhibition for World Photography Day since 2015. Srivastava who is also director (electrical) of the Directorate General of Mines Safety said, “There was no specific theme for the competition, apart from the fact that the photo had to be taken between March 25 to August 12. The first presentation of photographs was held on April 27”.’ “Previously, the entries were open for photographers from across the country. But this year we restricted the entries to photographers of members of Dhanbad Camera Club and other photographers of Dhanbad,” said Srivastava. The winner of the completion will get a cash prize or Rs 3000 while 1st and 2nd runner-ups will get Rs 2000 and Rs 1000 each which will be transferred to their account. “A panel of judges, including Ashok Karan and Sanjay Basu of Ranchi, and Trina Sanyal of Calcutta, judged the entries” said Srivastava.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Heavy showers likely across Jharkhand till Friday||After two days of sultry weather, there seems to be some respite in sight with weathermen pointing to heavy showers in the next 48 hours. On Wednesday afternoon, IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met centres issued a heavy rain alert in southern, western and central Jharkhand during the next two days due to the impact of a low-pressure zone brewing over the Bay of Bengal. Satellite pictures indicated the formation of a low-pressure area over North West Bay of Bengal with an associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6km  above mean sea level. "The low-pressure zone is likely to convert into a depression during the next 24 hours. This will trigger heavy rain in isolated places over Jharkhand during the next two days," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. According to Kotal the monsoon trough was also passing through Daltonganj. Southwest monsoon activity was normal over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. Light to moderate rain was reported from various places. Capital Ranchi recorded the highest rainfall of 71.6 mm. A weather analyst at IMD’s Patna Meteorological Centre said the expected shower show during the next two days would help reduce the state’s rain deficit. So far, since the onset of monsoon, Jharkhand has received 615.9 mm rain against a normal of 713.7 mm, a deficit of 14 per cent. In Met parlance rain deficit of up to 19 per cent is considered normal. Ramgarh, Palamau, Latehar, Koderma, Dumka and East Singhbhum have achieved surplus rain so far, while the rest of the 18 districts including capital Ranchi still figure in the deficit list. Last year, during this time of the season, Jharkhand was facing a rain deficit of 32 per cent, revealed Met data. "This year, the situation is much better in terms of rainfall distribution. We are expecting more than normal rain in Jharkhand in August. The current spell of rain will help reduce the deficit figure in Jharkhand," said a weather official at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Man on parole kills wife, jumps into well in Palamau  ||A man under trial and on ‘parole’, Vidrohi Singh (55), killed his wife Lalita Devi (50) at his village home at Benaika in Tarhassi police station on Tuesday night, said SDPO Lesliganj Anup Kumar Baraik. Sub-inspector of Tarhassi police Nemdhari Rajak said they have recovered a tangi (a kind of axe) with which Singh killed his wife. Singh, a panchayat sewak of Panki block, finding his wife dead in a pool of blood, jumped into a nearby well, following which he cried for help. Rajak said the villagers rushed to the well at around 2am and pulled him out, but Singh did not survive. Villagers said that Singh had consumed some pesticides as well, but this can only be proved after a post mortem, said the SDPO. The body has been sent to a hospital in Daltonganj. “On July 15, Singh was caught by an ACB (Anti-Corruption Bureau) team on charges of taking of Rs 5,000,” said Baraik. Singh was then sent in judicial remand. Singh was on parole, as all UT (under trial) inmates are given a parole of 45 days by the judiciary in wake of Covid pandemic, said Barik. “Singh’s parole was set to end on September 8. He was both depressed and angry,” he said. Quoting villagers Baraik said, “Singh was angry at the person on whose complaint the ACB team had caught him red-handed with bribe money, resulting in his suspension and remand in judicial custody.” “Singh was determined to teach the complainant a lesson for sending him to jail and robbing him of his job, but Singh’s wife Lalita Devi, a pragmatic woman, would always dissuade him from taking revenge. A stiff war of words between Singh and Lalita would ensue,” he quoted the villagers as saying, adding that following such a tiff, both husband and wives lost their lives on that fateful Tuesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||SC dismisses petition challenging appointment of Jharkhand DGP||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) challenging appointment of Jharkhand Director General of Police (DGP) MV Rao. The apex court ruled that it was a service matter and cannot qualify as a PIL. Petitioner Pralhad Singh had knocked on the door of the court challenging the appointment of Rao. Former DGP Kamal Nayan Choubey was transferred from his post on March 13 before the completion of his two year tenure and was replaced by Rao as the acting DGP. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) also questioned the government's decision to transfer Choubey in a premature rejig. Representing the Jharkhand government, Advocate General Rajiv Ranjan and senior advocate Fali S Nariman informed the apex court that the PIL moved by the petitioner was not maintainable and the DGP will get regular appointment once the UPSC panel gives its nod. After a 15-minute hearing, the court dismissed the PIL by ruling in favour of the State government. Senior advocate Venketraman argued in favour of the petitioner. The appointment of Rao as the DGP had triggered a controversy with some members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) terming it unethical and politically-motivated. Sources said that Choubey, who was the DGP of Jharkhand prior to the 2019 Assembly polls, was transferred because he was close to the former Raghubar Das-led government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jumbo found dead in Jharkhand last week||When forest officials of Ranchi observed World Elephant Day on August 12 for motivating people to help conserve and protect elephants from various threats they face, they found a grown up male elephant dead. After being informed that an elephant with an injury on a leg was seen standing for a long time in a small river, the forest officials went to look for it on August 11 but could not find despite searching in the jungle. When the team that had the local range officer and a veterinarian resumed their search the next day, they found the elephant lying dead in Chipidih forest in the Angara area of Ranchi district, around 45 km from the Jharkhand capital. “It’s a big loss,” said Saba Ahmad, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Ranchi, confirming the death of the elephant and they did not get the chance to attend the animal. The elephant had an injury on one of its front legs and died of the septic wound, junior forest officials informed, quoting the veterinarian who had accompanied them. “Yes, it must be the same elephant,” DFO Ahmad confirmed when asked about an injured elephant that was seen in the same area with a similar wound about two months ago. The Telegraph had reported on June 7 that an injured elephant was found standing on a small water body near Hesadih village in the first week of June that was taken care of by the villagers. Seeing the elephant standing like that, the villagers guessed the animal must be in severe pain. They had kept paddy and vegetables like pumpkins and bottle gourds near the water body so that it could eat something. They also informed the local forest officials who, in turn, informed their seniors. DFO Ahmad then went to the spot with the veterinary surgeon of Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Munda Biological Park to see the wounded animal. Despite searching in the jungle, they could not find the animal at the spot, he had informed this paper. But, judging by the photographs and video clips shown to them, they found there was an injury on the left front leg of the elephant. They left some broad spectrum antibiotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and enzymes with the villagers and advised them to stuff those in pumpkins and bottle gourds and keep near where the elephant was expected, vet Ajay Kumar had added. After two months, an elephant with similar injury was found again in a nearby forest, suggesting it could be the same that was seen two months ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||State health minister Banna Gupta tests Covid positive||State health minister Banna Gupta and AJSU party chief Sudesh Mahto were among the 1266 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the tally in state above 25,000. Both Gupta and Mahto tweeted on Tuesday night that they have tested positive for the SARS-COV-2 virus. “I decided to get myself tested for Covid infection today, and the report came positive. Whoever came in contact with me recently should get themselves tested,” the minister tweeted. While Gupta had no symptoms, Mahto got himself tested after showing minor symptoms of Covid infection, he stated in his tweet. Gupta is the second minister in the Hemant Soren Cabinet to get infected by the virus. State drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur was found infected last month. Former deputy chief minister, Sudesh Mahto, is the second legislator in the state to test positive for the virus. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha's (JMM) Tundi legislator Mathura Mahto was infected by the virus last month, forcing several politicians into preventive isolation. Sudesh represents Silli constituency. Meanwhile, Covid cases skyrocketed in Ranchi on Tuesday as 426 people tested positive. East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in Jharkhand, reported 360 fresh cases in 24 hours. As per figures with the health department, the Covid tally in Ranchi was 5059 by Tuesday night, while the number of cases in East Singhbhum was 4250. As per government data, Jharkhand had 9359 active cases by 10pm on Tuesday, and 15709 patients had recovered. State's Covid recovery rate was 62.01 per cent. However, the Covid mortality rate jumped to 1.04 per cent as nine patients died during treatment, government figures stated. East Singhbhum has reported 103 of the 265 Covid casualties in state so far, while 42 Covid patients have died in Ranchi. A bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that as many as 340 patients recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours. The government has so far collected swab samples of 5.09 lakh people and tested 5.03 lakh of them. On Tuesday, as many as 27,260 people were tested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||No Muharram procession in Ranchi this year||In the wake of the pandemic, Muharram, expected to be observed later this month, will take place without the ritualistic processions, the central Muharram committee announced on Tuesday after a meeting. Members of the committee will soon meet chief minister Hemant Soren to apprise him of their decision. The general secretary of the committee, Akil ul Rehman, in a statement said they will soon issue detailed guidelines for smooth observance of Muharram but they have broadly decided to keep it a low-key affair. He said: “Like Id and other festivals, we shall observe Muharram without any fanfare this time because of the global pandemic. We have decided to not take out any procession or display arms. We will formally submit our resolution to the state government soon.” The Bokaro administration on Tuesday lodged an FIR against Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) district president Mayank Singh and other party supporters for allegedly burning the effigy of chief minister Hemant Soren. The effigy was allegedly burnt while the BJYM cadre protested the chief minister not paying tribute to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary. The protest took place at Nayamoad under the city police station on Monday. The FIR, lodged by Chas circle inspector Narendera Kumar Singh at the city police station, alleges that the BJYM members gathered for the protest in violation of rules meant to stem the spread of Covid-19. The demonstration allegedly took place without the permission of a competent authority. The district administration released a press statement late on Tuesday saying that the “gathering of people is prohibited in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite this, the effigy of the chief minister was burnt by Mayank and his supporters.” The BJYM activists burnt the effigy of Hemant to protest the JMM-Congress government’s failure to recognise Vajpayee’s contributions by not paying tribute to his statue installed at the Jharkhand Assembly on his death anniversary. Mayank said: “Lodging an FIR against me is unfair. Many groups and political leaders have burnt effigies or staged demonstrations despite the Covid-19 restrictions. The JMM-Congress combine seems to have forgotten Vajpayee’s contributions, who played an important role in the formation of the Jharkhand state.” A man was arrested in Giridih on Tuesday for allegedly duping 60 jobseekers of Rs 40 lakh. He had promised the youths government schools jobs. Manoj Kumar, a resident of Old Bazaar in Paliganj police station area of Bihar’s Patna, was arrested by police from Ranchi, where he was operating. Apart from Giridih, he had committed similar crimes in Sahebganj and Pakur. The accused claimed that he was the director of “Skill India National Board of Scholarship and Skill Development (NBSSD)”. He would give out fake appointment letters. Clerks and other staff at the Giridih education department are under the scanner in this connection. The youths with the fake appointment letters would get permission to work at 60 government middle schools. The scam was discovered only when they did not get their salary. Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu said an FIR was lodged in the mofussil police station on August 13 against Manoj. “We are investigating how the victims were allowed to work in government schools on the basis of a fake appointment letter from a private institution,” said Renu. A herd of elephants crushed to death a villager at Gola block in Ramgarh district, prompting demands for compensation and other government benefits. The incident took place in Jayantibeda village of Sadam panchayat. When 56-year-old Suleman Ansari, who had gone to the forest with his cattle on Monday as usual, didn’t return, a search was launched. On Tuesday morning, villagers found his dead body in the forest with footprints of elephants around it. This was the second such death in the area in as many days. The villagers said forest department officials had failed to do anything to help them feel secure. Officials tried to pacify them by giving Rs 5,000 for Ansari’s funeral and promising compensation. Forty-five people were discharged from six Covid-19 treatment centres in Dhanbad after their swab test report came negative. Fodder traders of Dhanbad on Tuesday staged a demonstration and submitted a memorandum to the administration protesting the district transport department’s move to impose fines on vehicles carrying goods such as straw above the prescribed height of 15ft. The traders claimed that their survival would be at stake if the restriction was imposed. A bogey of a goods train carrying stone chips derailed on Tuesday near Pradhankhanta railway station on the Dhanbad-Howrah line while being shunted in the yard around 12.30pm. A team of railway officials reached the site along with the accident relief train. The railway has launched an enquiry. According to sources, the stone-laden bogey was to unload the stone chips beside the track at the railway station. However, the stone chips started unloading before shunting could take place, leading to the accident. Since very few trains are running on the line due to Covid-19 restrictions, there was no major traffic disruption. The public relations officer of the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway, P.K. Mishra, said: “Normal traffic on the line was restored within three hours.” Four shops in Dhanbad’s Sudamdih police station area were robbed on Monday night. Goods and property worth thousands of rupees went missing from three grocery shops and a bulk tea seller. The criminals entered the shops by breaking open the gates and windows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
