20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Police seize Calcutta-bound bus in Giridih||Giridih police on Thursday seized a bus carrying 57 passengers to Calcutta despite the travel restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The bus, registered in Bengal, was on its way from Rajdhanwar when police stopped it in an area under the Saria police station. Bus owner Chandan Ram, driver Ismail Ansari and helper Jeevlal Yadav have been booked under various sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Saria subdivisional police officer Binod Mahto said: “Social distancing rules were being flouted. The passengers of the bus were residents of various blocks in Giridih. They had been charged Rs 800, double the regular fare.” After the vehicle was seized, the passengers were sent home. The bus has been kept at the Saria police station. Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto on Thursday opted for self-quarantine at his residence in Bhandaridah. According to family sources, he will not meet anyone for the next four days. He has isolated himself as a precautionary step as he had attended the cabinet meeting on Tuesday in which health minister Banna Gupta also participated. Gupta tested positive for Covid-19. JMM activists on Thursday walked in a symbolic funeral procession of Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh and BJP MLA Raj Sinha from Tata Sijua No. 6 area to Bheltand. The JMM activists charged the duo with politicising the issue of renaming Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and disregarding the contributions of the late Nirmal Mahto. The state government had on August 15 renamed various medical colleges. PMCH was named after Mahto, a leader of the Jharkhand agitation. BJP leaders, on the other hand, demanded the renaming of PMCH after four-time Dhanbad MP A.K. Roy. Altogether 28 persons were discharged on Thursday from various Covid-19 treatment centres in Dhanbad. Twenty-three patients were released by the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Jagjivan Nagar; four by the Tata Central Hospital-based dedicated Covid-19 health centre (DCHC); and one by the sadar hospital after they tested negative for the coronavirus. The discharged persons have been asked to remain in quarantine at home for 14 days and continue to follow social distancing norms. Chatra superintendent of police Rishabh Jha and his wife tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday. He is quarantining at his official residence. Jha had convened a news conference on Wednesday which was attended by local journalists. The administration has started contact tracing to track the journalists who met Jha in the past few days. This is the first time a senior officer has been reported Covid-19 positive in the district. Residents of the Kustore and Kendua areas of Dhanbad on Thursday put up a roadblock for around 10 minutes to demand release of the body of the property dealer who was murdered a day earlier. The body had been retained by the hospital because property dealer Satish Singh, who was also a BJP leader, tested positive for Covid-19. The blockade was lifted after a team of Kenduadih police station led by officer in charge Vinod Oraon held talks with the protesters. The team convinced them that as per the norms, the dead body of a Covid-19 patient cannot be handed over to the deceased’s family members. Five alleged members of a gang of mobile phone snatchers were arrested by Dhanbad police on Thursday. The police found 18 mobile phones on the arrested persons. Vivek Paswan, Sriram Paswan, Vishal Pandey, Vikash Nuniyal and Deepak Singh are from Burdwan in Bengal but were operating in Dhanbad. Deputy superintendent of police Sarita Murmu said the force arrested two of the alleged snatchers during a vehicle-checking drive at Govindpur. They divulged details of the others, who were held after a raid in the Nirsa area. Chainpur police on Wednesday arrested four persons for allegedly robbing the manager of a private finance company last month. The police found the charred remains of a tablet and a cell phone from the Murku jungle. The robbers had apparently found it too dangerous to keep or sell the gadgets. The police feel that the robbers -- Anurag, Om Prakash, Aabid Ansari and Aneekesh – had also made off with a biometric scanner belonging to N. Ansari on July 20. But they had burnt it. They had robbed Ansari of some cash, too. The police recovered cash worth Rs 39,000, and have asked a bank to freeze a sum of Rs 30,000 deposited in Anurag’s account. Ansari’s car, which too was taken by the robbers, had been found by the police on July 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||2 tribal youths tied up, thrashed in Chatra on I-Day||A mukhiya’s husband and a teacher beat up two tribal youths mercilessly after tying them up and dragging them for over 50 metre on August 15 on the suspicion of theft in a village in Chatra, but police began investigations only on Thursday after a video, purportedly of the brutal assault went, viral. Chatra SP Rishab Jha said the two, one aged 20 and the other 23, were now undergoing treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He admitted that an FIR had been lodged by the 23-year-old’s wife on the same day, claiming that the allegations that they were stealing mobile phones were false. Jha said three persons were arrested on Thursday for the assault on the youths, but that the teacher, Sushil Singh, and Sanjay Dangi, who is the husband of Kobana village mukhiya Sarita Devi, were absconding. Police maintain that the two were part of a group of five who were caught trying to steal mobile phones. Three escaped, but the two were caught by local people who just stood by as Singh and Dangi beat them up. “No one will be spared. The teacher, the mukhiya and her husband have fled, but we will nab them soon,” said Jha after chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted to condemn the attack on the tribal youths and asked the Chatra police to conduct a thorough investigation and arrest the culprits. He did not explain why police did not launch an investigation after the FIR was lodged. Local sources said the incident occurred at Kobana village in Hunterganj block of Chatra district. The two tribal youths were caught soon after the flag hoisting ceremony at the block. According to the video, the duo was tied up and mercilessly beaten with sticks in the presence of a large number of people. Nobody even tried to stop Singh and Dangi. Local police are understood to have brought the two tribal youths to a community health centre at Huntergunj. But upon seeing that the two had sustained serious injuries, they referred them to Chatra Sadar Hospital, 45km away. At sadar hospital, the two received treatment. But since there was no improvement in their condition, doctors referred them to RIMS on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Rain batters Jharkhand, Kolhan region faces flood threat||Several parts of the state, especially the southern districts, were drenched as heavy showers that began Wednesday evening continued through Thursday, leaving the Kolhan region vulnerable to flash floods. Met data revealed that Jamshedpur in Kolhan's East Singhbhum district recorded the highest rainfall of 118.6 mm between 5.30 pm on Wednesday to 5.30 pm on Thursday. Chandil in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Ghatshila in East Singhbhum also recorded rain of over 80 mm. Rainfall was moderate, between 30mm and 55mm, in various places, including Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Ranchi and Ramgarh. Bokaro, Dhanbad, Koderma and several other districts also experienced a good shower show during the past 24 hours. Capital Ranchi, which recorded around 55mm rain, witnessed flood-like situations in several low-lying localities. Rainwater gushed into several shops on Main Road. At Kanke Road, there was knee-deep water. There was waterlogging at several places in Jamshedpur. Rainwater entered the basement and parking area of Adarshnagar in Sonari. Several low-lying areas in Mango and Bagbera were also inundated. Several areas in West Singhbhum district, including Chakradharpur, Chaibasa and Sonua, witnessed flash floods. Water level of both rivers, Subernarekha and Kharkai, rose because of the heavy showers. There was waterlogging in Dhanbad too. The worst-hit areas were Tapovan Colony, Barmasai and DRM Chowk. The rain also took a toll on movement of vehicles on NH-33. Sources in the state road construction department said a road diversion, which was under construction, was washed away near Ulidih village at Tamar. As a result, traffic on the Ranchi and Jamshedpur stretch of the highway was hit for over three hours in the afternoon Weathermen said the well-marked low-pressure system, which originated from the Bay of Bengal and north coastal Odisha, intensified into a depression, triggered heavy rain in the Kolhan region comprising East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts. An associated cyclonic circulation extended up to 7.6km above mean sea level tilting southwards. The sky remained overcast with intermittent rain throughout the day in southern, western and central Jharkhand on Thursday. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said the rain would continue overnight posing a threat of flash floods in several areas. "We are expecting heavy rain in isolated places in the next 24 hours. A fresh low-pressure area is developing over north-west Bay of Bengal. This will again result in heavy rain over southern, eastern and western Jharkhand on August 23 and 24," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The monsoon trough at mean sea level passed through Bikaner, Ajmer, Jabalpur, Gangetic West Bengal and northeast Bay of Bengal on Thursday. Weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre said heavy rain was expected at a few isolated pockets, especially in southwest and northwest Jharkhand, during the next 24 hours. So far, Jharkhand has received 628.9mm against a normal of 725.3mm, a deficit of 13 per cent. The deficit dropped by two per cent in the last 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Starry-eyed 64-year-old celebrates Radio Listeners' Day||64-year-old Chinmoy Mahto celebrated Radio Listeners’ Day on Thursday by tuning in to morning bhajans and discourses. Mahto, an advocate who runs a driving school, wakes and sleeps with radios and transistors. Guide International Radio Listening Club (GIRLC) helmed by Mahto organises an exhibition of radios near his Uliyan, Kadma home but the event turned out to be a non-starter this time owing to the Covid pandemic. The Jamshedpur Radio Shrota Sangh also followed suit due to the same reason. Radio Listeners’ Day is celebrated to commemorate commencement of broadcasting in India on August 20, 1921. The occasion was started by the Chhatisgarh Radio Shrota Sangh in 2006. The bespectacled Mahto is so passionate that he has built a museum of radios at his home. He has a collection of about 200 radios and transistors of various brands, including HMV, Phillips, Siemens, Kaide, Elta and even the little-known Naiwa. A modest man, Mahto said he feels sad about the waning interest for radio listening. “But I cannot live without radios. They are my life and I am fully devoted to them. I am happy that GIRLC has over 100 members now. I started it in 1974 with just four of my friends,” he recalled. Mahto starts listening to the radio from 5 am every day, tuning into religious songs on any radio from his collection that he fancies. “I regularly listen to programmes in Bengali, Hindi, English and Urdu that are aired by Radio Japan. It still feels like magic,” the elderly man remarked, adding that programmes by Voice of America, Voice of Germany and BBC have since discontinued. One has to catch the frequency of foreign airwaves. That takes time and effort. “But I usually manage to catch the frequency.” According to him, he never scraps radios and transistors, even if they do not work. “I respect my radios as I would my family members. It took me six months to get a 1956 make HMV transistor repaired. I searched for almost every radio mechanic in town till I located one in Sonari,” Mahto, who often scouts city markets in search of old radios and transistors, recalled. Mahto added he developed a fascination for radios when he was still in school. “There was no TV then. After that followed the internet and smartphones. But I cannot dream of living without radios. I’ve won a lot of radio quizzes over the years. I remember getting an invite from the German Consulate in Calcutta in 1995 after winning a quiz on Radio Germany. I got a lot of respect,” he said. Mahto said that the FM wave – Big FM, Red FM, Dhamal, Mantra, AIR FM Rainbow – made a lot of youths turn back to the radio in Jharkhand. “But they usually listen to the radio on their phones or in their cars. If you have an old transistor or radio at home, please give it to me even if it is junk. You can dial me on 9234342138,” said Mahto appealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Phase 2 of sero survey begins in Latehar, Simdega, Pakur||The second phase of a sero survey to gauge the prevalence of the SARS-COV-2 virus in the state began on Thursday with a plan to test samples of 400 people in the three districts of Latehar, Simdega and Pakur. “Once the samples are collected in the three districts, survey teams will move to the remaining 10 districts, which were surveyed in the first phase,” said state director of National Heath Mission (NHM) Ravi Shankar Shukla. “The survey results should be out in 15 to 20 days,” he added. During the first phase of sero survey, samples were collected from the same three districts in May. Later, in June, serum samples of people in Ranchi, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Dumka, East Singhbhum, Garhwa, Hazaribagh, Khunti, Palamu and West Singhbhum were collected. The first phase of the survey concluded that there was no community transmission of the coronavirus in the state as only 0.63 per cent people of Jharkhand had developed antibodies after suffering from Covid-19. It found that seroprevalence in Jharkhand ranged from 0.43 per cent to 0.9 per cent, which according to the government, was “very low”, and indicated the virus’s exposure to less than one person per 100. However, as per government figures, Jharkhand had reported only 2,490 cases of Covid-19  the end of June. Cut to August 20, the Covid tally in state has leaped to 26,421, which was ten-times higher than the count of cases in June. Nearly 1,000 cases of infection have surfaced every day in Jharkhand in the past fortnight, indicating that the virus was fast spreading among the urban and rural populations of the tribal state, say health experts. In the second phase of the serio survey, random households and population samples from 13 districts will be selected by experts from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Government of India. Each district will be divided into 10 clusters and at least 40 samples will be collected from each cluster for the survey, said heath officials, adding that survey teams were sent to the three districts on Tuesday itself. According to experts, a sero survey aims at collecting serum samples from a relevant group of people to check if they have developed antibodies to fight an antigen, which in this case is the SARS-COV-2 virus. The survey indicates the extent to which the population of a district or a state has been exposed to a virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Activists hold demonstration to support Bhushan||Civil rights groups joined hands with various Left-backed outfits on Thursday to stage a demonstration near Shaheed Chowk to express their solidarity with Supreme Court lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan who has been held guilty of contempt by the apex court for two tweets. Despite the occasional downpour since morning, civil rights groups assembled at the capital’s protest venue with placards and posters in favour of Bhushan, who, during a hearing on Thursday, was given two days to review his statement by the apex court. Those who could not join the demonstration expressed their support to the initiative from home by taking pictures with the banners and posting them on their social media handles with #standwithPrashantBhushan. Bureaucrat-turned activist P.P. Verma, who is a convenor of Jharkhand Nagrik Prayas Manch, said, “Criticism is not contempt and it is time that the democratic voice of the judiciary too is strengthened. Positive criticism is the first step for greater change.” He said they stood firmly behind Prashant Bhushan, who had every right to air his free speech for the betterment of the judicial institution. Nadeem Khan of Lahu Bolega, an outfit spearheading voluntary blood donations, added, “By holding Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court, his right to free speech is being scuttled. It is high time a democratic set-up is implemented in the judiciary, both in letter and spirit. No institution can be above the law or the Constitution of this country.” Tribal rights activist Aloka Kujur appealed to the nation to stand by Bhushan. “If we don’t support him today for speaking out, tomorrow someone else can face similar contempt,” said Kujur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jayant writes to CM on Hazaribagh medical college name||MP Jayant Sinha wants chief minister Hemant Soren to reconsider his decision to rename Hazaribagh medical college after freedom fighter Sheikh Bhikhari, explaining that a local icon would be better appreciated by the people. In a letter to Hemant on Thursday, the former Union minister and two-time local MP said that they all had great respect for Sheikh Bikhari and his contribution. “Sheikh Bhikhari was born in Ranchi. He fought and sacrificed his life in Chuttupalu of Ramgarh. So, it would be better to name a place either in Ramgarh or Ranchi as a mark of respect to him,” he said. On Independence Day, Hemant announced new names for four medical colleges of the state. While Palamu Medical College was renamed Mednirai Medical College, Hazaribagh Medical College was named after Sheikh Bhikari. The medical college in Dumka was re-christened Pholo-Jhano Medical College and Hospital and Patliputra Medical College (PMCH) in Dhanbad was renamed Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Medical College. “What Sheikh Bhikhari did was a great act and he still inspires people. But the construction of a medical college was like a dream come true for the people of Hazaribagh. So, it is better to name it after a local icon,” Sinha said. Sinha's appeal bolstered a similar demand made by BJP’s Hazaribagh Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal in a letter to the chief minister on August 16. Sinha has suggested a few names for the Hazaribagh medical college. He spoke of freedom fighters like Jai Prakash Narayan, Krishna Ballabh Sahay, and Laxmi Narayan Dubey. “The medical college can be named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee who had visited Hazaribagh a number of times,” he said. Sinha also suggested Subhash Mukhopadhyay, a scientist and physician originally from Hazaribagh who is said to have created the world’s second and India’s first test tube baby in 1978.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to miss popular Ganesh Chaturthi fair this year ||The Steel city looks set to miss out on the century old Ganesh Puja fair, one of the most awaited annual event organised at the Ganesh Puja ground at Kadma. Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas, the organisers, has decided to skip the 17-day long Ganesh Mahotsav due to the Covid- 19 pandemic. This year Ganesh Puja ( or Ganesh Chaturthi ) falls on August 22, Saturday. The Puja organised by Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas will enter 102nd year. The Ganesh Mahotsav celebration is best known for its elaborate pandal and the grand fair, which happens to be the biggest in the state. The puja celebrated its centenary year in 2018. Talking to The Telegraph Online, president of Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas,  M K Rao said, " Due to the pandemic the  Ganesh Mahotsav celebration this year will be a low-key affair. Instead of 17 days, it will be a one day affair. There will be no lavish pandal, Prasad and the grand fair." He went on to say that they would perfom the puja and rituals in a simple manner at the club house located close to the Ganesh Puja ground. " The club house will be cleaned and sanitized tomorrow. We have got permission for the same from the local administration. The Puja will be carried out with participation of limited number of our committee members. No outsiders will be allowed. The Puja will take place following social distancing and other Covid norms, " said Rao, adding that the immersion will take place on the next day. The senior functionary of the Ganesh Mahotsav organising body also appealed to the people and devotees to perform puja at their respective homes and to refrain themselves from visiting the venue. Notably, the  17-day Ganesh Mahotsav celebration at Kadma atrracts a huge crowd from various parts of the city and other adjoining districts. Last year it witnessed a daily footfall of over 20,000 visitors. The fence, which has been put up at the Ganesh Puja grounds by Jusco in 2016, has four gates that remains open for visitors from 4.30pm till midnight during the festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Show cause notice against Dhanbad doctor||Taking note of the charges of dereliction of duty with regard to Covid, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh today stopped the salary of medical officer-in-charge of Nirsa, Dr Ila Roy and served a show cause notice against her, directing her to submit a reply within 24 hours. The specific action was taken due to gross negligence by the MOIC during the two-day special Rapid Antibody Test drive conducted on August 16 and 17. Roy did not provide any information regarding the attendance of medical staff and reporting time with regard to a second special Rapid Antibody Test drive, which began on Thursday in different parts of the district, including in Nirsa blocks. She also did not answer her phone. “During the recently conducted special drive, no reports were provided by Roy to the district administration with regard to progress of the drive despite being asked repeatedly, leading to the non-achievement of target of the special drive,” said the DC. When Singh asked Nirsa Block Development Officer Vikash Kumar Rai, he said that Roy didn’t cooperate in the execution of work during the Covid pandemic. “Such an act during the time of pandemic is very condemnable and therefore a show cause notice has been served against her and her salary has been stopped till the next order,” said Singh. Singh, meanwhile, also took cognizance of lesser number of tests being conducted at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital and the Sadar Hospital Dhanbad through TrueNat machines, and instructed the PMCH principal Dr Shailendra Kumar and Sadar Hospital to ensure at least 120 swab tests are done every day. “We had instructed both Sadar Hospital and PMCH administration to carry out mandatory Covid tests of all persons coming to the OPD. However, the sample collection and testing through TrueNat machine was not commensurate with expectations since the last few days in both the hospitals,” he said, adding that a sufficient number of TrueNat machines as well as staff members have been provided by the district administration to both the hospitals. Since assuming office on July 15, Singh has laid focus on the acceleration of sample testing work and also inspected the PMCH microbiology lab on July 19 to explore the possibility of accelerating the swab sample testing work. Doctors and other healthcare staff also apprised of the lack of workers as the main constraint in accelerating the sample-testing rate. Two microbiologists including PMCH head of the department of biometrics Sunil Verma, and the head of the department of microbiology BC Banerjee, were deputed at the microbiology lab of PMCH with the aim of increasing of Covid sample test speed on July 28. This apart, the appointment of 92 persons including 86 lab technicians and 6 data entry operators has been made by the district administration on August 2 across the district to increase the swab sample testing work. While 17 lab technicians have been deputed at the PMCH for increasing sample testing through TrueNat machines, 35 persons have been appointed at Sadar Hospital Dhanbad, including 29 lab technicians (6 for RTPCR machine and 29 for trueNat machines) and 6 data entry operators for compilation of data etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau villagers build makeshift bamboo bridge||A bamboo bridge was made by the residents of Simrahi Tola of Sakaldeepa panchayat in Palamau district to cross over a turbulent rivulet flowing beneath it. The bridge is being seen as a makeshift arrangement, taking a step towards prime minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’. The 25 feet long bamboo strip bridge is a lifeline for about 100-odd people of the area, as the 4-5 feet deep rivulet below is so turbulent, even the young and healthy do not dare wade through. The catchment area is hilly and rocky and the rivulet floods during heavy rainfall. Mukhiya of Sakaldeepa panchayat Hafizullah Ansari told The Telegraph Online, “We have been running from pillar to post for a big culvert on this rivulet over the last many years but in vain.” He said a detailed project report was made, but technical and administrative sanctions are awaited. “Last year the contestants for the Lok Sabha seat and the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha seat came campaigning in Simrahi Tola and promised a culvert here on this rivulet. It remains a promise till date,” he said, adding that the rivulet had very little water in May and November 2019 during the respective polling seasons, so perhaps political figures were unable to understand their hardships. “These political figures just thought our demand then to be for ‘theka patta’ (contract),” said Ansari. “Now this rivulet is in spate and our life is miserable but no political leader has any time for us,” he said. Sources said the locals gave their matured bamboos and made the bridge themselves in just two days. Bikes also pass over this bamboo bridge but with caution, since any speed beyond 20km per hour on this bridge may cause it to shake. Sources said the bridge will allow women in distress to access a nearby health centre which is 12km away, in Panki. Simrahi falls under the Chatra Lok Sabha constituency and Palamau’s Panki assembly constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Over 960 found infected, nine more die||Over 960 people in Jharkhand tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally in state to 26,300, while the toll jumped to 278 as nine more patients died of the viral infection, figures released by the health department stated. As many as 150 cases of the virus surfaced in Ranchi in 24 hours, taking the total count of cases in the districts to 5,209, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday late evening highlighted. The bulletin further stated that at least six people died of Covid in East Singhbhum, the district that has reported the highest number of Covid fatalities in state so far. The tally in the district was 4458, the second highest in state, while the toll in the district was 112 by the time this report was filed. As per government data, Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad account for more than 40 per cent of Covid cases in Jharkhand. However, only eight people were found to be infected in Dhanbad on Wednesday, taking the Covid tally in the district to 1818. While the number of Covid cases witnessed a nearly four-digit spike, as many as 857 patients recovered from the infection on Wednesday, taking the Covid recovery rate in state to 62.98 per cent. However, the recovery rate in Jharkhand was still lower than the national average of 73.01 per cent, the NHM bulletin said. The virus has infected several policemen, politicians and prisoners in Jharkhand. The count of infected prisoners at the Birsa Munda Central Jail also jumped to 129 as 24 more prison inmates were found to be positive on Tuesday. Meanwhile, at least seven cabinet ministers, including chief minister Hemant Soren, have come under Covid scanner after health minister Banna Gupta tested positive for the virus. As per figures with the police headquarters, at least 100 policemen have been infected by Novel Coronavirus so far in state. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 5.24 lakh people and tested 5.16 lakh of them. On Wednesday, swab samples of as many as 12,282 people were collected for Covid test across Jharkhand, and 11315 of them were tested, data shared by the health department stated. As many as 967 of the 11,000-odd people were found to be positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Beep, beep: Your child’s school bag is too heavy||A retired scientist in Jharkhand and two of his associates have developed a warning system that beeps and lights up when a school bag exceeds a certain weight limit or goes above the child’s body mass index (BMI). Kamal Sharma, 68, a retired scientist of the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research in Dhanbad, research assistant at the institute, Prem Mandal, and Aparna Shree, secretary of the NGO Innovation for Society, have not only developed the bag warning system but also conducted trials on students of various schools and institutions within a period of six months. Sharma is also the chairman of the NGO which develops sustainable technologies for the society. “It is a sensor-based system using microchips and sensors for fixed programming. Parents or students would have to enter either weight or both weight and height (for the body mass index) initially. Whenever the bag is lifted, a light will glow with a beep sound if the bag is in excess of the permissible limit for that weight or BMI. It can be affixed near the holding point of bags. As the schools were closed during lockdown, we have conducted trials for nearly a month on students going for tuitions or coaching classes and the result has been encouraging,” said Sharma. The bad posture of children due to carrying heavy school bags is what inspired the retired scientist to work on this project. “We see several children walking with a bad posture developed due to carrying heavy school bags. They also develop a hunched back and hang their arms forward while walking due to musculoskeletal disorder. This happens despite the central government directive for students not to carry school bags in excess of 10 per cent of their weight. We decided to develop a system which will sound an alarm to parents, students and also teachers not to force students to carry bags in excess of the permissible weight,” said Sharma. In October 2018, the education (erstwhile human resource development) ministry had directed all states and Union Territories to “formulate guidelines to regulate the teaching of subjects and weight of school bags in accordance with the Government of India instructions”. According to the central government’s advice, weight of school bags being carried by students in Classes I-II, III-V, VI-VII, VIII-IX, and X should not be more than 1.5kg, 2 to 3 kg, 4kg, 4.5kg, and 5kg respectively. The ministry also said that students should not be forced to carry study materials other than the prescribed textbooks to school, according to the day’s timetable. Sharma and his associates are willing to transfer the technology to any organisation for commercial production provided they give an undertaking against pricing it reasonably. “We are a voluntary organisation and are not keen on commercial production. We are ready for technology transfer to any organisation for a token amount to us and with a condition that the product should be pocket-friendly. It cost us less than Rs 250 (per piece) and if it is manufactured in bulk, the price would go down further. We want the product to be affordable for all parents,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||PIL on pollution board chief||A Jamshedpur-based environmentalist on Wednesday filed a PIL in Jharkhand High Court against appointment of principal chief conservator of forests P.K. Verma as chairperson of the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board, citing it as violation of the Supreme Court order of 2017. The PIL was filed by advocate Diwakar Upadhyay on behalf of Pratik Sharma. The petition called for directing the state government to formulate norms for appointment of the JSPCB chairman in line with a Supreme Court directive. The Supreme Court verdict of 2017  clearly states that only experts and professionals with suitable experience are appointed to the board. It is also in violation of the 2013 Supreme Court verdict to avoid conflict of interest in the appointment of chairperson of the state pollution control board. For any appeal against the decision of the board one has to approach the state revenue council, of which the principal conservator  is a member, the PIL said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh police officer dismissed||Mukesh Kumar, a suspended sub-inspector of the 2012 batch and then officer in charge of the Barkagaon police station in Hazaribagh, has been dismissed from the service after he was found guilty of misusing his position. He was accused of going to his native village with a police team from Barkagaon and threatening his relatives over a land dispute. He also thrashed Dhirendra Kumar Yadav, a relative. Yadav complained to police officers, following which then director-general of police Kamal Nayan Chobey ordered an inquiry. The inquiry established that Yadav’s complaint was true. Sources said Kumar could also face action for allegedly helping gangster Aman Sahu escape from the custody of Barkagaon police. The Dhanbad administration on Wednesday notified 26 containment zones across the district in areas such as Jharia, Topchanchi, Baghmara and Govindpur after the detection of Covid-19 patients. Curfew has been clamped in these areas. Dhanbad subdivisional officer Raj Maheshwaram said: “Auto-rickshaws, taxis, motorcycles, buses, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws will not be allowed in the containment zones and all offices, commercial establishments, factories, warehouses, markets, etc. will remain closed.” Chas subdivisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh on Wednesday imposed Section 144 in urban and rural areas of Bokaro to ensure complete lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic till August 31. The gathering of five or more persons is banned under the guidelines. Strict action will be taken against those found on the road without valid reason or if they are not wearing masks. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday instructed civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das and others, including Patliputra Medical College and Hospital superintendent Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary and principal Dr Shaildendra Kumar to ensure regular payment of salary and wages to all doctors and other health workers deputed on Covid-19 duty. The officials have been asked to ensure payment of salaries to doctors and other staffers within the first week of every month. The Dhanbad district administration on Wednesday took over four government guest houses to accommodate doctors fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said there had been an increase in the number of doctors treating Covid-19 patients as the case count has risen. “It was, therefore, imperative to make housing arrangements for them.” The Bokaro district administration has sought permission from the state tourism department to convert a pre-fabricated structure at Mirdha in Chandankyari block at the Jharkhand-Bengal border into a Covid-19 care centre for asymptomatic patients. The structure was developed on land belonging to the tourism department on the outskirts of the city. Patients staying at the facility can choose to live in the dormitory or a suite. They will be provided a healthy balanced diet. Apart from TV, carom, ludo and other forms of recreation will be available to them. In view of the rising number of coronavirus cases, the district administration has come up with a plan to develop paid isolation centres under the private-public partnership (PPP) model. On Wednesday, deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh, additional collector Vijay Gupta, Chas subdivisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh, civil surgeon A.K. Pathak and top officials inspected the spot. “The structure will be a 20-bed isolation care centre,” said the deputy commissioner. There is a rising demand for private isolation or quarantine centres in the district. The district administration has already declared Zaika Resort situated close to the spot an isolation centre. The resort has eight deluxe rooms. Asymptomatic patients are being charged Rs 4,500 a day for a deluxe room. The resort is the only paid isolation centre in the district. Two persons have been arrested in Palamau in connection with several ATM thefts. Munna Kumar, from Nalanda in Bihar, and Shyam Ram, from Palamau, are returnees from Delhi where they worked as labourers. The duo are accused of duping ATM card holders at several places in Bihar but they remained scot-free. However, their luck ran out after they allegedly duped Janeshwar Mehta in Palamau’s Hussainabad of Rs 28,000. Police found eight ATM cards, two cell phones and Rs 3,070 in cash, among other articles, on the duo. They were remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
