21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Rain: scenes from around the state||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||309 new cases in Dhanbad, highest one-day spike so far||As many as 309 new coronavirus positive cases were reported in Dhanbad on Thursday, the highest in a single day so far, prompting the district authorities to increase the number of beds available for Covid patients to 1,000 from the present 750. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh issued instructions to set up Covid health centres at various departments of Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), including gynaecology, anaesthesia, ENT, opthalmology, paediatrics and general medicine. “With the rapid increase in Covid cases, the need for more dedicated health centres is being felt. So, it has been decided to develop more Covid treatment centres in various departments of PMCH," Singh said, adding that he has sought detailed proposals to ensure the additional facilities can be developed as per guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research. Dhanbad is in the midst of a two-day special testing drive that began on Thursday with the aim of testing 10,500 people. Deputy commissioner Singh also instructed officials to ensure the completion of all civil work at the new Covid care centres in addition to setting up drinking water facilities, sanitation and internet connectivity. He also asked them to ensure there was an adequate number of para medical staff at these centres. On Friday, the district administration appointed two nodal officers to monitor the entire process of sample testing, including registration of names of patients, at PMCH and Dhanbad Sadar Hospital. “The process with regard to entry of names, addresses and mobile phone numbers of patients undergoing swab sample tests at PMCH and sadar hospital is not being followed properly, leading to anomalies in generating specific IDs. Hence, Dr Rajkumar Singh has been appointed nodal officer at sadar hospital and Dr Anupam Kishore as nodal officer for PMCH,” Singh said. The deputy commissioner said that the same procedures were to be followed while conducting tests at camps held at various blocks. The medical officer in charge of respective blocks will act as nodal officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC sign ISL Golden Boot winner Valskis on a two-year deal ||Jamshedpur FC has added sheen to its forwardline by signing Nerijus `Nerka’ Valskis for two seasons. The Tata Steel-owned club on Friday announced its second acquisition in a span of a week as Valskis put pen to paper confirming his arrival to the Furnace. Valskis is the current Indian Super League 2019-20 Golden Boot winner. He led his former club Chennaiyin FC to the ISL final, scoring 15 goals and providing six assists on course. All of his goals came through open play. The Lithuanian forward announced his delight at signing for Jamshedpur and said: “I am thrilled to be playing for a football crazy city like Jamshedpur. The city has a huge legacy in football and I want to add silverware by winning the coveted ISL trophy for the fans. It is unfinished business for me and I hope to work hard towards contributing and making Jamshedpur FC win the coveted crown. This club has huge ambition and I can’t wait to kick-start an exciting future.” The forward comes with a proven track record,  having scored plenty of goals for his previous clubs. Valskis has plied his trade at clubs of Lithuania, Israel, Belurus, Latvia, Romania and Poland. He enjoyed his best season personally at FK Suduva in the 2013 A Lyga campaign in the Lithuanian top flight. Last season’s heroics by the sniper was not the first time he had taken a league by storm. JFC head coach Owen Coyle was thrilled to be working with Valskis again, as he said: “ Nerka is a seasoned striker with goal scoring prowess and hunger to attack the opposition at all times. His  link-up play, agility and finishing is of the highest order, probably the best in the league, and he was a Golden Boot winner for a reason. His performances last season were so powerful and lethal that his mere presence in the dressing room and the pitch automatically lifted everyone around him. I look forward to working with him and have another successful season.” Valskis also spoke about continuing his journey in India under the tutelage of Owen. “We worked wonders as he lifted and motivated a squad that was struggling, resulting in a turnaround that helped us reach the final. I am looking forward to achieving more success with him,” he added’ Jamshedpur CEO Mukul Choudhari underlined the Club’s ambitions as he said: “We are incredibly pleased to have signed Valskis. He is a player with proven quality. We have watched and admired him for some time as he had all the attributes we are looking for to fulfill our requirements. He is a great team player behind the scenes resulting in a healthy camaraderie within the squad. It’s an exciting day for all of us at Jamshedpur as I believe Valskis is one of the league’s top players.” Nerka will be wearing the coveted number 9 jersey for Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||3 convicts among 12 test positive at Ghaghidih Central Jail||East Singhbhum recorded 130 new Covid-19 cases, including 12 in Ghaghidih Central Jail, during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 4,780 in the district. Of the 12 who tested positive in the jail, three are prisoners. The rest are guards and administrative staff of the jail. The three prisoners who tested positive are among five who have served 20 years in jail and were about to be released as per a decision by a prisoners’ review committee. Ghaghidih jail superintendent Narendra Kumar Singh said they have now decided to get all prisoners tested. "There are about 300 guards and administrative staff in the jail. As there was no coronavirus positive case among prisoners in the jail, we started testing jail guards, administrative staff and their families from Wednesday. From about 60 staffers, nine tested positive on Thursday,” he explained. The jail superintendent said the prisoners who tested positive have been kept in isolation within the jail. The other two prisoners will be allowed to leave once their release orders are processed. Singh said they had initially decided to test all staff members first. “But after three convicts tested positive, we have changed our decision. We will now ensue all prisoners, including undertrials, undergo Covid-19 tests from Sunday," the superintendent said. As of now, Ghaghidih jail has 1,797 prisoners, including undertrials. Additionally, there are about 200 undertrials who are under quarantine at the Sakchi jail. They will move to Ghaghidih after their quarantine period ends. According to sources in the district civil surgeon’s office, of the 130 new Covid positive cases, 26 are the Rapid Action Force jawans who were stationed at the CRPF's Sundernagar camp in the steel city. One person is a worker at Mathura Mishtanna Bhandar, the sweet shop at Kadma owned by the family of state health minister Banna Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||BIT to conduct employability improvement test ||Intended at improving the employability of its engineering undergraduate students, the training and placement cell of lone state-run engineering college BIT-Sindri has decided to conduct a pre-employability test for its students. The test aimed at assessing the aptitude capabilities of the students, and  comprising questions based on quantitative aptitude, logical reasoning and verbal ability,   will be jointly organized with Career Launcher. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Ghanshyam Rai , professor-in-charge of the training and placement cell of the institute said, “The online pre-employability test has already started, and we will be conducted for all the 2nd and 3rd year B. Tech students. “The test will help us to assess the lacunae of each and every student before they appear for the placement interview and will also help us take corrective steps to improve their employability, by conducting refresher courses or special training to improve the skills,” he said. “Though our students are technically sound, they often lack some skills, including communication skills, as some of them belong to rural backgrounds. So we will groom the student accordingly and provide necessary add-on classes,” said Rai. “Campus selection test questions have changed, so the need of the hour is to provide tailor-made training to the students so they are not deprived of plum employment opportunities, despite having good technical ability,” he added. Ghanshyam said that despite the lockdown and economic recession, the placement scenario was more or less satisfactory as 310 students of the previous batch (2019-20) have already secured jobs. Placements for the batch of 2020-21 batch is likely to begin in a day or two. Out of 310 placements, 250 were conducted before the lockdown period, while 60 other were lapped up afterwards via online tests. The biggest recruiter of the last session was TCS which took in 60 students. “We are taking all possible steps to ensure better placement for our students during the present batch. Talks are already on with Hindustan Unilever Limited and students' data has been sent to the recruiter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||This Ganesh Chaturthi, idol makers rue they have little to do||Low-key Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, have struck a body blow to idol makers whose business has shrunk manifold. Ajit Paul, one of the oldest idol makers of steel city, has got orders for making only about a dozen Ganesha idols this year, that too of sizes ranging between 3 feet and 4 feet. Last year, Paul, who made a 15feet idol for a Telco puja, had orders for over 40 big-size idols. Raju Prasad, another idol maker, faces the same dilemma. He got orders only for a handful of Ganesha idols this year. Big idols fetch him, and other idol-makers like him, somewhere between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 whereas each order of a smaller idol gives them a paltry Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500. "We are facing a shortage of work as orders have reduced by more than 60 per cent in comparison to last year,” rued Paul. “Also, on an average every year, there used to be an addition of more than 100 pujas and, hence, orders were plenty. But this year, because of the Covid situation, there is no new puja,” he said, adding that several organisers had decided to skip Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations altogether. Paul makes idols at his home at Chandinagar in Sakchi. The family is into idol making for the last 70 years. He learnt the craft from his father Jeevan Paul, who was a very popular artisan. Raju Prasad said, "There's not much work this year. I have got a handful of orders only for small idols." S.K. Banerjee, who owns an art workshop at Sonari, said workers were reluctant to come to the steel city because of the pandemic. “Every year, I invite 10-12 artists from Purulia and Midnapore to make idols for Ganesh Puja as well as Durga Puja. But this year they were hesitant," he said. A. K. Dey, an idol maker of Sakchi, said they were going through tough times. "Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja are the two occasions when idols are in huge demand. Unfortunately, this year things are in a mess due to the pandemic," said Dey, who has been making clay idols for the last 25 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi’s Getalsud dam issues flood alert after heavy rain||Authorities at Getalsud reservoir, one of the biggest water bodies of the capital, issued a flood alert on Friday, asking those living in the neighbourhood and the dam’s catchment areas to remain vigilant in view of incessant rains that began on Thursday due to a low-pressure system over Bay of Bengal. In the last 24 hours, Ranchi received 60mm rain, filling up Getalsud dam, also known as Rukka dam, by 1.5 feet which is near about its total storage capacity. Executive engineer of Getalsud dam Prabhat Singh said, “The water level in the dam as of Friday morning is 1,930 feet, an increase of 1.5 feet since Thursday. Going by the predictions of the Met department, rains are expected to continue for few a more days. This will further increase the water level in the dam.” Singh said the total capacity of the dam is about 1.935 feet, but after the water level goes beyond the 1,930 feet mark, the situation turns risky. “As a precaution, we have issued an alert to all those living in and around the dam’s catchment area, asking them to be cautious in the event of a flood-like situation if we have to release water from the dam,” he explained. According to Singh, over the years, the dam’s catchment areas have seen indiscriminate and illegal construction, primarily makeshift houses and buildings. Those living in these places could be at the frontline of risk once the gates of the dam are opened. “We are asking all such people to relocate to safer places as the water from the dam is already getting evacuated slowly, which is also leading to a rise in the water level of the Subernarekha river. The water resources department will not be responsible in case of loss of lives and property because of flooding,” he said. The Getalsud dam is spread over an area of 766 sq km. It is a major source of water for he the entire capital. Two other dams, Gonda (Kanke) and Hatia, that are smaller in size, however, were yet to reach the danger mark, Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||9 security guards assigned to Lalu Prasad at RIMS test positive||As many as nine security personnel deployed for RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s security have tested positive for Covid-19, authorities at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said on Friday, adding that Ranchi police had been sounded out for replacements. Dr Umesh Prasad, who is taking care of Lalu’s treatment at RIMS, said, “Nine security personnel (cops), who were posted at Director’s Bungalow here for Lalu’s security, have tested positive for the coronavirus. They are being replaced by Ranchi police on priority basis.” Lalu, who is undergoing a prison sentence after his conviction in fodder scam cases, is suffering from multiple ailments. The doctor, however, said that the RJD leader would not need to undergo fresh Covid-19 tests as the guards who tested positive did not have direct access to him. “All of them were basically posted at the picket on the outer ring of the bungalow on RIMS premises. Moreover, we don’t see any symptoms that would require him to undergo a Covid test immediately. He is stable, and doing fine,” said Prasad. Since his conviction in multiple fodder scam cases over a year and-a-half ago, Lalu has spent most of his jail term at RIMS to undergo treatment for various ailments including diabetes and hyper-tension. On August 5, Lalu was shifted from RIMS Paying Ward to the Director’s Bungalow owing to a threat of infection after a couple of his helpers, besides security guards, tested positive for the coronavirus. Moreover, the Paying Ward building also housed Covid care wards on its upper tiers which further increased the risk of infection. Dr Prasad said they were taking all possible precautions to prevent Lalu from any kind of infection at his new place of residence. “Currently, he has two helpers assigned to him. They had undergone Covid tests before being put on duty. He isn’t being allowed to meet anyone and the bungalow where he is lodged has sufficient space for him to take walks and stay fit,” said the doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau Tiger Reserve’s check dam breaches due to rains||Rains have washed out a major portion of an earthen check dam at Garu Dohar in Garur West range of the tiger reserve Palamau. Sources said more than 35 feet of this earthen check dam have been washed away resulting in the loss of water meant for wildlife, birds and for a nearby grassland there. The water body was designed to coexist with the grassland, so that herbivores can drink from it after feeding. Sources said the Garu and Bareysarn ranges in the Palamau tiger reserve are ‘resorts’ for wildlife during summer due to the greater retention of the surface water here. The Telegraph Online phoned field director and chief conservator of forest Palamau tiger reserve YK Das to know what this breach of the earthen check dam was all about to which Das said, “I am in a meeting.” Deputy director south of Palamau tiger reserve Mukesh Kumar said he will seriously look into this matter and seek a report from the range officer. “Plugging has to be done on a priority,” he said. Garu forest range officer S Kumar was also approached. “There is a huge break in this old earthen check dam. All efforts are on to plug it,” he said. He said rains have been quite heavy there in the past weeks and this has resulted in this damage of the check dam, which he said was a “pretty old one”. The ranger admitted that the damage occurred a few days ago. DS Srivastava secretary of the Nature Conservation Society and a crusader of Palamau tiger reserve said, “Breakage in an earthen check dam is no unusual thing. It can happen,” adding that the broken parts should be plugged without further delay. “Every drop of rain matters to the Palamau tiger reserve as it reels under water crisis of different magnitudes every summer and this wastage of surface water is a huge loss,” said Srivastava. “Loss of natural water can be replenished with only natural water,” he said. Sources said about three or four years ago, a massive breach had occurred in the Tino check dam in the Palamau tiger reserve which was plugged with a mix of sand, water and cement bags. Bags of the mixture solidify to become impregnable concrete and that helps retain and detain the gush of water, which goes beyond the retention capacity of an earthen or concrete check dam due to heavy rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: 754 patients recover, 517 found infected||At least 754 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Thursday, surpassing the count of citizens who tested positive for the virus during the same period, data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, Ranchi again witnessed a triple-digit increase in the number of Covid cases in a span of 24 hours but registered relatively fewer recoveries, the NHM figures stated. As per government data, out of the 6109 people who were tested on Thursday, as many as 517 were found infected. At least 114 of the fresh cases were from Ranchi, while 84 were from Dhanbad and 61 from East Singhbhum. These three districts account for more than 40 per cent of 26,938 Covid cases reported in Jharkhand so far. East Singhbhum reported six Covid deaths for the second consecutive day, taking the toll in the district to 118. As per government data, as many as eight Covid patients died during treatment on Thursday, taking the total count of Covid casualties in Jharkhand to 286. East Singhbhum, Ranchi and Dhanbad not only account for over 40 per cent of Covid cases, but also more 50 per cent of Covid fatalities in state. Ranchi and Dhanbad have so far reported 45 and 25 Covid deaths respectively, highlights government data. While the cases of Covid infection have soared in Jharkhand since June, the state has also achieved a recovery rate of nearly 65 per cent. As per government figures, only 2490 cases of Covid infection were reported in Jharkhand by June 30. The count of cases witnessed a ten-fold increase and reached close to 27,000 by the time this report was filed on Thursday. However, 17,320 people have recovered from the infection since the entry of the virus in Jharkhand in March, data with the health department highlights. By 10pm on Thursday, there were 9332 active cases of SARS-COV-2 viral infection. The number of cases, health officials say, are likely to shoot further up as the government has intensified testing. Meanwhile, the second phase of sero survey has also begun in three districts of Jharkhand to check the prevalence of the virus in the state. The government has so far collected swab samples of 5.30 lakh people and tested 5.23 lakh of them. By June 30, the government had tested only 1.44 lakh people. As per figures with the health department, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 64.29 per cent on Thursday, while the mortality rate in state was 1.06 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mixed bag for Jharkhand at Swachh Survekshan 2020||It was a mixed bag for Jharkhand at Swachh Survekshan 2020, the pan-India cleanliness survey, whose results were announced on Thursday by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri in Delhi. Among the big cities, only Jamshedpur salvaged the state’s reputation by being adjudged the best medium city (with a population of 3-10 lakh) in citizen feedback category. Overall, Steel City ranked 13th among the urban local bodies (ULBs) covering 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 92 Ganga towns. Jharkhand, which has 41 ULBs, was adjudged the best performing state in a category of states having less than 100 ULBs with a score of 2,325.4 out of 6,000. Haryana and Uttarakhand bagged the second and third spots in the same category. Three other ULBs of Jharkhand bagged the top slot in the east zone category. Madhupur nagar parishad (in Deoghar district) was adjudged the best city in citizen’s feedback among ULBs having a population between 50,000 and one lakh. Khunti nagar panchayat bagged the top spot in citizen’s feedback in east zone among ULBs with a population less than 50,000 while Jugsalai municipality bagged the top spot in the same population segment in innovation and best practices section. However, none of the other civic bodies, including capital Ranchi, featured anywhere on the top 25 list. While Ranchi was ranked overall 30th among civic bodies having a population of more than 10 lakh, coal town Dhanbad was placed 33th in the same category. Ranchi had an overall score of 3,431 out of 6,000 while Dhanbad had 3,226.31. “We have rooms for improvement especially in the solid waste management and waste processing segment and hope to improve further our ranking in the next annual survey. The state has achieved ODF+ rating in January this year and now we will be going to achieve ODF++,” said state urban development agency (SUDA) director and nodal officer of Swachh Bharat Mission, Amit Kumar. ODF+ and ODF++ are aimed towards proper maintenance of toilet facilities and safe collection, conveyance, treatment/disposal of all faecal sludge and sewage. While ODF+ focuses on toilets with water, maintenance and hygiene, ODF++ focuses on toilets with sludge and septage management. The SUDA director, however, said several smaller municipal bodies had shown improvement, which is reflected in the state being adjudged the best improved state. “It is the cumulative effort of all ULBs,” Kumar added. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) special officer Krishna Kumar, though happy at the improvement in overall ranking to 13 from 15 last year, felt more thrust should be given on solid waste recycling. “We have won the first position in the citizen’s feedback owing to people’s participation. We will be opting for some innovative concept on better solid waste recycling with mini compost and recycling plants. We hope to break into the top 10 next year,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
