22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Adityapur industrial authority office closed after Covid death||The office of the Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority (JIADA) that coordinates activities of over 1,500 units in Adityapur was shut down for three days on Saturday after one of its staff members died of Covid-19 in late on Friday night. The 40-year-old, who was in the accounts department was at work till Wednesday. Office-bearers of JIADA (formerly known as Adityapur Industrial Area Development Authority) shut down the office as a precautionary measure. Entrepreneurs, who visited the JIADA office regularly after it opened when lockdown restrictions were eased, are in a state of shock. JIADIA regional deputy director  Ranjana Mishra said as the accountant worked alongside 30 others in the office. Hence, they have decided to get the premises fumigated and sanitised after which it would be reopened on Tuesday. "We have closed the JIADA office Saturday. We will get all staff and the family members of the deceased tested for Covid on Sunday. Others who may have come in contact with him may also undergo Covid tests,” Mishra told The Telegraph Online. Inder Kumar Agrawal, president of Adityapur Small Industries Association, said they too were worried. “Although the coronavirus outbreak does not seem to be widespread in Seraikela, especially in the industrial estate, after the death of this person working at JIADA, we will have to remain more cautious," he said. Barely 2km from the heart of the city, JIADA Bhawan is under Seraikela-Kharsawan district where the number of coronavirus positive cases has reached 700. In all, the virus has claimed eight persons in the district. In Jamshedpur, 13 people, including six women died in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths due to the coronavirus in East Singhbhum district to 166. District civil surgeon R.N. Jha said eight persons, three of them men, died of the Covid on Friday. Five others died till 5pm on Saturday. "Till date, the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the district is 4,891 of which 132 were reported till late on Friday," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Plea to Centre to include 3 tribal languages in Eighth Schedule of Constitution||Chief minister Hemant Soren has written a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah demanding the inclusion of three tribal languages — Mundari, Ho and Kuruk — in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution to the pave way for the promotion and development of these languages. Hemant also cleared a state government proposal for the Union ministry of social justice to include 36 castes in backward caste-1 (BC-1) and backward caste-II (BC-II) categories in the Centre’s OBC list. “Jharkhand being a tribal state has a large population speaking Ho, Mundari and Kuruk. For the development of these languages, I demand and hope that the three will soon find place in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. We had already accorded these languages the status of second language in the state.” A statement from his office also said that as many as 36 castes that are notified as BC-1 and II in Jharkhand are still to be included in the Centre’s list of other backward castes (OBC) due to which people belonging to these castes do not  get reservation benefits in the recruitment by the Union government and its affiliated entities. Head of Ranchi University’s tribal and regional languages department Hari Oraon welcomed state government’s move but said that regional languages also deserved urgent attention. “If the Government of India includes Mundari, Ho and Kuruk in the Eighth Schedule, it will give these languages the status of national languages which would lead to its promotion and development. Safeguarding languages are crucial for conserving and promotion of culture. Currently, 22 languages are in the Eighth Schedule of the Cconstitution,” he said, urging the Hemant government to pay attention towards four crucial regional languages of the state. “We would have been more happy if the state government also did something for Kurmali, Kortha, Nagpuri and Panchpargania, the four regional languages that are languishing because of lack of proper patronage,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||National Teachers Awards for three from Jharkhand||Three teachers from Jharkhand will be receiving the National Teachers Award that is conferred annually by the Union ministry of human resources (MHRD). Two of them are government schoolteachers Smith Kumar Soni from Rajkiyakrit Madhya Vidyalaya, Bano in Simdega district and Nirupama Kumari from Ram Rudra Plus 2 High School in Chas, Bokaro. The third teacher is Ishita Dey from Tarapore School, Agrico, Jamshedpur. Usually, teachers are given certificates on Teachers’ Day in New Delhi but this year no communication has yet been shared about the awards ceremony. The recipients of the national ward are assessed on a number of criteria like innovative teaching programmes, achievements in professional development, community impact, contributing beyond the call of duty, academic reputation and genuine love for children. Those who have been selected from Jharkhand have made stellar contributions.  While Smith Kumar Soni worked hard to increase girls’ enrolment in schools and fought against human trafficking and child marriage, Nirupama Kumari focused on language learning, e-content and girls’ education. Dey, on the other hand, worked on innovative teaching in mathematics, introduced children to a charitable initiative called the wall of kindness and a concept of integrated projects. “I wanted to do something on human trafficking which is rampant in Simdega district. In the last school I was in, Project Balika Uchcha Vidyalaya, there were 67 girls when I joined on deputation. I made it a point to meet every villager and ensure that they enrol their girls. In two years, the number of girls was 252. I want to ensure people understand the importance of education,” said Soni whose school has also received the Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar. Nirupama Kumari has worked to improve the information and communications technology (ICT) and has handled the online classroom education and e-content effectively. “There were many students who did not have smartphones. So, we sought the help of students who were equipped with smartphones to share content. Also, we introduced cultural activities so that students stay in Whatsapp groups. We also gave them e-certificates,” said Nirupama, a Hindi teacher, who learnt and curated a website, www.econtenthindi.org, to share lessons. Ishita Dey, on the other hand, has passionately worked towards establishing a mathematics laboratory at Tarapore School. “It feels great. It’s an achievement of a lifetime. Whatever I have achieved is because of my management and principal Amy Billimoria. She has taught me and allowed me to mistakes while learning,” said Dey. After teachers are nominated by the state government and various boards, the Centre takes a final call. The award carries a medal, certificate and Rs 50,000 prize money. It is necessary for applicants to have at least 15 years of teaching experience to be eligible for the award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Help stray animals in shower season, appeals city NGO ||Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation (JRPRF) on Saturday made an appeal to the citizens of the steel city to help stray animals during the shower season. The NGO, which works for stray animals, also came up with a few tips on how to help animals in need since most people think twice before offering help to strays. “They need a safe house, shelter or any physical structure – something that humans can afford to protect themselves but stray animals cannot,” said JRPRF founder Aniz Patel. During the monsoon season in India, stray animals suffer the most due to the absence of a permanent roof for them, he added. “The very least you can do is to provide shelter to puppies and dogs who are struggling to find cover. You can start by letting them in your garage and staircase area,” he suggested. Members of the NGO also came up with tips, which included building temporary sheds in public parks or in one’s locality. “Not everyone has the luxury of space and a majority of people in Indian cities live in crammed lanes and crowded areas. If you cannot afford to let a stray animal inside, you can do your bit by making a temporary shelter instead,” one of the members said. Animal care and treatment is essential during monsoon, when water-borne diseases affect a lot of people as well as stray animals. Dogs, cats, cows and bulls have wounds, which are further aggravated after they get drenched in rain, sometimes resulting in maggots. Applying anti-tick powder and providing dry spots for animals to sit can be an ideal way to avoid such possibilities, the member said. Members of the NGO members have asked citizens to reach out to them if they need any help with stray animals. “Many a time people are not adept to handle the situation or look after a suffering stray animal. On such occasions, people can contact us on 9386698020 and follow us on Facebook and Instagram,” Patel said. “In the case of altercations with any fellow resident, remember the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960 which denies the right to kill, harm, dislocate and displace a stray animal. This means providing shelter to stray animals is a lawful act,” he added. JRPRF organised an anti-rabies vaccination drive and placed reflective collars on stray dogs last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Topchanchi Lake seems alive again, thanks to the rain||A bountiful monsoon has led to abundant water in Topchanchi Lake for the first time this season and more than five lakh residents of Katras that depend on it are happy with the knowledge that they are assured of regular and uninterrupted supply for the rest of the year. Employees of the water supply division of the local civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), are relieved too that the water level has gone up and are already chalking out plans to launch boat rides, something that had long been abandoned in the artificial lake set up by the British in 1924 by tapping streams flowing down Parasnath hills. On Friday, official said, the water level was at 58.6 feet, which was around 7.6 feet above last year’s highest level of 51 feet. JMADA executive engineer and technical member Indresh Shukla said the increase in the water level was significant as a massive desilting exercise had been carried out at the lake last year as a result of which there has been a significant increase in the catchment area of the lake. “Hence, if we are to compare the total volume of water since last year, then it can safely be concluded that there has been a considerable increase this year already. If the water level further increases, say, up to 72 feet, then we will have enough supply for two years,” he told The Telegraph Online. Shukla said over 5 lakh cusecs of silt had been removed from the lake as a part of the desilting project conducted by the minor irrigation department at a cost of Rs 13.5 crore. The lake starts to overflow if the water level increases to 78.6 feet, something that occurred last in 2011. “Currently, we are also supplying pit water in Katras areas through BCCL’s Dharmabandh mines. This will continue along with supply of lake water. After all, the requirement of water has also increased,” said Shukla, adding that JMADA was planning to reintroduce boating facilities to attract visitors. A water division employee deputed at Topchanchi Lake said the increase in the water level was good for JMADA employees too. “At a time when we are facing delayed salaries, and the major source of revenue is water charges, regular supply will ensure better revenue generation,” he said. Developed as an artificial lake by the British in 1924 by tapping the 10 natural streams flowing through the nearby Parasnath Hills, Topchanchi Lake is a major tourist destination along with nearby wildlife sanctuary spread over 8.75 sq k. Surrounded by several beautiful hillocks, the lake was once upon a time a favourite of filmmakers. Several Hindi and Bengali films, starring the likes of Dharmendra, Ashok Kumar, Uttam Kumar, Suchitra Sen and Girish Karnad, have been shot in these scenic locales. The lake also attracts a large number of migratory birds, including Little black cormorant, Pink duck, Black winged stilt, Common teal, Gadwall, Brown-headed gull, Spoonbill, Red crested pochard and Common coot. In 2018, the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation had prepared a Rs 85-lakh beautification plan for the lake. But it had to be shelved because desilting work was pending. JMADA sources said they were now working to repair the two guest houses near the lake to offer them to tourists for a night halt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Poisonous green pit viper caught in Hazaribagh town||A poisonous, rare green pit viper was caught from the densely populated Mariyam Tola mohalla in Deepugarha area of Hazaribagh town. Environmentalist and independent researcher Mritunjay Sharma who was called in said this was the first time he encountered this snake in the district. Sharma said local residents spotted the snake on a tree. “They all got scared seeing its unique colour after which they informed me,” he said. Sharma said the poisonous Russell ’s viper is found in the district in large numbers and this green pit viper is also from the same family. “But the green pit viper found in Assam, or in country like Thailand, where it is found there in large numbers,” he said. Sharma said snake rescuer Binod Miachel helped him to release the snake in the forests of Canary Hill. “We selected areas where bamboos are found as the serpent likes to live around it. This is the reason why, green pit viper also known as bamboo viper,” he added. Sharma said it's very surprising to see such a rare and poisonous snake in a mohalla of town. “These days, snakes are caught from many areas in town, which explains that the town has claimed a lot of forest land,” he said, adding that the forest department is not taking any initiative to catch snakes. Private rescuers who are doing this work complain of not getting any help from the department. “At least they should have provided us with a rescue kit for this work,” said one of them. “We are thanklessly catching snakes regularly risking our lives”, he added on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Koderma DC makes eco-friendly idol at home for Ganesh Chaturthi||Koderma deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap started his ten-day Ganesh Chaturthi puja at his residence, by making a small and beautiful idol of Lord Ganesha, which he finished in two hours. Gholap, son of a cycle repairman who passed away, and a bangle-seller mother, dealt with much adversity before he cracked the prestigious UPSC examination in 2012 to become an IAS officer. The Jharkhand cadre officer who originally hails from Maharashtra’s Solapur also happens to be a good painter since his college days. “At that time, I started making idols too,” he said talking to The Telegraph Online, adding that the idea to make the Ganesha idol came all of a sudden. “It’s a small idol made with clay and eco-friendly colours,” he said. After the ten days-long puja, he will immerse the idol at his residence. “I also have a guava sapling which I will plant somewhere in the campus of my official residence after the immersion,” said Ramesh. A history graduate, Ramesh worked for a few months as a government teacher before joining the IAs. His father died when he was in class 12. Ramesh, who is known as Ramu in his village Mahagaon in Barshi Taluka of Solapur, joined his mother in selling bangles despite one of his legs being affected by polio. He saw her mother running from pillar-to-post to get benefits under government schemes but denied always, which is why he patiently hears out people coming to him and provides solutions to their problems. “I enjoy my work and personal life as well. I make time to do work like idol making. It gives me immense pleasure,” he added with a smile of satisfaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Shibu Soren, wife Rupi Soren found Covid positive||Rajya Sabha MP and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) patriarch, Shibu Soren and his wife Rupi Soren have tested positive for Covid-19 in a first instance of the virus infecting members of the Soren family here, health officials said on Saturday. Shibu, one of the stalwarts of politics in the Bihar-Jharkhand region, is 76-year-old and is already said to be dealing with several age-related ailments. He has had a history of cardiac and kidney ailments. However, sources from JMM said that Shibu was stable and yet to complain of major symptoms of the infection. “Guruji is stable and has been isolated at home. We will take him to a hospital if he complains of any discomfort,” said JMM spokesperson Vinod Pandey. Shibu’s son, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, is also likely to be tested for SARS-COV-2 virus the third time after he attended a cabinet meeting last week and came in contact with state health minister Banna Gupta, who was found infected on the same day. Hemant and his spouse Kalpana Soren tested negative for Covid-19 twice, once in July and then in August. As per figures with the health department, Shibu was among the 990 people who were reported Covid-positive on Friday night in Jharkhand. Earlier on August 7, at least 12 staff in the former chief minister’s official residence at Morhabadi were found to be Covid-positive, sources said. Novel Coronavirus has infected members of the political fraternity across India, and Jharkhand was no different. State drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur and JMM’s Tundi legislator Mathura Mahto were found infected last month. Earlier this month, health minister Gupta, AJSU Party chief and former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto, and Congress party’s Mahagama MLA Deepika Singh tested positive for Covid-19. AJSU Party’s Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Ranchi MLA CP Singh were also found infected by the notorious virus. Meanwhile, Covid cases across the state have skyrocketed with Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad accounting for over 40 per cent of the tally in Jharkhand. As per government figures, the Covid tally in Jharkhand was 28,231 by Saturday morning. As many as 297 people have died of Cpvid-19 infection in state, and more than 18,000 people have recovered. Nearly 10,000 people were infected in Ranchi and East Singhbhum alone, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||SE Railway launches child rescue initiative||A child rescue initiative, Operation Nanhe Fariste, has been launched South Eastern Railway in all its four divisions, including Ranchi and Chakradharpur, that have their headquarters in Jharkhand. “It was first introduced in South Western Railway in May 2017 that proved effective,” Prashant Yadav, Ranchi’s divisional security commissioner who has been assigned to oversee the campaign in the entire SE Railway jurisdiction, informed The Telegraph, explaining why they launched the phase II of the campaign. “Many traffickers choose railway stations as easy escape routes,” he further said, adding dedicated child rescue teams comprising Railway Protection Force personnel have been formed to keep a watch on movements of such traffickers with children accompanying them. Besides trafficked ones, the teams will also look for run-away children, orphans, lost children and child labourers and help them return to their guardians or take them to child welfare committees with help from NGOs active in the field. Jharkhand, like many other states, is a vulnerable area and many children are reported to be trafficked from here every year. “But the traffickers have also changed their modus operandi,” Yadav said, explaining they started moving with just two children or three instead of a large group and often claim them to be their close relatives. In many cases, even the person accompanying such children may not have any criminal record and he or she agrees to accompany such children for a small sum, he added. The teams will closely monitor their movement till the destination station to verify their claim, Yadav further said, adding an effective network of such teams would bring in desired results. They also planned to apply the change model suggested by former Harvard professor John Kotter for making the initiative effective. Creating urgency, powerful coalition, vision for change, communicating the vision and remove obstacles are some of the steps Professor Kotter had suggested for making an initiative effective. “We are trying to motivate our team members with those teachings and consolidate the resources to make the initiative a success,” Yadav further said. Besides Jharkhand, authorities in Bengal and Odisha where SE Railway operates have so far been cooperative and helpful, he replied when asked about inter-agencies coordination that is a major factor in making such an initiative effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Aloe Vera village beats lockdown blues||A tribal village branded as the state’s first ‘Aloe Vera village’ in Nagri block of Ranchi has been able to turn things around for its residents during the lockdown in stark contrast to the gloomy scenario in other rural areas. Dewri village in Nagri block of Ranchi was rechristened ‘Aloe Vera’ village after being taken up under Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)- Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) tribal sub plan (TSP) in December 2018. “We did a survey in this village and most of the villagers expressed interest in planting aloe vera medicinal plants and since it had a majority of tribal population, we decided to take it up in our project and named it aloe vera village to motivate more villagers to take up plantation of aloe vera and other medicinal plants to boost their income, which was primarily reliant on paddy. We are happy to hear that it has given them good dividends during the lockdown period,” said head department of forest products and utilisation, faculty of forestry, BAU, Kaushal Kumar. TSP is used to channelise the flow of benefits from the Union government for the development of tribes in the states. Areas included in the TSP are blocks or tehsils with over 50 per cent tribal population. “We decided on aloe vera as it requires less maintenance and less water. We provided nearly 6,000 plants along with fertilisers and also green shed net houses with sprinkler systems. Our students regularly visited the village and helped with training and technology. Usually aloe vera takes 18 months for its leaves to grow fully and the first lot of leaves were sold during the lockdown (after being planted in December 2018). Several NGOs and entrepreneurs have visited the village and taken the leaves for processing as it is in high demand for its medicinal and cosmetic properties. However, no big agencies could reach the village due to the lockdown,” said Kaushal Kumar. Villagers are happy with the increase in their income. “Earlier, we used to earn around Rs 3,000 per month from paddy cultivation if we were able to get work for all the 30 days. However, this year, apart from working in paddy fields, we were able to boost our income by selling aloe vera leaves. Our income has increased between Rs 5,000 and 6,000 per month,” said Manju Kachyap, mukhiya of the Dewri village and a woman farmer. Manju said out of the 90 families belonging to the Oraon tribe residing in their village, nearly 40 families had taken part in planting aloe vera. “The high income from selling aloe vera leaves (over Rs 40 per kg) is prompting more villagers to take up aloe planting vera along with the cultivation of paddy to boost their income,” Manju, 34, added. BAU expert Kaushal Kumar said setting up an aloe vera processing plant was also in the pipeline in the village as part of the TSP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Consumers oppose DVC and JBVNL tariff hike proposal||Consumers have vehemently opposed proposals to hike tariff by the two distribution companies, Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) and Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), that supply power in the state. The consumers registered their objections against the proposals by the discoms during the virtual public hearing organised by the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC). While the hearing on the DVC’s proposal was held on Monday and Tuesday, the hearing on the JBVNL’s plan began on Thursday. DVC supplies power to consumers in seven Jharkhand districts — Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Giridih, Koderma and Chatra — while JBVNL supplies to the rest of the state. DVC has proposed a hike of 10 paise per unit and Rs 10 in monthly fixed charge in case of domestic and commercial consumers. But in the case of industries, it has proposed a hike from the existing Rs 2.95 to Rs 3.65 per kVAh (kilo volt ampere hour), besides increasing the monthly demand charge from Rs 600 to Rs 833. Participating in the hearing, the industrial consumers opposed the hike claiming it was “unrealistic during the pandemic” and that the tariff should rather be reduced. “We have shown that their average cost of supply is much less than even the existing rate,” said Hari Budhia, chairman of the association of DVC high-tension consumers, when asked why they demanded a reduction in tariff. He said the DVC already had revenue surplus of Rs 1,287 crore which was required to be adjusted. During the public hearing on the JBVNL’s proposal on Thursday, its executive director K.K. Verma and general manager (commercial), Rishi Nandan, strongly urged for the hike in tariff claiming that the cumulative revenue gap of Rs 5,514 crore made it inevitable. “JBVNL spent Rs 13,401 crore on capital expenditure and infrastructure development between 2018 and 2020 while it planned to invest another Rs 5,300 crore during the current fiscal (2020-21),” Nandan said, justifying the proposed hike of above 20 per cent in the existing tariff across various categories of consumers. Vinod Tulsyan, who represented the apex trade body of the state, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries, opposed the proposal saying the lockdown had pushed the industries to the brink of disaster and that “most of them are functioning below 25 per cent of their capacity”. Anjay Pacheriwala of Jharkhand Small Industries Association also opposed the proposal claiming that “uninterrupted quality power supply is still a distant dream in Jharkhand as we experience 15 to 20 trips (power cuts) everyday”. The hearing is scheduled to continue till Saturday following which the regulatory commission will announce its decision on the proposal by the discoms after considering the arguments presented by both sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mild tremors in Jharkhand||An earthquake of magnitude 4.3 on the richter scale struck Sahibganj in Jharkhand on Friday afternoon. According to the National Centre for Seismology, the earthquake occurred on Friday at 12.07 pm at a depth of 10 km at Sahibganj in Jharkhand. Sahibganj deputy commissioner Chittaranjan Kumar said that there was not much effect of the tremor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
