23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Speeding truck kills two in Ramgarh||A speeding truck on Sunday evening hit three scooters and a mini truck at Chuttupalu ghati on the Ranchi-Patna highway (NH-33) in Ramgarh district on Sunday, killing two people. Ramgarh police station officer in charge Vidya Shankar said the driver of the truck lost control and hit three scooters, killing two on the spot. The vehicle then hit a mini truck from behind. The dead were identified as Mahesh Mahto, 32, and Shyam Kumar Mahto, 24, both residents of Chuttupalu. The police have not been able to identify the person riding the third two-wheeler who was grievously injured and admitted to the local hospital. The driver and cleaner of the mini truck also sustained severe injures. The driver of the killer truck managed to escape. Social worker and the secretary of GM College, Ghanshyam Mehta, and a friend died in a road accident on Sunday afternoon when a speeding car hit their motorcycle on the Ranchi-Patna highway (NH-33) near a hotel at Ichak More, 11km from Hazaribagh. Police said Mehta, 62, was returning to his village, Hadari Chaprakh, in Ichak. Mehta died on the spot while his friend Surendra Prasad Mehta, 70, who was riding pillion, was grievously hurt. He was declared dead on arrival by doctors at the Hazaribagh Medical College. An FIR has been lodged against the car driver. The 35-year-old owner of a motorcycle showroom, Sunil Singh, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a fan at his home. The incident occurred at Shivpuri colony under Chas police station. The door of Singh’s room was locked from inside. The reason for the suicide is not yet clear. Police reached the spot and sent the body for post-mortem. The officer in charge of Chas police station, Amitab Rai, said a case of unnatural death had been lodged in this connection. Singh lived in a joint family with his brothers. According to police, Singh’s wife was at her maternal home for the past two months with their two daughters. Singh had a showroom in the Jainamoad area. The decomposed body of a 40-year-old Dalit man was found near a field where marijuana is grown at Khokhma under the Nawa Bazar police station in Palamau on Sunday. Police suspect that Dadan Bhuiyan, who according to villagers was addicted to marijuana, had been electrocuted. Dadan and another man, Bhola Bhuiyan, had left their homes on Thursday to have the drug and steal some of it from the field. This is when Dadan stepped on a live wire installed to ward of marijuana thieves from the field, the police said. Bhola escaped unhurt. The police have detained the marijuana field owner. Subdivisional police officer Surjit Kumar said: “We will lodge a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The wire had also been installed illegally.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mentally ill man beats fellow patient to death in Chatra sadar hospital||An elderly patient in Chatra sadar hospital was beaten to death in presence of health workers and other patients on Sunday. No one intervened to save his life as he was attacked by a mentally ill man, also admitted at the hospital. Vijay Mahto (30), a resident of Kobana village, was admitted here by local mukhiya Sanjay Yadav a few months ago, after his mental health was severely compromised. Police officials said Mahto beat the senior citizen with a rod used to hoist the mosquito net on his bed. The elderly man, yet to be identified, was referred by Simaria hospital on August 20. Officer-in-charge of sadar police station, Luv Kumar said Mahto is in the hospital guarded by policemen. He also said that an investigation has been initiated and an FIR lodged. Health worker Brajesh Kumar said they tried to provide treatment to the injured man, but he succumbed to his grievous injuries. It also appeared that at the time of this incident, the civil surgeon and hospital superintendent were also present in their offices. Hospital authorities failed to reply as to why a mentally ill patient was kept in a ward with normal patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Class 9 deaf and mute girl found bludgeoned to death||The body of a 14-year-old deaf and mute girl, who was apparently bludgeoned to death, was found at a government middle school in Simanpur in Balbada police station area of Godda district on Sunday, triggering protests by local residents for over an hour in the morning. The heinous crime, which police believe could be rape and murder, has once again put a question mark over the state’s law and order, especially concerning the safety of women and minors, at a time when the Opposition BJP has been crying hoarse about a spurt in crime in the state. According to a local journalist, residents spotted the body lying in a pool of blood on the balcony of the government school when they had gone there to collect water from a hand pump. “Her face had severe bruises indicating that she may have been hit with a stone or heavy object,” he said, adding that the victim was a student of class IX. Sources quoting the girl’s parents said she left home for some work on Saturday but did not return. Her parents then informed local police. In the morning, her body was found in the school. Balbada thana’s officer in-charge Deep Narayan Singh said that an FIR had been filed against unidentified persons to begin a probe. “Prima facie it looks as though she was raped. But only an autopsy will confirm it. We have launched raids to identify and nab the culprits,” he said. Mahagama Congress MLA Deepika Pandey Singh demanded chief minister Hemant Soren’s intervention to ensure strict action against the culprits. “The incident has rattled me very much. The culprits should be traced quickly and the strictest punishment be given to them for the kind of violence they perpetrated against a physically challenged girl,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Lockdown: Absence of income pushes barber to death by suicide||A 35-year-old barber was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his salon at Khuntadih, under Sonari thana area, on Sunday morning. Renu Gupta, OC, Sonari thana, informed that this seems to be a case of suicide. "From preliminary investigation, it appears to be a case of suicide.  We have recovered the body and sent it to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem, and registered a case citing unnatural death," Gupta told The Telegraph Online. The deceased, identified as Shyam Thakur, was a resident of Road No 2 at Ramnagar in Kadma. Thakur was facing serious financial problems after his salon shut down over the past four months due to the lockdown. He was missing since Friday afternoon, prompting his family members to search for him. Thakur’s elder brother Naresh came to the salon and found it unlocked.  On entering, he found his brother's body hanging from the ceiling. "It appears that he committed suicide because of his financial problems, but the reason can be different which we are investigating.  The autopsy report will make things clear," Gupta added. Naresh had dropped his brother at Khuntadih market on his bike on Friday morning as he wanted to spend some time there. "Shyam was severely disturbed after losing his source of employment.  He would constantly enquire when salons will be allowed to open.  I dropped him at the market on my bike in the morning, but he did not return home in the evening.  When he did not turn up even at night, we enquired at houses of relatives he could have visited. Exhausting all possible options, I came to the market and asked around for him, eventually finding his salon unlocked,” Naresh said. Some of the shop owners in the market, who knew Shyam, said he was severely depressed due to lack of income and would occasionally consume country liquor in the marketplace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid cases cross 5,000 in 102 days in East Singhbhum||The number of Coronavirus cases crossed the 5,000 mark in East Singhbhum district in the last 24 hours, the tally notched up exactly 102 days after the first two cases were reported on May 12. Given the steady rise in the number of cases, the district administration has decided to set up 11 permanent sample collection centres. "One of the permanent sample collection centres will be somewhere in Jamshedpur. The others will be set up in as many blocks in the district,” East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. “Those who will feel the need to get tested for Covid can turn up at the sample collection centres. These centres will most likely start functioning from Wednesday," he added. During the past 24 hours, 266 samples were tested for the presence of coronavirus, bringing the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 5,157 as of Saturday night. Of these, 2,603 people have recovered, while 2,422 are still under treatment. Till date, 151 people have died as a result of the virus. Superintendent of Ghaghidih Central Jail Narendra Kumar Singh said 38 inmates had tested positive. “On Thursday, a dozen people, including three convicts, had tested positive in the jail. The process of screening infected inmates is on," he said. Most of the new cases recorded in the district in the past 24 hours were from Ghaghidih Central Jail. A senior health department official pointed out that the number of cases had shot up to over 5,000 because people were reluctant to wear masks and adhere to social distancing norms. "Most people who are out, either in the market or on the streets, are violating social distancing norms. Shops are crowded with customers, roadside eateries are also crowded and at most places, people are not wearing masks properly," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Time to add counselling to Covid care regime, say experts||The suicide by a 32-year-old Covid patient at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences has not only exposed the glaring lapses at the state-run hospital but has also brought into renewed focus the need for counselling patients to build a sense of confidence in them. Since June, at least three Covid-19 patients have ended their lives at hospitals. On August 16, a 40-year-old patient, who was undergoing treatment at CCL Central Hospital at Nayasarai, Ramgarh, committed suicide by jumping from the hospital roof-top. On June 9, a migrant worker who had returned from Mumbai committed suicide at a Covid hospital in Lohardaga, hours after testing positive for the virus. Nishant Goel, a professor at Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) in Kanke, one of the top mental institutes of eastern India, said that while everyone was focussed on beating Covid-19 it was time to pay attention towards patients’ mental health. Recalling a recent campaign run by CIP in association with Unicef for Covid patients, he said, “After the suicide at a Lohardaga hospital, the administration approached us for devising a campaign for patients. Thereafter, we held one-to-one telephonic counselling sessions for a few weeks for about 24 patients in the first phase. We also red-flagged vulnerable patients who were then given special care by the authorities.” The campaign is still on for Lohardaga. Goel said fear and anxiety were natural fallouts of the ongoing global pandemic. “Fear isn’t always about one’s own self, but about family, jobs, relationships, society and so on,” he said, recommending that all district administrations appoint a liaison officer to coordinate with hospitals and mental institutes for organising counselling sessions for Covid patients at regular intervals. A district civil surgeon said the state government should also try to engage Covid patients in a constructive manner. “A majority of patients aren’t symptomatic in Jharkhand, which means they don’t necessarily have to be bed-ridden. Maintaining social distancing norms within wards, they can be engaged in constructive work like painting, stitching, etc, to keep them engaged positively,” said, adding that a policy decision was needed. President of the Jharkhand chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) A.K. Singh appealed to civil society members to help. “We can’t expect doctors on Covid duty to counsel patients as doctors themselves are working under immense stress. But civil society/NGOs should collaborate at various levels to create awareness among the public to curb the stigma associated with Covid,” he said, adding that there have been instances of doctors and health worker facing ostracism. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said he would soon speak with CIP and Ranchi Institute of Neuro-Psychiatry & Allied Sciences (RINPAS) to explore the possibility of conducting mental health sessions for patients at Covid hospitals and care centres. “I will soon speak with Rinpas and CIP to see how we can tackle this problem. This apart, district police and RIMS have been asked to plug gaps in security to prevent a rerun of suicides,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Glaring lapses mar RIMS’s run as state’s largest Covid care hospital||The suicide of a Covid patient at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Saturday, the latest in a long list of glaring lapses in the government-run hospital, has once again brought the hospital administration in the crosshairs of the state’s health authorities. The patient, a resident of Garhwa, hanged himself using a towel at a stone’s throw from the main isolation centre where all Covid patients are treated, at 3am on Saturday. And none of the RIMS authorities got to know about the incident until dawn, sources working at the hospital said. While the local police lodged a case of unnatural death, there was no committee set up at the hospital level to probe the matter and troubleshoot the frequent lapses. RIMS acting director Dr Manju Gari refused to comment on Saturday’s suicide on the premises of the hospital. A member of the Covid-19 task force at RIMS said that the victim would have appeared in the CCTV camera installed outside the isolation ward, and proper monitoring of the CCTV footage could have saved his life. “We can call it a security lapse,” he said requesting anonymity. RIMS’s run so far as a Covid hospital has been riddled with similar incidents of negligence wherein patients could have been saved had health workers acted promptly. Till now, two Covid patients have died in the hospital after falling in the toilet. On July 19, a 70-year-old fell in the toilet of the ICU of RIMS and died. In a rerun of the incident, another Covid patient from Dhanbad could not survive a fall in the same toilet on August 13. The coordinator of RIMS’ Covid-19 task force, Dr Prabhat Kumar, said that the two patients died of hypoxia, a condition in which a person’s body or a particular organ is deprived of sufficient oxygen. “Since the virus affects the lungs of a patient, hypoxia can be a common cause of death for Covid patients,” said Kumar. “The chances of cardiac arrest also increase in Covid patients,” he added. Kumar said that a high-level meeting was held at RIMS after Covid patients died while using the toilet. “Learning from our mistakes, we have made it mandatory for every Covid patient to inform an attendant before going to the toilet,” he added. Incidents of patients fleeing the RIMS isolation centre have also been reported. On June 16, parents of a Covid-infected toddler fled the hospital with their child in an auto-rickshaw and were eventually held at Gomoh, about 130 km from the capital. Besides, RIMS has also reported cases of absconding Covid patients in the month of March. “The security has been beefed up after incidents of patients fleeing the isolation ward were reported,” said RIMS superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap. RIMS saw a change in senior management in the middle of a pandemic when former director Dr D.K. Singh was replaced by Dr Manju Gari as an acting director on June 27. Singh was spearheading the fight against Covid-19 since the first case of infection was reported here on March 31. He had also expressed his desire to continue serving as the director during the pandemic period. Gari, on Sunday, refused to talk about the recent incidents in the hospital and asked this correspondent to speak with the authorities of the concerned department. The largest state-run hospital has a 100-bed isolation centre for Covid patients. RIMS was also the first government hospital in Jharkhand to start Covid testing and treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Prisoner with ‘liquor bottle’ stirs up Dhanbad Covid hospital||A photograph of a prisoner apparently drinking liquor at the district’s Covid hospital that went viral on social media on Saturday night prompted the Dhanbad administration to order a probe and tighten vigilance at the BCCL-run health unit. A team of officials led by Dhanbad SDO Raj Maheshwaram visited the Dedicated Covid Hospital within the Central Hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar and ordered a probe into the circumstances under which the prisoner was supposedly able to order liquor. Several photographs of the prisoner went viral. In one, he is seen showing off what looks like a liquor bottle, while he is seated in front of a table with food in silver foil containers. Another shows him drinking from the bottle with his open handcuffs hanging from his right hand. The photographs were tagged to chief minister Hemant Soren’s twitter handle on Sunday morning at 8.27am after which Hemant Soren directed Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh to investigate the matter. “We have carried out a detailed investigation into the issue and interacted with everyone, right from ward boys to others. We will submit a detailed report before the deputy commissioner,” SDO Maheshwaram told the media, adding that FIRs would be lodged against all those involved. The SDO said the administration would take strict action against the prisoner who was handcuffed again on Sunday morning. The prisoner, who was arrested for extortion and assault, however, tested negative for Covid after an RTPCR confirmatory test was conducted on Sunday.  "We will, therefore, hand him over to Katras officials who will send him to jail,” said nodal officer of the Covid hospital Dr Alok Vishwakarma. The prisoner, a resident of Shiv Muhalla locality of Katras, was questioned by the SDO and Baghmara DSP Nitin Khandelwal in the presence of the nodal officer. “During questioning, the prisoner said he requested a constable to loosen his handcuffs as he wanted to take a bath. That is how the handcuffs came off,” said Dr Vishwakarma. Maheshwaram explained the prisoner was subjected to a rapid antigen test for Covid as per norms. Once he tested positive, he was sent to the dedicated Covid hospital. Asked how he could organise liquor in the hospital, the SDO said he had asked Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) officials who run the hospital to better administer the premises. “We have asked them to note details of all those coming to the hospital to meet patients,” the SDO said. “We have also made arrangements for screening of material going inside the hospital so that incidents like this can’t be repeated in future” said Maheshwaram. Facilities at the dedicated Covid were always scant, patients have claimed. On July 7, a group of patients held a demonstration and threatened to go on hunger strike after insects were found in vegetables served for breakfast. The next day, a group of 23 journalists admitted there complained of irregular and poor quality of food and the lack of cleanliness. Again, on July 21, patients staged another demonstration renewing their complaint about poor hygiene and inadequate facilities, namely, lack of drinking water at night. Doctors have also complained about cleanliness. It was only after they raised a hue and cry, that BCCL authorities provided them with proper furniture which they could use for rest. BCCL has changed the catering contractor. But owing to repeated complaints about poor upkeep, a new house-keeping agency has been recruited. It will begin work from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Nilamber-Pitamber University looks for exam centres to accommodate student rush||Nilamber-Pitamber University is preparing to conduct its final year degree examinations in the month of September with Covid showing no signs of a let up. “The university is locating and identifying government schools where we can make our examinees sit and write their papers,” NPU vice chancellor Lakhan Singh told The Telegraph Online on Sunday, adding that they will be split centres “with no compromise on the sanctity of the examination”. Social distancing among the examinees will be maintained. “We do not want any compromise on social distancing and so we are looking for space and infra-structural facilities for the government schools which we will procure for the conduction of the examination,” he said, adding that the new centres will make space for a number of ‘over flowing’ students from their colleges. Sources said the government primary and middle schools may not serve the purpose of an ‘alternate examination centre’ of the university as there can be space crunch and size of desks and chairs may not be suitable for adult examinees to sit comfortably. Only secondary or high schools can be earmarked for this purpose, they said. The VC added that their officials are thus identifying high schools. However, no head of school can offer their school’s premises to NPU to conduct university examinations, as they have to obtain permission from senior officials of the education department. “We will send our letter of request to DC Palamau Shashi Ranjan with a copy of this letter to the district education officer (DEO) to permit us to use the premises or buildings of these schools,” said the VC. Registrar of NPU Jayant Shekhar said the principal of JS College, Rana Pratap Singh has been entrusted to get this school procurement business done in collaboration with university controller of examinations SK Pandey. “Ranaji has the experience of holding university examinations in schools in the past,” he said. Sources said the NPU is set to face a crunch of invigilators for its alternate examination centres as it is pinning all hopes on government teachers working there. “We believe the administration will give us the required workforce, such as four teachers, to act as invigilators for a set of 100 examinees,” said the VC. Sources said that the number is an ideal, but during the pandemic, three or two teachers per 100 students would do.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Chamber urges Jharkhand government to let malls open||The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries has urged the state government to allow shopping malls to open and operate. “Since the government allowed many other trading activities to function gradually, it is high time they also allowed the shopping malls to do so,” the apex trade body of the state said after its meeting with representatives of the malls from Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro on Friday. “The malls in the state have been closed for the past five months since the lockdown was announced. They should now be allowed to function as some states have already done so,” said federation president Kunal Ajmani. “The malls are huge and they consist of a large number of shops and showrooms that are actually much smaller than many showrooms of renowned brands that have been allowed to function,” he said, emphasising the point that the shops would not attract big crowds and social distancing norms could be easily followed. “The businessmen opened their shops in malls after taking loans from banks. They have to pay the EMI again from September for repayment of their loans as the relief would expire this month,” Ajmani said. He said they also have to bear certain establishment costs and pay their staff. “Coronavirus may not go away overnight but the economy has to be brought back on track,” he said. “Many trading activities have already been allowed and the remaining few should also be considered without further delay,” said federation general secretary Dheeraj Taneja. “Buses, hotels, malls, cinema halls, saloons and spas are the few things that have not been allowed to operate and the businessmen running these services can no longer bear the loss they have been incurring due to the closure,” he said. Taneja said the remaining services and businesses should now be allowed to open so that the owners can at least try to move forward. “The businessmen are surely suffering but no one has ever thought about how we can survive,” said Rohan Sharma who runs a saloon near Main Road overbridge which can accommodate only two customers at a time. He said people like him could not afford to keep their shops shut any longer. “Many of them (barbers) are visiting their regular customers at their homes to offer their services,” he said when asked how they could continue for the past 5 months. “It’s true they are suffering a lot,” said Taneja. He said customers must be getting hair cuts at home as not many can do without it for such a long time. Some may have also got their hair cut with help from their family members but their number may not be too large, suggesting most others must have availed the service of barbers at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Schools to remain shut, says Mahto||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto on Saturday said there was no plan to open schools in the state in September. He added that the Hemant Soren government would follow the Centre’s guidelines for the opening of schools. “The education department is waiting for the central government’s guidelines to open schools,” said Mahto while talking to journalists at his residence at Bhandaridah in Bokaro on Saturday evening. The state government is monitoring the Covid-19 situation. Attention is being given to students for better education through online classes. Teachers are providing e-content to children. Mahto said opinion had been sought from the parents of children studying in both government and private schools by the education department regarding the opening of the institutions. As per his assessment, parents are not in favour of opening schools. Therefore, no final decision could be taken at this point. Sixty-three people were discharged on Saturday from various Covid-19 treatment centres in Dhanbad after being cured of the infection. Those discharged include 42 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Dhanbad, 14 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Bhuli, five from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Nirsa polytechnic, Gopalpur, and one each from the sadar hospital, Dhanbad, and dedicated Covid-19 health centre at SSLNT Hospital. Those released will have to remain under home quarantine for 14 days. Police on Saturday arrested two Peoples’ Liberation Front of India (PLFI) extremists who were involved in collecting levy from coal companies in Barkagaon block of Hazaribagh. Subdivisional police officer Om Prakash said the duo were inducted into PLFI by the outfit’s chief Dinesh Gope and tasked with collecting levy in the area. Prakash said Ritesh Bhokta, 27, and Ashok Ganjhu, 24, are residents of Chirudih village in Barkagaon. He said they had admitted to threatening officials of Thriveni Sainik Pvt Ltd, an outsourcing firm associated with the National Thermal Power Corporation, for levy. “We have lodged an FIR against the duo under Sections 385, 387 and 34 of IPC,” he added. A high-level team of district officials led by Dhanbad subdivisional officer Raj Maheshwaram on Saturday visited Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and inspected the paediatric, gynaecology and ENT department building with the aim of developing dedicated Covid-19 health centres. With the recent rise in coronavirus cases, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Friday had instructed the PMCH authorities to develop new dedicated Covid-19 health centres. A two-day special drive conducted by the district administration on August 21-22 has led to detection of 556 new cases. BJP activists led by Dhanbad BJP MLA Raj Sinha on Saturday sported black badges to protest the delay in arresting the killers of the party’s Kendua Mandal vice-president Satish Singh who was killed by two unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants on August 19 on the Dhanbad-Bokaro road in Matkuria. Singh, a resident of Kustore, was close to the MLA. Sinha had also visited PMCH when Singh was taken there. A meeting of residents of Dhanbad’s Sindri led by the president of All India FCI VSS Employees Association, Sewa Singh, was held on Saturday. During the meeting, the participants expressed concern over the pitiable condition of basic amenities such as water supply and power supply and decided to raise the issue with Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd, which is engaged in building a Rs 6500-crore fertiliser plant at Sindri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||32-year-old Covid patient hangs self at RIMS||A 32-year-old Covid-19 patient from Garhwa allegedly hanged himself to death on Saturday morning at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. The deceased, police said, was mentally disturbed as both his kidneys were malfunctioning, and he was not financially stable enough to get himself treated. “Both his kidneys were malfunctioning. He and his wife had separated, on top of which he got infected by the coronavirus,” said the officer in charge of Bariatu police station, Birendra Mahto. “He was also faced with unemployment and financial instability,” Mahto added. The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand jumped to 29,103 on Saturday as at least 872 people tested positive for the virus across the state, figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi again reported the highest number of fresh cases of infection on Saturday among the 24 districts. As many as 188 people in Ranchi and 150 in East Singhbhum were found infected on Saturday, the NHM bulletin further said. Thirteen Covid-19 patients died of the infection on Saturday, taking the toll in Jharkhand to 310 and the mortality rate to 1.06 per cent. East Singhbhum, which has reported the highest number of deaths in the state so far, registered seven Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday. The district alone has reported 128 of the 300-odd casualties in Jharkhand, government data revealed. The state also reported as many as 814 Covid recoveries on Saturday, taking the recovery rate to 65.92 per cent. However, Jharkhand’s recovery rate was still lower than the national average of 74.69 per cent. While Ranchi reported 188 fresh cases of infection, at least 369 patients recovered from the infection here, causing a dip in the count of active cases in the capital, the NHM bulletin revealed. As per figures available with the health department, there were 9,607 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. There were 2,506 active cases in Ranchi, the highest in Jharkhand, while with 2,243 active cases, East Singhbhum had the second highest count of cases by Saturday evening. The government has so far collected swab samples of 5.58 lakh people and tested 5.53 lakh of them. As per figures shared by the health department, the state on Saturday collected 13,251 swab samples and tested 11,434 of them. The government has intensified testing in Jharkhand in the past one month and tested more than three lakh people during this period, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
