24-08-2020||Jharkhand||PLFI extremists attack Piparwar weighbridge with low-intensity explosive||Peoples' Liberation Front of India (PLFI) extremists bombed a weighbridge office in Piparwar, Chatra on Sunday night. The incident resulted in the destruction of furniture and computer equipment. The extremists left a pamphlet, claiming responsibility for the bombing. It also warned local coal traders to start work in Piparwar before talking to the PLFI, threatening dire consequences if they fail to do so. Police officials said two CISF jawans were on duty at this weighhouse and were taken at gunpoint around 10 PM. The low-intensity bomb used was locally made, and the pamphlet was signed off by Krishna Yadav a.k.a Sultan, a PLFI zonal commander. Officials said the weigh bridge was shut for the past  month and was scheduled to open from Tuesday. An eyewitness said extremists reached the spot and left in a hurry after throwing the bomb. The incident has caused panic and fear among local traders. Tandwa sub divisional officer Ashutosh Kumar Satyam and CISF officials visited the site and spoke with eyewitnesses. He assured people proper security and said raids were on to nab the extremists.. Superintendent of police, Rishabh Kumar Jha, confirmed the incident and said the attack did not result in any major loss. He said the weighbridge number-5 near Ashoka colliery project workshop was partially damaged in the incident. “It was cleared after investigation that extremists use a cracker and not a bomb,” he said. Piparwar is known for underground and opencast coal mines, operated by Central Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India, producing more than 30 million tonnes per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel planning to take over Kantilal memorial hospital||Tata Steel is exploring possibilities of taking over Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Hospital, hitherto managed by Medica, and operating it as a Covid hospital in the wake of the rapid spread of the coronavirus in Jamshedpur and its surroundings. "Calcutta-based Medica hospital management has wound up operations in Jamshedpur and now Tata Steel is planning to take over the hospital in South Park, Bistupur,” said a senior official of Tata Steel's corporate communications. He said the nitty-gritty over setting up a Covid hospital in consultation with Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Trust is on. The official said it would most likely be turned into a 100-bed facility for treatment of Covid patients. Tata Main Hospital general manager Rajan Chaudhury had hinted at a recent media briefing that the company was interested in taking over the hospital after Medica decided to give it up. With Outer Circle Road on one side and Kharkai Link Road on the other, Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Hospital had been set up in 2014, offering treatment by teams of specialists in various disciplines. Though the heal hub had gained popularity within a short time, its occupancy was hit due to the coronavirus pandemic. Finally, the hospital stopped operations from August 13. Medica spokesperson Anand Srivastava said even though they had decided to stop operating the hospital from September 13, they had to wind up on August 13. “Our nursing staff and those from the hospital administration have been accommodated at other Medica facilities in Calcutta and Ranchi," he said. A canteen that was set up when Medica took over operations at the hospital has, however, not been wound up. "I did not wind up the canteen as I was sure that after Medica's exit, Tata Steel would come into the picture. Once the hospital gets a Tata tag, our canteen will flourish again,” said the canteen operator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Village in hockey cradle to get lit up on National Sports Day||On National Sports Day on August 29, the people of Karangagudi village in Jharkhand’s hockey cradle of Simdega district will be bestowed with a gift that will light up their lives. Literally. The non-descript hamlet, around 40km from Simdega district headquarters, will get electricity for the first time in over 100-odd houses. Work is continuing on a war footing, officials said on Monday. JBVNL executive engineer in Simdega Vishveshwar Marandi said they have begun installing cement poles for cables to connect the houses with the nearby feeder. “If all goes well and rains don’t interrupt our work, we should be ready to bring power by August 29,” he said, adding that the work began on Sunday after a meeting was held two days earlier under the chairmanship of Simdega Deputy commissioner C Sushant Gaurav. Simdega is considered to be Jharkhand’s hockey nursery. Yet, it is bereft of all- round development. Manoj Konbegi, general secretary of Simdega Hockey, affiliated to Jharkhand Hockey, the state outfit that governments the game, said Karangagudi village was special. It is home to five international hockey players and at least 50 national or state level players. “Ironically, people in this village still continue to live without electricity. Villages a few kilometres away have electricity but several tolas of Karangudi aren’t connected. We have been raising this issue before the government for a long time. Finally, the district administration has started work,” he said. Sangita Kumari (19), an international hockey player who is currently taking part in the India camp, said the biggest problem of being without power was that children find it difficult to study. “Electricity is a necessity today. But many living in my village have never seen it. Some used solar power though. But a regular power connection was needed for studying,” she said. Sushma Kumar, another player, added, she was happy to learn that they would have power soon. “While roads reached this village a couple of years back, I am happy that soon our homes will also get power like the other hamlets,” she said. is expected to unlock a special gift to Karangagudi village in Jharkhand’s Simdega district, which is home to over five dozen national and international hockey players. For, this nondescript hamlet located around 40km from district headquarters will get electricity for the first time in over 100-odd houses as ground works in this regard have begun on war-footing, officials said on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Another four days of heavy rain forecast across Jharkhand||Heavy showers are expected across Jharkhand for the next four days due to the formation of a low-pressure area over the north Bay of Bengal coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation. On Monday, both the IMD's Ranchi and Patna Meteorolgogical Centres forecast heavy rain for next four days and warned of thunderstorms and lightning over isolated pockets of the state in the next 48 hours. Several districts in southern, western and north-eastern are vulnerable to lightning strikes. Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre S.D. Kotal said the southwest monsoon has been active over Jharkhand for the past 24 hours resulting in a good spell of rain in places like Jamshedpur, Palamau, Latehar and Ramgarh. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded over 70mm rain during the past 24 hours while several places in the Palamau region recorded over 50 mm. Officials at the Doppler radar section at Patna Met Centre said this was the third low-pressure area to originate from Bay of Bengal this month. It is at a height of 7.6km above sea level and expected to trigger heavy rainfall. "The monsoon trough was passing through Ranchi and this resulted in a good spell of rain in the past 24-hours. The low-pressure which has formed over Bay of Bengal will gain in strength during the next two days resulting in heavy showers over Jharkhand," said a weather analyst at Patna. Monday’s Met data showed actual rainfall of 694.7mm against a cumulative seasonal average of 762.2mm, a deficit of 9 per cent. Weathermen at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said the low-pressure might precipitate into a depression, but whether it does will be clear only after 48 hours. "The rain during the next four days will help in reducing the deficit," said the duty officer. Met data suggests that so far, Palamau tops the list of surplus rain with 30 per cent. Dumka, East Singhbhum, Latehar, Koderma, Ramgarh and Lohardaga also finds place in the surplus rain list. Gumla with 50 per cent tops the list of deprived districts. The remaining 17 districts, including Ranchi, also figures in the deficit list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Local residents protest against risky Jharia-Dhanbad road||Local residents of Jharia are up in arms against the dangerous condition of the accident-prone Jharia-Dhanbad road. Councillor of Ward Number 36 of Jharia, Niranaj Prasad, said, “Every day, one or two persons, particularly motorcycle riders, are falling into large potholes which become more dangerous during monsoon,” said Niranjan Prasad, Ward No.36 Councillor, adding that they will be compelled to sit on a dharna and if the situation does not improve soon. “The situation turns more difficult near the Ena Islampur area near our ward during the night and particularly during power cuts,” charged Prasad. “We have written to the authorities, including Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar but to no avail. The situation is worse at the Ena Islampur area, which is totally covered with potholes logged with rainwater, causing confusion among vehicle owners and particularly motorcycle riders,” he said, adding that erroneous planning and unscrupulous execution were responsible for the current condition of the area. The stretch near Ena Islampur, part of the 25.71km Bank More Sindri Road started developing potholes less than six months after the completion of broadening and strengthening work carried out in 2017. “There is an underlying water supply pipeline of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) beneath the road, which had not been properly shifted before the work carried out by the road construction department via contractor Balkrishna Bhalotia in 2015-16,” said Prasad. “Thus, due to leakages in the pipeline the road often gets damaged” he said, and added that the construction of a divider is also erroneous as it does not allow the water to recede from the road and creates water logging. “Ideally there should also have been the provision of drains besides the road to allow the water to pass instead of getting accumulated on the road,” said Prasad. Heavy blasting carried out in adjoining collieries near the road also leads to development of leakages in the pipeline, he said. “We are working on a comprehensive proposal of around 80 crore for the strengthening of road from Bank More to Bengal Border or the 40km stretch which is part of National Highway 218. But before the proposal gets sanctioned we will carry out a temporary repair prior to Durga Puja as soon as the monsoon ends,” said executive engineer of National Highway, Amarendra Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Two nurses make a big difference in Covid Care Centre in Palamau||Two nurses working at the Covid Care Centre (CCC) in the Palamau Medical College and Hospital in Daltonganj are making the place ‘friendly’ and inviting the respect of inmates. Renulata Kujur and Magdelina Kujur come from ordinary families, says civil surgeon John F Kennedy, and are always ready to treat Covid patients there. “These two go to the beds of patients and enquire about their health and give advice for medicines and food,” said the civil surgeon. “Their professional bonding with patients in the CCC helps them to recover fast,” he said. Kennedy said a large number of police officers are being admitted to the CCC after testing Covid positive. “However, a cop is a cop no matter where they are, and their body language is always tough and terse,” he said. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kennedy said that a majority of healthcare staff at the risk of being infected try to keep themselves at bay from patients as far as possible, adding that most of their work is done from the doorstep. “Renulata and Magdelina’s faces are quite popular among Covid positive patients here,” he said. Renulata was felicitated on Independence Day. “We all stand by our staff here as they are the ones who run the CCC,” said Kennedy. He said that an official of the HDFC bank was undergoing treatment at the facility. “When he was released after testing negative twice, he was overwhelmed by the behaviour, duty and food at this CCC,” he said. VS Murari, chief manager of the PNB branch here in Daltonganj, who had had his bout of home isolation after testing positive for Covid, said, “I ask everyone doing home isolation to adhere to protocols and not digress.” Murari sharing his experiences of his home isolation with this correspondent, said, “I told myself every day I am the winner. Timely food, good rest and lots of homemade syrups can easily boost anyone’s immunity.” There are 12 Covid Care Centres in the Palamau district. Kennedy said there are 435 beds for Covid positive patients, and that until August 23, 33,691 tests have been carried out. The rate of active cases a day here in Palamau on an average is between 400 to 450 patients and on some days, it sees a big slump as well. There have been four Covid casualties in Palamau so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||8 cops, including ASI, suspended for liquor fiasco in Covid hospital||Dhanbad district administration has suspended eight policemen, including an assistant sub-inspector, while the management of the Covid hospital served showcause notices to a doctor, two nurses and a ward boy after it was revealed that a prisoner consumed liquor inside the healthcare unit. The suspension orders and the notices were issued late on Sunday night after a team of officials led by Dhanbad SDO Raj Maheshwaram visited the Dedicated Covid Hospital within the Central Hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar and ordered a probe into the circumstances under which the prisoner was supposedly drink liquor inside the hospital. Photographs of the prisoner, drinking from what looked like a liquor bottle, went viral on social media on Saturday night leading to an outcry. It was also tagged to the chief minister, who asked the local deputy commissioner to initiate an inquiry. An FIR has also been lodged at Katras police station against the prisoner for drinking in the hospital, and his friend for circulating the photographs. Among the suspended policemen are ASI Surendra Oraon, constable Bhagi Oraon and chowkidar Bhim Karmakar of Katras police station. Others facing the axe are those who were responsible for security at the dedicated Covid hospital, namely, havildar Om Prakash Mishra, constables Kuldip Oraon, Gulab Chaudhary, Bhola Oraon and Dukhraj Oraon. Going by the report of SDO Maheshwaram, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh asked SSP Akhilesh B. Verior to take strict disciplinary action against the named policemen particularly for having failed to recover the liquor bottle from the hospital. Singh also asked officials of Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) that manages the Covid hospital to take disciplinary action against the duty doctors and nurses, including Sanjay Mishra and sisters Kiran Kumari and Sarda Kumari, besides ward boy Shankar. But Katras police station ASI Surendra Oraon said it was unfair to blame police for the incident. “The police team of Katras, after arresting the criminal, got him tested for Covid and handed him over to the authorities at the Covid hospital. Hence, the police cannot be held responsible for the conduct of the prisoner, who drank liquor in the hospital,” Oraon said. Maheshwaram explained the prisoner was subjected to a rapid antigen test for Covid as per norms on Saturday. Once he tested positive, he was sent to the dedicated Covid hospital. He, however, tested negative for Covid after an RTPCR confirmatory test was conducted on Sunday. The prisoner, a resident of Shiv Muhalla locality of Katras, was questioned by the SDO and Baghmara DSP Nitin Khandelwal in the presence of the nodal officer of the Covid Hospital Dr Vishwakarma. “During questioning, the prisoner said he requested a constable to loosen his handcuffs as he wanted to take a bath. That is how the handcuffs came off,” said Dr Vishwakarma. Asked how he could organise liquor in the hospital, the SDO said he had asked Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) officials who run the hospital to better administer the premises. “We have asked them to note details of all those coming to the hospital to meet patients,” the SDO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid patients being given anti-anxiety pills to aid sleep, stabilise heart rate||Doctors at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi are relying on anti-anxiety pills to treat stress-induced sleeplessness and panic in some Covid-19 patients under their charge. The pills, generally prescribed to people suffering from anxiety disorders, depression and insomnia, are only administered to those patients who were overwhelmed by the fear of death after testing positive for the SARS-COV-2 virus, doctors said. “We have some patients who are facing psychological issues induced by the fear of not being able to survive the infection. Most of them have not shown any symptoms of the virus, but are suffering from sleeplessness and panic attacks,” said the coordinator of Covid-19 task force at RIMS, Dr. Prabhat Kumar, on Monday. However, the administration of anti-anxiety drugs such as benzodiazepine and alprazolam was not only aimed at providing relief to patients from stress, but also to ensure that their heart rate does not shoot up due to anxiety, doctors said. The viral infection, they added, affected the functioning of lungs, and an anxiety-induced elevation in heart rate of a patient may cause further complications or even death. “We are administering anti-anxiety pills to about 2 to 3 per cent of patients in our ward every day. There were some patients who needed the pills initially, but they were stable even without medications later,” said Dr. Kumar. Another hypothesis that supports the administration of psychotropic drugs to some Covid patients was the relation between cortisol level and its effect on the immune system of a person. Cortisol is stress hormone, which shoots up when a person is scared, anxious or in stress. Since a person’s immune system plays the most important role in recovering from the viral infection, doctors say that keeping cortisol level low was essential in effective treatment. While cases of anxiety, depression and mood disorders have increased among healthy individuals across the country during the pandemic, the psychological symptoms are aggravated when a person suffering from some or the other mental disorder gets infected by Covid-19 virus, say psychiatrists. “Mood disorders were common in kin of Covid patients, so we can imagine the extent to which it affects the patient,” said Dr Siddharth Sinha, senior resident at Ranchi Institute of Neuropsychiatry and Allied Sciences (RINPAS). As per government records, the Covid tally in Jharkhand crossed the 30,000 mark this week and the tally in Ranchi alone was above 5,000. The increase in the number of cases has also triggered an increase in mental health issues, say doctors, adding that the best way to deal with the infection was to have a methodical approach and not panic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Nearly 1000 cases take tally above 30,000||Nearly 1000 fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the tally in the tribal state above 30,000, data released by the health department stated. As per government figures, Ranchi and East Singhbhum, the two worst-affected districts in the state, accounted for more than 40 per cent of the cases reported on Sunday. At least 257 cases of Covid infection took the tally in Ranchi to 5680, while 146 fresh cases took the tally in East Singhbhum to 5088, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Sunday late evening. As per figures with the health department, both these districts have more than 2000 active cases of SARS-COV-2 infection. The notorious virus has not even spared VIPs and ministers in Jharkhand. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh has become the third member of the Cabinet in Jharkhand to get infected by Covid-19. Patralekh was found infected on Saturday. State health minister Banna Gupta was found infected last week, while state drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur tested positive for the virus in July. At least four Jharkhand MLAs, including former minister CP Singh and AJSU Party chief, have also been infected by the virus so far. East Singhbhum on Sunday reported five of the seven Covid deaths in Jharkhand, which took the toll in the district alone to 134. As per government data, as many as 318 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand and nearly 40 per cent of the victims were from East Singhbhum – a district that boasts Steel City Jamshedpur and several industrial areas. 754 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Sunday, taking the state’s Covid recovery rate to 66.72 per cent, data released by the health department highlighted. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate had dropped below 35 per cent in July. However, it improved in the month of August and officials attributed the change in figures to better treatment. The national Covid recovery rate was 74.80 per cent by the time this report was filed. Out of the 30,178 people who have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand, at least 20,136 have recovered, states government data. There were 9724 active cases of infection in Jharkhand at the time of filing of this report. The government has so far collected 5.7 lakh swab samples and tested 5.6 lakh of them. On Sunday, 11,368 samples were tested and 967 of them came positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
