25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ailing Shibu Soren leaves for Delhi by Rajdhani Express||Rajya Sabha MP and JMM patriarch Shibu Soren, who tested Covid positive last week, left for New Delhi on Tuesday evening by Bubaneshwar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express from Bokaro in a special coach that was attached to the train. The 76-year-old, who was admitted in Ranchi’s Medanta Hospital on Monday, will reach New Delhi on Wednesday from where he is scheduled to travel to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram by road, sources said. Soren Senior and his wife Roopi were kept in home isolation after testing positive for the virus. However, the Soren family decided to admit Shibu in Medanta Hospital as a precautionary measure on Monday. “Guruji undergoes his regular health check-up at Medanta in Gurugram. So, we decided to keep him under observation of doctors who have treated him so far,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. “A team of doctors will assist him during the journey to New Delhi and to Gurugram from there,” he added. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who was busy supervising proceedings at Medanta Hospital in Ranchi, accompanied his father to Bokaro railway station from where the train left at 7.40pm. However, Hemant did not accompany his father and stayed back in Jharkhand. There were as many as 15 people, including a doctor, two medical attendants, a DSP and nine security personnel, his assistant and a close aide, who accompanied Guruji in the special AC First Class coach. Soren Senior boarded the train with the help of his attendants. Local officials, including Bokaro deputy commissioner and SP, were present at the station. A huge number of people, including JMM cadres and political leaders, had gathered at the station, making it difficult for officials to maintain social distancing. Hemant said after his father tested positive (on August 21), there was a backlog in his routine check-up for which he was being shifted to Medanta in Gurugram. “With your good wishes he will defeat Covid-19 and some back home soon,” the chief minister said and appealed to the gathering to follow Covid-19 protocols. “The government is taking all possible efforts to contain the Covid-19 virus,” he added. In Ranchi, Soren was treated by Dr Tapas Kumar. Doctors here found that his oxygen saturation level was 93. The former two-time chief minister has had a history of age-related ailments. He is also under medication for cardiac issues. A donor named Lalu Kumar Yadav of Jharkhand Police, who recently overcame Covid-19 infection, was scheduled to donate blood for Shibu Soren’s plasma therapy. However, the Soren family decided to shift him to Gurugram before the therapy could begin, doctors said. Coronavirus has infected members of the political fraternity across India, and Jharkhand was no different. State drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur and JMM’s Tundi legislator Mathura Mahto tested positive last month. Earlier this month, health minister Gupta, AJSU Party chief and former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto, and Congress party’s Mahagama MLA Deepika Singh tested positive for Covid-19. AJSU Party’s Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Ranchi MLA CP Singh were also found infected by the notorious virus. Chief minister Hemant Soren has been tested as many as thrice. But he has remained safe so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Lack of income pushes another barber to suicide||After a barber died by suicide in Khuntadih, another barber took his own life by jumping into the Subernarekha river. Jodhi Thakur (42), a resident of Kunj Nagar in Sonari, left his house on Friday afternoon, informing his wife Sarita Devi that he will return home soon. When he did not turn up, family members searched for him throughout Friday, eventually lodging a missing person report with the Sonari thana next morning. Family members received a call from the Sonari police and were asked to go to Ghatsila sub-divisional hospital morgue to identify a body recovered from the Subarnarekha river.  The family members rushed to the Ghatsila hospital morgue, about 50 kms away from the city, and identified the body. OC, Ghatshila thana, Ravi Ranjan said the body was found floating in the Subernarekha along Amiyo Nagar in Ghatshila on Sunday afternoon. "After recovering the body we got a post-mortem done, and it was found to be a drowning case in the initial autopsy report.  As it was an unidentified body, we kept it in the morgue for getting it disposed of after 72 hours, per protocol. In between we came to know that a 42-year-old man with a matching description was missing from Sonari area since Friday afternoon.  We then informed Sonari thana," Ranjan told The Telegraph Online. OC, Sonari thana, Renu Gupta said "from the preliminary investigation, it appears to be a case of suicide. We are still probing the case." The deceased used to run a salon at Panchavati Nagar in Sonari and would stay at a rented accommodation in adjoining Kunj Nagar.  As his salon, which was also a rented space, shut down since the past five months due to the lockdown, he had become penniless. Thakur’s wife Sarita Devi said they got their daughter married in January this year, having taken loans from the market and relatives. "We had planned to clear the loans gradually, but from April the lockdown began. The lockdown was lifted from other services, but it continues to be imposed on salons. As a result, the source of income stopped. We have not been able to pay the rent for the salon and also for the residence since the past four months.  Absence of any income was the main cause which led my husband to take such a drastic step.  He must have jumped into Subarnarekha from the Domuhahi bridge as it was hardly one km away from the house," she told The Telegraph Online. The barber community is in shock with two suicides in one week. SK Prabhat, secretary, Jharkhand Nai Jagruti Manch, has demanded the state government pay Rs 10 lakh to the family members of the two barbers. "After three months of lockdown, the state government opened up almost every business activity in June except salons. The state government hasn’t made any special provision for barbers, whose sources of livelihood have been depleted.  The suicides are a result of this," Prabhat said in a press statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Sindri has had enough, residents want better civic amenities ||Residents of Sindri, one of the oldest industrial towns of the country, are fed up with the poor state of basic amenities, including regular disruption in power and water supply, bad roads and piles of garbage. Residents held a demonstration on Tuesday under the banner of CPI(M) in support of a 10-point charter of demands that include regular sprinkling of bleaching powder across colonies, immediate repair of over 80km of roads within the township, installation of street lights, regular supply of water and the renovation of the town’s only crematorium. A meeting of residents was also held under the chairmanship of former public relation officer of Sindri, Sewa Singh, who is also president of All India FCI VSS employees Association. They said it was hard to imagine that a Rs 6,500cr fertiliser factory is coming up at the site of the old Fertiliser Corporation of India (FCI) factory which closed down in 2002. President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce Deepak Kumar said Sindri used to be one of the best townships of the country during the heydays of FCI. “We would get water supplied five times in 24 hours and there was regular electricity too. It was also one of the cleanest towns,” he said. Kumar, who is also the president of a citizens’ organization called Sindri Bachao Morcha, said things turned bad after the factory shut down in 2002. “Things have turned worse as Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC), which came into existence more than 10 years ago, could barely manage to maintain water and power supply,” he said. Dhanbad corporation was no longer able to execute cleanliness drills because of which Sindri town had turned into one big garbage dumping ground. “This adds to the risk in the time of a pandemic. And organisations like FCI and DMC are busy blaming each other,” he added. FCI general manager Ravi Kant Prasad said, “Since DMC is collecting taxes from households and operating here, road repairs, cleanliness and installation of streetlights are its responsibilities. We, on the other hand, are looking after water supply and general maintenance.” Executive officer of DMC’s Sindri circle Mina Minz blamed the people of the town for littering the area. “Garbage is being collected by a Hyderabad-based agency, Ramky Enviro Engineers, as a part of a solid waste management project. But lack of awareness among people is also responsible to an extent for the town remaining dirty,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Finally, Atal vendors’ market to open from Wednesday ||Atal Smriti Vendors’ Market, home to over 500 small traders selling everything from shoes to stationery items and cosmetics, will finally reopen from Wednesday after having stayed shut for five months ever since a lockdown was imposed in the state to stem the spread of the coronavirus. While the state government allowed the gradual opening of almost all business establishments barring a few, the vendors’ market near Jaipal Singh Stadium continued to remain under lock and key adding to the woes of traders. They have been holding protests ever since, the last time on Monday when some vendors staged a dharna near the market complex displaying empty plates to signal their family’s hunger at a time when earnings have dried up. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayvargiya announced on Tuesday that they would open the market from Wednesday. “We got a nod from the district administration on Tuesday, but a host of dos and don’ts will have to be followed as safety precautions. All vendors including visitors to the market will have to mandatorily comply with the prescribed norms such as maintaining proper physical distancing, use of masks and sanitisers at every shop, maintaining hygiene in and around the complex, among others,” he said. Since morning, RMC deployed about half a dozen workers to sanitise the area while technicians were busy installing/repairing CCTV cameras at the market where more than 500 big and small vendors sell items ranging from footwear to stationary, home décor, blankets, cosmetics and clothes. Md Kalimuddin, a vendor who sells footwear, said, “We are happy to resume business from Wednesday. In the last five months, we have suffered a lot. While roadside vendors in other parts of the city went about their business about a month back, we were forced to keep our businesses shut as this market was closed and all our stocks were inside.” Raju Gope, a blanket seller, added that although he began selling his products on a road near Kutchery Chowk it didn’t yield much because of various issues.  “One can’t directly set of up shop on the roadside anywhere as existing sellers in the area tend to create lots of problems. Moreover, during rains, doing business on the road isn’t easy. At the vendor market, I have a dedicated place to sit,” he said, hoping to witness business normalcy soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||This senior citizen runs for passion, this time it’s for Covid ||Come Sunday Achinto Pramanik will once again prove that is age only a number when it comes to stamina and endurance. The 67-year-old resident of Gamharia in Seraikela-Kharsawan, who has proved his mettle in National Masters Athletics Championships on more than one occasion, will lead a 20-member team to run all the way to Deori temple on the Jamshedpur-Ranchi stretch of NH-33 on Sunday, August 30, to spread awareness on  Covid-19. “We are all fitness enthusiasts, and we have chosen the run to spreading awareness about the coronavirus pandemic and the dos and don’ts that need to be practiced to stay safe,” Pramanik said. The sexagenarian said the run was being organised by the Gamharia-based Adventure Athletics Group (AAG). “We thought of organising the relay run at a time when our country is in the grip of a deadly virus. We will distribute masks and pamphlets to people on the way to the temple,” Pramanik, who happens to be the secretary of AAG, said. The pamphlets, he explained, would mention Covid-19 dos and don’ts, including the need to use sanitisers, wash hands, wear masks, maintain social distancing, avoid crowded places. “We decided to do our bit for an important and relevant cause,” he added. According to Pramanik, the participants of the event will run on a rotation basis. “We will be heading to Deori temple by pillion riding 10 motorbikes. “A participant will run for 5km while the other would drive the bike and vice-versa,” he said, adding that they would start at 6.30 am. The AAG has also organised similar runs to Calcutta, Puri, Rajrappa, Dalma hills and Hathikheda temple in East Singhbum to spread awareness about pollution, cleanliness and environment. Pramanik’s daily fitness regime includes a 20-km run, gym visits, besides trekking the Dalma hills periodically. Running comes to him from within and, except for the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown, Pramanik has seldom skipped running. He secured first position in the 25-km run under-65 and above age category at the fifth edition of Tata Steel Kolkata 25k run-a-thon in December, 2018. The lanky athlete finished the race in 2:09:15 seconds to walk home with a medal and Rs 20,000 cash prize. He has also claimed a gold (200m steeplechase), silver (800m) and bronze (1500m) at the national event held in Panjim, Goa in 2015. He also slotted home three golds (200m steeplechase, 800m and 1500m) and a silver (4x400 m relay) at the national meet held in Hyderabad in 2017. The master athlete runs a grocery shop near his home and lives on a frugal diet. He has missed representing the country in international masters’ athletics competitions for not being able to find a sponsor. Yet, he continues to participate in national events and win medals for Jharkhand. “It doesn’t matter that I have not represented my country but I will continue to pursue my passion. Besides winning medals in national competitions, I will continue the exercise for a cause. The relay run to Deori temple is also an effort for a cause,” Pramanik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Over 3,600 policemen infected, 7 dead in three months in Jharkhand  ||As many as 3,640 cops, including three SPs, have been found Covid-positive in Jharkhand so far and seven of them could not survive the infection, officials from the police headquarters in Ranchi said on Tuesday. As per figures with the police headquarters, drivers account for more than 60 per cent of the total Covid cases reported in the police department. At least 2,463 of the 3,640 infected policemen were drivers, officials said. Constables form the largest ratio of infected cops after drivers. As per police data, at least 408 constables, 118 grade four staff and 49 Home Guard personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far, forcing the department to take precautionary measures to prevent further spread of the virus among cops and commoners who come in contact with policemen. IG (provision) Suman Gupta said that instructions had been given to all SPs to ensure proper treatment of the infected cops. “We have set up a dedicated isolation centre for policemen in Ranchi’s Visthapit Colony, where their health is regularly monitored. These policemen are also served nutritious food and administered medicines regularly,” said Gupta, who is the spokesperson for Jharkhand police. Several police stations across the state, including five in Ranchi alone, were sealed since June after cops started testing positive for the SARS-COV-2 virus. The first policeman to die of Covid-19 infection was a 50-year-old sub-inspector from Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) in Ranchi, who was diabetic. Since his death on July 26, the police department has lost six more personnel to the virus. “There is no officer ranked personnel among the seven policemen who died of the viral infection,” said Gupta, adding that all the deceased were above 40 and suffered from some or the other comorbidities. There are more than 1 lakh policemen in Jharkhand, and the department has kept a team of cops in reserve to perform the duties of those who are infected. “Our men are working in the field every day and getting infected while performing their duty. We are taking all necessary steps to minimise the spread of the coronavirus among policemen on duty as staying at home is not an option for us,” said Gupta. As per data with the police department, the recovery rate among cops is better than Jharkhand’s all-round Covid recovery rate of 67.56 per cent. Out of the 3,640 cops who were infected, at least 2,761 have recovered and not reported any symptoms of a relapse or subsequent ailments. There were 872 active cases of infection in the department when this report was filed on Tuesday. In wake of the rapidly growing infection in the police department, the government had on July 13 sanctioned Rs 33 lakh to buy protective gear for policemen on duty. All policemen in Ranchi and other major cities of Jharkhand were provided with face shields, which provides better protection than masks, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jackichand happy to play for a football loving city like Jamshedpur||The steel city seems to have caught the imagination of Jackichand Singh, one of the prized acquisitions of Jamshedpur FC. The 28-year-old star winger, also known as Jacki, will miss the fans in Jamshedpur this ISL season but promised to meet them next year when hopefully the Covid pandemic would be a thing of the past. The cash-rich tournament will be played in Goa in November this time. “Jamshedpur has a good football history. People love football there. Tata Football Academy has been in Jamshedpur for over 30 years now and I hear there is a tournament named JSA (Jamshedpur Sporting Association) league that has been there for over 75 years. And I remember, when I was playing for FC Goa and used to visit Jamshedpur, the fans would come to watch training and chant my name. I am very keen to visit the place but the situation does not permit me,” Jackichand said. Speaking on the phone from Keikol, his village in Manipur, the winger said Jamshedpur FC is very hungry to get to the play-offs. “I am going to give it my all to reach that stage. This year the tournament is happening in Goa and so I won't be able to see the fans. But hopefully this Covid situation will be over by next year and I will be able to see them then. I will really miss the fans.” he says. On Jamshedpur not being able to reach play-offs for the past three seasons and whether the scenario will change with his joining the squad, Jackichand said: “ Yes, I absolutely hope so. And even though JFC haven’t reached play-offs, they did always have a good team. I feel in the last two years with FC Goa, I have faced Jamshedpur multiple times and they always gave good competition, except for the last match where Goa beat them 5-0. JFC have won twice, drawn one and lost one when I was with Goa. My aim is to ensure we will be even better than this year.” On the story behind his name, he said his parents were fans of actor Jacki Chan and that’s how they kept his name. “Even I didn’t know this till I was 13. I was playing Subroto Cup under-14 and during an interview, the media asked me to call and ask my parents the reason behind my name and that is when they revealed that it has been kept after the legendary actor,” the international recalled. On being asked if it is difficult for him to stay away from his family most of the time, he said, “Yes, it is difficult but now I am accustomed to it. It’s been like this since I was a teenager playing in Armed Boys Sports Academy in Shillong. Being away from family would make me feel alone and it was difficult. But as I grew and became a professional, the situation improved and I started accepting this,” Jackichand said. Asked what he does when he is not training, he said: “ A long time back, a coach told me that you train for two hours a day only but you also have to take care of yourself for the remaining 22 hours of the day. I still follow this rule. I keep a check on what I eat, on my post-training recovery, gym etc. Of course, when I am at home, some eating restrictions automatically go for a toss but otherwise, during the season, the diet and nutrition is very strict. In the past few years, our country has seen a good amount of scientific work going into helping athletes perform to their best by eating and living a healthy lifestyle.” On leaving Goa, Jackichand said it was a personal decision. “They (Goa) were successful and will be playing AFC Champions League and I wish them the best for that. I joined JFC because I have been given a great review about the city in terms of football. It’s a proper football city. The people in Jamshedpur live and breathe football. The facilities are amazing and the weather is perfect for the game,” he signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||21-year-old shot dead in Hazaribagh||A 21-year-old youth was shot dead on Sunday night in Kasiyadih village of Katkamsandi block in Hazaribagh. Nikki Pandey went to the market to purchase groceries in the evening at around 7pm. His parents kept waiting for him but he didn’t return till 10pm. At 10:30pm, his father accompanied by local villagers started a search for him. Soon they found his dead body lying in a pool of blood near a crematorium, a kilometre from the house. Police was informed after which the dead body was sent for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Police team visited the spot in the morning. An assistant sub-inspector who was on the spot said three bullets pumped by the killers into his body, one in head and other two in stomach. According to him, circumstances confirmed that Nikki was killed when he was on way to his house from his bike. Officials said the way Nikki was killed suggested some serious issue between him and the killers. Police are working different angles. Chalkusa police found the dead body of a 25-year-old on Monday morning. Ramjanam Singh was a resident of Jai nagar in Koderma district. Police said his face has serious injuries indicating that he was murdered. Police said they were trying to establish contact with his parents after which investigation will move ahead. The dead body was sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital for postmortem. Mohammad Junaid, 13, committed suicide on Monday evening in his house at Chudihar mohalla of Chatra town. Junaid's father Mohammad Abadullah Ansari is a para teacher. Junaid's mother went into his room at 8pm after he didn't reply to her call and found him hanging from the ceiling fan. Junaid,was taken to Sadar hospital but he was declared dead on arrival. Family members said they have no idea as why he committed suicide. BJP leader Sunil Ram died in a road accident while returning to his residence in Telaiya town on Sunday night. Ram was in the stone chips business in Koderma. Police officials said he was returning to his Bishunpur residence at around 11:30pm when his car overturned at Maheshpur chowk. Locals pulled him out of the car and took him to Parvati nursing home. Doctors declared him dead on arrival. BJP district president Nitesh Chandravanshi termed his death an unfortunate incident and a loss to the party. He was a nice man and a social worker beside an active leader of the party, he added. Godda police is yet to achieve any breakthrough in connection to the rape and murder of a 14 year old deaf and mute girl Balbada police station area. The victim’s body was found on Sunday morning from a government school campus in Simanpur village. Godda SP Y.S. Ramesh said that investigations were underway and they are taking help from forensic experts to crack clues to nab the culprit. He however said that four persons have been detained on Sunday night on initial suspicion and questioning is underway. “The case will be cracked soon,” he said. Altogether 71 persons were discharged today from different Covid Treatment facilities of Dhanbad including 39 from dedicated Covid health centre at zonal training institute of railway at Bhuli, 31 from Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad and 1 from Jagjivan Nagar. The discharged persons will have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. A CBI court on Monday provided relief to former Urban Developement Minister of Jharkhand Bachcha Singh  in connection with a case of forcible release of his younger brother, Ramadhir Singh from police Custody in Jharia. Bachcha Singh, who was then Urban Developement Minister of Jharkhand forcibly released Ramadhir Singh when a Police team arrested him from trade union, Janta Mazdoor Sangh office of Jharia in2003 in connection with the murder case of a coal trader. The CBI court while hearing the appeal of Bachcha Singh, quashed an earlier order of the Court of Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate of Dhanbad of Shikha Agarwal of March 20 which awarded him one year of rigorous imprisonment.  Singh was on bail in the case. The court however could not provide relief to Ramadhir Singh who was also awarded the same punishment by same court. Ramadhir is already serving a jail term for the last three years in connection with the murder case of trade union leader, Vinod Singh in Hotwar Jail. Supporters of Janta Mazdoor Sangh (Bachcha Singh faction) and Baghmara MLA, Dhullu Mahto on Monday clashed at View Point Coal Patch of private mining company Dhansar Engineering Company. The incident took place over the issue of war of supremacy. Janta Mazdoor Sangh has called for a bandh in the mining patch while Dhullu Mahto supporters were demanding uninterrupted operation in the Colliery. Baghmara DSP, Nitin Khandelwal who reached the site said "some gunshots were fired from both the sides but nobody was injured in the incident and our priority at present is maintaining  normalcy”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Push for tribal languages in Jharkhand||Intellectuals have welcomed the move of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren to seek the inclusion of three major tribal languages of the state in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Soren wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday requesting him to include Mundari, Ho and Kurukh languages spoken by Munda, Ho and Oraon communities respectively, in the Eighth Schedule. Jharkhand has already recognised them as second official languages of the state and is committed to their development, Soren said in his letter. Among the four major tribal languages of the state, Santhali, which is also spoken by the Santhal community in other states such as Bengal, Odisha and Assam, was included in the Eighth Schedule in 2003. “Inclusion in the Eighth Schedule gives a language a national status that helps in a number of ways,” said Hari Oraon, head of tribal and regional languages department of Ranchi University. “Once a language is included in the Eighth Schedule, the Sahitya Akademi also recognises it and promotes literary activities in that language, besides giving awards that helps in creation of good and recognised literary works,” he said. “Once done (including the languages in the Eighth Schedule), the youths of the state who aspire to join civil services are also likely get a chance to opt for one of these languages as a subject in the UPSC examinations,” he added. “The scope for children to continue studies in these languages will increase significantly, facilitating chances for educated youths to get employed as teachers in these languages, as it happened in the case of Santhali,” said Krishna Devgam, a Chaibasa teacher who speaks Ho. “Yes, recognition surely helps promote good literary works. I wish these languages were also included in the Eighth Schedule," said Madan Mohan Soren, a Santhali writer and a member of the Sahitya Akademi. “The Akademi offers four literary awards every year and that certainly encourages the writers,” said the Jamshedpur-based writer. The awards are given for overall best literary work in the language, best work by a young writer, best translation work and best children’s literature, he added. “Inclusion of these languages in the Eighth Schedule will help the tribals shrug off the feeling of backwardness and instil in them a sense of confidence,” said Mahadev Toppo, a Hindi writer who speaks Kurukh. “By not pursuing studies in their mother tongue, the tribals have been mostly alienated from their own languages,” he said, adding the recognition of a scheduled language will immensely help in the revival of tribal culture. “Now many have started appreciating ethnic dresses and tribal food habits,” Toppo said. “More such things would flourish when the traditional wisdom of the tribals spread in their folktales and folklores are revealed through research and publication in their own languages,” he said. Asked why the second official language status in the state could not yield the desired results in promoting these tribal languages, the intellectuals said some progress has been made but there could have been a gap in planning and its implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
