26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid treatment charges capped at Rs 18,000 a day in private hospitals||Private hospitals in Jharkhand will not be able to charge more than Rs18,000 per day from a Covid patient irrespective of the severity of his/her medical condition, officials of the state health department said on Wednesday, minutes after holding a high-level meeting to decide the upper limit of treatment  charges. “The districts as well as private hospitals have been divided in categories, depending on which the charge has been decided. For example, Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro fall in category A, and the maximum charge in hospitals for Covid patients in these districts can go up to Rs 18,000 per day,” said state health director Ravi Shankar Shukla. “Similarly, hospitals have been divided in two categories depending on their accreditation,” he added. Later in the day, the health department issued an official notification stating that Hazaribagh, Palamau, Deoghar, Seraikela, Ramgarh and Giridih fall in category B, while the remaining 14 districts are in category C. The maximum charge for Covid treatment in private hospitals, as per the notification, was even lower in the districts in category B and C. As per the notification, in category B districts, hospitals can charge a maximum of Rs14,400 from Covid patients, while in category C, the maximum charge is even lower at Rs10,800 per day. The upper limits of daily charges is for patients who are severely ill and need to be put on ventilators in an intensive care unit (ICU). The charges will also vary depending on whether a private hospital is accredited under the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals (NABH) or not. The upper limit for a non-NABH hospital in category A districts has been set at Rs 15,000 per day. The limit is Rs12,000 in category B districts and Rs 9,000 in category C districts for non-NABH hospitals. The government has not only put a cap on the charges for severely ill Covid patients, but also for patients who are asymptomatic and only need isolation and basic care. For asymptomatic patients, the charge in an NABH accredited hospital cannot go above Rs 6,000 per day in a category A district. The cap is Rs 5,500 in category B districts and Rs 5,000 in category C. Non-NABH hospitals will charge Rs 500 less in category A and category B districts, and only Rs 4,000 per day in category C districts. A Covid patient undergoing treatment in an ICU without a ventilator will have to pay not more than Rs15,000 a day in an NABH hospital of a category A district. The patient, however, will have to pay Rs 2,000 less if the hospital is non-NABH. Similarly, a patient in ICU without a ventilator in category B district will have to pay not more than Rs 12,000 for NABH hospital and Rs 10,400 for a non-NABH hospital. The government decision comes a day after the Opposition BJP threatened a statewide stir against exorbitant charges of Covid treatment in private hospitals. BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo welcomed the government’s move and attributed the regulation of hospital charges to the BJP’s extensive campaign against private hospitals. “Our party has raised this issue on different platforms, and eventually, the government had to come up with a regulation on hospital charges,” he said. Earlier in June, the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI), the umbrella body for many private hospitals across India, had decided an upper limit of Rs 35,000 per day on the expenditure for treatment of Covid patients in a private facility. However, several patients have complained of exorbitant charges in private hospitals across Jharkhand and accused the hospitals of taking undue advantage of the situation. The president of AHPI, Yogesh Gambhir, said that private hospitals would have to follow the government’s directive. “We will get to know about the feasibility once we start charging as per the notification,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar and Dumka temples to open, but only for state residents||The Jharkhand government has decided to allow Baba Baidyanath Dham of Deoghar and the Basukinath temple in Dumka to reopen for darshan for four hours a day but only for residents of the state. Based on the latest order, issued on Wednesday by the state home, prison and disaster management department, officials in Deoghar indicated that it would take a day or two to finalise norms and reopen the temple. Joint secretary of the department Manish Tiwari said, “As per the state government’s decision, darshan at the two temples will only be for residents of Jharkhand. The number of persons permitted for darshan shall not exceed 50 per hour in Deoghar and 40 per hour in Dumka. Most importantly, darshan will be permitted only for four hours a day.” He said the temple managements have been asked to preferably issue online permits and ensure devotees adhere to all the standard operating protocols prescribed by government of India in view of the ongoing pandemic. A Deoghar district administration official said the temple was expected to open within a day or two. “Although we had readied all groundwork in advance for regulating entry, we were waiting for the state government’s order. It may take a day or two for the temples to allow darshan as we need to finalise some last-minute preparations,” he said. As of now, only pandas, or servitors associated with the temple, were allowed entry to the temples to perform daily rituals. The state government had ordered the closure of the temples at Deoghar and Dumka, along with several other big and small religious places, ever since the nationwide lockdown was announced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Subsequently, restrictions were withdrawn gradually in phases. But the Jharkhand government continued its stay on religious activities, including the famed annual Shravani mela in Deoghar, in view of the steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. Baidyanath Dham in Deoghar was only allowed to open for small groups of devotees for about eight hours on the occasion Rakshabandhan that coincided with the last day of the month of Shravan following a nudge to the state by the Supreme Court in response to a PIL filed by BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||180 toilets under Dhanbad Municipal Corporation lying non-functional||Presenting a contrasting picture of the state government’s Covid hygiene claims, as many as 180 toilets spread over five circles of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation are lying non-functional due to various issues like poor maintenance, lack of cleanliness, and lack of water supply. Worse is the condition of over 67 modular toilets, which are lying either locked or unused ever since their establishment more than two years ago. Expressing disgust over the situation, Ashok Pal, councillor of Ward Number 20 said the direness of the situation is compelling many roadside shopkeepers to urinate and defecate in the open since the existing community toilet near the Rajendra Sarovar park was removed two years ago due to pond beautification. Three single unit toilet blocks had been placed instead of the community toilet which always remained closed. “While a majority of modular toilets are lying locked, others have become non-unusable due to broken taps and commodes, lack of proper electricity etc,” said Pal and added the proper maintenance of these toilets by deputing caretakers to ensure regular cleaning could have solved the problem. Echoing sentiments, Ankesh Raj, councillor of Ward Number 27 of Dhanbad, said, “Creating infrastructure without proper focus of maintenance has rendered the toilets useless.” “While almost all modular toilets in our area are lying non functional, we are operating somehow with the community toilets. We have entrusted the cleanliness responsibility of one to a local resident while the other is being managed by a physically challenged person who collects a nominal charge of Rs 5 per person for each use and carries out cleanliness work on his own,” said Raj. The positioning of of modular toilets, he said, has also been made in such unplanned manner that they have been placed in such area where they inaccessible, in stead of being placed in densely populated areas like marketplaces where the people need them most. Vijay Sao, a roadside tea shop owner revealed the story of modular toilets lying unusable beside his shop. “Initially after the toilets were installed, it remained locked for more than a year. After it opened, some anti-social elements including the operator of an adjoining pay and use public toilet broke the tap and commode turning it non-functional. He thought that a free toilet in his vicinity will render his pay-and-use toilet useless and affect his income,” he said. 67 of the 180 toilets in five circles of the DMC area including Dhanbad, Jharia, Sindri, Katras and Chhatand are modular toilets. 68 community toilets and 45  public toilets. While the public toilets being managed by Sulabh International are in a better condition, the community toilets managed by DMC through its own staff are in not so. Repeated efforts to contact Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner Satendra Kumar failed to yield.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city gets its first public square at Bistupur, thanks to Tatas||Tata Steel which completed 113 years on Wednesday, commemorated the occasion by gifting a Jamshedpur with its first public square at Bistupur, replete with a snack corner, fountains and a children’s corner. The square in the heart of the steel city, developed jointly with its utilities firm Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (formerly Jusco), was inaugurated virtually in keeping with Covid-19 norms. The public square also has a green buffer zone, selfie point and benches for people to relax in. The other features include landscaped islands, a food hub, a free parking zone, space for the disabled, public toilets, dustbins at regular intervals, lots of space for pedestrians and proper CCTV surveillance. "The public square will not be opened for visitors as of now. Once the pandemic is over, we will open it for the citizens," said a spokesperson of the utilities firm. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar congratulated the company and those who worked hard in making the public square a reality. “The public square is a gift to citizens and they must help maintain it,” he said, and suggesting that a graffiti corner be set up near the Bistupur police station and the Talwar Building. East Singhbhum SP Tamil Vanam also thanked Tata Steel and the utilities firm. Chanakya Choudhary, vice-president (corporate services), Tata Steel, spoke how the new facility would be a source of attraction for the people in the time to come. Tarun Daga, managing director, of the utilities firm, thanked all those who joined the virtual inauguration and all those who worked for the successful completion of the project. “Public squares are the pulsating heart of a community. More and more, new public plazas and transformed squares are emerging as a sustainable way to enhance urban liveability,” he said. It was with this in mind that the company chose Jamshedpur’s most important commercial centre, Bistupur, for the first of its kind public square, he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant joins Mamata, demands JEE-NEET be put off||Chief minister Hemant Soren demanded the deferment of JEE-NEET 2020 on Wednesday, adding to the chorus of voices, including that of his Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, opposed to holding the competitive examinations next month in the wake of the pandemic. Airing his views on a host of issues at a virtual meeting chaired by Congress’s interim president Sonia Gandhi, Hemant asked the Centre to be considerate towards students and postpone the exams for the time being even though the Supreme Court had refused to cancel them. “Exams must happen, but it should not be rushed through at a time when Covid-19 cases are rising by the day. As far as Jharkhand is concerned, we are hitting a peak with large numbers of cases being reported daily, and in such a situation, exams will only complicate matters,” the chief minister said. JEE-NEET 2020, which was originally scheduled for April, got postponed because of the nationwide lockdown. As per the fresh schedule, JEE will now be held from September 1-6 and NEET on September 13. Hemant said, “NTA has only named centres in three to four districts of Jharkhand. This means, we will be forced to ply buses and open hotels to accommodate a large number of examinees, many of whom will come with their parents. Many students from neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal come to Jharkhand to appear for the exams. “In such a situation, Covid-19 cases will grow. And as in the case of any crisis, the Centre will put the entire blame on states.” Hemant pointed out that Jharkhand was also battling a crisis of beds, ventilators and other resources to combat Covid-19 and in the event of a major spread of the virus because of the exams, the crisis will escalate. “We (Opposition) must strongly raise our voice against this before the Centre,” Hemant demanded, as Sonia and other chief ministers, like Mamata Banerjee, captain Amrinder Singh, Uddhav Thackery, listened in. Hemant also asked the Congress president to redraw the Opposition’s strategy to take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government that, he said, was to blame for derailing the country’s economy which has led to massive unemployment. “I don’t hesitate to point out that we as the Opposition haven’t been able to raise the issues effectively to counter the Union government and its anti-people policies. We have to be united and receptive towards our partners and draw up  strategies to prevent the ruling party from diverting the nation’s attention from core issues,” Hemant said, pointing to how GST, privatisation of PSUs, price rise, especially of petrol and diesel, were threatening to break the backbone of states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||College Ground to witness turnaround, thanks to JSCA||Jamshedpur’s famed College Ground will be spruced up by experts soon, courtesy a deal struck between its custodians and Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) on Tuesday to ensure that the popular venue can be used to promote cricket. Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) signed a 20-year lease agreement with Jamshedpur Co-operative College for using the ground situated near XLRI. As per the agreement, signed by JSCA president Nafiz Akhtar Khan and Jamshedpur Co-operative College principal Prof V.K. Singh, the greens will witness a major turnaround after it is prepared and managed by JSCA as per Board of Control for Cricket in India BCCI) standards. “Unavailability of grounds has always been a challenge and hindrance for us while organising domestic matches. Availability of the College Ground will help us conduct matches and promote the game in Jharkhand,” said JSCA joint secretary Rajiv Badhan. JSCA had been struggling to find an additional venue for some years now to ensure the smooth conduct of local tournaments, including JSCA league and inter-school events. The JSCA has been dependent on Keenan Stadium, Telco ground and Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Stadium in Uliyan, Kadma, for conducting local tournaments. The landmark Keenan, an international venue till 2006, was used for hosting BCCI matches, including Ranji Trophy. Sources revealed that the state cricket association has plans to construct dressing rooms for the convenience of players at the College Ground. “The dressing room plan was on for some years now, but it did not materialise in the absence of a lease agreement with the college,” one of the sources said. Cricketers were naturally appreciative of the move. “It’s a much-needed move taken by the ISCA. College Ground has become another playing venue for us. BCCI matches can also be conducted once the venue is spruced up. The venue would now be managed in a professional manner,” said Vishal Kumar who plays JSCA B-division league for a club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Thundershowers, lightning pound Jharkhand from early morning||Thundershowers, accompanied by lightning, lashed several parts of Jharkhand, including Ranchi and Jamshedpur in the wee hours of Wednesday, due to the impact of a low-pressure system. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas experienced heavy rain coupled with lightning and strong winds blowing at speeds of over 40 kmph. It started to rain at 3 am and continued for two hours, uprooting trees at several places in Jamshedpur and other parts of Kolhan. The boundary wall of Shavak Nanavati Technical Institute (SNTI) at Bistupur collapsed. However, no one was injured. The IMD observatory at Sonari in Jamshedpur recorded heavy rainfall of 88.5 mm. Arki in Khunti district recorded the highest rainfall of 94.5 mm. Simdega in southern Jharkhand recorded 82mm rain while Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum recorded over 60 mm rain. Reports of uprooting of trees and tweaking of tree branches due to the thunderstorm and heavy showers have come in from various parts of Kolhan. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and Chandil in Seraikela-Kharsawan, too, recorded heavy showers of over 50mm. Ranchi and its adjoining areas like Hindgiri and Mandar recorded around 20 mm rain. There were reports of moderate rain in Ramgarh, Bokaro, Pakur, Dhanbad and Daltonganj. Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre S.D. Kotal said southwest monsoon was active over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. "Today's thunderstorm and heavy rain in the wee hours was due to the impact of the well-marked low- pressure zone over north-west Bay of Bengal and Gangetic Bengal. The highest rainfall of over 90 mm was reported from Arki in Khunti district. Ranchi and several other places experienced rains in the wee hours," he said. Kotal said that heavy rain was expected to continue in isolated pockets of southern and western Jharkhand during the next 24 hours as the monsoon trough was passing through Jamshedpur. The forecast issued by the Ranchi Met Centre on Wednesday afternoon indicated severe lightning and thunder at a few places over Jharkhand for two days on August 29 and August 30. Statistics revealed that the rain deficit witnessed a drop of two per cent from Tuesday’s nine to seven per cent, due to a good shower show in the past 24 hours According to Met data, Jharkhand has received rainfall of 722.2 mm against a normal of 778.4 mm, a deficit of 7 per cent. Weathermen said the deficit figure would witness a further drop in the next 48 hours of rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad artists and sculptors bear the Covid brunt||Coal town artists and sculptors have had less than 10% of the usual business this year due to the Covid pandemic and lockdown. Worse is the situation of families who are traditionally engaged in idol making for several generations, their sole source of sustenance. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Abhishek alias Sonu Paul (36) son of renowned Dhanbad sculptor Dulal Paul said they used to get at least 50-55 orders during Durga Puja, but received only ten this year. “Apart from Dhanbad, we would get orders from Biharsarif, Koderma and China Kori in Asansol and a majority of our idols would range from eight feet to 15 feet. They were worth Rs 1,800 to Rs 20,000, but this year we received orders for 4-5 feet idols worth around Rs 8000 to 10000,” said Paul, adding that he cannot pay the five workers from Bengal with this year’s income. “All 15 of our Ganesha idols remained unsold this year, incurring huge losses for us. So far, we have received only five orders for Vishwakarma Puja scheduled on September 17, much lesser than usual order of over 20 idols last year,” he said. The Vishwakarma idols Paul’s team is making this year range from one to two feet instead of the usual height of five to six feet. Work began in February this time, like every year. 13 artists from Nabadwip and Burdwan in Bengal started working with Paul, for which they were paid a minimum salary Rs 10000 per month. “All the artists got stuck here during the lockdown and we had a difficult time paying their salaries for five months with almost zero income,” he said and added they eventually hired cars and sent eight of them home. However, five are still at the workshop situated on the ground floor of a house for, making Durga idols. “The state government should provide some relief as they did in Bengal. The artists stuck at their respective workplaces were sent home by the government itself,” said Paul, adding that their financial condition is making it difficult to pay their children’s school fees. “My younger brother Abhijeet Paul (31) is a hotel management degree holder and used to work outside but he joined the traditional profession due to our suggestion. We are now repenting for our decision. Had he been in a job he would have at least earned something,” he said. Swapan Paul (67), another artist of  Luby Circular Road of Dhanbad, said, “We also used to make 20 Durga idols every year but this year received only five orders so far.” They had also engaged five artists from Bengal who have remained at their place for more than eight months. Paying their salaries is difficult at the time when they are facing difficulty in trying to sustain themselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Village volunteers build a 200 ft road in one day||Residents of Piprahwa Tola under Pandu police station in Palamau worked one full day to rebuild a 200-feet road that was too risky to navigate. “The road was riddled with potholes. Such was the condition that one would be bound to fall into one of these potholes despite care and caution,” Shambhu Sharan Singh whose wife Manju Devi is the mukhiya of the local Dala Kala panchayat told The Telegraph Online on Tuesday. Singh said it was risky to walk on the road at night. “Pregnant women would never wish to cross the road. 'The road pain is far worse than the labour pain', they say,” said another resident. Sources said a gush of rainwater from the two adjoining hillocks, Khaira Pahar and Lohri Pahar, had eroded this  portion of the road. Singh said the water is a major destroyer of the road but the problem became acute when a rich villager raised a concrete boundary wall across the road. Hence, residents decided to take matters in their own hands. Some came with tractors and JCB machines at Singh’s behest and filled the potholes. But the measure is temporary. “Panchayats don’t have any funds for road repairs. There is no provision for it either in the 15th Finance Commission funds either,” Singh said, adding that he paid for the fuel for using the machines. “The road was ready in a day, by Monday, August 24,” he said. Palamau villagers said they dared to build roads themselves only after a decline of extremism in the area. From the '90s till about 2001, extremism was at its peak and building and repairing roads in rural areas of the district was a risky affair. They said rebels hate good roads since good roads mean faster mobility for police. “Such was the fear of rebels in the past that people used to avoid making their own houses. But now, with extremism on the back foot in Palamau due to police intervention, rural people have become emboldened to build public utilities like roads,” said sub-divisional police officer Bishrampur Surjit Kumar. “We are happy that villagers are coming forward to work on useful things like making their own road,” said the SDPO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||RJD leader beaten to death in Giridih||Protest erupted at Giridih's Tower Chowk for several hours on Wednesday following Rastriya Janta Dal (RJD) leader Kailash Yadav's murder. BJP leader Indralal Verma, who was with Yadav at the time of the incident on Tuesday, is seriously injured. On Wednesday, several BJP supporters and family members blocked the city's Tower Chowk demanding the arrest of the criminals. Officer incharge of Bengabad police station Prasant Kumar said that the 25 to 30 criminals were waiting for the duo at Motileda Dalitola. When Yadav and Verma reached the spot, they pounced on them with sticks and punches. The culprits fled the spot only when the locals gathered around the spot upon hearing the screams. While Yadav died on spot, Verma has been admitted to PMCH Dhanbad in critical condition. Police have started investigating the case, said Kumar. "The reason for which criminals attacked on them is yet to be ascertained. We are trying to find if it is the result of a past dispute," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC sign custodian Pawan Kumar from NorthEast United||Jamshedpur FC on Monday announced the signing of a highly experienced goalkeeper in the form of Pawan Kumar on a two-year deal for the upcoming Indian Super League season VII. Pawan, who hails from Gurdaspur in Punjab, signed from NorthEast United FC for whom he raked up 18 appearances over two seasons of ISL with 46 saves and 6 clean sheets. The 30-year-old’s safe pair of hands was one of the reasons behind NorthEast United's first ever play off qualification in the 2028-19 season. “I am delighted to have joined Jamshedpur. Looking at the growth of the club over the past three seasons, I always had an ambition to be at the Furnace. It’s like a dream come true. It’s a huge challenge for me as I know we want to qualify for the ISL play-offs in our our quest to become champions,” Pawan said. “Football is like a theatre and there are no performances without a fabulous audience. The fan following in Jharkhand and Jamshedpur is absolutely amazing as the passion for the game runs sky high. The Furnace lights up with 20,000 spectators each time Jamshedpur plays,” he added. Pawan brings experience and proficiency to the JFC squad having featured regularly in the I- League and ISL for over eight years. He made his debut with Salgaocar and later went on to represent Bengaluru FC, Mumbai FC, Mohun Bagan and Chennaiyin FC. The goalkeeper was a crucial member of Bengaluru FC's 2014 I-League squad. He also won the Federation Cup with BFC in 2015. Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle was all praise for the custodian:” Pawan has proven over many seasons that he is one of the outstanding goalkeepers in India. It’s a position in which we were looking to strengthen ourselves and I am certain that he will do a good job. He is confident and vocal in commanding the defence line, excellent with his positioning and can himself big against the best of the finishers in the league. I am excited to be working with him.” The goalkeeper, who comes as a replacement for Subrata Pal, will wear the coveted No.1 jersey for the upcoming ISL. Pal, who was the first-choice goalkeeper for JFC for the past three seasons, will be representing Hyderabad FC in the upcoming season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Godda deaf-mute rape: cops nab one, hunt on for another||One of the two accused wanted in connection to rape and murder of a 14 year old deaf and mute girl has been arrested while attempts are being made to trace the other culprit, Godda police announced on Tuesday, two days after the heinous crime. The body of the victim, who was bludgeoned to death, was found from a government school under Balbada police station area of the district on Sunday, triggering protests by local residents. Announcing the breakthrough at a news meet on Tuesday, Godda SP YS Ramesh said raids were held at different locations including adjoining Sahebganj district to arrest one Mallik Yadav last midnight and hunt is on for his accomplice, identified as Mithun Yadav. Both are in mid-20s. Police however didn’t disclose the exact location of Mallick’s arrest. SP said, “On the day when the victim’s body was found, Mallick had come to the incident spot to find out activities of investigation officials. When he learnt that he was under suspicion on the basis statements by a few villagers, he fled from there.” Yadav has confessed to his crime during the ensuing interrogation. “We have slapped cases under different sections of IPC and POCSO act against both the accused. Soon, we shall nab Mithun too,” SP said, adding that the two preyed upon the victim finding her alone at a roadside waiting for her parents on Saturday night. “The girl had gone to nearby place and was returning home. She was waiting alone at a roadside for her parents when the two took advantage of her, dragged her to nearby school building and raped in turns. Later, they killed her by a huge stone apprehending that she may reveal their identities,” said SP. Congress’s MLA from Mahagama, Deepika Singh, who had demanded chief minister Hemant Soren for quick arrests and speedy trial soon after the incident thanked police for swift action. She said, “I am happy with the way police worked with utmost sensitivity in this case and hope that another accused too will be nabbed soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: 1056 cases take tally above 32,000 ||As many as 1056 fresh cases of Covid cases on Tuesday took the tally in Jharkhand above 32,000, while the toll drew close to 350 with 12 patients losing their battle against the dreaded virus in 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated on Tuesday. As per government data, Ranchi alone accounted for 314 Covid cases on Tuesday taking the tally in the state’s worst-affected district above 6000. Out of the 1956 cases, 141 were from East Singhbhum, which took the tally in the district to 5381. East Singhbhum, which accounts for nearly 40 per cent of Jharkhand’s Covid deaths, reported eight of the 12 Covid fatalities in state on Tuesday. The findings take the Covid toll in East Singhbhum to 152. The virus, as per official records, has claimed 347 lives in Jharkhand so far. Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma and Hazaribag have also reported over 1000 cases so far. However, Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for more than 30 per cent of the total Covid cases in Jharkhand. These two districts have reported a total of 11,415 Covid cases so far, which is higher than the number of active cases in the state as reported on Tuesday late evening. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the number of active cases crossed the 10,000 mark on Tuesday despite 725 patients recovering from the infection in the past 24 hours. While East Singhbhum reported 146 recoveries, only 82 patients recovered in Ranchi. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 67.60 per cent on Tuesday against the national average of 75.27 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 6.08 lakh people and tested more than 6 lakh of them. On Tuesday, the government collected swab samples of 14,751 people and tested 14,508 of them. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.07 per cent on Tuesday, which is lower than the national average of 1.85 per cent. However, the state has reported Covid casualties in double digit for two consecutive days, registering 27 deaths in the past 48 hours, figures with the health department highlight. Of the 12 deaths reported on Tuesday, one each were reported from Ranchi, West Singhbhum, Koderma and Bokaro, while East Singhbhum reported eight deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Village without Muslims observes Muharram||Hindus and Muslims observing rituals of Muharram can still be seen in a few parts of the country symbolic of the syncretic culture upholding the liberal values of the nation. But an entire village without a single Muslim family observing the Muharram rituals is certainly a rarity. To witness it, one must visit Nawada village in Simradhav panchayat under Birni block of Giridih district in Jharkhand, around 230km north of state capital Ranchi. The village of more than 70 Yadav families and over 20 Dalits has been observing Muharram for ages. “We have seen our parents observe Muharram since childhood. I remember even my grandfather used to say that they observed Muharram. The tradition has been continuing for ages. We do not know the exact number of years. But yes we do observe it with all seriousness as there is a legend in our village that a pandemic would break out if Muharram is not observed. There is not a single Muslim family in our village and no mosque. However, a cemented structure at the centre of the village is used as the dargah and keep the tazias,” said para-teacher Binod Kumar Yadav, 44, at a meeting of the villagers to chalk out preparations for Muharram especially in view of the Covid-19 restrictions. The villagers used to bring a Muslim cleric from another village for the three days of the festival. “Our grandfather used to say that some Muslims lived in the village several years back but they have migrated to other places in search of jobs. But the tradition has to be upheld otherwise it would bring bad omen. Since I remember, we used to bring an elderly Muslim cleric Islam Mia from Barwachatar village (4km from Nawada in the same block). This year too we would bring him,” said Binod. Ramu Baitha, mukhiya of Nawada village, said that youths do observe fast during Muharram. “The youths will keep fast from August 28 onwards and take out the tazia procession the next day and culminate on August 30. This year due to the Covid-19 pandemic there will be not be a long procession and not much crowd. But the tazia will be kept at all important points in the village for the people to pay obeisance,’ said Baitha. Farmer Barun Yadav said that a team of youths also whip themselves as a mark of mourning during Muharram. “We do whip ourselves to symbolise mourning associated with Muharram. In earlier years, women used to offer food to those taking part in the procession. But we do not know what would be done this year due to the Covid-19 restrictions and a small procession,” said Barun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Speeding SUV kills woman near Hazaribagh||A speeding SUV crushed a woman to death after one of its tyres burst at Hadari in Barkatha on GT Road, around 65km from Hazaribagh. The SUV was on its way to Jamshedpur from Patna and travelling on the Ranchi-Patna highway. But at Barhi, it took the route towards Dhanbad. After one of its tyres blew out, the vehicle hit 42-year-old Meena Devi and a youth. Meena died on the spot whereas youth sustained severe injuries. The driver was caught by villagers who broke the windows of the SUV. The owner of the SUV, who was travelling with his wife, was taken into custody. Villagers blocked the road for some time to protest the incident. The injured youth, Sunil Kumar Yadav, 23, is undergoing treatment at Hazaribagh medical college and hospital where his condition is said to be critical. Eighty-one people were discharged from various Covid-19 treatment facilities in Dhanbad on Tuesday. The patients discharged include 39 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Nirsa Polytechnic, 23 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the BCCL regional hospital in Bhuli, 10 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the Sadar hospital, four from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Jagjivan Nagar, three from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at PMCH cath lab and two from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at SSLNT Hospital. The patients have been instructed to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha on Tuesday handed over to police an anonymous letter sent to him by a woman from Hazaribagh in which she cautioned the BJP leader about an alleged murder plan. The letter contains the mobile phone numbers and addresses of the suspects. The police have launched an investigation. Dhanbad police have arrested three persons in connection with a clash on Monday between supporters of Janta Mazdoor Sangh and Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto at the BCCL mine patch in East Basuria. Private miner Dhansar Engineering Company is excavating for coal in the area on behalf of BCCL. The arrested persons, West Modidih residents Yuvraj Pathak and Ravi Kumar and Loyabad local Gulam Rasul, were later sent to jail under the Arms Act. The sides fired gunshots on Monday during a bandh called by the Janta Mazdoor Sangh. Former Dhanbad mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal on Tuesday met the deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, and requested him to take up the issue of constructing an additional underpass near the Gaya bridge to smoothen the flow of traffic. Agarwal drew Singh’s attention to the fact that the railways had already cleared the proposal for the underpass more than a year ago. The state government can execute the project with the help of the railways by paying it Rs 5 crore, Agarwal said. A team of excise department officials on Monday raided illegal liquor dens at Balugadda and Nai Duniya areas of Jharia and seized over 100l of country-made liquor, besides raw material like jawa. The team of Jharia policemen, however, could not arrest the operators of the depots. The Palamau Zila Adhivakta Sangh Bhavan in Daltonganj will be sealed for three days from Wednesday. Speaking about the move, district Bar Association general secretary Subodh Kumar Sinha said: “The decision to shut the Adhivakta Sangh Bhavan has been taken after more than two dozen lawyers tested positive for Covid-19.” Sinha said the building will be sanitized in the three days. He said the lawyers have been advised to work from home. Although the Bar Association has around 550 members, samples for only 160 lawyers out were collected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand police foil Maoist attack bid in major breakthrough||Jharkhand police in a breakthrough against Maoists seized 72 can bombs and four rifles, as well as a pistol and other explosives, in raids in Seraikela-Kharsawan, West Singhbhum, Khunti and Ranchi districts. The raids followed the arrests of Maoist commanders Jitrai Munda and Jogen Purty in Khunti. They had during interrogation revealed the rebels’ plans to attack the police and paramilitary forces in Kuchai in Seraikela-Kharsawan and Tamar in Ranchi district. Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police Mohammed Arshi at a news conference said the Naxals had laid can bombs in large numbers at Raisindri hill in Kuchai to inflict casualties to the police and paramilitary forces during their anti-insurgency operations. He said that apart from the can bombs, the rebels had also kept rifles and ammunition hidden in Jharjhara hills at Tamar in Ranchi district for use against the forces. “Munda and Purty, whom the Khunti police had arrested on Sunday, had said during interrogation that Naxal leaders Anal, Ashim, Amit Munda, Atul and Maharaja Pramanik are active in Seraikela-Kharsawan, West Singhbhum and Tamar in Ranchi district, where IEDs had been laid. The duo had also pointed out the places where the rebel leaders had kept rifles and ammunition hidden. “On getting the information, a joint team of Khunti, Ranchi, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan police conducted extensive searches. By Tuesday morning, we had found all the bombs and firearms the two rebels had spoken of," said Arshi. He said the police had found seven can bombs weighing 5kg each on a mud road at Meromjanga close to the Bandi hill in Kuchai and 65 can bombs weighing 4kg each on a road along the Raisindri hill in Seraikela-Kharsawan district.  He said the force had seized four rifles with 97 live cartridges and a pistol from Jharjhara hill in Tamar. The can bombs laid out on a road along Raishindri hill were to detonate when the police and paramilitary forces would pass through the area, said Arshi. A bomb disposal squad of Jharkhand Jaguar detonated the can bombs, he said. Arshi said anti-insurgency operations were still on in the areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
