27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Two herders die in swollen river||Two persons have died after being swept away by a river in Huntergunj block of Hazaribagh district. The duo, part of a group of 10 herders from Bela and neighbouring Kobana, had crossed the rain-fed Nilanjana river with their cattle like any other day when the water level began to rise and they got stuck. Locals launched a rescue mission without success. A team of 20 divers brought in from Barhi managed to save eight of the herders. Manoj slipped in the gushing water and soon disappeared while the rescue operation was on. Kaliya Devi, 65, also drowned while crossing the river. The dead bodies were sent for post-mortem to the Chatra Sadar hospital. A constable in Ramgarh district was arrested for allegedly raping an assistant sub-inspector after promising marriage. The officer and constable were posted in Mandu. The accused, Meraz Ansari, was a computer operator at the police station. He was training the officer on creating a database of cases in the area. He took her into confidence and promised her marriage. They were in a relationship for six months, and the woman had also undergone abortion. Later, Ansari was transferred to the Ramgarh police station. In the meantime, he married another woman. The accused has been arrested. The Mandu police station officer in charge has been suspended in connection with this case. The BJP has protested the decision of the JMM government to establish a law college in place of an engineering institute at Ghodabadi in Chandankyari block. The engineering college was planned by the erstwhile BJP government which had sanctioned Rs 13 crore and allotted 20 acres for the project. “The engineering college was approved at a cabinet meeting in March 2019. The detailed project report was accepted soon after and 20 acres allotted. Rs 13 crore was sanctioned and the work order placed. And now, when we were waiting for the foundation ceremony, the JMM government converted the project into a law college,” said Chandankyari MLA Amar Bauri during a news conference. “How can the government justify this?” Bauri has gone to Ranchi seeking an appointment with governor Draupadi Murmu to discuss the matter. He said: “I will die, but not give up on the engineering college project. If the government does not relent, we will launch a massive agitation.” JMM city president Mantu Yadav justified his party’s stance. He said: “It was the Bokaro MLA who had sent a letter urging the change. Former Bermo MLA Jogeshwar Mahato Batul supported him a year ago. The BJP MLAs are not concerned about the engineering college, but are using it as an issue to gain the votes of youths.” Residents of Chandankyari, which is witnessing rapid industrialisation, are disappointed that an engineering college will not come up in the area. A team of Dhanbad officials led by deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Thursday carried out a surprise inspection of the interstate border with Bengal at Maithon and Chirkunda and gave instructions to policemen to not allow anybody to enter Jharkhand without a valid pass. He said a medical team will be deputed at the border from Saturday to conduct Covid-19 testing of everyone entering the state. The syndicate meeting of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University, Dhanbad, held on Thursday approved the decision to carry out major changes in the syllabuses of both undergraduate and postgraduate courses of the varsity. Significant changes have been carried out in the course curriculum of Semesters V and VI of the undergraduate course (BA/BSc/BCom) and Semesters III and IV of the postgraduate course. The meeting, led by vice-chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava, also approved the decision to soon publicise the new syllabus through the heads of 28 departments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Congress, JMM plan major offensive against Centre over JEE and NEET||The Congress and the JMM, coalition partners in the ruling dispensation, are planning the launch of a major offensive against the Centre’s decision to go ahead with JEE and NEET scheduled next month. On Friday, the Jharkhand Congress unit will hold statewide protests outside Union government establishments to press for the postponement of the exams in wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country, including in the state. JMM, on the other hand, said that it too was strongly backing calls for postponing the exams. Jharkhand Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said: “All our units will stage demonstrations while maintaining social distancing outside Government of India entities to make our voices heard. The Centre’s indifference towards the safety of students and the public must end.” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee at a news conference accused the Narendra Modi government of being unconcerned about the growing clamour for postponement of the exams as it involved the aam aadmi. “The Modi government is only concerned about corporates. Since only students belonging to the lower, middle and upper middle classes take the competitive tests, the Union government isn’t concerned about their safety,” said Bhattacharjee. He added: “When Covid-19 cases were touching the 10,000 mark per day nationally, the Union government postponed the exams twice but when the caseload is now nearing one lakh, exams are being held. What an irony. This shows the shoddy planning by policymakers in the Modi government.” Bhattacharjee warned the Union human resource development minister to be prepared to face the people’s ire and criminal-negligence cases if any untoward incident occurs during the exams. “The nation will not pardon the government if any fresh Covid-19 infections or mortalities take place because of the exams,” Bhattacharjee said while drawing the Centre’s attention to the closure of public transports, hotels, lodges, etc. which will lead to chaos for examinees. He said that in Jharkhand, exams centres were located in only five districts—Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Hazaribagh. “This means several students will have to travel from one district to another in private vehicles. Can poor students afford this?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Government doctor succumbs to Covid in steel city||A 52-year-old doctor who was in-charge of a community health centre, died of coronavirus infection at Tata Motors Hospital in Telco on Thursday morning, the second physician to succumb to the virus in the steel city. Dr Jai Prakash Lal of Jugsalai health centre was admitted to hospital’s Covid ward in Telco along with his 45-year-old wife, who tested positive for the virus in the morning of August 20. Dr M.M. Agarwal (71), a resident of Golmuri, was the first doctor to die of Covid at Tata Main Hospital on August 15. In the last 24 hours, the district recorded 11 Covid deaths in all, while the number of new cases was 132. Till 11pm on Wednesday, nine persons had died at Tata Main Hospital and one at MGM Medical College Hospital. The total number Covid deaths so far is 204. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon Rajendra Jha said with the detection of 132 new cases on Wednesday, the total number of cases was 5,738 in the district. "While 132 people were admitted at various hospitals on Wednesday, 164 patients were discharged after they recovered from the illness till 10.30 pm on Wednesday. In all, 3,508 people have recovered from the illness so far," Jha told The Telegraph Online. The civil surgeon said that since the past three days more number of patients were recovering from the disease compared to the number of new patients. "But the number of deaths due to Covid remains more or less the same.  As of now, 230 people have died due to Covid in various hospitals of the city.  Of these, 204 were from East Singhbhum district and the rest were from other districts," the civil surgeon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||With no orders, Kolaghat Durga idol makers skip steel city visit||With the Covid pandemic reducing Durga Puja to a low-key affair, artisans from Kolaghat in Bengal will not be coming to the steel city this time, as they have received no orders. It is for the first time in over five decades that the artisans will not be coming to Jamshedpur. “There is no reason to come to Jamshedpur since we have no orders to make idols. We feel disappointed but such is the situation,” said chief artisan Ajay Chakravarty. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on phone from Kolaghat, Chakravarty said that his late father Shaktipado Chakravarty started making Durga and Kali idols in the steel city idols in 1963. “I started crafting idols from 1970 onwards. That time we used to make Durga idols at New Baradwari near Sakchi,” he added. Apart from the imposing Durga idol at Beldih Kalibari, the artisans from Kolaghat make idols for New Baradwari, Rajendranagar, Sonari, Telco, Bengal Club and Kadma. Puja committees of these areas have not given any orders to Chakravarty, who works with a 20-member team. Chakravarty rued missing the opportunity to make the idol for Beldih Kalibari. “I had taken over the responsibility of drawing eyes of the goddess at Beldih Kalibari after my father passed away,” he said, adding that he learnt the art of making eyes of the goddess from his father. “The eyes are a reflection of the soul. So, I always take special care to etch them on clay. Durga’s eyes must reflect a mix of traditional beliefs and modern art,” the master artisan explained. According to him, they may make one or two idols for puja organisers in Calcutta. “We are waiting for a word from organisers in Calcutta,” Chakravarty said, adding that Covid has severely affected their income. Meanwhile, the lack of usual excitement and has already made its presence felt in Jamshedpur. Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS) and Purvi Singhbhum Central Durga Puja Samity (PSCDPS) have said the celebrations would be low-key this year. There would be no big budget pandals and puja will take place in a simple manner with a few number of people. The JDPKS has asked puja organisers to restrict the height of idols to 5ft while pandals will be simple and small.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Industrial pollution causing more Covid deaths in East Singhbhum||Years of exposure to industrial pollution has weakened the lungs of East Singhbhum residents and made them more susceptible to severe symptoms of Covid-19 virus and fatalities caused by lung dysfunction, health experts said on Thursday to explain the high Covid-19 mortality figures in the district. As per government data, East Singhbhum alone accounts for nearly 50 per cent of the 370-odd Covid deaths reported in Jharkhand so far. On an average, the district has reported nearly half the number of  Covid deaths occurring  every day in Jharkhand since July-end, health officials said. The latest figures released by the health department on Thursday morning stated that at least 159 of Jharkhand’s 367 Covid casualties were reported from East Singhbhum. “When a person is exposed to industrial pollution for a long period of time, his lungs become weak. In the present situation, we should ideally consider them (residents living close to industrial areas) as susceptible to Covid death as a person with a comorbid condition would be,” said the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr. Ajay Kumar Singh. The SARS-COV-2 virus attacks the respiratory system of an infected person, and chances of fatality are higher if the patient’s lungs are already “compromised”, said Singh. “The mucus membranes in the lungs of a person, who has been exposed to pollution over a period of time, will not function as effectively as that of a healthy person. Patients with weak lungs are likely to suffer from more complications and severe symptoms of the viral infection,” Singh added. Jamshedpur, in East Singhbhum, is  home to Tata Steel and Tata Motors. A few kilometers away from the steel city is the Adityapur Industrial Area, in neighboring Seraikela-Kharsawan, also among the most polluted districts of Jharkhand. An independent survey in 2013 found inflated levels of Sulphur Dioxide, Carbon Dioxide, Carbon Monoxide, Nitrogen Oxide and Particulate Matter in the air in Jamshedpur – the largest city in East Singhbhum. “Several surveys and studies have pointed out the high level of industrial pollution in Jamshedpur. The lungs of many people staying in these polluted areas could be as weak as that of chain smokers,” said Nitish Priyadarshi, a Ranchi-based environmentalist and researcher. Priyadarshi said that people living close to the urban industrial areas of Jamshedpur have inhaled air laced with dust particles and pollutants since several decades. “The dust particles cause respiratory disorders in several residents of these areas. Industrial pollution is also the reason for extreme humidity and heat in Jamshedpur during summers,” he said. As per figures with the health department, as many as 5,654 people have been infected by Novel Coronavirus in East Singhbhum so far and 2,284 of them were yet to recover from the infection. Ranchi has reported more Covid-19 cases than East Singhbhum, but the count of fatalities here was a third of that in East SInghbhum. Out of 6,411 Covid cases reported here till date, 56 patients have died and 3,552 have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad sets up telemedicine studio to help Covid patients||A woman being treated for coronavirus infection pleads with the doctor to allow her to return home as she has to look after her children. The doctor tells her about the virus and explains why it is best for her family if she returned home only after she was totally cured. The woman is satisfied and says she will abide the norms. This conversation played on Thursday at the inauguration of a telemedicine studio set up at Circuit House to help patients undergoing treatment at the various Covid care centres of the district. It is equipped with three computers and a high-speed internet connectivity so that doctors can advise patients at all the seven Covid treatment facilities, together accounting for as many as 775 beds. Separate time slots and doctors have been allotted for patients of all the seven treatment facilities. The centre is under the supervision of Dr Apurba Gupta, who is the nodal officer. After consultations, the centre emails medical records of each patient to the respective Covid treatment centre. These can be shared with doctors during future consultations. During Thursday’s inaugural, Dr P. P. Pandey attended to patients of Regional Hospital-Bhuli, while Dr Naresh Prasad and Dr Munshi Prasad Saha provided medical advice to patients of Zonal Training Institute of the railways and Nirsa Polytechnic Institute, respectively. Dr Asha Rosaline Kujur, one of doctors at the telemedicine studio, said, “Besides providing medical advice, doctors are also carrying out psychological counselling of patients. This helps dispel any apprehensions about the virus and ultimately facilitates early cure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Parents shamed and tonsured after girl marries boy from another caste||Elders of the Ghatwar community publicly tonsured the parents of an 18-year-old girl for marrying a boy from the Bhuiyan caste in the Fulwaria village, 2km from the Koderma police station, sub divisional police officer Rajendra Prasad said on Thursday. The incident, the police officer said, occurred three weeks ago, but they received information about it only now. The father and mother, 50 and 46-years-old respectively, were also forced to a mock performance for their daughter’s last rights with an effigy of her. However, the panicked couple refused to complain to the police when they visited them this afternoon. Local Congress leader Syed Nasim tweeted the matter, tagging chief minister Hemant Soren and state officials, demanding stern action. The girl and the boy had run away together on August 6, following which the girl’s parents asked police to look for her and take action against the boy. The police tracked them in two days and asked the girl to go back to her parents. She refused, claiming that both of them were married adults. So the police allowed her to stay with the boy. This angered community elders, who called a meeting and accused her parents of being unable to control their daughter. Then they tonsured the parents in public. “The matter came to light in the first week of August when the boy and girl eloped. But we had no other option but to send her with the boy whom she was in love with, as neither are minors," Prasad told The Telegraph Online. “I am not in a position to confirm what happened with the couple. But I have asked officer-in-charge of Koderma police station to investigate the matter,” the sub-divisional police officer said, adding that the culprits would not be spared. Police also came to know that a panchayat meeting was to take place again in the village to force the couple not to lodge a complaint. Prasad said the police have been asked to keep an eye on all movements in the village and to inform him if any such meeting takes place there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Two days of heavy rain floods low-lying areas of steel city||There was a flash-flood-like situation in several low-lying areas of the steel city since Wednesday night caused by two days of incessant rain coupled with the opening of sluice gates of Bankabal dam in Mayurbhanj district of neighbouring Odisha. The heavy rain also prompted the state water resources department to open two sluice gates at Chandil dam. Jhinkpani in West Singhbhum district also become an island, cut off from all sides. Koel river in West Singhbhum, Subernarekha in Mango and Kharkai in Adityapur were flowing close to the danger mark on Thursday. Water entered houses in several low-lying areas of Mango, Bagbera, Jugsalai and Kadma. The worst hit areas were Naya Buster at Bagbera, Sankosai and Daiguttu in Mango, Shastrinagar in Kadma and Garib Nawaz Colony in Jugsalai. Water from overflowing drains also entered several houses at Birsanagar, a slum. The district administration also alerted residents. It made announcements using public address systems, asking people in low-lying areas to shift to higher ground. Sub-divisional officer (Dhalbhum) Chandan Kumar said: “We are monitoring the situation and have appealed to NGOs and social bodies to assist us in relief operations.” However, the weather is likely to improve from Friday, indicated the Met department. “The low-pressure, which originated from the Bay of Bengal and resulted in heavy rains especially in southern Jharkhand since Tuesday has moved  towards northwest. It is gradually becoming weak,” said S.D Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The low-pressure resulted in heavy rain in several districts of Jharkhand since the last two days. Jamshedpur, Seraikela, Khunti, Simdega and several places in West Singhbhum recorded a rainfall of over 100mm during the past two days. Weather experts were hopeful that this year, rainfall in the steel city, which is in East Singhbhum, would cross the average normal of 1,100mm by end of the monsoon season. So far, East Singhbhum district has recorded 1,039.2 mm rain against a normal of 824.8 mm, which works out to a surplus of 26 per cent. On Thursday, the state’s deficit stood at six per cent. Jharkhand as a whole has so far experienced 743.7mm of rain against a normal of 787.5 mm. “The monsoon trough is active and is expected to result in more rain over Jharkhand later this month,” said a duty officer at IMD's Patna Met Centre. Met statistics revealed that around mid-June in 2008, the local meteorological office had recorded 338.1mm, the highest ever in Jamshedpur — prompting the state government to call in the army to help in relief and rescue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Most traffic cameras not working, complains Dhanbad MLA||Over 130 CCTV cameras installed at major intersections of the district to ensure better traffic surveillance over three years ago are not helping as theft and poor maintenance have rendered most of them useless Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha whose aide, Satish Singh, was recently killed by unidentified persons in broad daylight met Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday and stressed on the need for proper maintenance of the installed CCTV cameras. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) installed the cameras at a cost of Rs 3.80 crore. These include button cameras, PTZ (pan tilt zoom) cameras and ANPR (automatic number plate recognition cameras. While poor maintenance is one of the reasons behind their erratic functioning, local sources said, the optical fibre cables used to connect these were being stolen regularly. Jamshedpur-based agency Maple PC and Peripherals that installed the cameras on behalf of DMC is also responsible for maintaining them, sources added. Former president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry Rajesh Kumar Gupta demanded that the authorities ensure proper maintenance of CCTV cameras. “It is the need of the hour now as criminal acts are expected to rise when lockdown restrictions are gradually eased,” he said. Gupta, who is president of book sellers association Vastra Vyavsai Sangh, said, “The installation of cameras was a crucial step to improve the security of the district. But poor maintenance due to lack of coordination and proper planning has negated the entire effort.” Echoing his sentiments, Mohammed Sohrab, President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Although crime can’t be controlled, CCTV surveillance can ensure early detection. Also, sometimes cameras work as a deterrent for criminals.” ANPR cameras that can read number plates of moving vehicles had been installed at 16 entry and exit points of the district, while PTZ cameras, which can rotate up to 360 degrees, had been installed at 27 places along with bullet cameras. Last year, DMC had plans to install more surveillance cameras, but could do so due to lack of funds. DMC commissioner Satyenda Kumar said, “Law enforcement agencies like police that are using cameras should have informed us that some of these were not working. We could have then taken up the issue with the agency responsible for its maintenance.” Manager (technical marketing) of Maple PC and Peripherals Hemant Kumar blamed it on prolonged power cuts. “The cameras can’t function after long power cuts as the UPS can provide power up to an hour only. Besides, repeated thefts of optical fibre cables also render the cameras useless. However, we will look into the matter in the light of the recent complaints made by the Dhanbad MLA,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC rope in ISL winning left-back Ricky Lallawmawma||Continuing with the process of squad formation, Jamshedpur FC on Thursday announced the signing of left-back Ricky Lallawmawma on a two-year deal. The defender, who hails from Mizoram was a part of ATK's Indian Super League (ISL) winning squad in 2019-20. “I am so happy to be joining Jamshedpur FC, a club with a great head coach, loud and proud supporters and fantastic facilities. The club has a plan along with a big ambition to do well in the ISL and to be consistently successful. I share the same ideologies for myself and hope to contribute in the best ways possible under an expert like Owen Coyle,” Ricky said. Ricky began his footballing career with I-League champions Aizawl FC, where he went on to become the captain later. He played for other clubs of the Mizoram Premier League like Chanmari FC, and Zo United. He moved back to his childhood club Aizawl FC in 2015 when they got promoted to the I-League. Ricky later played for DSK Shivajians and Mohun Bagan before making his move to ATK and amassed a total of 57 top-tier appearances across all clubs. Head coach Coyle said Ricky comes with a lot of good experience and will add great value to the team. “Ricky is a very focussed individual who can play well and keep the ball. Also, he is fast and agile – the two being important charactersticks for a defender in modern football. Even though primarily a left-back, his versatility helps him play in any position across the backline. I am glad to have him joining us,” he added. The Mizo defender’s addition will bolster a backline consisting of Joyner Lourenco, Narender Gehlot, Sandip Mandi and Jitendra Singh. Ricky will wear jersey no.16 for the upcoming cash-rich tournament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Thieves targeting locked schools, warn Palamau police  ||Palamau police have alerted managers of schools which have been locked during the Covid pandemic as thieves are on the prowl. “A daylight theft was committed in Westfield Public School at Bhawandee on August 19,” said SDPO Sadar Sandip Kumar Gupta on Wednesday. Gupta said the private school’s director Awadesh Pandey lodged an FIR on August 20. The Chainpur police caught and jailed two thieves, Azad Ansari and Ashraf Qureishi, on Tuesday. Stolen electrical goods were recovered, including a motor pump, a stabilizer, 2 ceiling fans and 4 changer boards. “All government and private schools are shut during this pandemic. Some schools have security guards. Many have no such facility. We have asked school managements to keep a watch on school property,” said the SDPO. Pandey said there were more stolen goods that were yet to be recovered. “These include more than 200 switches and bathroom fittings. Three bundles of wires too are missing,” he said. Officer in charge of Chainpur police station Sunit Kumar said, “A person had taken pictures of the thieves in the school on August 19. These pictures helped us trace, track and nab the thieves.” Director Pandey said the person in question was the wife of the school’s security guard. “She showed the courage to take photographs of thieves. Our guard was not present then and this woman showed discretion by not making any sound while clicking pictures,” he said, adding that the pictures were given to the Chainpur police. Sunit Kumar said they matched these pictures with CCTV footage to nab the thieves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||JSCA on course to organise T20 tournament next month||Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA)’s international stadium complex in Dhurwa is gearing up to host a domestic T20 tournament next month following a nod from the state government on Wednesday night, officials informed on Thursday. JSCA mandarins added that they have now sent a proposal to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) for hosting its domestic T20 meet from September 10-27. If the BCCI allows, JSCA will arguably be the first cricketing body in the country to kick-off the game after about five months since nationwide lockdown was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus. JSCA’s secretary Sanjay Sahay on Thursday confirmed about the approval. “The state government has okayed our proposal for hosting the T20 tournament next month. We have started preparations and sent a formal communiqué to BCCI for its nod too. We shall be adhering to all the safety norms prescribed by BCCI, and those that are issued from the state and central governments in regard to sporting activities,” he said. Another JSCA official said that the annual T20 event, represented by over half a dozen teams from different district affiliates, will be sans any spectators. “We plan to keep all players and technical officials in the stadium complex all through the tournament and no outsider will be allowed to enter the stadium. As per the norms, Each and every player and staff will get the . During the period of tournament, we shall suspend all other works/activities at the stadium to plug any unwanted human movements,” said another official. Notably, on June 25, state government had allowed opening of all stadiums allowing sporting activities sans any spectators. It also prescribed hosts of dos and donts. However, with majority of the stadiums at mega sports complex in Hotwar converted as covid care centres, all sporting activities there remains suspended. Other stadiums too owned by the state government remains sans any action as the sports department hasn’t come up with detailed standard operating procedures for the sports bodies to allow them to resume the games. However, any player is free to individually resume practice/training.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: 1137 cases take tally to 33311||As many as 1137 cases of Covid infection took the tally in Jharkhand to 33311 on Wednesday, while the number of casualties jumped to 362 as 10 more patients died during treatment in 24 hours, figures with the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) at 10.45pm on Wednesday, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum crossed the 150 mark as six of the 10 casualties reported in the day were from the district. East Singhbhum alone accounts for over 40 per cent of Covid fatalities in the state so far, and has reported 152 deaths. With 174 fresh cases of infection surfacing in Ranchi on Wednesday, the tally in the capital reached 6584. As many as 2876 people were still battling the viral infection in Ranchi, while 3652 have recovered, government data stated. Ranchi has account for 57 Covid deaths, the second highest in state after East Singhbhum. Of the 10 Covid casualties reported on Wednesday, two were from Bokaro, six from East SInghbhum and one each from Ranchi and Dhanbad. Wednesday’s findings take the Covid mortality in state to 1.08 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 1.85 per cent. East Singhbhum reported 132 fresh cases on Wednesday, while 164 Covid patients recovered from the infection in the district during the same period. As least 167 people were found infected in Hazaribag and only 12 patients recovered in the district on Wednesday, while Dhanbad reported 133 fresh cases and 42 recoveries, government data highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 736 people recovered from the infection in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the number of recoveries in state to 22,486. However, there were as many as 10,463 active cases of Covid infection in Jharkhand by the time this report was filed. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand is 67.50 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 75.27 per cent. The government has so far collected swab samples of 6.47 lakh people and tested 6.43 lakh of them. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 40,786 people and 39,649 of them came negative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-320
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad's historic rail line to witness faster trains||Dhanbad Chandrapura Railway Line will witness trains plying at a speed of 75 km an hour from its present 50 km an hour. The historic line of the Dhanbad Railway Division remained closed for more than 18 months due to underground fire. The line was also closed between February, 2013 and June 2017 owing to subsidence threat. Infrastructure development work is being carried out at the Kusunda and Katras railway station. A footbridge and a parking lot are being developed at Katras, one of the most important stations of the Chandrapura line. Talking at a news video conference, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, Anil Kumar Mishra said, “the non operation of trains during lockdown in Coal India Chord section provided them opportunity to develop the necessary infrastructure for increasing the speed of train and work is likely to be completed within a couple of months”. A 600 meter long double lane road aimed at decongesting the main station complex of Dhanbad is being carried out. The construction began began on October 20 last year at a cost of Rs 2 crore. The new approach road is likely to ease the traffic situation at Bank More area. The south side extension complex which has a waiting hall, an enquiry counter, an unreserved ticketing counter, catering complex and a portico was  inaugurated by the then General Manager of East Central Railway, Madhuresh Kumar on February 23, 2014. The facility has remained unused till date as the existing approach road for the newly developed complex is too narrow and faces encroachment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
27-08-2020||Jharkhand||Woman who was sold for marriage rescued by Garhwa police||Garhwa police have rescued a 30-year-old woman and her two children who were allegedly being sold for marriage in Muskura in Uttar Pradesh’s Hamirpur. Two persons, including a woman, have been arrested, the police said. According to the FIR, the 30-year-old woman and her eight-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son from Jarhi village in Dandai police station area were sold by her cousin for Rs 30,000. “The police raided the home of Mahesh Vishwakarma at Mahuabandh in the Ajanar police station area in Mahoba district, Uttar Pradesh, after a tip-off,” Garhwa subdivisional police officer Brahman Tuti said. They arrested the two of three accused, Tuti said. On a complaint by the woman’s husband, the police had lodged an FIR against three persons, including cousin Mamta Devi, under Sections 363/370(A) and 371 of the Indian Penal Code on August 22. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had reportedly learnt of the matter and asked the police to take quick action in the case. Nemra, a village in Gola block situated 25km from Ramgarh district headquarters, is not unknown to the people of Jharkhand. It is the native village of chief minister Hemant Soren. However, it is better known as the place where his father, former chief minister Shibu Soren, started his political career. Relatives and other villagers have begun praying for their Baba, as they call Shibu, after the news of his illness due to which he was shifted to a Delhi hospital. Shibu,76, tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to Ranchi’s Medanta. “We want him to recover soon and continue guiding this state for better development,” said Kasinath Bedia, a retired government teacher and a friend. Shibu’s cousin Rekha Soren said they all are worried about his health. “Baba fighter hain aur jeetkar aayenge (Baba is a fighter and he will return victorious),” she said. “We all are waiting for his visit here again.” “Shibu came here in May when his sister-in-law passed away,” said the villagers. “Shibu is the pride of Nemra, apart from being an important personality in Indian politics. Baba’s fight against the mahajani pratha (moneylenders) for the people’s rights is inspiring,” the villagers added. An 11-year-old Dalit boy died in a mud wall collapse at Bakhari village in Kouriya panchayat in Palamau on Wednesday. P.P. Thakur, the panchayat mukhiya, said: “The collapse happened this morning during torrential rain.” The child was playing at the time of the accident. Thakur said the boy was taken to the medical college and hospital in Daltonganj but was declared dead on arrival. “A nine-year-old girl was also injured, and is undergoing treatment at the hospital,” Thakur said. The Dhanbad administration has established a studio at the town’s circuit house to offer telemedicine facility to patients at various Covid-19 treatment centres in the district. Time slots have been allocated to the patients for consultation through videoconferencing. The patients of the railway zonal training institute at Bhuli, Nirsa Polytechnic and Cath Lab will be provided advice from 10am to noon, while those at Nirsa Polytechnic, Tata Central Hospital, the dedicated Covid-19 centre at the central hospital and the regional hospital at Bhuli can seek medical attention from noon to 2pm. Patients at Sadar hospital, Dhanbad, and Nirsa Polytechnic can contact the doctors between 2.15pm and 4.15pm while those at the regional hospital at Bhuli and Sadar hospital have been allotted the 4.15pm-6.15 pm slot. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the doctors at the studio will follow up with patients within two-three days of the initial consultation. “At least 120 patients will be provided the telemedicine facility everyday,” said Singh. Forty-two patients were discharged on Wednesday from various Covid-19 treatment facilities in Dhanbad after testing. Nineteen patients were discharged from the Sadar hospital-based dedicated Covid-19 health centre; 13 from the BCCL regional hospital at Bhuli; seven from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Jagjivan Nagar; and three from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at PMCH cath lab. All those discharged will have to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha on Wednesday met deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and discussed with him the issue of non-functional surveillance cameras installed a couple of years ago. Sinha also raised the issue of traffic congestion and emphasised the need for the construction of another railway subway near the Gaya Bridge. He highlighted the need for a weeks-long drive against vehicles with tinted glasses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
