28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Minor orphan girl raped in Chatra||A minor orphan girl was allegedly raped by a drunk youth in Domsitwa village under the Sadar police station in Chatra on Friday. The youth, part of a group of four, would go every day to a house to drink illicit country liquor. Opposite this house was where the girl lived. When the youth noticed that she was alone, he raped her. The youth fled after the incident. An FIR was lodged and the girl sent to the Chatra Sadar hospital for a medical test. A mass Covid-19 testing campaign was kickstarted in various parts of Garhwa on Wednesday. After two days of the campaign, 181 new Covid-19 cases were reported following the testing of 15,678 samples. The total number of positive cases in the district is 1,073 and active cases 287, while 780 patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals. Six persons have lost their lives due to the disease. The testing campaign will continue till September 5. Around 200 health workers are involved in the campaign, Garhwa civil surgeon N.K. Rajak said. An alleged scamster who had promised railway jobs to more than half a dozen residents of Karso village in the Chainpur police station area in Palamau in exchange for money was detained by villagers and handed over to police. Niranjan Kumar, a resident of Ramna police station area in Garhwa, was allegedly in the village to dupe more people when he was caught. He had reportedly amassed more than Rs 1,32,000 from the unsuspecting villagers. Kumar, who the police said confessed to his crime, was charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Section 420. Chandankyari BJP MLA Amar Bauri on Friday met governor Draupadi Murmu to ask her to intervene and prevent the state government from establishing a law college at Ghodagada in place of an engineering institute. The proposal for an engineering college spread over 20 acres had been approved by the BJP government in March 2019. The JMM government, however, decided to establish a law college at the site. Bauri said he had told the governor that the JMM government’s decision was unjustified. “The government should rethink its position. This decision is against the development of tribal, backward and rural youths,” he added. He said the governor had assured him that she would discuss the matter with chief minister Hemant Soren. Police on Friday arrested four persons for allegedly opening fire during a clash over a land dispute at Kuwar Singh Colony in the Chas police station area. There were no casualties in the incident. One of the men involved was caught and thrashed by the rival party. He is undergoing treatment at the Sadar hospital in police custody. The mutilated dead body of a labourer who had returned from Gujarat during the coronavirus-induced lockdown was found in a well 200m from his home on Friday morning. Chandrakant Tuddu was a resident of Daldali village in the Rajganj police station area, about 30km from the Dhanbad district headquarters. Tuddu was reported missing by his wife on Thursday. A team of officials of the East Central Railway’s Dhanbad division, led by senior divisional engineer (special) Kunal Kumar on Friday conducted a drive to evict encroachers at Matkuria rail colony. Several cowsheds and makeshift shanties were removed from an area of around 2000sq. ft. Public relations officer P.K. Mishra said the drive was part of a similar initiative by the division at other stations and rail colonies. Chatra police arrested an opium smuggler on Friday. Vinod Oraon, a resident of Kalyanpur village in Piparwar of Chatra, had 600gm opium on him. Officer in charge Shiv Prakash Kumar said police had received a tip-off that Oraon was on his way to deliver the consignment. He was caught in Delho Ghati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Special Olympics honour for Satbir Singh Sahota  ||Steel city-based Satbir Singh Sahota has become the first person in Jharkhand  to be awarded Leader III certificate by Special Olympics International (SOI). The certificate is awarded for hardwork and dedication, with the aim of promoting excellence in leadership at Special Olympics. Sahota is assistant area director of Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) and a former international cyclist. He had attended and completed a Leader III module during a workshop organised by SOI in Calcutta between January 20 and 23 last year. In all, 24 participants from Pakistan, Philippines, Bangladesh, Nepal and hosts India attended the event. . Sahota completed Leader I and II modules during the workshop in New Delhi in 2017 and 2018. During the workshops, each individual is provided various topics on which they have to give their output, strategic planning and methods of implementation. Participants are later given homework which they have to implement in their respective states and are required to show the results before the merit certificate is issued by SOI. “It is a proud feeling for me to have received the certificate from the SOI.  I would continue to contribute towards spreading wings of Special Olympics in Jharkhand and also towards promoting the intellectually impaired,” Sahota told The Telegraph Online. Sahota, who has been active in the Special Olympics movement in Jharkhand for over a decade, has been instrumental in spreading the activities involving intellectually impaired across Jharkhand. He has also played a lead role in forming a pool of qualified coaches (men and women) who are trying hard to shepherd the special athletes to mainstream. SOJ has spread the wings of Special Olympics movement by joining hands with Jharkhand Education Project (JEP). Barring Palamu, Godda, Sahebgunj and Jamtara, the SOJ has channelised activities in rest of the districts. It has also successfully organised State Games in Jamshedpur and Ranchi. The activities also involved successfully starting training projects for coaches who play a key role in promoting special athletes. The coaches are given study material and required to make a presentation and evaluation report. “It is a tough job but we managed to create a pool of coaches,” Sahota said. “Our activities were earlier restricted to Jamshedpur and Ranchi but now things have changed for the better. It is largely due to our tie-up with JEP that our wings have been spread to almost all the districts of Jharkhand,” Sahota, a resource person (for cycling) at Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which works for the promotion of intellectually impaired, added. According to Sahota, there is a need to develop a second line of officials so that activities of SOJ can be conducted in the same pattern. SOJ area director Bailey Bodhanwala has congratulated Sahota for his achievement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Complaints pile up against Bokaro General Hospital ||Politicians and residents are up in arms against Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), alleging it is unable to provide proper care to Covid-19 patients, their sentiments finding support among members of a local trade union who held a demonstration on Friday at the main gate of Bokaro Steel, the PSU that manages the hospital. Members of Krantikari Ispat Majdoor Sangh (KIMS) also registered complaints with BSL department heads and told them about how BGH staff were delaying attending to patients. Sangh general secretary Sangram Singh said, “BGH is unable to manage after a few of its doctors tested positive for the coronavirus. Workers are complaining about poor services and treatment.” BGH, which is a dedicated Covid hospital managed by BSL, a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), is considered to be the lifeline for residents. More than a dozen doctors, including the director, and health workers have tested positive. Barring four doctors who are under treatment, the rest have got cured. A BGH official, however, defended those working in the hospital, saying they were doing so against all odds. “Doctors and staff members of the hospital are trying their best. Doctors’ rounds are monitored more closely now,” he said. Of the 1,120 patients who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bokaro district as of now, as many as 210 were admitted to the BGH Covid ward. More than two dozen positive cases have recovered from critical condition. Of the 13 Covid deaths registered in the district, six were at BGH. BSL employee P.K. Pandey spoke of how his daughter, who was suffering breathing problems, was left unattended for half an hour. “On Tuesday, I took my daughter to BGH for treatment at 9.00pm. No doctor or nurse came to see her till 9.30pm. Later, when I informed senior officials, a nurse came and provided oxygen to her and vanished,” he said. Bokaro MLA Viranchi Narayan said that despite its huge infrastructure, medical equipment and doctors, BGH was unable to function satisfactorily. “Treatment and care of Covid patients is not up to the mark. What exactly are BGH doctors doing when Covid patients are being referred to elsewhere?” he said. JMM city president Mantu Yadav seconded Narayan, saying health services at BGH had deteriorated in the past one month. “Doctors have started neglecting patients. Instead of treating them they find it easy to refer them to other hospitals,” he said, adding that he would request chief minister Hemant Soren to look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||FIR against Tej Pratap for lockdown violations in Ranchi||An FIR was lodged against Tej Pratap, son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, on Friday for coming to Ranchi without the mandatory permission during a lockdown and then leaving without spending 14-days in quarantine as per the state government’s Covid protocol. Earlier, police lodged an FIR against the owner and manager of a prominent city hotel for providing a room to Tej Pratap, who had come to see his ailing father, in violation of lockdown norms on Thursday. Tej Pratap visited Ranchi from Patna with a cavalcade of 60 vehicles, comprising his security men and party workers. He came to meet Lalu, serving a jail term after his conviction in fodder scam cases, at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) where he is undergoing treatment for various ailments under police custody. Speaking briefly to reporters on Thursday, Tej Pratap said he had come to Ranchi to check on his ailing father. However, RJD sources in Ranchi, said he had been summoned by his father to discuss party affairs in view of the coming Bihar elections. Police have booked Tej Pratap under IPC sections 269/270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 184 (violation of speed limit) and 34 (criminal act by several persons in furtherance of the common intention of all). Officer in-charge of Chutia police station Ravi Thakur said at the behest of the circle officer Prakash Kumar, an FIR was also filed against the owner (he wasn’t named) and manager Dushyant Kumar Samath of Capitol Residency for providing a room (507) to Tej Pratap during a lockdown. “The FIR was filed late on Thursday night. We will proceed accordingly after further probe,” said Thakur, clarifying that lockdown norms prevent hotels from renting out rooms to anyone. BJP criticised the Ranchi district administration for making a scapegoat out of the hotel’s owner and manager after having violated lockdown norms. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “He (Tej Pratap) came to Ranchi in a cavalcade in the wee hours of Thursday, underwent a Covid-19 test and then forcefully checked into a hotel using his clout. He met Lalu with hordes of supporters in the afternoon, blocking Bariatu Road. Why should a case be slapped only on the poor hotel owner and staffer? Shouldn’t Ranchi police officials, RIMS management and district authorities be pulled up for allowing social distancing norms to be violated? Even he (Tej) should face an FIR for booking a hotel room.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad water supply scheme as revenue source  ||Cash-strapped Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), the oldest civic body of the district, is preparing a proposal to take over a Rs 365-crore scheme to distribute Damodar river water to suburban areas of the coal capital. The proposal, which caters to supplying water to areas not covered either by JMADA’s existing arrangement or by the Maithon water supply scheme of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, is likely to be submitted to the state urban development department next week. Secretary cum technical member of JMADA Indresh Shukla, said, “As the water supply project executed for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation by the drinking water and sanitation department through L&T Infrastructure Engineering is almost complete, we can take over the project.” Shukla reasoned that although the project used Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission funds, routed through DMC, two agencies like JMADA and DMC operating two water supply schemes would lead to operational problems, particularly in Katras, Moonidih and Putki. “Hence, we will try to take over the Rs 365-crore project. Besides ensuring operational convenience, it will also ensure better financial health for us,” Shukla said, adding that JMADA’s income was solely dependent on revenue from water supply. He said the state Assembly had also passed a resolution in 2015 to hand over water supply of the entire district to JMADA which has over 50 years of expertise in the matter. Notably, the ambitious water supply project of 2011, conceptualised under JNNURM millennium city project, was scheduled to be completed in 2014. However, it was delayed by more than six years due to several procedural issues including the lack of NoCs from Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) and railways for establishing overhand tanks in underground fire affected areas and for laying pipes near railway tracks. JMADA was established in 1984 as per an act of the then Bihar government following the merger of the water board and the mines board to manage sanitation, health and water supply in suburban areas of Dhanbad. Tonnnage cess, royalty cess, stamp duty, water supply tax and sanitation tax were the main sources for its fund during its early days. But most of these taxes were withdrawn one of the one by the government. Now, water tax is the only source of revenue for JMADA which has an employee strength of about 800. JMADA suffered its biggest blow in 2004 when the state government withdrew the stamp duty collected by it on account of registry of land. This led to a loss in revenue to the tune of Rs 16 crore per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||62-year-old doctor at PMCH succumbs to Covid-19 in Ranchi   ||A 62-year-old doctor of Patliputra Medical College and Hospital, Dhanbad, died battling Covid in Ranchi on Friday morning, the news coming as a shock to her colleagues who were with her barely 20 days ago. Dr Venu Chaudhary, wife of a senior doctor of Central Hospital, Dhanbad, was admitted to Samford Multispecialty Hospital in Ranchi after testing Covid positive about a fortnight ago. Chaudhary was put on a ventilator two days ago after developing a lung infection. She died at 4 am on Friday. Her colleagues and friends in Dhanbad were in a state of shock. “I joined work under her two decades ago. Her death is a personal loss for me. I cannot believe that somebody who was with me till 20 days ago is no more,” said Dr Leena Singh, the warden of a girls’ hostel at PMCH. “She was a thorough professional and never compromised with duty. At the same time, she was very accommodative of her colleagues and juniors,” said Singh Secretary of district unit of Indian Medical Association Dr Sushil Kumar, who was felicitated on Independence Day by the district administration for his service while treating Covid patients, said, “The death of a senior serving doctor of a government medical college and hospital at a time when the district is facing shortage of doctors is very tragic.” Both Kumar and Singh said they would like to use this opportunity to urge the government to make special arrangements for the treatment of elderly doctors while engaging them on Covid duty. “Dr Singh was not on Covid duty. But she was serving in the preventive and social medicine department of PMCH. But we would like to demand that the government make special arrangements for the treatment of doctors and health workers, including nurses and para medical staff, at the district level itself. After all, their survival is crucial for ensuring better treatment for those affected by the pandemic,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Workers challenge to Incab liquidation in NCLAT||The New Delhi-based National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has admitted an appeal filed by workers of Incab Industries, challenging the liquidation order passed earlier by the Calcutta-bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). During a virtual hearing on Thursday, NCLAT took note of the workers’ appeal and issued notices to all the concerned parties. Around 300 workers of the company, led by Bhagwati Prasad Singh, had appealed to the NCLAT on March 19 asking that the NCLT liquidation order be rejected. The hearing was supposed to take place on March 24. But because of the nationwide lockdown, the hearing could not take place. Supreme Court advocate S. K. Mohanty, who is representing the workers in NCLAT, said they were hopeful of a positive outcome. "The next hearing will take place on September 28 when the workers’ appeal will be clubbed with another similar appeal made by Jayanta Banerjee, an Incab official based at its Calcutta head office, " he said. Aakash Sharma, an advocate of NCLT who is taking care of the case on behalf of the workers, said they had also submitted an application with NCLAT about the Jharkhand government showing interest in taking over the company. "The government has already directed the deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum  to prepare and submit a report on Incab that has been closed for about two decades,” he said, adding that Thursday’s virtual hearing was also attended by Akhilesh Srivastava, the counsel representing the workers. The Calcutta bench of NCLT had on February 7 ordered the dissolution of ailing Incab Industries under The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The order was passed under Section 33 of the code by the bench comprising judges M.B. Gosavi and V.K. Gupta. The liquidation order came as a major blow to the workers and their union in Jamshedpur as well in Calcutta, where Incab is headquartered. Former state minister and local legislator Saryu Roy had also conducted a couple of meetings at the Incab township, hearing the grievances of the employees. He had also taken up Incab's case with the state government. Once considered a blue-chip company, Incab's Jamshedpur plant had over 2,000 employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: 1365 infected, the highest in a single day||Jharkhand reported the highest single-day-spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday as 1365 people were found infected, taking the Covid tally in the state close to 35,000, figures released by the health department stated. East Singhbhum, a district that has accounted for nearly 50 per cent of Jharkhand’s Covid fatalities, reported six of 10 deaths in the state on Thursday. As many as 165 Covid patients have died in the district during treatment so far. The Covid toll in the state jumped to 377 in 24 hours, taking the Covid mortality rate to 1.08 per cent, highlighted a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) at 10.45pm on Thursday. Thursday’s findings also took the number of active cases in the state above 11,000 as only 633 people recovered from the virus, while 1365 were found infected. The tally in Jharkhand, as reported on Thursday night, was 34,676 and 23,119 patients had recovered. As many as 328 people were found infected in Ranchi on Thursday, taking the tally in the district close to 7000. Only 61 patients recovered from the infection here in 24 hours and the count of active cases in the district leaped to 3,142, government data revealed. With 6,851 cases reported in the district so far, it is the worst-affected among 24 districts in Jharkhand. The government has so far collected swab samples of 6.79 lakh people and tested 6.73 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 25,123 people and 23,758 tested negative for Covid-19. While cases have witnessed an unprecedented increase in Jharkhand in the month of August, the recovery rate too has improved. The state’s Covid recovery rate, as per government figures, was 66.67 per cent on Thursday against the national average of 75.27 per cent. Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad are among the worst-affected districts in the state. These three districts account for nearly half of Covid cases in Jharkhand. However, these three districts have also recorded the best recovery rate among Jharkhand districts so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Baidyanathdham temple in Deoghar opened for public||Baidyanathdham temple in Deoghar opened for public on Thursday morning after a gap of five months. The temple remained closed for devotees ever since the lockdown was imposed in March-end. The state government had also cancelled the annual, month-long Shravani Mela that was supposed to begin from July 6 to check the spread of the coronavirus. In view of a Supreme Court order, the temple, however, opened for a few hours on Rakhi Purnima on August 3 when 301 devotees were allowed to have a darshan. The home, prison and disaster management department of the state government issued an order on Wednesday evening, allowing opening of both the Deoghar temple and Basukinath temple in adjoining Dumka district under certain conditions. Both the temples will be open for four hours every day. While 50 devotees will be allowed every hour at the Deoghar temple, 40 people can enter Basukinath temple provided they wear mask, sanitise their hands and maintain social distancing, the government order said. It also recommended the entry of devotees “preferably on the basis of online entry passes”. “While rest of the conditions have been fulfilled, the provision of issuing online entry passes will be made within a day or two,” a senior officer informed from Deoghar, adding around 200 devotees had a darshan on Thursday. Godda BJP MP Nishikant Dubey had challenged the state government’s decision to cancel the Shravani Mela in Jharkhand High Court. Though the court did not allow Shravani Mela, it directed the government to arrange for virtual darshan, which was done. Not satisfied with the order, Dubey moved the Supreme Court, which in its order on July 31 questioned the logic behind keeping the places of worship closed even after lockdown. It also requested the Jharkhand government to allow worshippers on a limited basis so that there was no large congregation and devotees could maintain social distance. Accordingly, the Baidyanathdham temple was opened for a few hours on Rakhi Purnima, the last day of Shravan as per Vikram Samvat calendar, when 301 devoted visited the temple. The state government’s Wednesday order paved the way for regular opening of both Baidyanathdham and Basukinath temples, albeit with restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
28-08-2020||Jharkhand||Extortion calls to Jharkhand MLA ||Former Jharkhand deputy chief minister and Silli legislator Sudesh Mahato has lodged a police complaint against anonymous callers demanding Rs 15 lakh. According to the complaint lodged by Mahendra Sharma, a close aide of the MLA, at Gonda police station in Ranchi on Wednesday evening, two calls came from anonymous phone numbers on August 14 night at the Kanke Road residence of the All Jharkhand Students Union (Ajsu) national president Mahato. “We received the complaint and had detained a youth. But during investigation it was found that the calls were made using the name of the person appearing in the caller ID. In fact the detained youth was unaware of the call being made using his phone. Our cyber cell is looking into the case and will nab the real culprits,” said Ranchi senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surendra Jha. Sources said the detained youth, a resident of Jamshedpur in East Singhbhum district, had told the police that he had lodged a missing report about his mobile phone in Jamshedpur. “It is the first time that we have detected spoofing calls being made to anyone in Ranchi and it seems that the callers were technologically savvy,” said an officer of Gonda police station, who is part of the team probing the incident. Caller ID spoofing is the practice of causing the telephone network to indicate to the receiver of a call that the originator of the call is different from the true caller. This can lead to a caller ID display showing a phone number different from that of the telephone from which the call was placed. Using a spoofed call service is banned in India by the telecom ministry. Himanshu Kumar, personal assistant to Mahato, said the MLA who had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days back but has now tested negative, is under home quarantine. He said they had lodged the police complaint after the MLA received the extortion calls. “The caller had threatened to shoot Sudeshji to death if the demand for Rs 15 lakh was not met. We lodged a complaint at the police station concerned and also gave a copy of the complaint to the Ranchi SSP and other senior police officers,” Kumar said. In July, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had also received two anonymous threat emails asking him to mend his ways or face dire consequences. A case had been lodged at the cyber police station in Ranchi in connection with the emails. However, nobody has been arrested in the case so far. Jharkhand police spokesperson Suman Gupta did not reveal any information when asked about the probe into the threat emails to the chief minister. “Any information to the media in this case will be communicated at a suitable time,” said Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-319
