29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Maoist-police gun battle near Hazaribagh-Chatra border ||Police and Maoist rebels were locked in a gun battle in the forest on the border of Keredari (Hazaribagh) and Simaria (Chatra) on Saturday. The rebels, including zonal commander Mithilesh and area commander Anil Bhuiyan, were in the forest when a combined force of the police and CRPF reached the area. The Maoists opened fire and a gun battle ensued. The Maoists soon fled. Police officers claimed that two-three women Maoists had suffered bullet injuries. Members of the district unit of the Congress, led by All India Congress Committee member Santosh Singh, on Saturday staged a demonstration at BCCL’s Rajapur Colliery in Jharia. The agitators protested mining by Dhansar Engineering Company Limited, a private contractor working on behalf of BCCL, while allegedly disregarding environmental norms and other rules laid down by the Directorate General of Mines Safety. Motorcycle-borne miscreants opened fire at BCCL’s Ena Colliey in Jharia on Saturday. The incident took place around 1.15pm when unidentified persons on four-five motorcycles went to the colliery and fired shots in the air. Jharia police said the incident could be the result of rivalry among various groups vying to establish their supremacy in the colliery. The colliery is traditionally dominated by Janta Mazdoor Sangh, which is led by jailed former legislator Sanjeev Singh. A rival group is trying to gain a foothold at the colliery. Nikki Pandey, a 21-year-old whose dead body was found at his village in Katkmasandi block of Hazaribagh, was murdered at the instance of the local mukhiya with whom he was allegedly having an affair, his father Banaras Pandey has claimed. Nikki’s mother Sushma Devi said that he and the mukhiya, Sarita Devi, were in a relationship for the past year. There had been objections from family members. On Saturday, members of the Antarashtriy Brahmin Samaj visited Nikki's village and met his family. Residents of Hazaribagh, Chatra, Lohardagga, Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma and Latehar visited the Katkamsandi police station and threatened an agitation if the killers were not arrested by September 2. Karma festival celebrations on Saturday gave way to grief after 22-year-old Shambhu Kumar who climbed a tree to cut a karam tree branch for worship came in contact with a high-voltage electric wire and died on the spot. The incident took place at Purnadih village in Bahera panchayat in Chouparan block of Hazaribagh district. Villagers took him to a local health centre but he was declared dead on arrival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||In time of unlock, bus operators talk of steep fare hikes||Bus operators, who have been allowed to resume operations within the state, have indicated they would increase fares, substantially in certain routes, to make up for the losses they suffered during the five-month-long lockdown since March. Jharkhand Bus Owners Association chief Arun Budhiya said on Saturday that the lockdown months had seen a hike in diesel prices and the state government had allowed only 50 per cent occupancy. “Considering all these aspects, there is no way other than increasing rates to sustain ourselves,” he said, adding that many vehicles had suffered wear and tear. Asked about the nature of hikes, Budhiya said they would decide soon. “Operators will take a call according to routes, taking all options into consideration,” he said. Many operators started running some buses from Saturday. One operator, who was plying buses between Ranchi and Khunti, said that he had increased the fare by about Rs 20. “The Ranchi-Khunti fare is now about Rs 60. The association will decide on the final rates,” he said. The state transport department also issued detailed SOPs for bus operators, mandating thermal scanning of every passenger before boarding, sufficient distance between passengers, and regular sanitisation of seats. “Buses with valid road and route permits from the competent authority will only be allowed to ply on the streets,” said state transport secretary K. Ravikumar. The driver’s cabin should also be covered with plastic sheets. “The cabin around the driver’s seat should be covered by a plastic sheet and bus staff on-board are mandated to wear masks, gloves and face shields,” he said, adding that spitting or consuming tobacco in public would attract fines and/or punishment. Also, bus operators have been advised to download the Arogya Setu app and told to keep detailed records of passengers. District administrations and civic bodies have been asked to ensure that bus stands are cleaned and sanitised. Officials of the district transport departments have been asked to conduct regular inspections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Giridih officials enforce 14-day quarantine norm on Sakshi Maharaj||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj, who came to his ashram in Giridh on Saturday morning to see his ailing mother, was asked to stay back there in quarantine for 14 days as per the state government’s Covid norms, the SDO’s order coming in for severe criticism from senior party leaders of Jharkhand. A team of district officials headed by Giridih SDO Prerna Dixit stopped the MP’s car near Pirtand police station while he was going to Dhanbad to board the Delhi-bound Rajdhani Express. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said anyone can come to Jharkhand but has to stay quarantined for 14 days. “As per government guidelines, Sakshi Maharaj has been quarantined for the next 14 days at Shanti Bhawan Ashram where he had come,” Sinha said, adding that he was following instructions of the state’s chief secretary and secretary of the disaster management department. Sources said Sakshi Maharaj, or Swami Sachchidanand Hari Sakshi Ji Maharaj, the BJP’s MP from Unnao, came to the ashram in Giridih from Delhi via Dhanbad by the Rajdhani Express on Saturday morning. He spent about two hours there and was returning when he was stopped. The MP was livid. “I reached here (Giridih) at 10.30am and left at 12.30 pm, spending two hours in my ashram. I came to meet my ailing mother who is 97 years old. Before coming here on Thursday, I had sent a fax to the state chief secretary and DGP, and to the SP and deputy commissioner of Giridih informing them about my visit. They did not object. Nor did they inform me about such guidelines,” he said. Sakshi Maharaj said he would have to return to Delhi in two days to attend a high-level meeting of the Parliament standing committee where an important bill was to be discussed. “I told the DC how important it was for me to return, but he is not listening. Jharkhand is also a part of the country. The JMM government has quarantined me intentionally because I am an MP of the BJP,” he alleged. BJP leaders in the state also condemned the “high-handedness” of the JMM-led state government. MP of Dhanbad P.N. Singh said the Giridih district administration was politically motivated. “The JMM government is double-faced. Whenever it gets a chance, it quarantines BJP leaders. But the government never touches the Congress or JMM leaders. Umang Singhar, co-in-charge of Jharkhand Pradesh Congress, had visited Giridih recently. Why was he not quarantined by the administration?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dronacharya award for Tata Archery Academy coach||Dharmendra Tiwary was a highly satisfied man on finally becoming a Dronacharya awardee, the third archery coach from Jamshedpur to be bestowed with the honour. Tiwary, the chief coach at Tata Archery Academy, was at the Sports Authority of India office of Salt Lake, Calcutta on Thursday to attend the virtual award ceremony on the occasion of National Sports Day. The ceremony was streamed live from New Delhi in the presence of President Ram Nath Govind who watched the awardees from Rashtrapati Bhavan. The awards ceremony coincides with the birth anniversary of hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand. The highly experienced trainer has been honoured with the Dronacharya award (lifetime category) 2020 for playing a key role in producing top-notch archers like Deepika Kumari, Atanu Das and Jayanta Talukdar,  all Olympians and graduates of Tata Archery Academy (TAA). He has received the certificate and will get the bronze statuette of  Dronacharya and cash prize of Rs 10 lakh later. “Aakhir 26 varsho ki meri mehnat rang layee ( After all, 26 years of my hard work has paid off),” Tiwary told The Telegraph Online on phone from Calcutta. The 47-year-old thanked his parents, wife, Tata Steel, state sports department, Jharkhand Archery Association, Archery Association of India and Sports Authority of India for the support extended to his career as a mentor. Tiwary, who joined the Tata archery cradle as assistant coach in 1998, has represented undivided Bihar as an archer from 1985 to 1993. He was recommended for the Dronacharya by his employers Tata Steel and the state government. He is into coaching for over two decades now and was also one of the mentors of the national side in the 2016 Rio Olympics. Tiwary has accompanied Indian archery outfits for international competitions on more than one occasion. Former Tata Steel sports wing chief and Olympian Sanjeeva Singh and ex-national archery champion and now a mentor at Tata archery cradle Purnima Mahto are the other sports personalities from Jamshedpur who have been conferred with Dronacharya award. Archery Association of India (AAI) president Arjun Munda, his wife and Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association president Meera Munda, secretary Sumanta Chandra Mohanty and coaches have congratulated Tiwary for the honour. “Tiwary richly deserved the Dronacharya award. He has produced several international archers, including Deepika, Atanu Das and Jayanta Talukdar to name a few,” said Mohanty, also joint secretary of the AAI. A soft-spoken man who believes in keeping to his work, Tiwary has been instrumental in helping Deepika overcome bouts of nervousness during her stay in Jamshedpur. The highly experienced mentor has been a guide to the celebrity archer and an ex-cadet of the Tata cradle. Nervousness affected Deepika’s performance in the beginning but she regained her confidence and composure after working with Tiwary who put her into yoga and meditation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||On National Sports Day, a pledge of fitness||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Popular Durga Puja pandal in steel city to issue e-passes||A popular Durga Puja pandal hosted by Jairam Youth Sporting Club at Adityapur has decided to issue online e-passes to visitors this year to prevent a rush, due to the coronavirus pandemic that is set to celebrations to be held this year into a low-key affair. Former Ichagarh legislator Arvind Singh, who is also a club patron told The Telegraph Online that the organising body of the puja had discussed this issue. "The nitty-gritties of issuing e-passes will be finalised soon," former Ichagarh legislator Arvind Singh, who is also a club patron told The Telegraph Online, adding that the puja will not be a big-budget affair. Social distancing norms and all other Covid protocols suggested by the Ministry of Home Affairs will be strictly followed during the five days of festivity. Singh said the pandal will be simple and no artisans are coming from outside the state this year. The club is known for its lighting decorations and private electrical agencies are hired from Howrah and other places of Bengal for elaborate illumination work along the 2km Tata-Kandra Road stretch starting from the Adityapur bridge. Pandal hoppers in large numbers gather every year from Jamshedpur and neighbouring districts panchami onwards to get a glimpse of the artwork. Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti (JDPKS) general secretary Ram Babu Singh said the club has also sought permission to make the idol of Goddess Durga beyond a height of 5ft. The apex body, which monitors the Puja, had earlier restricted the height of idols to 5 feet for facilitating smooth immersion with a limited number of people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||Govt working on app to link patients with plasma donors||The Ranchi district administration is planning to launch a mobile application to connect Covid-19 patients with plasma donors by putting out a list of those who are eligible with their blood groups, officials said on Saturday. “A private company has been roped in to design the app. The platform, however, will be entirely run and monitored by the government,” said Ranchi deputy development commissioner (DDC) Ananya Mittal. “We should be ready to roll out the app next week,” he added. The mobile application will also be accessible through a web browser for facilitating usage through desktops and laptops, said Mittal, adding that the platform will also provide details about the health condition of eligible donors and their current location. “Doctors and patients will be able to see the list of donors in their localities. The idea behind launching this platform is to ensure there is no crisis of plasma for therapy of patients,” Mittal said. The state government is yet to decide a name for the platform, sources said. It will be announced a day before the app launch. The only plasma bank in Jharkhand is at the state capital’s premiere hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). It was inaugurated by chief minister Hemant Soren on July 28 in a bid to kickstart plasma therapy, a treatment that is claimed to be one of the most effective ways of helping symptomatic Covid patients recover from the infection. As a part of the plasma therapy, blood plasma of a Covid survivor is injected into the body of an infected patient. It is believed that the person who survived the virus has developed antibodies in response to the Covid-19 antigen, and the survivor’s blood plasma may help the infected patient beat the virus, doctors said. Any Covid survivor, who has recovered from the infection at least 28 days ago, is eligible to donate plasma. However, Covid survivors who have recovered more than four months ago cannot donate plasma, health officials said. The donor should fall in the age bracket of 18 to 60 years and should not have cardiac ailments, diabetes or thyroid malfunctions. “The mobile application will only enlist people who are fit for plasma donation,” said Ranchi civil surgeon, Dr V.B. Prasad. “People can also volunteer for plasma donation and get listed in the app,” he added. While the plasma bank at RIMS has found several donors, the facility has been facing hiccups due to shortage of manpower after at least three of its technicians tested positive for the coronavirus. The government is also working on measures to increase manpower at the plasma bank, health officials said. Even though plasma therapy has been touted as the best treatment for Covid patients, some infected patients in Jharkhand could not survive despite undergoing the therapy. Ranchi’s first Covid patient to undergo plasma therapy died on August 2 at a private hospital in Ranchi. Renowned doctor Sujit Pal, the owner of Ranchi X Ray, had also undergone plasma therapy before he breathed his last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||At government school, students use a ladder to get to classrooms ||Students have to climb a risky bamboo ladder to get to their classrooms on the upper floor of the newly constructed Utkramit Madhya Vidyalaya in Belgada village of Kedli panchayat in Huntergunj, Chatra. The building was constructed without stairs and never properly finished. A two-member team has been formed to inquire and report on the situation. Records also stated that the government school’s principal, Sushil Singh, was seen beating two youths mercilessly in a video for their involvement in a mobile phone theft. Singh, who was secretary and principal of this school before he was transferred last year, had constructed the building with Rs 10.21 lakh. Education department officials said the entire fund has been used to construct this building, which is clearly incomplete. Neither has the plastering been done nor any windows fitted. There are no stairs to go up to the first floor. Parents, on condition of anonymity, said that Singh had threatened them against speaking out when he was posted there. Hence, no one had dared to raise their voice against him even after his transfer. So, 150 students of the school regularly use a bamboo ladder to reach classrooms on the first floor. “Once schools reopen, students will have to follow this practice again,” said a parent. One Naveen Singh, an engineer who was given the task to look after the construction work, had resigned from the job last year. Assistant engineer Shyam Narayan Singh of the Jharkhand Education Project Council who visited the school to inquire about the misuse of funds admitted that the work was substandard. He expressed his surprise on finding that stairs were missing. “I am waiting for a report from my team and the guilty will not be spared,” said Chatra district education officer Jitendra Kumar Sinha. He promised to check whether any funds were left in the school account so as to use them to build stairs for the building.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
29-08-2020||Jharkhand||With JEE-NEET in mind, state allows public transport to ply; hotels, lodges to open ||Jharkhand has allowed public transport to ply within the state and given the go-ahead for hotels, lodges and restaurants to open for a month till September 30 in view of the JEE-NEET examinations scheduled next month. In an order issued late on Friday night, the Hemant Soren government also allowed reopening of malls and salons outside containment zones with immediate effect. But all religious places will remain closed, except Baba Baidyanath Dham in Deoghar and Basukinath temple in Dumka that were allowed to open in view of a Supreme Court order. The ban on the movement of inter-state buses will, however, remain in place. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who is among several chief ministers of Opposition-ruled states protesting against the timing of holding JEE-NEET in view of the rising number of Covid cases, shared a copy of the latest unlock orders on his twitter handle and appealed to people to follow all safety norms. Hemant said examinees living in containment zones would be allowed to move out to appear for the exams. “Their admit cards will be deemed as movement permits. They will not need to take any separate permission from local authorities,” he said. During the time of JEE-NEET, examinees who travel to and from other states will be exempted from the 14-day mandatory quarantine period, the order, signed by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, noted. An official of the state disaster management department said, “The order is effective till September 30, after which the government will review the situation and take a fresh call about exemptions. All hotels, lodges that have been allowed to reopen will have to follow the standard operating procedures notified by both the Centre and state.” He said the state transport department norm of allowing only 50 per cent occupancy in buses was still in force. “That will have to be followed in toto,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-318
