30-08-2020||Jharkhand||RJD leader killed in road crash near Hazaribagh||An RJD leader from Bihar, Bijendra Yadav, who was on his way to Ranchi to meet incarcerated party chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, died in a road accident on Sunday morning. The accident, which also killed one of his associates, took place on GT Road near Barsot in Barhi, around 56km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Another associate, Chotelal Yadav, was severely hurt. He was taken to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) but later referred to Ranchi. Police said Bijendra, 60, was a former zilla parishad member in Saharsha district of Bihar. He was accompanied by Ram, 55, and Chotelal, 56. They were in a car that hit a stationary truck from behind near Barsot at 3 in the morning. The three were taken to the subdivsional hospital. Doctors there declared Bijendra dead on arrival. His associates were referred to HMCH but one of them died on way. Bijendra was gearing up to contest from the Mahishi Assembly seat in Saharsa. Three days ago, he went to Patna to talk to senior party leaders. Family members said he was going to Ranchi to meet Lalu and get his blessings and assurance. Bijendra was from Bijalpur village in Saharasa district. A team of four BTech final-year students of IIT (ISM), comprising Sanchit Kumar and Parth Hetamsaria of the mining engineering department and Varnika Kumari and Srajan Gupta of the electrical and mechanical engineering departments, has won the 2020 KPMG Ideation Challenge, an online competition held on August 24 and 25. Seventeen teams from various countries took part in the competition. The IIT (ISM) team developed a project based on the use of sensors in mining operation. A team from IIT (ISM) led by professor Aditya Kumar and two researchers has been conferred the Inder Mohan Thapar Award for its work on silver nanoparticles that can be applied on clothes to render them superhydrophobic. The coating has antiviral properties. Half of the award money of Rs 1 lakh will go to the faculty members, while the remaining will be credited in the contingent fund of scholars/students. The dean of research and development, professor Shalivahan, said: “The award, funded by Inder Mohan Thapar, will be formally conferred on the awardees during the foundation day celebrations of the institute on December 9.” The coating was developed by the IIT (ISM) team in May, and its efficacy testing with E. coli and A niger fungus has been carried out. Groups belonging to two Moharram akharas clashed with each other in Jharia’s Upper Kulhi locality on Sunday evening, leaving several persons injured. Some members of the Idgah akhara allegedly attacked those of another akhara in connection with an argument between the two sides a day earlier. A team from the local police station reached the spot and brought the situation under control. Oral cancer treatment will soon be introduced at Hazaribagh College of Dental Sciences and Hospital. The secretary of the hospital, Pravin Sriniwas, said the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery was being set up. The department will be responsible for the surgical treatment of acquired, congenital and traumatic issues related to the jaws and facial regions as well as developmental diseases of these areas. He said the department will provide much-needed relief to residents of the state. Advance tests, surgical management and chemotherapy, as well as post-care facility, will be provided under one roof, he said. Police in Bokaro are on the lookout for an alleged thief who is Covid-19 positive after he escaped from a care centre early on Sunday. He had been caught on August 27 for stealing two laptops from a house near Medina Masjid at Gaus Nagar in the Chas police station area. He had been tested for coronavirus infection as per norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi bus operators decide to charge double the existing rates||Passengers travelling by bus within the state will now have to pay double the rates, bus owners announced on Sunday evening after a meeting at the Khadgara bus stand here to discuss modalities of resuming operations. “Considering various aspects, we have devised a simple fare revision method. Since the government is asking us to ply buses with 50 per cent occupancy, we have decided to charge a passenger double the usual rate. In other words, a passenger booking one seat has to pay for two,” said Ranchi Bus Association president Krishna Mohan Singh. While some bus operators have begun plying their vehicles, officials said that all buses would resume full-fledged operations from September 1. Of around 10,000 buses in the state, around 2,500 operate from Ranchi alone. Singh said the hike in fares was imperative to sustain the business. “The buses were grounded for over five months causing wear-and-tear and require immense investment to make them road worthy again. Then, fuel prices were hiked a number of times. Also, the state government hasn’t provided any road tax subsidy,” he said, adding that bus travel would work out cheaper for the public compared to using a private car. Announcing relaxations in lockdown norms in view of the coming entrance examinations, JEE and NEET on Friday, the state government allowed resumption of bus services and hotels, lodges, restaurants and saloons to open. On Saturday, the state transport department issued SOPs which specified that buses were to run with 50 per cent capacity in addition to other norms in line with what has been announced by the state and centre. The SOPs mandate thermal scanning of every passenger before boarding, sufficient distance between passengers, and regular sanitisation of seats. “Buses with valid road and route permits from the competent authority will only be allowed to ply on the streets,” state transport secretary K. Ravikumar said on Saturday. The driver’s cabin should also be covered with plastic sheets. “The cabin around the driver’s seat should be covered by a plastic sheet and bus staff on-board are mandated to wear masks, gloves and face shields,” he said, adding that spitting or consuming tobacco in public would attract fines and/or punishment. Also, bus operators have been advised to download the Arogya Setu app and told to keep detailed records of passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Daily wagers at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary without pay for last six months||About 48 daily wagers at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary have not been paid for the past six months. The situation has forced most of them to borrow money on interest, also forcing many to discontinue their children’s education. Several young people from such families have been forced to sit idle as jobs avenues are yet to open. “We have no option but to wait. Most of the daily wagers have started borrowing on interest from lenders of Chilgu village. The lenders are charging 10 per cent interest on the loan. We are living in utter penury but are continuing with our work,” Shristidhar Mahto, a watchman posted at the main entrance gates of the sanctuary at Makukakocha, told The Telegraph Online. Mahto also said that forest officials have informed them that pending dues are expected to be cleared next week. “We have been hearing this for over two months now. We will believe only when we are paid. We are already fed up with false assurances,” he added. Pritam Tudu, another worker, said, “My son and daughter are not going to school as it is closed due to the pandemic. I started tuitions but it has been discontinued as I cannot afford the same.” He said that some educated village youths have been teaching the children. The men and women working at Dalma are engaged in maintaining the accommodations, taking care of two domesticated elephants (as mahauts) and some working as cooks and trackers (who are recruited to keep a tab on movement of animals across the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur). They are paid Rs 249.83 per day for their labour. The workers held an agitation near the main entrance of the sanctuary and also detained forest range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra last month. Mahto, who heads the Dainik Vetan Bhogi Majdoor Sangh, said, “We staged an agitation last month, but nothing worked. I think it will be a futile exercise to do the same again. We are helpless and have no option than to wait.” Mahto did thank some foresters for helping them out with money. “The foresters have also  asked some grocers to give us grocery on credit. But this arrangement cannot continue for long. The government should allocate funds for our pending dues,” he said. A forest official said dues would only be cleared after the forest department allocates the money. "We are very much aware of the situation, but dues can be cleared only if the fund is allocated by the forest department," he said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||3 PLFI rebels arrested from Namkum, Pandra in Ranchi||Close on the heels of ransom calls made to a renowned businessman in the capital, police on Sunday arrested Three rebels of the People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), who were staying at rented accommodations in the state capital, were arrested on Sunday with police claiming they were hatching a plan to target businessmen and industrialists for ransom. The arrested insurgents have been identified as Vinay Tigga, Kachna Pahan and Sunny Kacchap, all in their mid-20s and residents of an area under the Nagri police station, police said. Ranchi SSP S.K. Jha said police also recovered two pistols, 29 live bullets, three mobile phones and bikes from their possession. “We had intelligence inputs that some PLFI rebels are secretly operating out of rented accommodations in Ranchi, planning to target businessmen for extortion,” said Jha. “After verifying the inputs, we constituted teams to conduct raids and the trio was nabbed,” he added. PLFI is one of 17 splinter outfits in Jharkhand, primarily active in Ranchi, Khunti and Simdega. Founded by an ex-armyman Dinesh Gope, this Left Wing Extremist group, police say, is involved in demanding levy and extorting money from businessmen and industrialists. During the raids conducted late on Saturday night, Vinay and Kachna were arrested from Ketaribagan under Namkum police station area. During interrogation at Namkum Police Station, they disclosed that one Sunny Kacchap, a member of their gang, was staying at a rented accommodation in Pandra locality. A police team later arrested Sunny from his residence in Pandra. All of them have criminal records and FIR was lodged against the trio under section 385 and 387 of IPC and sections of Arms Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Sakshi Maharaj allowed to leave Giridih for Delhi||Unnao MP Sakshi Maharaj, who was quarantined at an ashram in Giridih on the orders of the district administration, was allowed to leave for Delhi on Sunday after his Covid test reports were negative. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said Maharaj was granted exemption after he wrote a letter to the chief secretary on Saturday after he was quarantined. “He mentioned that he had to attend an urgent meeting of the parliamentary standing committee where an important bill was to be discussed,” Sinha said. Maharaj left the Shanti Bhawan Ashram in Makatpur area of Giridih at 2pm for  Dhanbad where he boarded a New-Delhi bound Rajdhani Express. The BJP MP, who was livid after he was told not leave the town on Saturday as per Covid norms, looked and sounded happy that he was leaving.  “Aaj ja rahe hai. Acchi baat hai (I am leaving today, which is good),” he told the media peering out from his car window. Sakshi Maharaj, or Swami Sachchidanand Hari Sakshi Ji Maharaj, the BJP’s MP from Unnao, came to the ashram in Giridih from Delhi via Dhanbad by the Rajdhani Express on Saturday morning. He spent about two hours there with his ailing mother and was returning when he was stopped. BJP leaders in the state condemned the “high-handedness” of the JMM-led state government. MP of Dhanbad P.N. Singh said the Giridih district administration was politically motivated. Several leaders also met the deputy commissioner to demand that Maharaj be allowed to leave for Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Vehicle scanner ready at Tatanagar station parking lot||A vehicle scanning system will be in operation at the Tatanagar parking lot from Monday with the railways touting it as another feather in the cap of the A1 category station. The under vehicle scanning system (UDSS) will be maintained by railway protection force (RPF) personnel, 10 of whom were trained in its use by a Calcutta-based company at the station parking lot on Sunday morning. "Three RPF personnel will be posted at the entrance of the car park where a tracker has been embedded by Reyant Private Ltd,” said RPF inspector at Tatanagar M.K. Sahoo. A distinctive beep from the tracker will alert policemen about the presence of illegal/unauthorised or dangerous items in the vehicle. The RPF inspector said Tatanagar, under Chakradharpur railway division, was the first station in South Eastern Railway to get UDSS. Over 2,000 cars are parked there every day. The station sees an average footfall of 70,000 a day. South Eastern Railway had installed over 250 CCTV cameras across the station in 2014.  Subsequently, the railways introduced a luggage scanning system at the entrance of the station in 2019. A senior railway official pointed that they persuaded the Calcutta-based company to train the RPF personnel as they wanted the new system to start functioning now even though a limited number of trains are running. "Tatanagar is a relatively small railway station. But several VIPs and their family members visit the station often, either to pick up or see off their near and dear ones. We want the station to be safe for everybody,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Restaurants on clean-up drive, want to stay open till 9pm||Hotels and restaurants of the coal capital of Dhanbad are busy cleaning up to reopen on Monday after more than five months, but owners said they would appeal to the authorities to allow them to serve guests till 9pm instead of the mandated 7pm. Restaurant owners are planning to meet office-bearers of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry to ask them to convey their concerns to the district administration. Senior GM of Skylark Hotel Anutosh Baghchi said deep cleaning of the entire premises was on since Sunday which would be followed by pest control measures and sanitisation. “As per SOP for operation, we have decided to avoid human interface and once a guest enters his/her respective suites, our staff will not enter their rooms. Food will be served in rooms using sanitised trolleys and guests will have to serve themselves. “We will also carry out the thermal scanning of all guests before booking rooms for them,” Bagchi said and added that no one would be allowed in without masks. The hotel restaurant that seats 80 will, however, allow only 40 people at a time. Arka Ghosh, who is GM of Hotel Sonotel that has 56 rooms and three suites, said they had also started sanitisation measures on the premises. “We will use thermal scanners and also note down the travel history of guests. We will also follow all the SOPs for restaurants,” he said. Satwant Singh, owner of La Piaza, a restaurant in Hirapur, Dhanbad, said he was happy that the government had allowed restaurants to open, but was sceptical about the volume of business. “Until the staying open time is extended to 9pm we will not see customers as office-goers will not get time to visit us,” he said. Mihir Mandal, owner of Monalisa, another restaurant in Dhanbad, expressed similar worries, “We are also planning to meet office-bearers of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce to demand an extension in timing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||First minister to test positive beats Covid, donates plasma||State water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur, who was cured of Covid-19 last month, donated plasma at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS)  blood bank on Sunday, becoming the first “VIP patient” to do so at a time when coronavirus cases are rising steadily in Jharkhand. Thakur, whose blood group is A negative, said, “On the day (June 28) RIMS launched the plasma bank, I had announced publicly that I will donate plasma after recovering from the disease. So, here I am today (Sunday) after undergoing the mandatory cooling period post-recovery to help others.” The minister, who was at RIMS in the afternoon, said that plasma donation was like blood donation. “I appeal everyone to do so in public interest,” he added. Thakur was the first Cabinet minister to test positive for Covid-19 in the first week of June. He was discharged from hospital on June 21. “I am completely fit and fine and am taking all precautions whenever I am moving out. Following mandatory safety norms is the best way to curb spread of the virus,” he said. State health minister Banna Gupta, the second Cabinet minister in the Hemant Soren government to test positive, is currently undergoing treatment at RIMS. He also promised to donate plasma after recovering. “I will also donate plasma. As a public representative, it is our responsibility to lead by example to motivate others. Chief minister Hemant Soren is already appealing to all those have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma,” Gupta said. Notably, the district administration and RIMS is currently running a campaign titled, “Saviours” to boost plasma donation. The campaign was launched on August 21 (Friday) in the form of a day-long special plasma donation drive in which about five policemen who beat Covid-19 took part. Since then, RIMS sources said, around two dozen people, including several policemen, have donated plasma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad worst hit||The Covid tally in Jharkhand drew close to 38,000 on Saturday as 1,299 people were found infected in 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 11,498, figures released by the health department stated. Accordong to a National Health Mission (NHM) bulletin released at 10.45pm on Saturday, as many as 257 people tested positive for the coronavirus in Ranchi while 233 people were found infected in East Singhbhum – the two worst-affected districts in the state. There were 3,138 active cases of infection in Ranchi and 2,366 patients in East Singhbhum by the time this report was filed. As many as eight Covid patients, including three in East Singhbhum, died during treatment in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 398, government figures highlighted. Ranchi alone accounts for 7,257 of the 40,000-odd Covid cases in Jharkhand so far, while East Singhbhum has reported 176 of the 398 deaths in state, officials from the health department said on Saturday, raising concern over the Covid situation in the two districts. While the state witnessed a four-digit spike in the Covid cases on Saturday, as many as 968 patients recovered from the infection and were subsequently discharged from hospital, government data stated. So far, 25,216 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand and 11,498 were still undergoing treatment. With nearly 3,000 Covid-19 cases, Dhanbad is the third worst-affected district in Jharkhand. All the remaining 21 districts in the state have reported less than 2,000 cases of infection. On Saturday too, only Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a triple-digit spike in Covid cases, while all other districts registered fewer cases than 100, the NHM bulletin stated. The government so far has collected swab samples of 7.44 lakh people and tested 7.30 lakh of them. On Saturday, health workers tested swab samples of 19,993 people and 18,694 of them came negative. The Covid testing rate has improved in Jharkhand since July, with the government testing at least 15,000 people every day on an average. The Covid recovery rate in state on Saturday was 67.94 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 75.27 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.07 per cent against the national average of 1.85 per cent, said government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
30-08-2020||Jharkhand||Lockdown restriction: Businesses can run in Jharkhand ||The Jharkhand government ordered extension of lockdown related restrictions in containment zones across the state till September 30 but permitted all economic activities, unless specifically prohibited. “All economic activities, not specifically prohibited, shall be permitted outside the containment zones,” said the order, signed by state’s chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and issued by disaster management division of home, prison and disaster management department on Friday evening. Following this, such establishments as hotels, shopping malls, restaurants and saloons either opened or were preparing to open on Saturday. The government, however, did not permit social, political, sports and entertainment events or gatherings, large congregations and fairs. All educational institutions and coaching centres would also continue to remain closed as would be cinema halls, swimming pools, gymnasiums, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums and assembly halls. Religious places would also continue to be closed, except those having clearance in view of a recent Supreme Court order. The government also allowed intra-state bus service but prohibited inter-state transport by bus. “We have issued a standard operating procedure for intra-state bus service today,” transport secretary R. Ravi Kumar said on Saturday. The SOP said that such buses would ply with passengers half the capacity and maintain detailed records of the passengers, besides following safety norms. “There is no restrictions but those entering or returning to Jharkhand will have to be in quarantine for two weeks,” he replied when asked about inter-state movement by private vehicles. Though chief minister Hemant Soren wrote a letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Thursday requesting the latter to consider postponing JEE-NEET examinations “in public interest”, the government appeared to be lenient on facilitating movement of the examinees if those are held in September as scheduled. Though not specifically mentioned about any particular examination, the guidelines issued along with the order lifted restrictions of examinees even if they belong to containment zones, with instruction to treat their admit cards as passes. This would be valid for such examinees from outside the state who may have opted for appearing at an examination from a centre in Jharkhand, the guidelines added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-317
