31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Testing camps draw huge crowds in Bokaro industrial areas ||The health department held several Covid testing camps across Bokaro district on Monday to try and get a grip on the spread of the coronavirus after 400 positive cases were recorded in the past three days. The camps drew huge crowds and at some places police had to be deployed to ensure social distancing was maintained. “Against a target of conducting tests on 75,00 people, the health department team managed to collect swab samples of 5,500 residents till 6 pm,” said district epidemiologist officer Pawan Kumar Srivastava. He said they would continue to collect samples so that all those who had come for testing on Monday were covered. “More than 40 staffers of the health department have been deployed to conduct the drive where swab samples were tested using Truenat, rapid antigen and RT-PCR kits,” Srivastava said. While rapid antigen and Truenat test reports are expected to come in by Tuesday, the results of RT-PCR were expected in 72 hours. Camps were held at Central Coalfield (CCL) offices at Kargali, Dhori and Kathara areas under Bermo subdivision, Electrosteel Steel Plant at Chandankyari and Indian Explosives (IEL) Colony at Gomia. “These companies also provided their lab technicians for swab collection,” said civil surgeon Dr A. K. Pathak. Tarun Kumar, a local resident who had come to Agrasen Bhavan for testing, complained of the crowd. “There was a massive gathering at the camp. It was very difficult to stand in line for about an hour to reach the point where my swab sample was collected. People who were in que did not realise that not adhering to social distancing made everyone more vulnerable to contracting the virus,” he said. As on Sunday evening, Bokaro district had 498 active Covid-19 cases of which 178 people had tested positive through the day, the highest 24-hour figure so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||BSNL launches high-speed air fibre internet service in steel city||Bharat Sanchar Nigam (BSNL) launched Bharat Air Fibre services in Jamshedpur on Monday, allowing residents of East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan to get wireless internet connection on demand. Jamshedpur is the second place in the state to get high-speed wireless internet service. The Bharat Air Fibre service was launched in Ranchi earlier this month. The national launch of the service took place last month. GM of BSNL's Jamshedpur SSA Sanjeev Verma said, “The Bharat Air Fibre Service will provide high-speed broadband connectivity of the order of 100 Mbps. It will be very handy in areas where cable laying is difficult and time consuming. The service will also prove to be a boon for those working from home." The service is currently available in Pardih and Adityapur, and in the next one month it will be extended to most places in the three districts. The air fibre reach will span a radius of 1.5 km from a BSNL air fibre transmitter.  BSNL is planning to set up air fibre transmitters in various locations across the three districts. Customers can get wireless internet connection upon installing an air fibre router. “The biggest advantage of the scheme is that with a single router eight to ten devices can run at the same time,” Verma added. The service is currently available in monthly rental plans of Rs 849 and Rs 1,277 depending on usage patterns. Verma said they launched the service because of a demand for high-speed internet connection. "The demand of high-speed internet has gone up in the lockdown as people want uninterrupted internet connections at home for work and for online classes.  Also, where optical fibre reach is difficult, air fibre is the solution," he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||A tribal nurse who braved the odds and emerged a Covid winner||Tala Tudu may have battled bravely with the deadly coronavirus but the thought of going back to the place from where she got the infection still frightens her. The 48-year-old nurse at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) and Sahitya Akademi award-winning writer recalled the fear and anxiety she went through for over a fortnight while undergoing treatment. “Fear gripped me when I heard the name of Covid for the first time. I felt like was the name of some dangerous wild animal. I didn’t know how serious the infection was as I continued to nurse the patients at the Covid ward at the hospital,” Tudu said. But she felt proud to be a frontline warrior. “I got appreciation from various quarters. This made me work with dedication. But I did not know that one day I would test coronavirus positive myself,” the Bistupur N. Road resident said. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Tudu said she was on duty at the hospital’s Covid ward from July 28 to August 11 and tested positive on August 12. “I was shifted to the GT 4 hostel a Covid care unit) in Kadma for treatment at around 9 pm on that day,” she recalled. “I was constantly worried about my family during my deployment. However, being a nurse I had to take the risk at a difficult time.  I was shattered after the phone call that said I had tested positive. I became worried for my family,” she said. Tudu, who is assistant secretary of the East Singhbhum unit of the All India Santhali Writers Association (AISWA), said she felt orphaned, staying away from her family because of her duty at the hospital. “I had promised my family that I would return home on the 15th day after the rotational phase of my duty at the hospital. But I couldn’t fulfil my promise. I sobbed at the thought of my daughter, son and husband,” she said. “I also cried during my treatment but managed to somehow pump up my spirits as I knew I had to fight and win the battle. I thought I have to conquer the infection and return to my family. I am grateful to the almighty who gave me strength to overcome the crisis,” she added. Tudu tested positive again on August 22 during her course of treatment at the GT4 hostel. However, she tested negative on August 27 and was discharged the same day. Tudu said facilities at the Covid care unit were good but there is scope for improvement. She said was still low on the immunity front but would have to return for duty at the hospital next week. “I still feel weak and my immunity is also not in very good shape. But I have to report for duty as nurses have to work at the Covid ward on a rotation basis. I am helpless, but I am a frontline warrior who has a responsibility. I will report for duty on Monday or Tuesday,” she said. Tudu is known for her translation of Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay’s novel Parineeta into Santhali in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC rope in Brazilian midfielder Alexandre Monteiro de Lima||Alexandre Monteiro de Lima, known as Alex, on Monday became the latest acquisition for Jamshedpur FC, being signed for the 2020-21 Indian Super League (ISL) season. Alex is a midfielder who comes at the back of a star-studded career across the world and becomes the club’s fourth foreign player (along with Aitroy Monroy, David Grande and Nerka Valskis). The strong and well-built playmaker is known for his ability to hold the ball, create chances as well as get into scoring positions. The 31-year-old has the experience of playing in Asia with stints in the highly competitive K League 2 (South Korea) with Suwon FC and FC Anyang and most recently with Ho Chi Minh City FC in V League (Vietnam). Alex has amassed a total of 43 goals and 23 assists in a total of 337 appearances in his career. The Brazilan expressed his delight on signing for JFC and said: “ I have played football across four continents. To now join this exciting league wearing the colours of one of the top teams of India makes me extremely proud. I can’t wait to meet my teammates. I want the fans of Jamshedpur to know we are going to fight tooth and nail to win the ISL. Let’s do this together.” “Alex is a player of multiple capabilities. A team player, aggressive, smart, quick, a powerhouse. I could go on with a hundred adjectives and yet it would not be enough to describe him. He is an amazing talent who can unlock the toughest of defences. I remember I signed Alex when I was a coach at Houston and he did his job perfectly well for the club. I hope he will do the same here. A warm welcome to Alex. Wishing him a successful time with us,” said head coach Owen Coyle. The Brazilan began his career with the youth system of Gremo Mauaense in Brazil. In 2008, he went on to sign as a professional player for FC Wohlen in Switzerland. He became a regular for the Swiss 1. Liga Club where he spent four years and enjoyed  a spell on loan at FC Gossau of the same league. Alex will be donning the jersey number 7 in the upcoming ISL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Four deer, one of them pregnant, run over by train near Kechki station||Four deer, one of them pregnant, were run over by a goods train barely one km away from the Kechki railway station in Dhanbad on Monday. “Railway officials discovered the run over bodies of the deer this morning around 5.30am,” deputy director north of the Palamau tiger reserve Kumar Ashish told The Telegraph Online “One of the deer killed had a growing calf in her womb. This unborn was torn out,” said Ashish. “We thus lost 5. We have asked the local railway officials to give us details of the train that caused this run over,” he added. DS Srivastava, secretary Nature Conservation Society an NGO said there was no end to the tragedies plaguing the tiger reserve Palamau. “First a tigress was found dead in Betla National Park. Then three bison died in quick succession. A female elephant was also found dead.” “Now five deer are lost to the railways. It is a serious loss. Railway officials may not understand this tragedy,” lamented Srivastava. Sources said the railways are laying a third line from Patratu in Jharkhand to Dehri Sone in Bihar along an 11km stretch that is to pass through the core area of the tiger reserve. “This 4,000 crore rupees project of the railways all set to pass through the critical core area of our tiger reserve is a serious issue,” he said, adding that the stretch between Hehegara and Chhipadohar railway stations under the East Central Railways can be reset, without having any bearing upon the traffic. Kumar Ashish said if the railways so agree to their suggestions, it will help the tiger reserve in Palamau and its wildlife greatly. “A resetting of the third line will mean additional 2,000 crores of rupees for the railways,” he said. Railway sources said for a stretch of 22km in the reserve area starting before the Jawa bridge, there is a 25kmph speed embargo for all types of trains. Further, each train is to do a constant hooting, to keep wildlife at bay from coming over to the railway lines. “If our suggestion for resetting the third line is accepted, then neither will trains have to slow down, nor there be any constant hooting,” said Ashish. The tiger reserve in Palamau has more than 130km of state highway beginning from Kutmu to Mahuadarn, which is no less dangerous for wildlife in the area. “Just last week I saw a langur limping. A vehicle had hit one of its legs,” he said. “Let wildlife have its own world, space and solitude. They don’t need roads or trains, they need space and peace,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Vegetable prices soar as rain damages crops, disrupt supplies  ||Prices of vegetables, including potato, have increased sharply over the last couple of days, upsetting domestic budgets at a time when household earnings have seen a hit. While potato prices have increased to Rs 35 per kg from Rs 30 a kg, coriander leaves, tomato, cabbage, beans and brinjal have gone up substantially, between Rs 20 and Rs 30 in the retail markets in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and elsewhere. Retailers attribute the trend to supply restrictions as a result of damage to crops in the recent spell of heavy rain. In Ranchi, potato was selling between Rs 32 and Rs 35 in the capital against Rs 28. "Supply has been affected due to the current spell of rain and flash floods in different parts of the state," said Tulsi Kumbhkar, a vegetable vendor at Lalpur Chowk in Ranchi. He said prices of almost all vegetables, like tomato, beans, cabbage, gourd and chillies, have witnessed an increase of Rs15 per kg to Rs 25 per kg in the last two days. Homemakers, who said they were already facing a crisis in managing household budgets due to the pandemic, explained that the current hike in vegetable prices had aggravated things. “Tomatoes, which we used to purchase at anything between Rs 40 and Rs 50 per kg till two days ago, is being sold at Rs 80 per kg now,” said Smita Das, a resident of Sakchi in Jamshedpur. Potato prices have shot up as fewer trucks were coming to the Sakchi vegetable mandi from neighbouring Bengal and elsewhere. The staple, which was selling for Rs 30 per kg two days back, was being sold at Rs 35 per kg on Sunday. Prices of other vegetables had gone up considerably. Cauliflower was selling at Rs 40 per piece — double of what it was available at last week _ while bitter gourd was being sold at Rs 40 per kg against Rs 20 per kg a few days ago. Carrots were also sold at Rs 40 per kg against Rs 20 per kg a couple of days back. There was no change in prices of onions which continued to sell between Rs 20 and Rs 25 per kg. However, prices of green chillies witnessed a rise. Against Rs 100 per kg, green chillies were selling at Rs 150 per kg. The trend was similar in Hazaribagh, Dhanbad and Bokaro. Beans which were available at Rs 80 per kg touched Rs 100 in Hazaribagh and Dhanbad. In Bokaro, too, beans were selling at premium of Rs 110 per kg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Twitterati backs Hemant, wants JEE, NEET postponed||Twitterati has backed Hemant Soren’s stand of postponing JEE and NEET exams in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic with nearly 1.5 lakh voting in favour of rescheduling the exams in a straw poll conducted by the chief minister on his official Twitter handle. Hemant conducted a 24-hour-poll on whether postponing the competitive exams would affect the academic future of students and asked them to vote. The poll ended at Monday midnight and the results showed that over 78 per cent were in favour of postponing the exams. “I want to particularly ask and seek feedback from all my young engineer and doctor friends - Will students face huge difficulties if #JEENEET exams are postponed?” Hemant Tweeted on Monday and gave three options: yes, no and I don’t know. The poll results showed that 78.2 per cent of the 1,87,730 voters were in favour of postponing the exams, while 20.6 per cent were of the opinion that postponing the exams would adversely affect academic careers of students. Around 1 per cent who voted did not know if postponing the exams would benefit the students or harm them. While the poll results gave a clear indication of what students want, the chief minister also received requests from the student community to get the exams postponed, citing probable violation of social distancing at examination centres. “Sir, we are literally begging for our lives and future. Please help us. We will never forget this if you will help us in such hard time please sir please postpone the exam postpone please do something sir,” tweeted Anushka Choudhary, who uses the handle, Anushka0526 handle. Some students also shared pictures of examination centres to highlight the lack of adherence to social distancing norms. “Sir @HemantSorenJMM consider this too!Plz save us from writing these large scale exms in sept .plz try to understand even our mental conditions,” wrote Twitter user Ayesha Khaki Hussain, sharing a quote from an AIIMS doctor, which stated that more young people were getting infected by Covid-19 virus. Hemant had written to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank last week, requesting him to postpone the exams. In the letter, the chief minister pointed to the risk of spread of infection, adding that with public transport not operating in the state, many candidates would face difficulties in reaching examination centres. “Tonight I'm worried & tensed as India continues to record over 75000 Covid 19 cases every single day. Yet our Union Education Minister @DrRPNishank ji is not even remotely concerned about the safety & health concerns of lakhs of students made to write #JEENEET exams in September,” Hemant tweeted on Monday. National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) are scheduled to be held in September. Ministers from six states, including Jharkhand, have also moved the Supreme Court seeking directions to postpone the exams and also reviewing its earlier order in the matter. The apex court had on August 17 dismissed a petition seeking the postponement of the NEET and JEE scheduled observing that the career of students cannot be put under jeopardy for long. More than 45,000 students are likely to appear for the exams across 40 centres in five cities in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Coronavirus sours sale of popular kalakand in Koderma||Kalakand sale at a sweet shop near Jhanda chowk of Telaiya town in Koderma has reduced to half from the usual 20 quintals, much to the worry of the owners. The sellers at the popular shop along the NH-33 say this is the first such situation they are facing since the business started in 1960, as people are not travelling on the Ranchi-Patna highway due to the coronavirus pandemic. Apart from mica exports and song requests to Vividh Bharati, the Jhumri Telaiya town is famous for its kalakand, a sweet made with milk, saffron and cream.
Vikas Seth, owner of Kanhaiya Sweets said they were supplying kalakand to Gulf countries as well. “Business has suffered a 60% drop after the lockdown was imposed,” he said. Ankit Chaudhary of Vandana Sweets said kalakand has given a new identity to the small town and recognition both within the country and abroad. “Attempts were made to make the same kalakand in other districts of Jharkhand and a few
neighbouring states, but the taste of Telaiya was found missing,” he said, adding that workers who had taken the sweet to other cities failed to make it the same way there. “It’s because of Telaiya’s weather and water, which brings this unique taste,” he said. Sources said in undivided Bihar, people going to Patna for work at the secretariat would bring this sweet back for their clerks. Even today, people crossing this place never forget to take some mouth-watering kalakand home for their relatives. Sellers said that at present they were making three types of kalakand, including one for ranging from Rs 360 to Rs 400 per kg.

The fall in the daily sale of kalakand has affected milk sellers too, as huge quantities of milk are required for making the sweet and many local sellers supply milk to these hotels. With kalakand sale reduced now, demand for milk has also dropped, making sellers suffer losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
31-08-2020||Jharkhand||Award for Jharkhand check-dam ||A low-cost check dam model to retain water for irrigation in Jharkhand’s rebel-hit Khunti district has fetched an award of excellence from the Union Jal Shakti ministry. The award for the bori bandh project through community participation in the participatory water management category was presented to Khunti deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan at the National Water Innovation Summit 2020 held on a virtual platform in Delhi on Friday. The award was given by Jal Shakti ministry secretary U.P. Singh. “It is a proud moment for the district and has been achieved due to the participation of all stakeholders, especially rural communities and gram sabhas even in remote blocks of the district. We would now be undertaking the bori bandh project in more blocks. The ministry secretary was highly impressed and has expressed the desire to visit the sites soon,” said Ranjan. Jharkhand drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur congratulated the Khunti district administration and Sewa Welfare Society, an NGO, for the commendable job in watershed management. Social worker Ajay Sharma, who is associated with the welfare society, said the check dam model had won Khunti a Skoch award (considered the highest civilian honour in the country conferred by an independent organisation) in June this year. “The innovative low-cost bori bandh model built by several NGOs, including Sewa Welfare Society, in collaboration with the district administration fetched Khunti a Skoch award, presented in Delhi on June 20. A bori bandh is constructed by filling sand and soil in used cement bags. The bags are kept on one atop the other to stop the water from flowing into the local rivulets. This helps provide water for irrigation throughout the year and also helps maintain the water level in wells and borings. The biggest advantage of the dam is that it does not led to displacement of people anyone as is the case with big check dams and helps villagers prosper by increasing their source of income,” said Sharma. Over 200 bori bandhs have been set up in Khunti, Murhu, Torpa and Karra blocks of the district. The water harvesting structure has become a game-changer among small and marginal farmers who earlier had to depend on only rainfall for kharif crops, he said. However, with bori bandhs they can cultivate mustard and wheat in rabi season and also grow vegetables in large tracts as against the earlier practice when agriculture land used to remain fallow during the entire rabi season forcing farmers to migrate to nearby cities in search of livelihood and work as daily wagers in factories, he added. “Usually, a check dam costs in excess of Rs 25 lakh while a bori bandh costs around Rs 2,000. However, during heavy rain when the river is in spate such bori bandhs are swept away. However, they are built again after the rainy season. But the negligible cost outweighs this disadvantage,” said Sharma. Khunti is also one of the aspirational districts among the 115 in the country selected by Niti Aayog.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-316
