22-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogue||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogueAlmost four months after talks between the government and protesting farm groups broke down, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farmer unions wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation. Read more.Over 800k migrants left Delhi after lockdown announced: GovtAt least 800,000 migrant workers travelled from Delhi to their home states in the first four weeks of lockdown in the Capital, nearly half of them in the first week, a report by the Delhi government said, highlighting that buses and other arrangements were made for labourers to avoid a repeat of last year’s crisis. Read more.WHO: Covid deaths 2 to 3 times higherThe official death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to be a “significant undercount”, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday, estimating that the true figure of direct and indirect deaths could be “two to three times higher”. Read more.'It's an amazing, interesting idea': Inzamam-Ul-Haq weighs in on Rahul Dravid possibly coaching India for Sri Lanka tourFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-Ul-Haq is excited at the prospect of seeing Rahul Dravid take charge of the team when India travels to Sri Lanka to play an ODI and T20I series in July. Read more.Watch: Mira Rajput tries Callisthenics during inspiring outdoor fitness sessionGet ready to take your weekend workout motivation from Mira Rajput. The star is known for her fitness routines and her clean eating habits. She often shares glimpses from her workouts and snips of her meals to motivate followers to stay active. Watch here.Arjun Kapoor on respecting Malaika Arora's past, dating someone 'older with son from earlier marriage'Actor Arjun Kapoor has said that his past has impacted the way in which he handles his relationship with Malaika Arora. The couple went public with their relationship in 2019. Read more.Watch: Drones used for sanitising public places in Kerala’s ThrissurThrissur’s municipal corporation used drones for sanitisation. Municipal corporation to use drones in markets, bus stands etc. Drones were seen sanitising a bus stand in Thrissur, Kerala. Kerala on Friday reported 29,673 covid cases and 142 deaths. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farm-unions-write-to-pm-modi-seek-resumption-of-dialogue-101621653683864.html
22-05-2021||India||Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogue||Almost four months after talks between the government and protesting farm groups broke down, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farmer unions wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation.Farmers have been protesting at five sites in large camps near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade in farm produce.The continued protests have sparked concerns of a potential spread of Covid-19 infections, but the farmers have refused to give up the agitation, citing it as a matter of livelihood.“Mr Prime Minister, this letter is to remind you that, as the head of the government of the largest democracy in the world, the onus of resuming a serious and sincere dialogue with the farmers lies with you,” the letter signed by major farm leaders states.Also Read| Deep Sidhu among 16 named in first charge sheet over Red Fort violenceThe trigger for their outreach wasn’t immediately clear.The signatories include Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, Yogendra Yadav and Yudhvir Singh, all of who belong to various farm organisations that make up the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.So far, 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months.The Modi government, in September last year, passed The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The government has said the laws would spur investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce.Farmers say the laws will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer them minimum support prices (MSP).Also Read| Bharatiya Kisan Sangh demands loan waiver for farmers who died of Covid-19An agriculture ministry official who oversaw previous rounds of talks declined to comment on the letter. “The government is always ready to talk to farmers. The prime minister and the agriculture minister have said this in Parliament and outside,” another official said.“We…are writing this letter a few days before our struggle completes six months on 26th May 2021. On the same day, your government at the Centre, the most anti-farmer government that this country has seen, completes seven years in office,” the letter stated.The farm leaders, however, added that they were firm on their “core demands”. These are repealing the three laws, a legal guarantee for MSP, besides protecting farmers from the adverse impact of a proposed electricity bill, which farmers fear would increase power costs for them.“The farm laws are not under implementation since they are suspended. Yet, I think the government will respond positively to starting the dialogue process again since it cannot be seen to be closing the doors for talks,” said RS Mani, a farm economist formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-write-to-pm-modi-seek-resumption-of-dialogue-101621636656028.html
