26-05-2021||India||‘Black day’ protest to mark 6 months of stir||Farmers agitating against the three farm laws pushed through Parliament in September will gather at the three protest sites at Delhi’s borders and urged people to hoist black flags in their support on Wednesday, when their agitation completes six months.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a collective of around 30 farmers’ unions, also decided to hold demonstrations, although the Delhi police said no permission has been given for a protest or a rally and appealed to the protesters to maintain law and order, and observe Covid-appropriate behaviour.Experts have warned that any such gathering could turn into a superspreader event, particularly at a time when cases have been receding in the Capital after a devastating few weeks and a hard lockdown.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the SKM said the farmers’ unions across the country will observe a “Black Day”.“Tomorrow, on Buddha Poornima, at the protest sites at Delhi borders as well as in other locations across the country, farmers will celebrate the holy day. This farmer’s movement is running on truth and non-violence, and will be completing 6 months of its historical struggle tomorrow,” the SKM said in the statement.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders at Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri, since November to press the government into repealing the new laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses.Farm leaders have also asked people to don black clothes to show support for the agitation. “Demonstrations should also be held in the chaurahas with sloganeering. Farmers said that by putting black flags on houses, shops, offices, tractors, cars, jeeps, scooters, motorcycles, buses and trucks, citizens should oppose the three agricultural laws, the Electricity Amendment Bill and the Pollution Ordinance,” the SKM statement said.The development has come a week after the farm unions urged the Centre to resume talks, asserting that the discussion would have to be about repealing the new farm laws. So far, the government has held 11 rounds of discussions but none have failed to break the deadlock.The government has said that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks for future sales, and lay down a framework for contract farming.Additional police personnel have been deployed at the bordersto prepare for Wednesday, Delhi police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said.The continuous rain in the Capital last week, and the deadly second wave of the pandemic since March, have led to a thinning of the numbers at the protest sites. But, the farmers said they will continue the agitation till their demands are met.Gurjant Singh, 36, a farmer from Punjab’s Mohali district, who has been protesting at the Singhu border said, “Though the enthusiasm among the protesters who only joined us occassionally has ebbed a bit, those fighting for their land and livelihood are still here.”SKM’s media coordinator, Harinder Singh, said that the organisers have taken several steps to arrest the spread of the virus at the protest sites. “We even put up the sound system [loudspeakers] closer to the trolleys across protest sites so that farmers would not have to come towards the stage to listen to the speeches. We invited doctors to speak on stage and educate the farmers on precautions, symptoms and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-day-protest-to-mark-6-months-of-stir-101621989237263.html
26-05-2021||India||No march to Delhi says leader, as farmers observe ‘Black Day' today||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Wednesday farmers observing a 'Black Day' to mark six months of the agitation against the three central agricultural laws will not march to Delhi. “We are also carrying the tricolour. It has been six months now but the government is not listening to us. So farmers are putting up black flags. It will be done peacefully,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said, according to news agency ANI. “We are following Covid protocols. Nobody is coming here. People are putting up flags wherever they are,” he added.Also read | Shun indifference, hold talks with farmers: Sukhbir Badal to ModiSamkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting unions, announced that farmers will observe May 26 as 'Black Day' to mark the completion of six months. Twelve major opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Left parties, Samajwadi Party, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and DMK, last week extended their support to the protest.The Morcha said in a statement on Tuesday that the farmer’s movement is “running on truth and non-violence and will be completing six months of its historical struggle on Wednesday". "SKM requests all Indians to celebrate and mark Buddha Poornima tomorrow, so that truth and non-violence find a strong place back in our community, at a time when attempts are being made to erode these basic values in our society," it said in the statement.Also read | Ready to resume talks with Centre over farm laws: BKU leader Rakesh TikaitOn Tuesday, Tikait will burn the effigy of the government and said farmers will not march towards the national capital. "Nobody is coming towards Delhi. Whoever wishes to protest will use a black flag and put it outside their home or on their vehicle," Tikait told ANI.Tikait said the farmers have been protesting for the past six months but the government has "not taken back its black laws". He said they have written to the Centre about their concerns. "If the government can bring in laws during the pandemic, it can surely revoke them also. We are not going anywhere, we will stay here. We have a lot of time," Tikait added.Also read | At UP Gate, Covid takes a toll on protesters strengthThe Delhi Police have urged people not to hold gatherings amid the coronavirus pandemic and the ongoing lockdown and said it is keeping a tight vigil to deal with any situation at the protest sites on the city's borders. Delhi Police’s spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said action will be taken against those who try to take the law into their hands, adding that the force is already present at all borders points, including the protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, and will not allow any illegal activity or entry.Also watch | Ahead of farmers’ 'black day' protest, Delhi Police warns against gatherings"We urge people not to gather as the virus could spread and the cases escalate. We appeal to the citizens to observe COVID- appropriate behaviour and lockdown which is still imposed in the city. There is no permission of gathering and demonstration due to the ongoing situation," Biswal said.Also read | Sonia Gandhi slams Centre for ‘anti-people’ activities, exploiting farmersHundreds of farmers are currently at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border). Farmers’ unions, especially from Haryana and Punjab, are demanding the rollback of the three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade of farm produce to allow more private investments. Farmers say these changes will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and supermarkets.The farmers have been protesting since November 26 last year against the farm laws passed by the Centre, including the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-march-to-delhi-says-leader-as-farmers-observe-black-day-today-101622002248405.html
