22-10-2021||Today's||Pramila Jayapal: The rising star in US politics||United States (US) lawmaker Pramila Jayapal has met President Joe Biden twice in as many days and is in continuous touch with Speaker Nancy Pelosi. She has held talks with fellow Democrats on the other side of a bitter inner-party battle over an ambitious legislative agenda, and has appeared on every news channel and radio show of consequence.
22-10-2021||Today's||India should be open to the WTO investment facilitation pact||One of the major issues that members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) are going to discuss in the 12th ministerial meeting at Geneva next month is investment facilitation.
22-10-2021||Today's||The idea of political accountability||Ajay Mishra, the Union minister of state for home, is still in office, despite the horrifying violence in his constituency in Lakhimpur Kheri, where a convoy associated with the minister is seen, on video, mowing down protesters. Rather than show remorse, the minister has chosen to brazen it out while standing by his son, now arrested for his alleged role in the crime.
22-10-2021||Today's||A tale of IIT admissions, coaching institutes, and students as brand ambassadors||How many coaching classes does an IIT-JEE topper need?
22-10-2021||Today's||HT Exclusive: PM Modi writes on Covid-19 about 1 billion vaccine doses||India completed 1 billion (100 crore) vaccinations on October 21, in just about nine months. This has been a tremendous journey in dealing with Covid-19, especially when we recall how things stood in early 2020. Humanity was dealing with a pandemic of this nature after 100 years and no one knew much about the virus. We remember how unpredictable the situation appeared then. We were faced by an unknown and invisible enemy that was mutating rapidly. The journey from anxiety to assurance has happened and our nation has emerged stronger, thanks to the world’s largest vaccination drive.It has truly been an effort reminiscent of Bhagirath (who brought the Ganga down to Earth) involving multiple sections of society. To get a sense of the scale, assume that each vaccination took two minutes for a health care worker. A billion vaccinations translate into 4.1 million man-days or approximately 11,000 man-years of effort.For any effort to attain and sustain speed and scale, the trust of stakeholders is crucial. One of the reasons for the success of the campaign was the trust that people developed in the vaccine and the process followed, despite various efforts to create mistrust and panic.There are some among us who only trust foreign brands, even for simple everyday necessities. However, when it came to something as crucial as the Covid-19 vaccine, the people of India unanimously trusted “Made in India” vaccines. This is a significant paradigm shift.India’s vaccine drive is an example of what the country can achieve if citizens and the government come together with a common goal in the spirit of Jan Bhagidari (citizen partnership). When India started its vaccination programme, there were many people who doubted the capabilities of 1.3 billion (130 crore) Indians. Some said India would take three to four years to complete its vaccination drive. Others said people would not come forward to get vaccinated. There were still others who said there would be gross mismanagement and chaos in the vaccination process. Some even said that India would not be able to manage supply chains. But just like the “Janata Curfew” and subsequent lockdowns, the people of India showed how spectacular the results can be if they are made trusted partners. When everyone takes ownership, nothing is impossible. Our health care workers traversed hills and crossed rivers across difficult geographies to vaccinate people. Our young people, social and health care workers, and civil society and religious leaders, all deserve credit for the fact that India has faced minimal vaccine hesitancy when compared even to developed nations. There was a lot of pressure from different interest groups to give preferential treatment to them in vaccination, but the government ensured that, much like our other schemes, there was no VIP culture in the vaccination drive either.In early 2020, when Covid-19 was rampaging across the world, it was clear to us that this pandemic would have to be eventually fought with the help of vaccines. We started preparing early. We constituted expert groups and started preparing a road map right from April 2020.Till today, only a handful of countries have developed their own vaccines. More than 180 countries are dependent on an extremely limited pool of producers and dozens of nations are still waiting for the supply of vaccines, even as India has crossed a billion doses! Imagine the situation if India did not have its own vaccine. How would India have secured enough vaccines for such a large population and how many years would that have taken? It is here that credit should be given to Indian scientists and entrepreneurs for rising to the occasion. It is due to their talent and hard work that India is truly Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) when it comes to vaccines. Our vaccine manufacturers, by scaling up to meet the demands of such a large population, have shown that they are second to none.In a nation where governments used to be known as a roadblock impeding forward movement, our government has instead been an accelerator and enabler of progress. The government partnered with vaccine makers right from Day 1 and gave them support in the form of institutional assistance, scientific research, funding, as well as an accelerated regulatory processes. All ministries of the government came together to facilitate vaccine-makers and remove any bottlenecks as a result of our “whole of government” approach.In a country of the scale of India, it is not enough to just produce something. The focus has to be on last-mile delivery and seamless logistics. To understand the challenges involved, imagine the journey taken by one vial of the vaccine. From a plant in Pune or Hyderabad, the vial is sent to a hub in any of the states, from where it is transported to the district hub. From there, it reaches a vaccination centre. Across India, this entails thousands of trips taken by flights and trains. During this entire journey, the temperature has to be maintained in a particular range, which is centrally monitored. For this, over one lakh units of cold-chain equipment were utilised. States were given advance notice of the delivery schedule of the vaccines so that they could plan their drives better; the vaccines reached them on the pre-decided days. This has been an unprecedented effort in the history of independent India.All these efforts were complemented by a robust technology platform, CoWIN. It ensured that the vaccine drive was equitable, scalable, trackable, and transparent. It ensured that there was no scope for favouritism or jumping the queue. It also ensured that a poor worker could take the first dose in his village and the second dose of the same vaccine in the city where he worked, after the required time interval. In addition to a real-time dashboard to boost transparency, the QR-coded certificates ensured verifiability. There are hardly any examples of such efforts not only in India but also the world. In my Independence Day Address in 2015, I said that our country was moving ahead because of “Team India” and that this “Team India” was a big team of our 1.3 billion people. People’s participation is the biggest strength of democracy. If we run the country through the participation of 1.3 billion Indians, our country will be moving ahead 1.3 billion steps every moment. Our vaccination drive has yet again shown the power of this “Team India”. India’s success in its vaccination drive has also demonstrated to the whole world that “democracy can deliver”.I am optimistic that the success achieved in the world’s largest vaccination drive will further spur our young people, our innovators and all levels of government to set new benchmarks of public service delivery which will be a model not only for our country, but also for the world.Narendra Modi is Prime Minister of India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-india-responded-to-adversity-with-achievement-101634863176504.html
22-10-2021||Today's||The abiding relevance of integral humanism||“All ideologies are idiotic, whether religious or political, for, it is conceptual thinking, the conceptual world, which has so unfortunately divided man”, renowned philosopher Master Jiddu Krishnamurti once lamented. Europe was the mother of ideologies – from the capitalism of Adam Smith to the social conservatism of Thomas Hobbes and John Locke to the liberalism of John Stuart Mill to the communism of Karl Marx. All these ideologies have created schisms and confusion across the world, forcing American historian and social thinker Morris Berman to warn, “An idea is something you have. An ideology is something that has you.”India has historically been the land of ideas. From the Vedic rishis through Mahavira, Buddha, Shankara, Aurobindo, and Vivekananda, the great men of India have generally been philosophers, articulating profound ideas for human welfare. India has not produced any ideologues such as Marx or Mill. Yet, the deeply philosophical ideas of its sages and savants have continuously inspired and influenced mankind across history and geography.In the realm of socio-political ideas, there was only one original contribution made by India in the last century. That was Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violence and truthful resistance – famously known as ahimsa and satyagraha. Gandhi’s ideals inspired freedom-seeking peoples all over the world. Ahimsa entered the socio-political lexicon of the world for good.But there was another originally Indian idea propounded in the middle of the last century, which was Deen Dayal Upadhyay’s integral humanist philosophy.Philosophical doctrines are not easy to comprehend. Karl Marx and Frederic Engels propounded their communist ideology through Das Kapital in 1867. Marx continued his efforts at elaborating on it for more than a decade-and-a-half until his death in 1883. Yet, it took five decades for communism to find political expression in 1917 in Russia.In the case of integral humanist philosophy of Deen Dayal Upadhyay, the effort needed to take forward the precis and develop it into a complete political philosophy was not made by his followers after his untimely passing in 1968. It looked complicated, and hence vague and fanciful theories such as Gandhian socialism preoccupied them for some years before they finally settled on a relatively easier formulation of cultural nationalism.The world passes through various phases of transition from time to time. Nations get an opportunity to play a role in that transition. One such opportunity came after World War II in the last century when a new world order began to take shape. It was shaped largely by European and Western thought, although Gandhi too made a significant contribution. That world order has served mankind for over seven decades. But a new world order is taking shape today, in the aftermath of the Covid pandemic.In that post-Covid world order, India has an opportunity to play a bigger role in the domain of ideas. Deen Dayal Upadhyay’s integral humanist philosophy can act as the sheet anchor for that. But the problem is two-fold. One, wider Indian scholarship since Independence has been so deeply influenced by the Western paradigm that many cannot even think that India can offer an alternative worldview at this transitional juncture.Two, in the liberal view, Deen Dayal Upadhyay represented India’s Right, conservative Hindutva movement. Globally a dominant force in the intellectual world, liberals abhor conservatism. They branded Hindutva as retrograde and unintellectual hocus-pocus and even attempted “dismantling” it recently.Deen Dayal Upadhyay, thus, needs to be rescued from apathy on one side and antipathy on the other. His views regarding nation-building, national identity, social institutions such as caste and political institutions such as democracy remain as relevant today as they were six decades ago. They should be revisited from the prism of the contemporary Euro-centric ideas. Such an effort should not end up as Euro-scepticism but help throw light on the contemporary relevance of ideas that are rooted in Indian wisdom and milieu.For example, contrary to the propaganda about Hindutva’s fascist credentials, Deen Dayal Upadhyay had zealously upheld democracy as the best available form of governance. But he added an Indian dimension to it by saying, “A democratic government, ‘Jana Rajya’, must also be rooted in Dharma, i.e., a ‘Dharma Rajya’. In the definition of democracy – of the people, by the people and for the people – ‘of’ stands for independence, ‘by’ stands for democracy and ‘for’ indicates Dharma. The true democracy is one where there is freedom as well as Dharma.” “The philosophers have only interpreted the world in various ways. The point, however, is to change it”. These words were inscribed on Karl Marx’s tombstone. All interpretations of philosophers from the time of Plato were about making a “new man” — a “moral man”. Speaking at the United Nations General Assembly in 1950, United States President Harry Truman had said: “The United Nations represents the idea of a universal morality, superior to the interests of individual nations. Its foundation does not rest upon power or privilege; it rests upon faith. They rest upon the faith of men in human values — upon the belief that men in every land hold the same high ideals and strive toward the same goals for peace and justice”.Those words sound hollow and hubristic today. But Deen Dayal Upadhyay’s integral humanist vision offers some hope.Ram Madhav is a member of the national executive member of RSS and the board of governors of India Foundation. The article draws from his just-released book, The Hindutva Paradigm: Integral Humanism And the Quest for a Non-Western WorldviewThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-abiding-relevance-of-integral-humanism-101634819847604.html
22-10-2021||Today's||No child’s play: India’s potential to tap into the global toy market||It has been a year since Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat on toys stirred up a fragmented industry that was highly dependent on China for survival.
