30-10-2021||Today's||India’s adoption data: Intriguing, disturbing||According to an affidavit filed by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, more than 3,600 children have been orphaned as a result of Covid-19 and other causes since the start of the pandemic. The official figure quoted by the women and child development (WCD) ministry is 600 orphans — this lacks credibility given the scale of Covid-19 deaths in the country. The Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA), under the WCD ministry, regulates adoption of orphaned, abandoned and surrendered children. The average number of children in the CARA pool has hovered around 2,200 over the last five years. One would have expected a significant number of children impacted by Covid-19 to have found their way into the CARA pool. Even if we were to allow for the procedural delay in declaring children legally free for adoption — a process which usually takes anywhere between two to five months after a child is reported to an orphanage — the number of children in the CARA pool should have increased by at least couple of hundreds (going by official figures), if not by thousands (going by unofficial estimates). Surprisingly, the needle hasn’t moved one bit. On the contrary, the number of children in the CARA pool dropped, with a greater fall in percentage of healthy children within the already shrunk pool. A closer look at the data suggests some worrisome trends.Based on data from CARINGS, the system maintained by CARA, there were about 1883 children in the CARA pool in 2018. Roughly half of them were grouped under the special needs category. The most sought-after category of healthy children, below two years, accounted for only 11% children, then. Cut to 2021, and the number of children in the CARA pool actually dropped from 2,317 in March 2020 to 2,173 by October 2021. The percentage of healthy children (excluding siblings) shrunk from 40% in 2018 to just about 27% in 2021. The share of children in the special needs category has increased from 51% in 2018 to 66% in 2021. One wonders if our adoption agencies have simply become dumping grounds for children, if 66% have special needs that neither their families nor prospective adoptive parents wish to care for. A deeper analysis of the data suggests another trend. The share of siblings and healthy children below two years of age has remained by and large the same in last three years (8% and 4% respectively). The total number of children in the CARA pool has also remained around 2,200-2,300. Therefore, the increase in the share of the special needs category is directly at the expense of a drop in share of healthy children above two years of age. Though one understands that the pool is not static, and there is a net inflow and outflow of children, given the statistics of special needs and older children adopted by Indian parents (which is actually negligible), it won’t be an exaggeration to infer that many of our children above two are turning into special needs children, while in the institution.Otherwise, what else can explain the rise in the share of children under the special needs category, with an equal drop in percentage of healthy children above two years of age — when 85% of parents registered with CARA only adopt a healthy child below two years of age? It appears that neither CARA, nor the ministry, is looking at the big picture. CARA did not even have a fully functional chief executive for almost a year. There have been inordinate delays in getting children into the legal pool, referring children to parents, and completing adoption formalities during Covid-19. But what is unacceptable is not addressing the deliberate trafficking that is preventing deserving children from entering the adoption pool, administering proper care to children in adoption agencies, and being indifferent to the growing number of children in the special needs category, in an already shrinking adoption pool.CARA and the ministry must accord attention to the vulnerable and invisible community of children silently suffering in our institutions. They are not a vote-bank but they are our future.Avinash Kumar is founder-director, Families of Joy Foundation The views expressed are personal
30-10-2021||Today's||The Congress and its hypocrisy||A WhatsApp message I received last Sunday delightfully captures the confusion besetting the Congress party. “Has Congress finally flipped?”, it began. “Are all party members to now become teetotallers? And don’t the Gandhis enjoy a sip of wine with their pasta?” It was a tongue-in-cheek comment on the news that broke that morning about conditions that will apply to people seeking to join the party.
30-10-2021||Today's||How to increase and retain more women in STEM||India’s figures for women graduates in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) are impressive at 43% as opposed to the United States (34%) and Canada (31%), and several other countries. But only 14% of Indian women in STEM are employed in research and development institutions. The pandemic has proved a setback for them, and the gains many of them have made could be lost without urgent action. Gender imbalances in STEM are likely to become more entrenched if nothing is done.The Australian Academy of Science (AAS) has come up with a report on the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on women in the STEM workforce throughout the Asia-Pacific region. This report captures the lived experiences of women and highlights that essential gains in equality may be lost if action is not taken now.Prajval Shastri, a leading astrophysicist from Bengaluru, says that existing patriarchal barriers have further erased boundaries between work and home for women in science, affecting their productivity and limiting their intellectual space for work. She says, “In the case of scientists who work in wet labs, lack of mobility and the lockdowns have affected their work. Work in the field of science often requires a continuum which has been broken by the pandemic. Field research, especially for biologists, is often seasonal and this has been affected.”Women in STEM also face job insecurity as the monetary priorities of institutions, mostly headed by men, have changed with the pandemic. In addition, funding has also dried up for many women, again due to entrenched biases about the lack of importance of women’s work in this field. The AAS project found that more women in STEM are in mid-level positions and not represented adequately at the more senior levels. It also found that academic output in peer-reviewed journals was affected as women had to juggle the competing demands of their homes and work--they had to play the role of caregivers and teachers for their children with their professional responsibilities and priorities.A 2017 Niti Aayog report on women in science made some recommendations on best practices to promote women’s entry and retention, which are worth considering. It said, “Career breaks need to be accommodated, as women scientists have dual commitments. Seniority based on total number of years of work experience or service rather than continuous service may help to retain talent and experience by allowing for re-entry of women scientists, which would otherwise be lost permanently.”Gautam Menon, professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University, says, “We now need to look to the future for women in STEM. We need to support them with child care, better leave policies, make positions moveable so they do not have to chose between their families and workplaces and try and facilitate the process of women getting more senior positions.”Shastri adds, “There is a hidden norm that a woman scientist, howsoever meritorious, but is a spouse of a scientist in an institution, will not be hired by it. Sexual harassment and micro-aggressions are common leading to attrition. Women are given fewer and less prestigious institutional responsibilities which block their career advancement.”It is clear that to increase and retain more women in STEM, the institutional leadership in science needs to monitor and survey their own environments and understand what might be going wrong and bring in diversity experts to correct gender imbalances. Hopefully, that day is not too far away.The views expressed are personal 
