02-08-2020||News||NEP can make India a knowledge superpower | Opinion||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 comes a staggering 34 years after it was last revised. With this comes the possibility of historical educational reform. Timely and progressive, it marks a monumental milestone in the country’s education system. In fact, the document iterated over the last few years is an exemplar of how public policy should be framed — factoring in voices of every single stakeholder.While the systemic reform agenda has gained ground in recent years through initiatives such as the NITI Aayog’s School Education Quality Index (SEQI), the Sustainable Action for Transforming Human Capital in Education (SATH-E) and even the Aspirational Districts Programme, NEP will drive change in alignment with the system’s need to focus holistically on the most critical tenets of access, equity, infrastructure, governance and learning. First, with an extensive focus on universalising access from early childhood to higher education, integrating over 20 million out-of-school children, and concerted efforts for the socio-economically disadvantaged groups, the policy ensures last-mile delivery, embodying antyodaya. Second, through a convergence of efforts, erasing traditional silos in workflows, early childhood care and education will be delivered with a new curriculum which features activity-based joyful learning. Along with a dedicated national mission for foundational literacy and numeracy, NEP 2020 will bolster the most critical phases of learning, building the strongest foundations of education. Third, NEP marks a departure from archaic practices and pedagogy. The dismantling of the rigid distinction between curricular, extracurricular and co-curricular subjects in school, and the provision of multiple entry and exit options in higher education brings in the much-needed fluidity and flexibility for students to hone their skills and interests. Revamped curriculum, adult education, lifelong learning and the vision to ensure that half India’s learners have exposure to at least one vocational skill in the next five years is characteristic of the shift from rote to applied learning. Through a skill-gap analysis, practice-based curriculum and internships with local vocational experts, NEP 2020’s Lok Vidya reflects Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s call of being vocal for local. Fourth, it is heartening to see the establishment of a national assessment centre called PARAKH (National Centre for Performance Assessment, Review and Analysis of Knowledge for Holistic development). Continuous tracking of learning, flexible board exams, conceptual assessments and Artificial Intelligence-enabled data systems will be critical to orienting the entire organisation around outcomes (as opposed to the traditional excessive focus on inputs), providing a systems-health check, as well as steering the right reform and course corrections. Fifth, teacher education is re-imagined with a new comprehensive curricular framework, multidisciplinary programmes and stringent action against substandard institutions, bolstering education through bold reform. Propelling SEQI’s vision for teacher adequacy and transparent systems for merit-based selection and deployment, the institution of online systems for teacher transfer and planning will be of the essence to ensure the right teachers in the right institutes. Sixth, the creation of an academic credit bank, the impetus to research, graded autonomy, internationalisation and the development of special economic zones are vital to rebranding India as a desired higher education destination. Further, multilingual education and efforts to enhance knowledge about India could restore the country’s educational heritage. A system that’s modern yet rooted, and at the threshold of the old and the new. Seventh, NEP marks an overhaul of the governance architecture from over-regulation and complex, diverse norms to a simplified and cogent structure. School complexes and clusters will bring about efficient resourcing of delivery structures; common standards and norms will boost the quality of institutes across all levels; a single regulatory body for higher education will serve as a template for minimal, essential regulation and maximum, effective governance. Outcome-focused accreditation will be critical to leapfrogging India’s journey towards quality education, the fourth goal of sustainable development. NEP 2020 is a welcome step in the right direction, signalling the “new normal” in education with its pivotal focus on critical thinking, experiential learning, interactive classrooms, integrated pedagogy and competency-based education. Inclusive digital education features as a cross-cutting component through all reform areas, powering India’s journey towards the fourth industrial revolution. It’s truly a multifaceted policy made in India, by India and for India.As with every other policy, the real test will be in its translation from policy to action. Backed by expeditious and effective implementation in sync with its spirit, NEP will shape the lives of India’s future generations. Through a robust education system leveraging the full potential of its demographic dividend, India has taken a major step towards establishing itself as a true knowledge superpower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nep-can-make-india-a-knowledge-superpower/story-MT4nRgE7XbR2hh9JGNMT3L.html
02-08-2020||News||Education is not learning of facts, but training of mind. And NEP 2020 should achieve that | Opinion||Recently, the New Education Policy was announced by the Union Government in a press conference, held by senior ministers. India got its first National Education Policy in 1968 after twenty-one years of independence as the country could not decide, for more than two decades, about the direction to take as regards educating its population. Finally, in the year 1986, the New Education Policy was put in place which was modified in the year 1992 and a programme of action was announced. After a gap of thirty-four years, the Central Government has now come out with a New Education Policy.Undoubtedly, during the past three decades, we have witnessed monumental changes in the field of information and communication technology. This has totally transformed our way of living, sharing of knowledge, content creation and its dissemination and what not. Simultaneously, our country’s economy also has changed to become more service oriented with contribution of the services sector to our GDP increasing to more than half. Certainly, the education sector has to transform itself to cope with the requirements of an emerging knowledge economy.There are many new ideas incorporated in the New Education Policy which are essential to make our education system more holistic and flexible. The idea of a credit-based system is not new but unfortunately earlier attempts made in this regard could not bring the desired results. It is hoped that this time around the government will ensure its implementation at the earliest. Similarly, the universalisation of education from pre-school to secondary level with 100% gross enrolment ratio, making the Bachelor’s programme multidisciplinary in nature and doing away with the rigid separation between arts and sciences was long overdue and is a very welcome step.One of the most important recommendations made in the new policy is that teaching up to at least grade five is to be in the mother tongue/regional language. There are several arguments being advanced against this recommendation by experts. Some argue that the New Education Policy should have shown the courage to argue for English medium education from primary school onwards. Others argue that this recommendation goes against the apex court’s verdict of 2014, stating that the imposition of the mother tongue as the medium of instruction in primary classes is unconstitutional. The debate regarding the medium of instruction in our schools have been raging for the past several decades. Mahatma Gandhi had been very insistent from the beginning that the medium of instruction can not be other than vernacular. Gandhiji wrote, “In my opinion this is not a question to be decided by academicians. They cannot decide through what language the boys and girls of a place are to be educated. That question is already decided for them in every free country. Nor can they decide the subjects to be taught. That depends upon the wants of the country to which they belong. There is a privilege of enforcing the nation’s will in the best manner possible. When this country becomes really free, the question of medium will be settled only one way. The academicians will frame the syllabus and prepare text-books accordingly. So long as we the educated classes play with this question, I very much fear we shall not produce the free and healthy India of our dream.”Do we need any more argument to settle the question? History is witness to the fact that all the developed countries have ensured that the medium of instruction in their countries is in their own native language/mother tongue. It is high time we accept the reality and move on.Another myth floating around in our country for decades is that it is very difficult to impart higher education in vernacular languages. This logic was busted long back by the father of our nation Gandhi ji, who wrote: “Our language is the reflection of ourselves, and if you tell me that our languages are too poor to express the best thought, then I say that the sooner we are wiped out of existence the better for us. I had the privilege of a close conversation with some professors. They assured me that every Indian youth, because he reached his knowledge through the English language, lost at least six precious years of life. Multiply that by the number of students turned out by our schools and colleges and find out for yourselves how many thousand years have been lost to the nation.”It is critical now to provide instructions in vernacular without any further delay and ensure that equal and quality education is provided to all. The vocational education system also needs to be strengthened with vigour so that the economy does not suffer from a shortage of skilled manpower and our youth join the economic activity at the peak of their productivity. As Einstein had said, “education is not the learning of facts, but the training of the mind to think” and that should be achieved by this policy.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/education-is-not-learning-of-facts-but-training-of-mind-and-nep-2020-should-achieve-that-opinion/story-wd4VPiBv1vTjyB4YrqVVEN.html
02-08-2020||News||How innovators see the future of the world | Analysis||Covid-19 has brought us face to face with systemic problems we have long chosen to ignore collectively: Inequalities, environmental degradation, hunger, poverty, oppression, and the digital divide. In this age of technological progress, many of us are tempted by the promising thought of quick technological fixes to these deeply-ingrained issues.But technology alone will not save us. We must put the well-being of people, communities, and the planet back at the centre. We need to ask ourselves: What are the futures we want to create? What do we value? What kind of world do we want to live in?We need to change how we think about technology and innovation. Rather than allowing technological advancement to steer our narratives, innovation and technology should help us build bridges between the worlds we inhabit now and the ones we imagine for tomorrow. Even before the coronavirus, the 2020s were envisaged as a “decade of action” to realise the Sustainable Development Goals. Increasingly, individuals, communities, policymakers, and business executives are talking about the need for sustainable social innovation, as well as fostering social impact. To us, this signals that the world is waking up to the idea that to build a future worth inhabiting, we must change course now.Over the past few months in our work at The Futures Project, we have been heartened to see this shift in action. Through reviewing applications for the Call to Action for Innovators for the Future, we have had a window into how innovators on the ground are working for change.The Call for Innovators has received submissions from social impact projects in 92 countries. Reading these applications allows for a global pulse-check of sorts. How are the doers using the futures they want to create as blueprints to guide the action they take? What are the priorities in different world regions, and what global trends are emerging?The applicants from India envision a future in which everyone has access to education, information, and dignified living. Many of the projects pursue empowerment through education and skills training, keeping in mind potential barriers such as Internet connectivity and electricity access. Building on their deep knowledge of local realities, innovators are proposing clever reconfigurations of existing digital tools to bring uninterrupted education services to remote areas.In Europe, the applicants’ projects most commonly tackle the climate crisis, proposing innovative solutions aimed at reducing Co2 emissions and reducing the environmental impact of production and consumption. These innovators are rethinking the life-cycle of natural resources, applying scientific knowledge in service of a tangible vision: A planet that is healthy and inhabitable for future generations.The innovators from Africa focus on a vision of high-quality education for all children and universal access to adequate nutrition, health care, and clean water. While these are just some examples, overall, two trends are evident. First, the recognition that we, collectively, need to do things differently, and that this will take some serious analysis and imagination. Second, though local and regional priorities may differ, our problems are interconnected, globally. So, too, should our solutions be.Innovating for social impact is a worldwide project that requires localised knowledge as well as collaboration that spans sectors, boundaries, and borders. We must reach across the barriers we have built for ourselves and ask each other: What futures do we want to build, and how can we create them, together?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-innovators-see-the-future-of-the-world-analysis/story-G6ujgWNJ0BVm8OgiqB2SyJ.html
