09-08-2020||News||Mission Kashmir will be Manoj Sinha’s biggest test | Opinion||Manoj Sinha has taken over as Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). His appointment is seen by many as being in keeping with the element of surprise that marks decisions taken by the current government. Has Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi taken a huge risk by delegating this responsibility to Sinha? Is Sinha up to the task of dealing with this very challenging responsibility?The future can often be deciphered by looking into the past. Sinha is known as a person who has learnt the art of surviving in politics. In 1980, he contested and lost the Banaras Hindu University Students’ Union election. He tried again over the next two years and succeeded in 1982. Similarly, even though he lost a few Lok Sabha elections, he is a three-time former Member of Parliament (MP). The PM made him minister of state for railways in 2014 and later gave him independent charge of the ministry of communications. He did reasonably well in both portfolios. Modi was satisfied with his hard work, honesty and dedication. When Modi spoke at a public meeting in Ghazipur (Uttar Pradesh) during the 2019 elections, in a somewhat unexpected gesture, he asked the audience to first applaud Sinha. Despite this, he lost the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. There were indications that the Ghazipur parliamentary constituency was no longer a safe seat for him, thanks to changing social equations. The BJP leadership offered him another seat, but he wanted to fight from Ghazipur which he did and lost. For some time now, there has been some talk in the corridors of power in Delhi that Sinha would be given a suitable berth somewhere. But what he got last Thursday must certainly have exceeded all his expectations. In his trademark manner, despite being pushed into the background for a while, he has made a somewhat spectacular comeback. How effective will he be in his new post? To arrive at an answer, one has to look at the unexpected departure of GC Murmu, the outgoing L-G of J&K. As the first L-G, he did a commendable job on the law and order front in the Valley. But his manner of functioning did not go down well with the bureaucracy in the Union Territory (UT). This is the reason he had to return to Delhi in 10 months. He will now take up the new constitutional responsibility as the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). In a way, it can also be called a promotion. But there is a difference between Raj Bhavan in Srinagar and just another government bungalow in Delhi.Murmu, a bureaucrat, was given a number of tasks to execute in J&K. But given the nature of the political and social initiatives he was required to undertake, it was clear that only a politician could have carried them out successfully. The situation in Kashmir is complex. Many people, including political leaders such as former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, are still under house arrest or behind bars. Another former chief minister Omar Abdullah has announced that he will not contest the assembly elections until statehood is restored to J&K. These two families have so far dominated politics in Kashmir. The Centre believes that the era of the Abdullah and Mufti dynasties is over, and that J&K needs a new brand of politics and politicians. Sinha now has the onerous task of giving opportunities to a new set of politicians who can connect with the elders and bring all sections of society together. He is a veteran politician and has been non-controversial till now. It will be interesting to see how effective his political style will be in the Valley.Kashmir has been a victim of terrorism for years. The day Sinha’s appointment was being celebrated by his supporters, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sarpanch was shot dead by terrorists in Kashmir. In the past, there have been frequent killings of democratic leaders in the Valley. The security forces have been caught up in a bloody war with terrorists there. So far this year, 206 people have been killed in Kashmir, including 34 security personnel. The long curfew and shattering impact of the Covid-19 pandemic have also devastated the UT which is already facing a huge economic crisis. According to Sheikh Ashiq Ahmad, president of the Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry, businessmen have suffered a loss of ~40,000 crores and over half-a-million people in the Valley have become unemployed. Recently, the business community met the home minister and the finance minister to apprise them of their demands and their distress. Given this dire situation, Sinha has his task cut out for him. The new responsibility is, in effect, a crown of thorns for Sinha. All eyes are now on how he will deal with the fractious UT. Can he convert this crown of thorns into a feather in his cap? Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/mission-kashmir-will-be-manoj-sinha-s-biggest-test/story-a5q4mM1psSUlJsGz9O1pRK.html
09-08-2020||News||The Opposition enables Hindutva||On August 5, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi set the process of the construction of a Ram temple at Ayodhya in motion. This is a moment of political triumph for Hindutva politics. And the euphoria in the Hindutva camp, especially the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its political affiliate, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is not surprising.What is disappointing, however, is the reaction of the secular camp. Its response can be described as empty assertions against the victory of political Hindutva, wishful thinking about a closure of such politics, or, just opportunistic celebration. Rahul Gandhi’s tweet trying to seek some sort of self-righteous, even metaphysical, solace by portraying Ram as opposed to the politics of hate and injustice fits the first category. The Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s statement lamenting that the bhoomi pujan should not have been made into a political event fits the second category. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s statement, and the response of most other political leaders, which celebrated the act in the hope that it will be used as an occasion to promote harmony and cultural affinity, fits the third category.None of these positions will worry the BJP. It will celebrate, and rightly so, the construction of the temple as the biggest political success of its larger ideological project. It is also naive to expect that the BJP will not use the Ram temple issue for future political gains. The BJP is not concerned about whether its opponents think of its actions as justifiable or not. What matters for the BJP is the view of the majority, which as of now, appears firmly with the party.The fate of secular politics in India, today more than ever, depends on whether or not its practitioners can explain its raison d’être to the Hindus. None of the mainstream political players are even trying to do that.To be sure, there has been a fourth kind of reaction as well; largely from civil society voices. It paints August 5 as an apocalyptic event of sorts, when constitutional ideas have been destroyed forever. Irrespective of whether one agrees or disagrees with this assessment, such a position necessarily entails an abdication of politics per se. If there is nothing left to save, what’s the point of doing anything?The collective despondency, captured by all the positions described above, is an alibi for the lack of political imagination and will of those who claim to champion the politics of secularism.The Ram temple movement was the beginning of a political experiment to achieve a majoritarian political consolidation, which, in turn, was aimed at capturing power. It brought immense dividends initially. But it does not explain the current dominance of the BJP. Nor will it guarantee that its fortunes remain intact. Political Hindutva, like all political ideologies, will need to keep renewing its ideological hegemony. It has so far managed this: The Ram temple movement in the 1990s, politicisation of the surgical strikes and Balakot attacks against Pakistan before the 2019 polls, the politics around the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and annulment of Article 370 under the second Modi government are examples of continuous efforts to ensure this.This macro-politics is accompanied with a continuous simmering of religious polarisation, something Sajjan Kumar and Sudha Pai have described in detail in their book, Everyday Communalism: Riots in Contemporary Uttar Pradesh. The BJP has been shrewd in utilising each of these issues to impart dynamism to political Hindutva, and prevent it from becoming an ossified project. The so-called love jihad and cow vigilantism are good tools in rural and semi-urban centres. The party believed that they need not be unleashed in more posh urban settings, lest the middle classes get alienated. Even on the contentious issue of beef-eating, the BJP has shown remarkable tactical flexibility in states such as Kerala, where a large number of Hindus are beef-eaters.The Opposition, meanwhile, has singularly failed to counter this politics because its methods are confused and half-hearted. For example, the secular camp could have resorted to an intelligent-yet-peaceful symbolism to organise a protest on August 5. Those who oppose the BJP are not an insignificant number. Contrast this with how the BJP cleverly called upon people to light lamps, which ensured mass participation even in the times of a pandemic. Similarly, no mass campaign has ever been undertaken to counter cow vigilantes, even though it is common knowledge that even Hindus in the livestock economy have suffered due to this menace.It is easier to ascribe these problems to personality-centric deficiencies. That, however, is only the surface of the problem. At the root of the present crisis of secularism is a lack of conviction among its so-called vanguards about its political prospects itself. This is what explains frequent “tactical” resorts of buying peace with Hindutva via the public display of Hindu beliefs by politicians. It is these acts which have given legitimacy to assertions from the Right that the Nehruvian secular consensus, and not Hindutva, was the political fringe in India.Interestingly, Jawaharlal Nehru himself never took this consensus for granted. In his preface to Ramdhari Singh Dinkar’s Sanskriti ke Char Adhyay, written in 1955, Nehru warns Indian intellectuals against aping their English counterparts. He could see the former losing touch with the people, who were untouched by modern western ideas. Secularism, especially the concept of separation of the State from religion, is one of the core ideas of western modernity.The prerequisite to strengthening any political project is to first identify its weaknesses, rather than pretend that all is well. This intellectual integrity must be complemented with political conviction to address these weaknesses. Secularism’s current defendants, unlike Nehru, have neither of these qualities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-opposition-enables-hindutva/story-IOmIUxd76dLmkwr50rZ3DP.html
09-08-2020||News||Covid-19: An opportunity to create a more equal world | Opinion||The health and socio-economic crisis triggered by Covid-19 has hit women and girls differentially and disproportionately. There is increased feminisation of poverty, domestic work and care burden and 33% rise in domestic violence. Marginalised women can’t access health care, family planning and education and millions have lost jobs and income.The calamity also presents an unmissable opportunity to tear down all structural barriers to gender equality. We can usher in the New Normal of Gender Equality and Women Empowerment (GEWE) that feminists have dreamt of, along with that of the post-pandemic future. Governments, businesses and civil society must awaken Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 5 based seven interrelated chakras or energy centres to transform the post- pandemic world into a gender equal one. The first chakra is to forge gender-responsive disaster management, humanitarian response strategies and institutions. They must incorporate women’s needs and perspectives and their participation and leadership in all aspects. They must finance, target and customise relief and mitigation measures and make their empowerment vital to recovery and reconstruction.The second chakra is addressing what the secretary general of the United Nations termed the “pandemic of inequality around the world” from an intersectional feminist prism. Women’s socio-economic identities--race, religion, caste, age, class, multidimensional poverty, rural/urban and migrant status intersect, compounding gender discrimination. Addressing these holistically will have a force multiplier effect on human rights. A universal social protection revolution based on a new social contract is key. The objective must be to leave no one — no woman or girl behind, as per sarvodaya /antodaya and SDGs. The third awakens women’s economic empowerment for and through a gender-responsive national economic renaissance. This includes rebuilding infrastructure, agriculture, manufacturing, services and local, national and global supply chains and climate-resilient, green production and consumption through Atmanirbhar Bharat. These must integrate, foster, value and even privilege women’s skills, labour, enterprise and leadership in all sectors. Targeted and mainstreamed measures, incentives and transformative investments by the government and private sector are required.The fourth chakra must enable technological empowerment of women and girls to benefit from and contribute to an equitable new normal of an accelerated fourth industrial revolution and digitised world. Governance, infrastructure and investment must close digital and technology gender gaps. Women must be enabled to adapt to and benefit from frontier technologies from 5G and information and communications technology, artificial intelligence, robotics, to digital work, learning, payments, health and commerce.The fifth must ensure universal access to affordable, accessible and quality health care for all women and girls-- SDG 4. A revamped and expanded health, medical and pharmaceutical infrastructure and services with enhanced three to five percentage of the Gross Domestic Product investment must be powered by women’s agency and employment. It must comprehensively serve women and girls health care and health security needs especially sexual and reproductive health and rights. The sixth is 21st century gender-responsive education systems that must enable women and girls to achieve SDG 4 on inclusive and equitable, quality education for all. The New Education Policy (NEP) must close the persisting literacy, numeracy, primary, secondary, tertiary, higher education and skills-related gender gaps. Online learning has to complement in class learning in terms of accessibility and affordability of quality education to millions of disadvantaged women and girls. They can leapfrog into acquiring 21st century capabilities if the NEP fosters their multi-sectoral knowledge, vocational skills, STEM talent and employability. The seventh chakra of transformation is normative, cultural, and behavioural change at individual, societal, national and global levels. SDG 5 must be the template for overhauling and implementing post-pandemic policies and laws and for embracing new social and cultural norms based on progressive global women’s human rights norms. Gender equality is a proven public good and India’s gender equality dividend alone could add a trillion dollars to GDP by 2025.The case for invoking the Rig Vedic union of Prakriti and Purusha — Nature, Power and Will — for Shristii or Creation of a gender equal universe has never been more compelling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-an-opportunity-to-create-a-more-equal-world/story-kEEZeFa16MQgtAIxTZgE6L.html
