13-08-2020||News||NEP 2020: Where it scores, where it falters | Opinion||As the education secretary during whose tenure the National Education Policy (NEP) process started, I am fortunate to see its completion. I congratulate my successors who, as policy managers, made it happen, navigating the minefield on something as contentious as the education policy. This could not have been possible without the visionary stewardship of K Kasturirangan.In policymaking, the paths chosen are the most important. Following best practices everywhere is one path. But will it be equitable and achievable in a country like India? The challenge in choosing paths in policy is not choosing what seems best, but also ascertaining whether the best is workable. Is it equitable enough or an attempt at branding which helps only a small percentage? Does the architecture exacerbate exclusion, while paying lip service to inclusion? These are the touchstones on which the policy must be assessed.There are different approaches to policymaking. One can change the question to suit the answers. Any government will have its low-hanging fruit and even ideological baggage. If it prioritises these elements, the government can change the questions. That would be an opportunistic compromise. But it has happened in the past. The second approach is to retain the questions, but come out with answers which are convenient to handle. That would be dishonest and unauthentic. On these two counts, NEP passes muster; it has done neither. But there is a third approach. Retain the questions, give attractive answers, knowing fully well that neither the political economy nor the ecosystem of education will have the capacity to meet the challenge head-on. Past policies fell short despite valiant efforts because there was no willingness to do things that are not necessarily popular. Sacking teachers, introducing differential salaries on performance, ensuring the attendance of teachers, calls for a degree of tenacity which has been missing. It is one thing to have a vision document and quite another to have a policy. Policy is meant for praxis. It is to be implemented effectively for impact. It is the prerogative of the government to prepare and choose a policy option among different policy choices, and use its special power to resolve conflict arising out of it. On NEP, here are some first-cut problems.The first problem of NEP is arriving at a budget of 6% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for education with the states and the Centre striving to reach it. In reality, with 50% of the population below the age of 25, what is perhaps required is more than 10% of GDP. If a stand is taken that education, though under the Concurrent List, is mostly under the purview of the state, thus, the responsibility of states, we are running faster to stay in the same place. The Kothari Commission in 1966 suggested 6% of GDP as the advised outlay. After 54 years, we are nowhere near that. States, which have been further impoverished after the Goods and Services Tax (GST) came into effect, will be hit by a double whammy if this is passed on to them. The Centre will have to arrive at a mechanism to incentivise states and carefully take into account what states can really spend on their own. This requires reconfiguring existing budgetary priorities.The second problem is historical and centred on what the government intends to do with its institutions. An overwhelming majority of India’s population is financially stressed, and cannot seek services beyond government institutions or questionable private institutions. Education and health costs are similar. They are essential but tend to become expensive unless government institutions are accessed.So it is the same set of institutions, and the existing cohort of teachers and professors, which will be enjoined to deliver new outcomes. One-and-a-half million teachers, whose presence is more marked by absence, and professors who are not sure how the classes will fill up, are to be repurposed. Issues such as changes in the ecosystem, supervisory structure, and incentives and disincentives are too complicated to be left entirely to the states. My suggestion is that the transfer of money from the Centre for education should be contingent on a reform plan being implemented by the states.The third problem is an alarming fall in returns to education. From the enrolment of nearly 100% students at the primary level, it becomes 72% at upper primary, 52% at secondary, 43% in higher secondary and only 20% to levels above higher secondary. The National Statistical Office (NSO) reports show a clear deterioration in access between 2014 and 2018. It is as much a function of poor quality education and a lack of interest on one hand, and sharply falling returns to education on the other. The tragedy in India has been more unemployment for better-educated people. While the survey shows 6.8% as the unemployment rate, for school graduates it is 10.7%, for college graduates, it is 13.2%, and it is 35% for women graduates (CMIE data). Discrimination makes the picture more complicated. A jobless world, which is likely to further deteriorate with artificial intelligence and automation, is not the ideal place to think in terms of 50% gross enrolment ratio (GER) only because China adopted that figure and succeeded.There are other issues too. Introducing early childhood care and education through the anganwadi workers is an attempt to face a brave new world with a rusted system. In most places, these workers may not even be trainable. How well NEP has been designed in the context of India will depend upon how well the capacity is commensurate with efforts. After all policies are designed, not conceived in an inspired burst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nep-2020-where-it-scores-where-it-falters/story-eiVXpNWfmPK2Td8151heHJ.html
13-08-2020||News||The disjunct between the promise and reality of GST | Opinion||The Goods and Services Tax regime completed three years on July 1. The concept of GST came in 2005 when the Vijay Kelkar-led task force submitted its report and recommended the replacement of all indirect taxes with GST. Even earlier, then finance minister Yashwant Sinha constituted a seven-member Expert Group on Taxation of Services as per his budget speech for FY2000-01. The expert group led by M Govinda Rao submitted its report in March 2001. The group made the first recommendation on GST. The dream became a reality when the new tax was introduced at the midnight of June 30 and July 1, 2017. It was introduced as the biggest tax reform for indirect taxes. But unfortunately, it has failed to live up to people’s expectations. To remove glitches, the government has made 697 changes in GST since its inception by issuing notifications related to rates, the amendment of rules and waiver of penalty. Besides this, 146 circulars and 19 orders have been issued so far on various issues. It was expected that the introduction of GST would increase the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the country because a simplified tax structure will eliminate the cascading effect of taxes and increase government’s revenue. While there may be a set of complex factors that have led to a dip in growth, the fact is that the expected boost has not happened. The growth rate of GDP of Q4 of FY20 has declined to 3.1%. The growth rate of GDP for FY20 has fallen to 4.2% — the lowest in the last 11 years. The coding of goods under various Harmonised System of Nomenclature (HSN) brackets has always been a challenge for the GST council. Take this example. In the recent past, the Authority for Advanced Rulings (AAR)-Karnataka bench has said that 18% GST will be levied on parathas and roti will be taxed at 5% of GST slabs rate. The AAR has ruled that a paratha is different from a roti. The same problem arose with the rate of tax on hand sanitiser. The AAR-Goa bench established that alcohol-based hand sanitisers will be taxed at 18%. Hand sanitisers are essential in the Covid-19 battle. While the GST Council has made efforts to resolve such issues, the fact that they keep recurring is a sign of the weakness of the system. Various states were ready to hop on to the same boat on the condition that the central government would compensate their revenue loss for the first five years. Accordingly, a provision was made under section 7 of GST (Compensation to State) Act, 2017. As per the provision, the loss of revenue will be compensated at the end of every two months for five years. When states were fighting against the pandemic and struggling for revenue in the middle of the lockdown, the Centre did not release compensation money, which had not been paid since November 2019. The Centre only released Rs 36,400 crore on June 4, due to the states and Union territories for the period starting from December 2019 to February 2020. The government further released Rs 13,806 crore for March 2020 on July 27, and paid all dues for FY20. The amount for April-July for FY21 is still due. While states need the compensation, the Centre seems to lack the resources to meet its commitment on a consistent basis. On the revenue front, there was an unofficial target to collect Rs 1 lakh crore GST every month. The average collection was Rs 89,885 crore in FY18, Rs 98,114 crore in FY19, though this improved to Rs 101,845 crore in FY20. The total revenue collection was Rs 7.19 lakh crore in the first eight months of FY18. The total revenue collection was Rs 11.77 lakh crore in FY19 and Rs 12.22 lakh crore in FY20. There was no budget provision made by the central government for FY18. The revised estimate was made of Rs 4.44 lakh crore. But the actual realisation was Rs 4.42 lakh crore. The government had made a budget provision of Rs 7.43 lakh crore for FY19. The target was revised downward to Rs 6.43 lakh crore in the midterm budget review for FY19. However, the actual realisation was Rs 5.81 lakh crore. The government has made a budgeted estimate of Rs 7.61 lakh crore for the collection of GST for FY20 in the interim budget. However, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s revised budget estimates to Rs 6.63 lakh crores in her maiden budget speech for FY20. The target was further revised to Rs 6.12 lakh crore. All these figures show a consistent overestimation of the collections. The government has already set a budgeted target of Rs 6.90 lakh crore for FY21. The collection for the first four months for FY21 is Rs 32,172 crore, Rs 62,151 crore, Rs 90,917 crore and Rs 87,422 crore respectively. The signs are clear. There will be a shortfall again, making the reality of GST more sobering than the promise of GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-disjunct-between-the-promise-and-reality-of-gst/story-cfsbnyNWUNM6qYiAOmAC9K.html
