17-08-2020||News||The importance of Kamala Harris | Opinion||Kamala Devi Harris, a Black-identifying woman of Indian heritage, has been picked as the vice-presidential candidate for the Democratic Party. African-Americans form only 12% and Indian-Americans under one per cent of the electorate. Overwhelming majorities of both groups already support the Democrats. Historically, three women have appeared on the presidential ticket before Harris. All of them have lost. So, then, why did Joe Biden pick Harris as his running mate in what many are calling the most crucial election in American history?In diverse democracies such as America and India, identity-based fault-lines often organise politics. We know that for a political party, having a voter base is not enough; whether it shows up to vote is what counts. Harris’ selection will preserve the Democratic Party’s support among Blacks and women, two groups that have been energised by the Black Lives Matter (BLM) and the women’s movements, and boost their turnout in the November election.Born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother, Harris and her sister were raised as Black. She attended a prestigious historically Black college, Howard University, in Washington, DC. Blacks may be 12% of the electorate, but they contribute 25% of the Democratic Party’s vote share. This should give the group leverage with the party, but it does not. Republicans do not compete for their vote and the Blacks are stuck with the Democrats. In 2016, nine out of 10 Black voters voted the Democratic Party ticket. So, Blacks, as a one-party constituency in a two-party system, get sidelined.Brutalised by police violence and devastated by the pandemic, the African-American voters are hurt. They are tired of being taken for granted. The BLM movement was propelled by this injustice. These disappointed voters can punish the Democratic Party for its neglect by not showing up to vote. The 2016 presidential election signalled the Black disaffection; turnout of the group fell by 7% from the 2012 election. Black turnout is critical for winning in swing states such as Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Florida. Trump won all four states in 2016. Biden and the Democratic Party have received this message. They are hoping that the presence of Harris, a strong and charismatic Black candidate, on the ticket will improve turnout among Black voters.Seven out of 10 American voters are White, and Harris’ nomination revives an old fear in American politics that by reaching out to Black voters, the Democratic Party may drive the White voters away. One distinguishing feature of Harris’ biography has been her embrace of her multiple identities, including her immigrant identity. She has cut her teeth in the Democratic Party in California, America’s most populous state, which is only 5.8% Black. To succeed, she had to fall back on her multiple identities to amplify her appeal beyond Blacks. In California, she was able to build support among the White and Hispanic communities, skills which should help her broaden her appeal at the national level. While race drives voter choices, gender does not have a similar hold on voter behaviour. In 2016, for example, White women voted for Donald Trump (47%) over Hillary Clinton (45%) by a small margin; a startling outcome given Clinton was the first female candidate, who also happened to be white, and Trump’s blatant misogyny. Harris is smart, competent, and walks into the nomination with the necessary experience. These attributes do not protect her from the conscious and unconscious biases against female candidates in the electorate and the media. The prejudice is only harsher against women of colour. President Trump has already rolled out the longstanding trope of the angry Black woman against the senator, calling her nasty, mad, vicious and mean.Angered by Trump’s insults and the stories emerging from the Me Too movement, women have been mobilising since 2016. Biden and the Democratic Party are betting on this historic moment in which women and people of colour are energised against Trump. Biden already holds a lead of 25 points over Trump among potential women voters and he hopes to further bolster it after picking Harris. While Harris’ race and gender have received attention, her skin tone has not. Although her complexion may not have explicitly mattered to her nomination, implicit impulses may explain her ascent. Harris identifies as Black and phenotypically appears Black. She places on the lighter side of the skin colour spectrum among Blacks, though. Research on electoral effects of candidate skin tone suggests that the lightness of her skin tone enhances her electoral appeal. Studies find while skin colour does not predict who runs for office among African-Americans, it does impact which candidates win elections. Implicit bias against dark skin tone makes it more likely for lighter-skinned candidates to win than their darker-complexioned counterparts.Indian-Americans are a minuscule part of the electorate, few reside in swing states, and like other recent immigrants, their turnout is low. Indian-Americans and Indians are rightly proud of Harris. Her election to office in November would mark a substantial achievement for a person with Indian roots. Still, it is important to remember that Harris is not on the ticket for her Indian heritage. There are other parts of her identity, not to mention her competence, that are responsible for her selection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-importance-of-kamala-harris/story-qOkh8mKA0ubBCaNMd1KE8L.html
17-08-2020||News||How the Supreme Court let down poor workers during the pandemic, writes Gautam Bhatia||The coronavirus pandemic — and the measures taken by the central and state governments to contain it over the last five months — has led to widespread disruption across the country. A substantial part of this disruption is asymmetric in nature; that is, it has disproportionately affected vulnerable and marginalised people, those unable to work from home, and so on. As we have seen, migrant workers have been particularly affected: The closure of shops, establishments, and industries, in accordance with the lockdown, led to large-scale migration, as workers were left with no source of daily wages to sustain themselves in the cities where they worked. Accordingly, on March 29, the National Executive Committee, acting under the Disaster Management Act (DMA), issued an order requiring all employers to pay wages to their workers, on the due date and without any deduction, for the period that they had been under closure. The measure was an important one, as it sought to provide a source of basic financial support to workers, at a time at which they had been deprived of their source of livelihood. The order was subsequently withdrawn in May, and so — effectively — what it required was the payment of wages for a period of 54 days, by employers to their workers.This order, however, was challenged before the Supreme Court (SC). It was argued, among other things, that DMA did not give to the government the power to mandate payment of wages, and, that, in any event, it impinged upon the rights of the employers. The apex court was, therefore, asked to adjudicate upon whether the government had acted legally, and whether its direction for the payment of wages was valid. Unfortunately, however, SC passed a series of orders that effectively decided in favour of the employers, and against the workers, but without explicitly doing so. First, it, for all practical purposes, stayed the direction by ordering that no coercive action could be taken against employers for failing to comply with the government’s directions. It then took more than a month — and multiple hearings — to hear the case, even as the pandemic and lockdown were in progress, and the issue — involving the payment of wages to people who are compelled to live paycheck to paycheck — was an urgent one. And finally, in an order on June 12, it adjourned the case to the “end of July”, and directed the employers and workers to “negotiate” with each other, even as it extended its order insulating employers from any coercive action for non-compliance with the government’s directions. Needless to say, the case has not been heard after that. The apex court’s orders are unfortunate, as they effectively left workers in the lurch. On the one hand, SC has not yet found the payment of wages direction to be illegal or unconstitutional. Consequently, it remains in force, and is presumptively valid. On the other hand, however, SC had prevented its enforcement, thus rendering it toothless, and a mere scrap of paper on the statute book. The consequence of this has been that the class of people directly affected by the order are precisely those for whom non-payment of wages is — quite literally — an existential issue: The large-scale migration (and the suffering that this has unleashed), predominantly caused by the closure of industry and the absence of livelihood options for workers who already exist in an extremely precarious economic situation, bears clear testimony to that. Crucially, the court’s order to the employers and employees to “negotiate” is a particularly unkind one: The very reason for the payment of wages direction, in the first place, was the correct assessment that in India, employers and workers exist in a highly unequal relationship. An “open negotiation” between the (relatively) powerful and the powerless is no negotiation at all. Thus, staying the payment of wages and ordering a negotiation is not any kind of balance. It has completely skewed the field in favour of the employers, without any judicial finding that the payment of wages direction itself was illegal.As the end of August approaches, one hopes that the case will be taken up expeditiously by the Court, and resolved in clear terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-supreme-court-let-down-poor-workers-during-the-pandemic/story-fNTkGeHvYPhd1Wyycx9t5K.html
17-08-2020||News||NEP 2020 is silent on the contract teacher system | Opinion||The draft National Education Policy (NEP) of 2019 made an unequivocal statement on the discontinuation of the unequal system of contract teachers/para-teachers at all levels, from primary right up to colleges and universities. It recognised the need to relieve teachers of non-educational duties, facilitate vibrant professional communities and give more autonomy in the classroom. It recognised that none of the ideas discussed in the draft policy would be possible without a road map to transform the way teachers are positioned in the system. And the first step towards restoring the status of teachers was to ensure that all of them had the same service conditions, regarding pay, in-service teacher-training, transfers and other benefits. Unfortunately, NEP 2020 does not make any unequivocal statement on discontinuing the practice of hiring contract teachers. It starts with a recognition that “the teacher must be at the centre of the fundamental reforms in the education system… (it) must re-establish teachers, at all levels, as the most respected and essential members of our society… (it) must help recruit the very best and brightest to enter the teaching profession at all levels, by ensuing respect, dignity, and autonomy…”. It recognises teachers “as the heart of the learning process”, and, thus, the need for “recruitment, continuous professional development, positive working environment and service conditions”. The words recruitment and service conditions are neither explained nor qualified — leaving it open to multiple interpretations.While discussing foundational literacy and numeracy as being a core objective of the new policy, NEP 2020 states: “Teacher vacancies will be filled at the earliest, in a timebound manner — especially in disadvantaged areas and areas with large pupil-to-teacher ratios or high rates of illiteracy. Special attention will be given to employing local teachers or those with familiarity with local languages… Teachers will be trained, encouraged and supported with continuous professional development — to impart foundational literacy and numeracy”. This is the uncomfortable part — what will the working conditions and salaries of local teachers be? Who will hire them? The schools or school complexes? Will they be paid a fraction of what regular teachers get and work on short-term contracts?After discussing foundational learning, holistic development of learners, experiential learning, flexible course choices, multilingualism, new ways of assessment and related ideas, the policy document discusses teachers in section 5 (page 56). This is where the policy marks a departure from the draft NEP of 2019.No one can disagree with the opening statement in Section 5 about the value of teachers or the need to end the practice of excessive teacher transfer, strengthen teacher eligibility tests, ensure adequate teachers across subjects, and promote local language and a technology-based teacher-recruitment regime. These ideas are indeed relevant and the fact that the policy talks of “overhauling the service environment and culture of schools ...to maximise the ability of teaches to do their jobs effectively, and to ensure that they are part of vibrant, caring, and inclusive community of teachers…” should be welcomed.But the policy is notable for its silence on equal service conditions for all teachers. The idea of locally-recruited teachers, without clarifying their service conditions, is worrisome. The practice of hiring contract teachers/para-teachers began in the mid-1990s without any policy-level approval in the 1986 policy. Why is this issue important? The total number of contract teachers was about 600,000 in 2017-18, according to the Unified District Information System for Education. Across India, in percentage terms, 12.7% of teachers are hired on contract today, with 13.8% being in the primary sector and 8.4% in secondary. States such as Jharkhand (57.05%), Mizoram (29%), Himachal Pradesh (28.16%), Delhi (25.28%), and West Bengal (21.48%) have more than 25% of the teacher workforce on contract. Across India, 79.1% of teachers on contract are working in “small schools” with an enrolment of 90 or less. As enrolment goes up, the presence of contract teachers decreases. In 2017-18, 68,445 schools functioned exclusively with contract teachers. During the lockdown, many states have not paid the contract teachers. We can only imagine the adverse impact on small schools and those that have only contract teachers.Teachers argue that hiring teachers on contract is a blow to the profession. They also point out that the dual system (different pay for equal work) goes against the spirit of the constitutional guarantee of equal pay for equal work. Evidence from several countries reveals that short-term contractual appointments have a negative effect on the motivation and social status of teachers. Contract teachers are typically posted in the most-disadvantaged or poor areas and poorly-resourced schools. Regular teachers get postings in well-connected, big schools. As a result, small schools have more contract teachers, many with basic qualifications and almost no in-service training opportunities. This unequal system needs to be set right by addressed by accepting the recommendation made in the 2019 draft NEP of discontinuing the practice of contractual appointment of school teachers and teachers in colleges and universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nep-2020-is-silent-on-the-contract-teacher-system/story-rn1IKY2yJCBDF2R6SQOCKM.html
17-08-2020||News||Embrace the national digital health mission, but with care and safeguards||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a National Digital Health Mission in his Independence Day speech. It is an ambitious plan to create a digital infrastructure for health care delivery, which will include personal health IDs and e-records for citizens. This will greatly facilitate tele-medicine, e-pharmacy, and collection, consolidation and inter-operability of health data. This is welcome. At a recent roundtable organised by the Digital Identity Research Initiative (DIRI) at the Indian School of Business (ISB), health experts, entrepreneurs, academics and thought leaders discussed agreed that digitisation of health care in India is the future that we must embrace, with speed and with care.Personal data, especially health data, is sensitive, and its privacy must be protected. We now have the technology to ensure that happens. We can use Blockchain technology to guarantee that data that is created is encrypted and cannot be altered. Consent for accessing and storing individual data, in part or in whole, will stay with the individual and can be given to a trusted authority such as a physician, a pharmacy, a test laboratory or a research institution as necessary and deemed fit by the individual. So, for example, if you approach a doctor for a second opinion, you could allow the doctor to see the complete diagnosis and previous care provided. A test lab needs to only get the samples without the patient identifying information. Consent must also be taken to anonymise personal data so that it can be made part of a public data set. Hospitals and clinics can, and must, anonymise individual data before sharing it with others who may aggregate it to create useful indices. Some of these indices can be made public to help detect patterns and predict the onset of health crises before they actually arrive in full-force so that public health agencies can intervene appropriately to manage these. Anonymisation ensures that if you are diagnosed with tuberculosis, for example, no unauthorised person should be able to infer this from the data. Aggregation, on the other hand, will be able to alert public health officials, for example, that a given geographic region is showing a spike in cases and further investigation and intervention might be needed.Even the storage of aggregate data on cloud-servers need to be made hack-proof. First, the data that is stored must be encrypted. Second, the data must be distributed across several independent servers so that even if data is hacked and downloaded from one server, the original sensitive data cannot be recovered. Recent technological advances allow the creation of such a protocol. Third, the encrypted data should contain useful tags so that when it is downloaded with proper authentication and consent, only at the authorised level of aggregation, the data can be recovered for appropriate use. Again, recent advances in computer science allow, with a judicious use of symmetric and asymmetric private keys, retrieval that is fast and convenient using existing technology.The use of health data and related health care services must create a level-playing field that encourages free-entry and entrepreneurship by small and big players, both in the private and the public sector. Inter-operability and public-good features of the health data will facilitate competition and entrepreneurship.India is a large, growing country and its health care needs are immense. Advanced health care expertise is concentrated in large cities whereas a large population with health care needs is geographically distant from such expertise and facilities. Not everyone can get admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at short notice not only because such capacity is limited but also because costs and time constraints prevent most from being able to access such care. Tele-medicine can alleviate these limitations to a great extent. If the patient cannot reach the right doctor or the right facilities, the doctor can reach the patient through tele-medicine and test-results can be communicated electronically with speed. Only a fraction of the patients would need to be moved to facilities far away from home, and while the patient travels, the diagnosis, some palliative care and tests can continue seamlessly without interruption.Many of the developed countries have created models of digital health with excess and waste, even as they reaped the benefits of digitisation. As India is embarking on an almost greenfield health care digitisation spree, we should take lessons from their experience — leapfrog for sure, but don’t commit similar infrastructural errors as this would be financially disastrous, given India’s scale. Hence it is imperative to have the veterans of industry, technology and business deploying needful and future-proof technologies in developing our model of digital health care.India is a unique country in many ways and the effective solution for our needs will have to be uniquely Indian. We must create an infrastructure that allows us to do this not only to meet our needs effectively and in a cost-effective manner, but also to create something that much of the rest of the world can emulate.Kris Gopalakrishnan is an IT and health care expert. Dr Rajeev Sharma is a medical doctor who has created a Blockchain platform for health care. Bhagwan Chowdhry, who co-authored the piece, is a professor at the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/embrace-the-national-digital-health-mission-but-with-care-and-safeguards/story-9ITJ2cbLtw2IK7Gpzw4G1H.html
