18-08-2020||News||Moving urban India after the Covid-19 pandemic | Opinion||In the aftermath of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, India is likely to experience a behavioural change in urban mobility. Due to lasting concerns about transmission and a newfound aptitude for working from home, we must expect an overall reduced demand and an increased preference for personal modes of transport. Unhindered, there is a high likelihood that there would be a permanent modal shift towards automobiles that would spatially and environmentally overload our cities and substantively impact our quality of life. Consequentially, this would threaten the financial viability of transit operators, especially those already stretched thin before the hit in ridership, and will further tilt the scales away from an optimal urban transportation landscape.On the other hand, this crisis also presents an opportunity to guide the recovery of urban transport towards long-term development goals. Transport networks in Indian cities, whether public or private, road or rail-based, are severely overburdened. Investment in infrastructure to address more effective circulation and interchange of people and goods will have an economic multiplier effect — both job-creation in the present and boosting growth and productivity in the future. But where should we focus our energy and resources to have long-lasting and positive change while providing the most bang for our buck?First, direct efforts towards accessibility instead of only mobility. While mobility focuses on movement of people and goods and the distances they cover, accessibility emphasises the ability of people to obtain the same goods, services, and activities without necessarily having to move, or at least move as much. Accessibility necessitates rethinking our cities to optimally integrate transportation with land uses to increase proximity, connectivity, and convenience. One method for this, Transit Oriented Development (TOD), has been discussed and studied in the Indian context for over a decade, with even a National TOD Policy framed in 2017, but little progress has been seen on ground. TOD is a concept that has come of age, and its implementation to enable access to live-work-play triangles without needing to commute long distances will be a game-changer for the urbanscape.Second, facilitate the increased demand for personal modes through non-motorised modes, not just cars and two-wheelers. According to a United Nations Environment Programme report in 2014, even in a large city like Delhi, 48% of trips were less than two kilometres (km) and another 14% were between two and four kms. The high frequency of short distance commutes shows that alternative modes are easily manageable and feasible to adopt.Kolkata has already taken the lead to cater to the recent increase in demand for cycling by permitting bicyclists to cut through neighbourhood lanes, thereby reducing their travel distance. While certainly a step in the right direction, this is not enough, and a strong enabling environment is necessary to create a lasting change. In addition to such policies that prioritise non-motorised modes, infrastructure such as designated spaces, routes and crossings to promote safety, bike-share systems to promote availability, and water fountains, wash facilities, and trees to promote user comfort are essential to make active modes more widespread than only the current captive users.Third, integrate pricing of all modes of transport, private and public, to ensure continuity of public operators of transport in the context of reduced transit demand. Reduced transit ridership is not always a bad thing in the Indian context since public transit operators have historically operated at crush loads. However, it would place these operators in financial jeopardy with existential risks. The resulting reduced availability of transit will have a compounding effect by pushing users towards personal modes and will be detrimental to our clogged cities. Such a shift will affect the fabric of sustainable transport infrastructure of Indian cities and must be avoided in any scenario. We need pricing measures that disincentivise private vehicle adoption through congestion pricing, parking charges, and variable pricing to modulate demand, and channel revenues from these to cross-subsidise public transit.With such measures, we will be able to moderate the demand for the private automobile, adequately increase transit supply, allow for social distancing, and cater to the long under-invested transportation infrastructure of our cities.Transport is the backbone around which a city functions. A radical transformation is needed, and we must only look at instances of global cities that used transportation to rejuvenate and reinvent themselves away from the auto-centric cities they once were — Istanbul transformed itself through pedestrianisation, Amsterdam by inculcating a bicycling culture, Bogota through integrating bus networks and land use, and Seoul by turning urban highways into public places. India must use this crisis as an opportunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/moving-urban-india-after-the-covid-19-pandemic-opinion/story-dGqF2c8hHOgyZj52OLFhSM.html
18-08-2020||News||How Chinese imports are destroying our traditional textiles, writes Ritu Kumar||With Covid-19 causing a dramatic rupture, and with Chinese aggression at the border, India must reassess its approach to trade, especially the import of textiles and other artefacts of religious use from China. This is essential to preserve India’s traditional strengths and ensure it doesn’t fall into the same trap as other countries, which have lost their livelihoods and indigenous traditions.In India, textiles comprise the second-largest sector after agriculture. Its potential for creating wealth is enormous. India has a living tradition of handicrafts, practised on an everyday basis. All India’s crafts are inherited through guilds which have a long history, and this is their inherent intellectual property. This specialisation offers employment to an estimated 16 million people in the country.When the pandemic hit Europe, Italy, Spain and France were among the countries affected. But think of another element they had in common. The relentless growth of fashion empires, and their diversification into billion-dollar licensing arrangements made fashion in Europe very powerful, early on in the game. They began to dictate the terms of the luxury goods trade through very effective marketing, and new products. These companies dominated global markets. They soon started producing their prime goods elsewhere, and to better their margins, began hiring Chinese tailors, off the books, and gave them licence to manufacture copies of their garments, cheaper and faster. In the process, they were willing to teach them the secrets of family-owned businesses and enhance their capability to produce couture garments — sometimes giving them the patterns to do so to buy them at a fraction of the cost of European manufactured goods.The Chinese learned the craft swiftly and, very soon, they were a force to be recognised, as they used “Made in France” labels on much cheaper copies. In Italy, the hub of luxury good manufacturers, too, their numbers proliferated and they displaced traditional Italian family enterprises. One of the major production areas, incidentally, is in and around the city of Wuhan, a textile hub of low-end garments for the world. The Western world, in its pursuit for cheap merchandise, has still not recognised that selling their know-how created adverse long-term consequences, and perhaps not just in fashion.This story has repeated itself elsewhere. Uzbekistan is at the heart of a complex nomadic and oasis culture in Central Asia and is a significant stretch of the famous Silk Road route. The cities down the historic road were the most prolific in their textile language and produce, as caravans, traded their textile ikats and embroideries with the world down the ages. A few years ago, I went there on a trip to study their traditional ikats. The Fergana valley, the birth place of Babar, was supposed to be the richest in terms of traditional crafts. But, barring a few exceptions, the genius of textiles that I was looking for was elusive. The women, unfortunately, were clad in velvet and synthetic kaftans, looking quite alien from their surroundings. They were all wearing kaftans, manufactured and printed in China, using copies of patterns from traditional ikats. The only place today where genuine textiles still exist is India.And that is the issue.India is as prone to losing its textile crafts to another country as the others. It only needs to look at its past. The British brought down India’s share in textile exports to the world from 25% to 2%, taking over the production of Indian-inspired cloth from the 18th to the 20th century. By a miracle, Indian textiles have survived through the efforts of revivalists in the post-Independence era, such as Kamala Devi Chattopdhyaya and Pupul Jayakar.We are already seeing Chinese inroads in the Benaras sari markets, where there are jacquard copies of the Benaras-bordered tanchoi saris selling in the market for a song.China is predatory. It has always been known for its sericulture, as India has been for its unusual silk yarns, which were hand twisted and woven with a great deal of expertise to keep the saris pliable, soft and easy to pleat. I have done wardrobes for the Miss Universe and Miss World pageants for many years. I always would propose they wear the Benaras sari to a function, but gave up as I could not find a sari which draped softly and looked the way the Ravi Verma saris looked in his paintings. I then studied Benaras silk saris for a few years in an effort to find out what had changed the saris radically from exotic, sexily-contoured unstitched garments to the present, stiff totally unwearable, saris which balloon out. It was incredible to discover that the reason was that the original yarns from Bhagalpur which were hand-spun, with no twist, called paat-baana, without which the beautiful masterpieces of Benaras could not have been woven, had been substituted by Chinese yarns. This changed the structure totally and made them unattractive to wear. The tragedy of the silence of the looms of Varanasi is that people continue to weave this imported yarn because it is cheap.Benaras can survive and sustain itself adequately if we revert to the original yarns. We have indigenous mulberry silks from Karnataka, which are softer, finer, lighter and allow for more pliability when woven and have a wonderful texture. Organic ahimsa silks from the terai regions, India’s tussars and mogas, are an intrinsic part of our heritage. If even one family in India owns one good Benaras sari in their wardrobe, which a young bride would like to possess, the city will have no problem keeping its weavers employed.China dumped silk yarn in India at prices a fraction of their costs initially, and then slowly raised the prices to set up a lucrative business. The business, unfortunately, is run by middlemen, ignorant of the fact that they are producing goods which are unwearable and at the same time enhancing dependence on Chinese silk yarn. A ban on imports of this yarn will perhaps affect production for a while, but we have the resilience in our textile techniques and as a country that taught the world the beauty of producing textiles, can easily find alternatives.Covid-19 is a wake-up call. India must preserve its textiles. The beauty of the peacock must not succumb to the fire of the dragon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-china-is-destroying-our-textiles-writes-ritu-kumar/story-X1bPluYO4bBQye3cvn3Q5J.html
18-08-2020||News||Pandit Jasraj: The Tansen of our times | Opinion||Pandit Martand Jasraj was deeply embedded in India’s national psyche and was an inimitable part of its cultural ethos. This void is irreplaceable. In my life, even more so. I do not recall of any auspicious occasion, from my house-warming to the marriage of my son, which were not blessed by his magical voice.He was the last of the great quartet in our classical vocal tradition comprising Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, an exponent of the Kirana Gharana; Kishori Amonkar, an exponent of the Jaipur Gharana; Girija Devi, an exponent of the Seniya and Banaras gharanas; and Pandit Jasraj, an exponent of the Mewati Gharana. Given my passion for Indian music, I was privileged to share a personal bond with all of them. However, there are some characteristics which were exclusive to him.His magnanimity, indulgence and equanimity were unique to him. On no occasion did I find him irritated, complaining of either an inattentive audience or any transient illness. On one occasion, when I remarked about his viral fever, he jocularly answered that the presence of such distinguished music lovers and our enthusiasm had made his discomfort vanish.Born in Hisar, Panditji traversed a long distance in his life from various traditions, imbibing the essentials of different styles of singing. I have heard some recitals of him being taught by his elder brother, Pandit Maniram, and it is amazing to hear the re-orchestration of the best guru-shishya tradition.As an exponent of the Mewati Gharana, he sought to blend various musical styles, not confined to ghayal alone. In this sense, he had a futuristic vision. He recognised that the classical tradition, without losing its purity of form and content, must evolve. That is why, while learning from the Mewati Gharana, he improvised on his musical styles, particularly kirtan. He also innovated the well-known Jasrangi, which involved both the female artist and himself performing collectively for wider community acceptance. After all, the Om Namo Bhagwate Vasudevaya Namaha, which he sang on many occasions, comes with a supreme sense of spirituality unique to Jasraj and which invoked instant community participation. In imbibing the classical tradition, he constantly sought to improvise and improve on it.On a special occasion, on May 8, 1998, it was a hot and humid afternoon. He decided to sing a raga Dhulia Malhar, which he explained at length was a precursor of the rains and where the rain particles are often mixed with dust particles to produce intense dust storms preceding the rainfall. As he continued his singing on that hot afternoon, clouds appeared from nowhere. It started drizzling, which cooled the atmosphere greatly. The magical appearance of the clouds and the rains from nowhere reminded everyone present there of the legendary Tansen. It was said that Tansen could summon the rains while singing Malhar and light up the lamps during Deepak.Undoubtedly, Pandit Jasraj, whom we all experienced in that evening, was the 21st century Tansen in drawing legendary powers to invoke the gods and spirituality so much needed by humans.In a sense, it is somewhat ironical that a man born in Hisar, travelling through the entire orbit of the musical traditions of India, and from Hyderabad, then to Sanand, then as the supreme national star, would have passed away in New Jersey. My only comfort in this time of grief is that he left us doing what he best loved — educating and teaching students on the great Indian cultural tradition of classical music, of which he was the noblest interpreter. Following his calling of globalising the Indian classical music tradition, he founded schools in Atlanta, Tampa, Vancouver, Toronto, New York, New Jersey, Pittsburgh, Mumbai and Kerala.Durga Jasraj, his loving daughter, who was trained assiduously by her father, looked after him to the very end. He had greatly encouraged her in promoting the Tiranga in close cooperation with the notable poet and lyricist Javed Akhtar. For me, this sudden shock is all the more poignant because I had often spoken to him during his stay in New Jersey and he constantly assured me of his well-being and how much he was looking forward to singing for avid music lovers after his early return to India. Alas, this will remain our unfulfilled dream.On his passing, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi said, “The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists.” Former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, with whom I worked, greatly loved and admired the music of Pandit Jasraj. He had described him as “Rasraj”, the king of rasas. In 2019, the International Astronomical Union even named a minor planet orbiting between Mars and Jupiter as “Jasraj” after him, enchanting the Gods as part of our planetary constellation.The great legacy of the spirituality, which Indian classical music represents, must be nurtured. Pandit Jasraj had a lasting lesson for all of us that traditions must remain contemporary and relevant to the life of a common person. Mainstreaming Indian classical music with community participation was his lasting contribution. May the Tiranga fly high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/pandit-jasraj-the-tansen-of-our-times-opinion/story-LhaqjHQM2miI1pFVX1dhZK.html
