20-08-2020||News||India will always owe a huge debt to Pandit Jasraj | Opinion||Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj, the incomparable voice of Hindustani classical music that India gave to the world, will always shine bright as the pole star in the world of music. His loss has left a void that is impossible to fill. He was the last of the five pillars of Hindustani classical music in the past half-century or more, the others being Pandit Mallikarjun Mansur, Pandit Kumar Gandharva, Gaan Saraswati Kishori Amonkar and Pandit Bhimsen Joshi. Owing to his close ties with my family, I have rich memories of him. Pandit Jasraj had a special bond with my parents, Pandit Vinaya Chandra Maudgalya and Smt. Padma Devi. His debut concert in Delhi at the Gandharva Mahavidyalaya’s annual music festival, Pandit Vishnu Digambar Jayanti Sangeet Samaroh, in 1966 at Sapru House, set him apart as a rising star and he never looked back.I remember how, as a boy of 10, I awaited eagerly, Pandit Jasraj’s visits to our house-cum-Gandharva Mahavidyala at Connaught Place. There were many visiting musicians and each was special, but Pandit Jasraj’s visits made the atmosphere convivial and festive. I was especially fascinated by the fragrance of the henna-scented itar (perfume) that emanated from his suitcases.He taught me music, of course. But I learnt so much more, sitting behind him playing the tanpura or travelling with him to music festivals outside Delhi. As he enthralled audiences, the learned and the lay alike, I absorbed invaluable lessons in the technicalities of stage singing, presentation skills to diverse audiences, and coordinating and synchronising with extremely accomplished accompanists who were great musicians in their own right. His first LP, with Ragas Nat Bhairav, Hamsadhvani and Shuddh Varaali, made a deep impression on me in my teens.His style was unique, almost a whole world unto itself. Being hugely popular, it is lost on many how difficult his style is and what tremendous rigour had gone into mastering it. Pandit Motiram’s son, Pandit Jasraj started his music training under his elder brother Pandit Maniram, in the Mewati gharana.But in my opinion, his was a combination of the Mewati Gharana along with Ustad Abdul Wahid Khan Saheb’s, Ustad Amir Khan Saheb’s and the Patiala gharana styles, which he turned into a unique gayaki with his powerful multi-octave range, vocal technique such as his famous glides through the notes across octaves, and a special ability to deliver the lyrics with the lucidity of poetry, yet loaded with music. Laden with bhaava (emotion) and laya (rhythm), his music brimmed with a romanticism that mesmerised audiences. He had an uncanny way of engaging each listener. I remember how, during a full concert, one famous musician sitting in the audience, got up to leave after the first two pieces. Panditji noticed this and immediately, in his smiling manner, broke into a bandish (melodic composition) addressing the exiting gentleman, “hum ko bisaar kahaan chale” (whither do you go, forgetting me), in Raga Nagad-dhvani Kanhada, which so genially stopped the musician in his tracks following which he went back to his seat.Bestowed with a magical and mellifluous voice, Panditji won the hearts of listeners as a great performer. The world of music also knows that his depth of knowledge was immense. Ask him about any composition from any gharana, he would know the entire history and background about it. A true vidwaan (scholar), he was a treasure-house of Raga-knowledge and compositions, himself being a great vaaggeyakaar (composer, scholar and performer rolled into one). He created a new intriguing performance style called Jasrangi based on the concept of murchhana, where a male and a female singer performed a selection of two complementary ragas together.He rarely sang thumris, dadras or even taranas in concerts, but was an expert in these genres as well and his disciples are well-trained in all these forms of singing. He sang a lot of devotional music, making the maha-mantra “Om Namo Bhagavate Vaasudevaaya” popular in every household. That he was a very generous teacher and encouraged his students in every way, is evident from the extent to which his disciples have attained success in the tough terrain of classical music.Exuding positivity, Panditji’s was a persona that left behind joy and mirth wherever he went. Warmth and a great sense of humour were intrinsic to his nature. Despite being such a sought-after artist, he was always willing to sing without bothering about remuneration. He would readily travel to remote parts of the country to sing for whoever invited him with sincerity and simplicity.It would be an understatement to say that Padma Vibhushan Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj’s voice will always echo in the hearts of music lovers, touching every emotional chord deeply, and that the genius of his music will forever make India proud.Madhup Mudgal is a renowned Hindustani classical vocalist, Principal of the Gandharva Mahavidyalaya in New Delhi and recipient of the Padmashri and Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-will-always-owe-a-huge-debt-to-pandit-jasraj/story-1EHmyjc7UElIv00leayUkK.html
20-08-2020||News||A personal chronicle of Swachh Bharat Mission | Opinion||I vividly remember the first time I met Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. It was the April 21, 2016, Civil Services Day. There was an evening reception at the Rashtrapati Bhawan Convention Centre, where my Indian Administrative Service (IAS) batchmate, Hasmukh Adhia, introduced me to the PM. I greeted him with a namaste and blurted out something about how much of an honour it was for me to meet him. With a straight face he responded, “Aap wohi hai na jo IAS se bhaag kar bahar chalegaye the? (Aren’t you the one who left the IAS and escaped?)” I was stumped, but, he then smiled and said: “I know that you have asked for an appointment with me — I will meet you soon”. I had been at the World Bank for some years after taking voluntary retirement from the Indian Administrative Service, when in late 2015, I happened to visit Delhi and meet the Cabinet secretary. He informed me that the incumbent secretary of the ministry of drinking water and sanitation (MDWS) had recently resigned, and that the government was considering a domain expert as a replacement for her. He asked if I was interested in the job. It took a few moments for his words to register. This was more than a dream come true. I remembered the urge I felt to participate in the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) the day I heard PM announce it from the ramparts of Red Fort in 2014. My wife and I were at home in Hanoi, Vietnam, and watching the new PM’s first Independence Day speech. Now I was being asked to lead SBM.I was fortunate in being selected for the job and became the first-ever lateral entry ex-IAS officer to become a secretary to the government. There were a few discordant notes from my former IAS colleagues about a technical “outsider” being appointed at such a senior level, but since my former IAS batchmates were also secretaries at that time, at least I was not breaking the civil service hierarchy!After the brief encounter with PM at Rashtrapati Bhawan, I got a call from his office a couple of days later to schedule an appointment with him, just as he had promised. At that meeting, I shared with him our proposal to focus the goal of the programme on making the country open-defecation-free (ODF) by launching a behaviour change programme to get people to use toilets, in parallel with a massive toilet construction programme. In the end, I left the room with the PM’s inspirational words ringing in my ears: “Jaiye, aur Bharat ko swachh banaiye. (Go and make India clean)”. I relinquish my post a week after Independence Day this year to go back to the United States (US) and spend some quality time with my family. I look back at my four-and-a-half years on the job with a lot of satisfaction over what SBM has been able to achieve, and gratitude for being given the chance to do this. To think that in 2014, India contributed to well over half of the world’s open defecation burden with over 600 million open defecators, to becoming open-defecation-free in 2019, is a testimony to what can be achieved if a people rally behind a cause. No praise is enough for the PM’s announcement of that huge, audacious goal, being the wind at our backs, and for being the SBM’s communicator-in-chief.Along the way, I have learned valuable lessons on management and programme delivery. This programme has reinforced the importance of achieving goal-congruence, with every part of the chain aligned to a common goal. It has highlighted the need for a team of believers to effectively execute any large and complex challenge. Believers punch above their weight and made the goal seem less audacious. It has also taught me the importance of end-to- end communication, with all stakeholders and at all times. I have learnt that keeping your superiors and critics informed of your good work is as important as communicating with your customers. It has demonstrated the power of the collective, and that when a programme is democratised, it can achieve more than any expectations. It has highlighted the importance of objective evaluation of progress and using these measurements to improve delivery at all stages. And, most of all, it has taught me that there is no such thing as mission accomplished. Follow-through for sustaining gains is as, if not more, important than achieving the gains in the first place. I leave behind an able team of officers who will take charge of the second phase of SBM which focuses on ODF sustainability and solid and liquid waste management. The Jal Jeevan Mission has its own enormously ambitious goal of delivering piped water supply to all households by 2024. With the systems in place for the successful implementation of both these programmes, I am confident that the teams will achieve even greater heights for the water and sanitation sector in India and get us even more global recognition for our path-breaking transformative programmes. My journey has been nothing short of a dream come true. It has been a roller coaster ride, with a thrill a minute. I leave with the satisfaction that Team SBM, at the national, state, district and village levels, put in a 100% effort to achieve the PM’s goal. I leave with gratitude for this amazing, life-changing opportunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-personal-chronicle-of-swachh-bharat-mission/story-R4WpqZX7VjtiBj1jq2RtjJ.html
20-08-2020||News||Why Facebook is wrong, yet again |Opinion||The latest controversy concerning Facebook has forced greater public scrutiny over the company’s internal decision-making over political issues in India — and may well be the first technology debate originating domestically that has escalated to become truly international in scope.This debate centres on a lengthy, chilling investigation published last week by The Wall Street Journal. The report revealed that Facebook staff had considered a complete take-down of T Raja Singh’s profile on Facebook in 2018 on the basis that the Hyderabad-based Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state legislator spread hateful messages over the platform, targeting the Muslim community. At the time, however, Ankhi Das, who leads Facebook’s policy efforts in New Delhi, intervened in her colleagues’ process, to block the proposed ban of Raja Singh’s account. Raja Singh has since argued that his account was hacked, and has further implied that Facebook, in fact, facilitated the spread of hateful messaging coordinated by Muslim politicians.The situation is deeply concerning and should ring alarm bells. Here, you had an Indian employee of one of the most powerful American Internet firms that operates in India, quietly falling in line with Facebook’s corporate interests, while putting at risk the lives, let alone the social concerns and political hopes, of Indian citizens. Let us be clear that no one — no one — should experience the vitriolic hate and online threats of violence to which Das has alleged she was subjected in the aftermath of the publication of the story. Separately, however, one would hope that no citizen of India — whether a supporter of the BJP or Congress — would be treated as an unknowing pawn by the American tech titan, which also owns WhatsApp and Instagram. For Das — as Facebook’s leading Indian policy voice, as someone who is empowered to speak for the Indian people to her chief executive Mark Zuckerberg — the social concerns of all Indian citizens should have come well before the commercial interests of Facebook. In this case, sadly, they did not.The core issue here is that there exists a delicate tension for the company. On the one hand, it faces tremendous pressure to “do the right thing”; all things considered, Facebook’s greatest asset still may be its brand and, despite all the belly-blows the company has endured in recent years, the big blue app still stands tall in the eyes of most Indian consumers. That brand is a corporate asset to be protected. And yet, on the other hand, Facebook feels a constant pressure to cater to all political interests — and all too often, Facebook has caved in under that pressure. And indeed, in this case, Facebook decided not to do the right thing — which would have been taking down Raja Singh’s blatant anti-Muslim posts — because doing so would raise the ire of the political dispensation of the day. The danger of such unilateral decision-making power — which, in 2018, apparently belonged entirely to one individual, for the Indian market — is tangible. In practice, Facebook is indubitably a monopoly that stretches across the Indian digital media ecosystem. With its extraordinary economic power should come an earnest responsibility to keep its platforms clean of hate. This is a standard we already have in the contexts of traditional media formats, thanks to a combination of corporate commitments and regulatory stipulations. Facebook played a dangerous game of calculus in 2018: Let’s not rankle the ruling party by taking action against violent political speech at a time when we are trying to expand our domination of the Indian social media market. Time and again, the company finds itself having to wade delicately through these issues after the harm has already been done. This is because Facebook is, in essence, a machine designed to maximise consumer engagement for forward monetistation. The reason that Raja Singh’s posts go viral is not only because he has a political base that follows his brand of political leadership. It is also because it is psychologically engaging to a vast set of people. Hateful conduct is shocking, and often, we consume it because we cannot believe what we are seeing. We cannot believe that a public personality could say such things. And in many cases, we only want to see more and more of it, even if we are in the marginalised group that politician is offending.It is this sort of engagement that Facebook craves. Because so long as it has our attention, it can collect the data it needs to behaviourally profile us and capitalise on our personalities. This commercial incentive threatens the very nature of democracy — and this is not a characteristic solely of Facebook’s, but rather is a theme across the breadth of the consumer Internet sector today.National politicians in India must set the right example — not endorse the wrong ones or, worse, sidestep the issue entirely. Indian citizens need to have the tools necessary to hold the technology industry accountable — and that is an imperative that must start with policy action in New Delhi.Dipayan Ghosh, PhD, is co-director of the Digital Platforms & Democracy Project at the Harvard Kennedy School, and author of Terms of Disservice. He has earlier worked at Facebook and in the Obama White House The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-facebook-is-wrong-yet-again/story-zqcIgEbYImwrUsm4dtH2UI.html
