23-08-2020||News||In real contempt of the Constitution||The Supreme Court (SC) of India seeks to protect its dignity by proceeding in contempt against Prashant Bhushan whose tweets, the court believes, have shaken the confidence of the people in the institution. On this, opinions may differ. Some would say that, in the recent past, both the court’s judgments and actions have contributed more significantly in shaking public confidence in the institution. Punishing Prashant Bhushan is not likely to restore it.But there is a more blatant contempt being witnessed that the SC has failed to address. It is the contempt that the State and its institutions have for the Constitution and the laws, which has shaken the foundations of our democratic values, even as the institution that is obliged to protect those values looks helplessly on.Recently, the High Court (HC) of Rajasthan dealt with the merger of six members of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislative party into the Congress. The merger happened on September 18, 2019. While the politics of disruption was being played out in the open, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), opportunistically, moved a petition in the HC seeking to disqualify the six BSP Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs). The speed with which this matter was taken up by the HC was evidence, perhaps, of the touching concern of the court for upholding constitutional values, which the BJP allegedly espouses. A single-judge bench of the HC was to dispose of the matter of the disqualification immediately. The SC has kept the matter pending awaiting the judgment of the HC. At the same time, the court was aware of the constitutional values being thrown to the winds when the governor chose not to call the assembly session, contrary to the advice of the Council of Ministers. Let us shift to the events that happened in Goa on July 10, 2019 when 10 Congress MLAs, representing two-thirds of the Congress presence in the assembly merged with the BJP legislative party — the opposite of what happened in Rajasthan. In Rajasthan, the BJP considers the merger of BSP MLAs to be illegal but in Goa, the merger is alleged to be perfectly legal. In Rajasthan, the matter is fast-tracked in court but in Goa, the Speaker has not shown any urgency to decide the disqualification and the matter is now pending in SC, where it is being adjourned whenever taken up. No urgency, though a year has gone by. In Goa, the BJP is the beneficiary of the merger but in Rajasthan, it chooses to challenge it to bring down the government.In Manipur, the situation is even more bizarre. Between April and July 2017, eight MLAs of the Congress, by their acts, showed open allegiance to the BJP. Petitions to disqualify them were filed in November 2018. The Speaker chose to keep the petitions pending. It was only on January 21, 2020, that the proceedings gained some momentum when SC directed that all pending disqualification petitions before Speakers across India be decided in three months. In Manipur, the Speaker’s orders are under challenge. Hopefully, the court will show the same urgency in deciding these matters as the court did in Rajasthan.No other Speaker has honoured the SC judgment by deciding on such disqualification petitions within the time-frame prescribed by it.In Tamil Nadu, disqualification petitions have been pending before the Speaker since March 2017. The term of the Assembly ends in 2022.In Madhya Pradesh, disqualification petitions against 19 Congress MLAs who joined the BJP were filed in March 2020. But only a pro-tem Speaker adorns the chair. A duly-elected Speaker alone can deal with them.Speakers of legislative assemblies seek to protect the members of the party to which they belong and choose to delay, for one reason or another, resolution of disqualification petitions. Courts, time and again, have chosen not to interfere. This gives constitutional protection for openly unconstitutional acts. The Speaker does not decide on these matters for years, and if courts cannot direct the Speaker to decide them, then those who have openly defied the constitution continue to be members of legislative assemblies without any judicial resolution. The courts’ inaction allows for the perpetuation of an illegality.There is yet another dimension of the manner in which elected governments are toppled. With new platforms of information, the goings-on in destabilising governments are matters of public knowledge. Willing legislators are flown out in chartered flights, cloistered in five-star facilities with the sole intent of usurping power by blandishments offered to willing takers. This display of arrogance of power and disregard for constitutional values have now become the cornerstone of political activism.It is the contempt for India’s constitutional values and laws that is a wake-up call for those who, under our constitutional scheme, have the duty to protect them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-real-contempt-of-the-constitution/story-DFGPvHbvtFMoBsywNv4huO.html
23-08-2020||News||To send a message, it is time to ban Chinese firms from India’s 5G trials||It is now obvious that the moves by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh this summer were premeditated, planned and smoothly executed. This comes through when you consider the strength of the troops involved as well as the multiple locations where action has been seen. There were certain military objectives set out for PLA and at least some, if not all, of those have been achieved. In the process, China has violated many of the agreements with India on the maintenance of peace and tranquillity on the border. Having done so, China has indicated that it is neither going to vacate its military aggression nor restore the status quo ante. Several rounds of diplomatic as well as military negotiations aimed at de-escalating the situation in the western sector of the India-China border have proved this. From the statements of Chinese diplomatic envoys as well as other interlocutors, with whom this writer has had the opportunity to interact virtually, China’s diplomatic game plan is also becoming apparent. Having accomplished much that it had planned militarily on the ground, China intends to make these positions permanent and amass the gains. Simultaneously, it will do all it can to ensure that the rest of the India-China relationship continues its normal course and that it is business-as-usual in economic relations, in people-to-people exchanges and in multilateral engagements. That is its game plan. Chinese diplomacy fully intends and hopes to reach this goal. If it is allowed to do so, it will truly be a win-win for China.If China accomplishes this diplomatic objective vis-à-vis India, it will be able to show the world that India has accepted the new military realities on the ground in Ladakh. By extension, other countries should not worry about the implications of China’s moves on its border with India and about aggressive Chinese behaviour. It will also cement China’s pre-eminent position in the Asian pecking order.Incidentally, this has also been China’s playbook in the South China Sea and has been pursued with finesse and success there. It is only now that the United States (US) is beginning to challenge such obviously unacceptable actions, even as countries in the region continue to be diplomatically bogged down with negotiating a code of conduct while China merrily continues with its armed military aggression. A further implication for India if it were to quietly acquiesce in this Chinese game plan is that there will be nothing to stop PLA from repeating its actions later this year, or next year or the next. This will merely be in line with Chinese activities elsewhere. We must be clear-headed and practical to see through Beijing’s military-diplomatic manoeuvres.Former Chinese ambassadors, retired PLA officers as well as international relations experts that I have had occasion to interact with, repeatedly stated that China does not view India as a strategic enemy. Hence, the argument goes, the rest of the India-China relationship should be normalised as soon as possible, particularly as this is the 70th anniversary year of the establishment of diplomatic ties. In response, when they were told that if this was indeed the case, then China should find it easy to restore the status quo ante in Ladakh, there was stony silence from them. For all these reasons, it is of utmost importance for India to send a clear message to China, that we view PLA’s actions in Ladakh as a serious test for the relationship. The tactical inference that India has drawn is that China desires to unilaterally decide where the Line of Actual Control (LAC) lies. The strategic implication is that China is clearly exhibiting that it is the regional hegemon in Asia, that it can do as it pleases in its neighbourhood, and that the 21st century is not an Asian century but solely a Chinese century. Through the military action in Ladakh, where the Indian Army fought bravely and heroically, New Delhi has conveyed that it does not accept any of these propositions and that it shall stand up to Chinese bullying. Now, New Delhi needs to ensure that China’s diplomatic playbook does not succeed. India-China relations cannot be business-as-usual. The ban on Chinese mobile phone apps, changes in public procurement policies aimed at weeding out Chinese companies, and an added level of scrutiny in India’s investment apparatus are all good first steps. While China is worried, especially because India’s actions have had a snowballing effect, for example, in the ban on TikTok, it still appears that our message has not been heard loud and clear in Beijing. If peace cannot prevail in the India-China border areas, then the rest of the relationship cannot continue as before. India-China relations will be negatively impacted. Therefore, New Delhi needs to reinforce this clear-cut position by taking some more steps and measures to amply clarify the revised Indian policy toward China. One of the loudest signals that we can send is to ban Chinese firms from India’s 5G trials and roll-out. New Delhi needs to announce this decision soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-send-a-message-it-is-time-to-ban-chinese-firms-from-india-s-5g-trials/story-WItzCk3Yt40Uuoumg5sPSI.html
23-08-2020||News||When India defeated China at the United Nations||As a member of the UN Security Council in 2011-2012, India beat China. Here is how. UN member-states are divided into five geographical groups, and every effort is made to avoid contests in elections to various UN bodies by ensuring clean slates, i.e. the number of candidates and seats allotted to the group match. Contested elections, therefore, tend to be high prestige diplomatic battles. China, at least pre-Covid-19, was a heavyweight player, with its aid bounties spread across the developing world and the heft of its veto-bearing permanent membership of the SC. The Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) is the UN’s independent oversight and evaluation arrangement. It is based in Geneva with 11 members (known as inspectors) serving in their personal capacity. The tradition is for an inspector to serve two five-year terms at a stretch. The inspectors are elected (technically “appointed”) by the UN General Assembly (UNGA) and not chosen by the Secretary-General.Till 2011, India had an inspector only once at the JIU from 1968-1977. After informal conversations within the Asian group, India put up its Permanent Representative in Geneva, who was retiring soon, as a candidate for the JIU for the five-year term (2013-2017). China was completing a ten-year stint in 2012 and should have taken a break from the JIU. But it also announced a candidate for the one seat at the JIU from Asia for the same term. This set up a straight contest between India and China. In October 2010, India had been elected to the Security Council (SC) following a huge campaign, and after securing a record 187 votes from 192 UN member-states. While service on the SC, rather than elections, was our priority, China had left us little option but to contest. We obviously left no stone unturned in New York, with the Permanent Representative himself in the lead, as we vigorously pursued our outreach and made deals with all UN member-states.The election was on November 22, and the process began a little after 10 am. Since voting in the UN is in person, I was immediately struck by the thin attendance as I entered the UN General Assembly hall. My immediate instinct was to ask all my colleagues in the Permanent Mission to get on to their cellphones and gently but persuasively push delegates, especially from favourably disposed countries, to rush to the UNGA. Anticipating such a situation, we had prepared an extensive directory of mobile numbers of election officers in other Permanent Missions. The next shock was a young diplomat from a neighbouring country, generally thought to be friendly to us, being wary of giving a thumbs-up response. Without realising that it would be late in the night in his capital, I dialled our ambassador there and received confirmation that the country was going the other way. But it had to be chin-up and confidence as the ballot papers were circulated, collected, and then counted.Finally, just after noon, the result was announced: India had received 106 out of 183 votes cast. China 77. What a victory!Nothing could have pleased us more than conveying the result to New Delhi. This was, perhaps, the only time that India and China had faced off at the UN in an election and we had prevailed and that too decisively. Incidentally, the Chinese candidate was their ambassador in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/when-india-defeated-china-at-the-united-nations/story-EpSng4cfrdy01jIHlfd3mL.html
