27-08-2020||News||Delhi-Dhaka ties: India is doing well in the region||In a telling statement, Sri Lanka’s new foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage has said that Colombo will have an “India first” strategic policy outlook. Arguing that while the Rajapaksa government has adopted a posture of neutrality in its dealings with major regional and global powers, he was categorical in underlining that “the president [Gotabaya Rajapaksa] has stated that we have a strategic security-wise ‘India first’ policy because we cannot be, we should not be, we can’t afford to be a strategic security threat for India, period.” These are powerful words indeed, and along with Colombage’s acknowledgement that the decision to give Hambantota port on a 99- year lease to China was a “mistake”, it underscored the pitfalls of a rather infantile debate in this country about India’s neighbourhood policy in recent months. There has been a barrage of criticism that India is “losing” its neighbourhood as border tensions with Nepal have grown and China has continued to spread its tentacles in India’s vicinity. That Indian and Chinese forces are squaring off at the border has reinforced this plaintive cry that New Delhi is getting marginalised in the neighbourhood. Even foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s visit to Bangladesh, his first outside India since the Covid-19 lockdown, got mired in needless debates about rising Chinese clout in Dhaka. By all accounts, Shringla’s visit to Dhaka was a successful one and it managed to convey Bangladesh’s privileged position in Indian foreign policy matrix. Against the backdrop of the two nations celebrating “Mujib Borsho”, and the 50th year of the liberation of Bangladesh as well as the establishment of diplomatic relations next year, this visit was key to setting the tone for a busy calendar of events ahead and a number of high-level bilateral visits. From expediting and conceptualising major connectivity projects to diversifying bilateral engagement, the two nations are getting serious about their priorities. What is key here is the role played by top leadership in both nations. Both Narendra Modi and Sheikh Hasina, despite some domestic scepticism, understand the importance of cultivating strong bilateral relations. For Modi, the development of India’s East and Northeast is a top priority and a strategic imperative for New Delhi. And that region can only achieve its full potential if it’s better integrated with Bangladesh, thereby ensuring that India-Bangladesh connectivity projects will continue to be at the top of the agenda. It is important to recognise that this connectivity push is being shaped by a politician like Narendra Modi who has been forthright about the challenges posed by illegal immigration. The fact that by next year India and Bangladesh are likely to have nine rail links is an indicator of how fast priorities in New Delhi are evolving. There is also a growing desire on the part of the two nations to look beyond the Bengali-Bengali narrative and shape the engagement by bringing in new stakeholders more in sync with 21st century realities. There is a sizeable Tamil and Telugu population in Bangladesh in the textile industry and tech space, and a growing number of Bangladeshi students and medical tourists are now visiting South India, thereby changing the very complexion of this engagement. It is, therefore, quite curious to suggest that India might be losing ground in Bangladesh. Of course, the all-pervasive China factor has to be reckoned with. In most of India’s neighbours, China has a seeming advantage that, unlike India, it is not part of the domestic political calculus. But, unlike India, it also does not have a long-term stake in the South Asian region. It can afford to ignore the region, which it does, when its interests are not served. New Delhi doesn’t have that luxury. For good or bad, India’s future and that of its neighbours remain intertwined. So while China’s financial commitments to various countries in the region are much talked about, given their size, they are largely declaratory. Even in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, China’s actual spending has been quite limited, compared to the $62 billion amount which is often advertised. India’s declared loan commitments might be small, but when it comes to actual delivery, India is not far behind. Its loan terms and payment conditionalities are much better too. For all the hue and cry about India “losing” the neighbourhood, the ground reality is quite different. With Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and the Maldives, New Delhi’s relations are robust and progressing well. Bhutan remains as close as ever and even in the case of Nepal, it was Prime Minister KP Oli who recently reached out to his Indian counterpart. Afghanistan is passing through a difficult phase, but both the Afghan government and the Taliban leadership recognise India’s critical role in shaping their nation’s future trajectory. And all this has happened when India has been able to successfully marginalise Pakistan, regionally and globally.To view India’s neighbourhood policy through the lens of “wins” and “losses” is to miss the structural imperatives that shape the outcome. A region shaped by two major powers will never have a linear trajectory. And such a narrative also does a great disservice to smaller nations in the region, which have their own agency in shaping their engagements with these powers. Finally, there has never been a golden period of foreign policy when New Delhi’s ties with its neighbours were seamless. Going by India’s historical record, Delhi’s regional outreach today is quite promising. Indian discourse today seems more driven by domestic political imperatives than by the empirical realities on the ground. Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College London and director of research, Observer Research Foundation, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/delhi-dhaka-ties-india-is-doing-well-in-the-region/story-5TOwex1XXEtncjv306a0QI.html
27-08-2020||News||Can NEP be Indian education’s 1991 moment?||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 has laid out an ambitious vision of making India an education powerhouse in the years to come. It has the right thrust: Liberalising regulation (light but tight), inviting truly philanthropic contributions, and increasing government spending. It is the education sector equivalent of the 1991 liberalisation of industry which rapidly improved its performance. For the same to happen in education, particularly for Indian universities to become research powerhouses, which determine reputation and prestige worldwide, however, it will take efforts of a kind that were not necessary for industry. This is because education is different in some crucial respects, quite apart from its non-profit nature.After liberalisation, the advent of new financial institutions such as HDFC Bank improved the quality of services for customers. Older institutions also shaped up, for instance, State Bank of India and Life Insurance Corporation (whose claim settlement ratio is better than that of private insurance companies). In other sectors, companies that could not shape up, such as Premier Automobiles, shut down. Such changes do not take place so quickly in education because of its special characteristics. First, there are strong network effects. You, as a good student, want to go to a university which attracts other good students and has successful alumni. But it takes a long time to establish alumni success, and it is hard for you to coordinate your actions with other good applicants. So you end up going to the same established universities which end up also getting other good students who thought exactly like you, which fulfils your expectations. It is a cycle that is hard to break. Only 12% of the Fortune 500 companies in 1955 are still on it; most of the universities on the top 500 list are still on it, and that too, in roughly the same order. Second, good research universities are hard to scale up because of their human-capital-intensive nature, and because they compete on quality, not market share. That is why the best universities in the world each have a very small market share in terms of the total number of students. It is a fragmented industry. Suzuki or Honda can easily scale up and edge out incumbents to grab a large market share if there is demand. A top university cannot. So even if new universities, homegrown or foreign, come in, they will not be able to create sufficient capacity to affect the intake of existing prestigious universities. For both these reasons, student exit does not create enough pressure for existing universities to transform themselves. Instead, pressure has to come from other sources, namely from the funding mechanism, and the quality of governance by the board of governors (BoG) and the vice-chancellor (V-C). These are the areas where policies and guidance are needed from the government.The government should reward high-research performance with disproportionately higher funding, consistent with the greater costs of running such universities, as well as the higher value derived thereof. Making funding conditional on research performance will result in more efficient use of government’s spending, and also help overcome any institutional resistance to change.The quality of governance is critical. NEP has the right idea that BoG should consist of highly qualified, competent, and dedicated individuals. It does well to refrain from specifying that these individuals be elected by the faculty (as at Cambridge and Oxford) or consist primarily of academics. However, getting competent independent directors, which is hard enough for industry, is even harder for academic institutions. BoG members must not interfere in academic matters, but neither should they leave everything to the VC and his or her team. They must insist on rigorous academic processes and monitor their implementation, but refrain from themselves running those processes. This is a difficult balance to strike. Therefore, not everyone who is a competent director of companies is a competent member of an academic institution’s BoG. High-quality training is needed, even more so than for company directors.Other steps such as teacher training will be needed too, but the most crucial ones are getting the funding mechanism right and populating BoG and top management with the right individuals. I am hopeful that if we do these well, Indian educational institutions will fulfil NEP’s vision by regaining the prominence they held in ancient times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/can-nep-be-indian-education-s-1991-moment/story-PBx3FHsdE2doaide3kL3gK.html
27-08-2020||News||NDHM will radically transform health care||With the launch of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) on August 15, India has ushered in a new era of technology-enabled health care delivery. The prime minister’s vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) can only be realised by a “Swasth Bharat”, which, in turn, requires data integration and standardisation as critical health ecosystem enablers. NDHM is built on the principles of ensuring greater inclusivity, efficiency and transparency in the health sector. For patients, the mission aims to simplify access to their records and enables them to share digitally-stored comprehensive health profiles with providers for treatment and follow-up purposes. Currently, people find it difficult to maintain long trails of paper-based records for health interventions like immunisation, especially over long periods of time, or when they move from one part of the country to another. Yet, these records are critical for monitoring an individual’s health status and ensuring continuity in treatment. Undoubtedly, the availability of health care infrastructure and service delivery needs to be strengthened across the country. However, technological empowerment and digitisation can most certainly enable more effective and efficient utilisation of existing facilities. The days of people standing in long queues at health facilities carrying multiple medical reports will become a thing of the past in this digital- and patient-friendly ecosystem, empowered by world-class technologies. Access to patient records will now be just a click away for doctors.Of course, participation and sharing of data are voluntary and all efforts have been made to keep the rights of citizens at the core of the mission’s design and objectives. It is understood that maintaining security, confidentiality and privacy of health-related information is vital. The mission’s health and data policies have, therefore, been formulated to ensure privacy and data security. The digital identity of patients will be shared with certified doctors only after they provide their informed consent. The NDHM architecture, by default, ensures that health data is encrypted, and that there is no opportunity for anyone to access the records or modify them without the explicit consent of the concerned individual. Patients can determine the time period for which they grant consent and can also revoke consent anytime they wish to.Under NDHM, all Indians can get access to a unique and easy-to-remember health ID carrying details of their health and treatment history. Through this ID, individuals will not only be able to search for verified hospitals and laboratories, but can also evaluate the quality of services, on the basis of feedback shared by others. This feature can greatly enhance the accountability of health service providers as well as promote the delivery of high-quality services to patients.In addition to individuals, all doctors, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories, and pharmacies will also be given a digital identity. This, in turn, will enable a single and standardised process for completing their identification, certification and audit formalities, allowing providers to focus on the actual delivery of health services, instead of expending time and resources on undertaking administrative procedures on multiple occasions through different channels. Of course, similar to the mechanism for patients, participation in NDHM will be voluntary for providers as well; however, needless to say, the more participation there is, the stronger and more integrated the health ecosystem will become. Participation for health care providers and establishments under NDHM will also be completely free of cost and the use of Aadhaar for health ID will not be mandated. Apart from the multiple benefits for patients and health care providers, NDHM will offer services such as telemedicine as part of its digital suite. The utilisation of telemedicine has gone up significantly in India following the Covid-19 outbreak; however, there are opportunities to provide services for a range of health conditions by connecting doctors with citizens even in the most rural and remote parts of the country, beyond the Covid-19 era as well. By being able to access quality health care advice remotely, travel costs will be saved for patients in several parts of the country and ultimately help to reduce out-of-pocket expenditures, which currently account for nearly two-thirds of the total health expenditure in India.NDHM is initially being rolled out in six Union territories — Chandigarh, Pondicherry, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Ladakh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Lakshadweep. The rest of the country will follow soon. Technology is a powerful disruptor that has revolutionised and accelerated the growth of a large number of sectors such as banking. Through the adoption of digital technologies, NDHM will empower the health sector to cater to the country’s large population in a far more efficient manner, through the standardisation of health records, the creation of a unique health identity, doorstep delivery of quality medicines at affordable prices as well as tele-consultations with verified medical professionals. It would not be an exaggeration to say that with the launch of NDHM, we are witnessing a new beginning for India’s health sector. It is a visionary reform that has the potential to radically transform health care delivery in the country. Amitabh Kant is CEO, NITI AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/ndhm-will-radically-transform-health-care/story-IMu0xWNY3uIVdVJvw7HSwO.html
