01-12-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta HC directs Saradha scam accused Debjani to cooperate with CBI investigators||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed Debjani Mukherjee, an accused in the Saradha chit fund scam, to cooperate fully with the CBI in its investigation into the case involving thousands of crores of rupees of investors' money. Adjourning the hearing in a bail petition moved by Mukherjee, a division bench comprising justices Sanjib Banerjee and Aniruddha Roy directed that the matter will appear for hearing again after eight weeks. The bench directed that the petitioner must cooperate fully with the CBI, both in the matter of any interrogation that may be necessary and for the purpose of obtaining her voice sample. The petitioner, an alleged accomplice and close confidante of main accused Sudipta Sen, claimed that she has been in custody for nearly seven years and as such be granted bail. Appearing for the CBI, Additional Solicitor General Y J Dastoor submitted that the petitioner along with other persons who are the accused in connected matters have woven an extensive web to trip the investigation and the courts so that the matter is delayed and prayers as the present one can be made. Dastoor submitted that a simple application for interrogating co-accused Sudipta Sen and this petitioner in custody has taken months because of the myriad objections taken. He further said that an order has been obtained on November 27 to take the voice sample of Mukherjee to match the same with some tape-recorded evidence that has been unearthed. The additional solicitor general submitted that it may not be appropriate for the petitioner's prayer to be considered at this stage, even before her voice sample is obtained. The Saradha group allegedly defrauded lakhs of people in Bengal through its several Ponzi schemes. Thousands of crores of rupees were lost after the company collapsed in 2013. Its promoter Sudipta Sen and Debjani Mukherjee were arrested the same year from Sonmarg in Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Where is the PM-CARES Fund money, asks Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sought to know where the money of the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund was gone, while alleging that the Centre was using national agencies to bulldoze the country’s democracy. She asserted that the Trinamul Congress will not act as per the whims of the BJP-led central government. “Where has all the money of the PM Cares Fund gone? Does anyone know about the future of these funds? Where are the lakhs of crores of money gone? Why was no audit done? The Centre is lecturing us. What have they given us to combat the COVID pandemic,” Banerjee sad at a press conference after a cabinet meeting. The TMC supremo also claimed that the law and order situation in Bengal is better than other states, and accused the BJP of targeting her state as the Assembly election approaches. "The Centre is using agencies to bulldoze and threaten us. We are not afraid of them. They (BJP) are not a political party but garbage of lies," she said. Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are due in April-May next year. Speaking on the farmers' protest going on in the northern parts of India, Banerjee said that no other party was in support of the farm laws, but the Centre is adamant in imposing it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt launches 'Duare Sarkar' campaign ahead of Assembly polls||With an eye on the 2021 assembly elections, the Trinamul Congress administration in Bengal on Tuesday launched its massive outreach programme 'Duare Sarkar' (government at doorsteps) to ensure that people avail the benefits of 11 state-run welfare schemes. Elections to the 294-member state assembly are due in April-May next year. People were seen queuing up in front of various ward and panchayat offices to avail the benefits of the schemes. The outreach programme will continue till January 30. With slogan 'jar jekhane darkar, asche apnar duare sarkar' (the government will be at your doorsteps whenever you need it), the programme will be conducted for two months in four phases. "This is a revolutionary step taken by our government to ensure no one is left out. All those who are eligible for the schemes will get the benefits. For example, Swastha Sathi (health scheme) will cover the entire population of the state," Municipal Affairs Minister Firhad Hakim said while inaugurating a ward office here. The 11 schemes will be made available to the beneficiaries through camps set up for the purpose, he said. The camps will be functional from 10 am to 4 pm every day, an official said. The schemes include globally acclaimed 'Kanyashree', a cash transfer programme aimed at retaining girls in schools and preventing their early marriage, 'Khadya Sathi' which aims at ensuring food security for 90 per cent of the population and 'Sikhashree', a one-time grant to SC and ST students studying in classes 5-8 to reduce their dropout rates. Other schemes include 'Rupashree', a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 to poor families during their daughter's marriage, 'Jai Johar' for the betterment of STs, 'Taposili Bandhu' pension scheme for SCs and 'Aikyashree' scholarship programme for students from minority communities. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, however, alleged that the TMC government kicked off its election campaign using public money. "They are using public money for the election campaign. After 10 years, if the state government has to launch a campaign to ensure everybody gets the benefits, then the TMC leaders should be ashamed of themselves," Ghosh said. Hakim, while reacting to the allegations, said Ghosh should first answer about the amount of public money spent by the BJP-led government at the Centre on its publicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Anit’s rally today to counter Roshan Giri||The Binay Tamang- Anit Thapa camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided to hold a public meeting in Kurseong on Tuesday at the very spot where their rivals from the Bimal Gurung camp addressed people on Sunday. The Bimal Gurung camp held its first public meeting after three-and-half years on Sunday, with the Gurung faction’s second-in-command Roshan Giri who lambasting the BJP for failed promises and the Tamang-Thapa camp for alleged corruption and nepotism in the running of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. “We will hold a meeting at the same venue tomorrow (Tuesday). Anit Thapa will be our main speaker,” said a leader from the Binay camp. The rally from Kurseong Tourist Lodge will start at 10am. “We will reply to allegations made by them (Roshan Giri) and expose their hypocrisy and duplicity,” the Tamang faction’s leader added. Giri had called upon the people of the region to “uproot” the BJP, which had been their ally for the past 11 years until October, and also lambasted the Tamang-Thapa camp, though both warring Morcha factions are now allies of Trinamul. Observers believe such shows of strength by both factions would continue. “Both parties are competing to show the Trinamul leadership that each has more supporters in the hills. However, with both parties tying up with a party against Gorkhaland statehood, it is to be seen whether this show of strength translates into votes,” the observer added. Traffic through Kurseong is likely to be affected on Tuesday just like on Sunday. Apolitical party Statehood Demand Coordination Committee (SDCC) was formed in Kalimpong with 51 coordinators on Monday. Prabhakar Dewan, a lawyer from Kalimpong at the forefront of this committee, said “genuine people wanting Gorkhaland” had no option but to grumble. “We want to stop this grumbling and unify people for Mission Gorkhaland. We want to bring all political parties on board, too,” said Dewan. Coordinators will not be allowed to contest elections as polls purportedly “creation divisions” in the hills and create distractions in the Gorkhaland demand, said Dewan, one of the two chief coordinators, the other being Udai Kumai. “There will be no single leader. We will have two chief coordinators who will also not be allowed to take up the post after two terms,” said Dewan. In the past, too, such all-party initiatives had been undertaken in the hills with little success. The perceived “vacuum” in the hills is resurfacing strongly. Recently another apolitical forum, Gorkhaland Sankalp Samua, had also been formed in Darjeeling with the same aim as the Kalimpong committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest halts Deocha-Pachami coal mine social impact study||Social impact assessment survey of the Deocha-Pachami coal mine project was halted at Saluka village in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar after over 100 residents protested on Monday morning against alleged omission of some families from the list of people who could be affected  by the  venture. The Deocha-Pachami coal block is spread over 11,222 acres with coal reserves of around 2.2 billion tonnes in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar. The coal block is so vast that it can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people, said sources. A 20-member team of an agency hired by the Power Development Corporation Limited (PDCL) was carrying out the survey at Saluka, Kabilpur and Makdamnagar villages when a group of people stopped the work at Saluka and accused the officials of leaving out several families from the ambit of its assessment. “The surveyors were skipping many families even though they are landholders. There are also many families that live on government or private land but have no papers. We had requested the team to include those people in the survey, but the surveyors did not heed our appeal. We fear that many villagers would be deprived of compensations,” said Ratan Singh, the secretary of Bhumi Raksha Committee, an apolitical platform that was formed a week ago to protect the rights of land losers. The villagers on Monday afternoon held a meeting under the banner of the committee and decided not to allow the survey till there was clarity about the process. “We are not against coal mines but we have objections if poor people are left out of the list only because they have no land record,” said Mohammed Hasibuddin, a villager and member of the committee. The sources said there were a very large number of tribal people in Mohammedbazar who would be affected by the coal mine project. Even though the government wants to implement the project without any hindrance and had deployed top officials from Nabanna for the purpose, a section of tribal people under the banner of a faction of the Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta had already expressed their displeasure with the coalmine as they did not want to lose their land rights. “Many people are opposed to the coalmine project and Monday’s protest at Saluka is an example. The protest will become bigger if the government tries to force the project on us,” said Sunil Soren, a convener of the tribal outfit. “The project is in its primary stage and there could be some misunderstanding,” Birbhum district magistrate Vijay Bharti said when asked about the halt in the survey. “We will overcome this hurdle also.” Apprehending opposition to the project, the government had in July sent the then chief secretary Rajiva Sinha to Mohammedbazar to hold a meeting with the villagers. Sinha had assured the people that the government’s priority was to ensure that the land losers’ rights were protected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Three dead as SUV hits bike in Malda||Two youths and an underage boy died on NH512 on Sunday night when their two-wheeler crashed with a speeding SUV at Amtala under Gazole police station of Malda. Police said the SUV headed heading towards South Dinajpur rammed into the two-wheeler. The driver and passengers of the SUV fled, leaving the trio bleeding on the road. Doctors at a Gazole hospital pronounced Ujjwal Pal, 24, Kalipada Turi, 21, and Surajit Roy, 15, dead. Police suspect the SUV driver was drunk. Nurtaz Ansari, a member of the Shahajadpur panchayat, where the incident occurred, said they found the SUV, with its front damaged, parked on one side of the road. “There is a sharp bend in this stretch of the highway. There are caution boards but drivers often negotiate recklessly through the turn. We suspect the vehicle was at breakneck speed and lost control as the two-wheeler came from the opposite side,” he said. Police have seized the vehicle and are in search of its owner. “We have information that the driver was drunk. Search is on to find him and other passengers in the SUV,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Reliance Jute mill at Bhatpara shuts, 4,000 jobless||Around 4,000 workers attached to Reliance Jute Mills at Bhatpara in North 24-Parganas became jobless as mill authorities suspended production “indefinitely” from Monday after the workers’ union did not allow employers to “downsize” the workforce. Set up in 1906,  Reliance Jute is one of the oldest such mills in the country. It has no association with the Reliance groups of the Ambanis. The sudden notice angered workers who blocked the Kanchrapara-Barrackpore Road (Ghoshpara Road) for about an hour on Monday morning, dispersing only after police assured them that they would take up the issue with the district administration. The Reliance mill management said it had tried to implement the decision of a tripartite agreement adopted on July 14 last year on “production and manning pattern” but this angered workers. “When the management was trying to implement experimentally the new manning pattern (deployment of workers) in two departments, the workers resisted,” said a source in the mill. “The unions are aware that workers of selection, drawing, winding, beaming, finishing, and sack sewing departments are not performing their duties satisfactorily, and efficiency in those departments has dropped abnormally, escalating cost of production beyond sustainable level. Union members were informed about it in many meetings, including the one on November 29...,” claimed a senior official of the mill management. Workers denied the claim. “The management did not cite any specific reason. For the last few days, it has been trying to downsize the workforce. Last evening (Sunday) the workers were told that they would be paid only for specific work and we agreed. But the management decided to suspend work without discussing with us,” said INTTUC leader Rajesh Paswan. A worker said the agreement to review workforce and manning norms was signed last year when there was no Covid situation. The management eventually decided to implement it at a time workers are struggling for survival. Weaverly Jute Mill in Shyamnagar had suspended work on Sunday over jute bales scarcity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Saugata Roy ready to talk, Suvendu mum||Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy on Monday said he would not have pursued negotiations with Suvendu Adhikari, the disgruntled party colleague and former minister, had there been no approval from the party, and that there was still scope for dialogue. Adhikari, on the other hand, made another public appearance at a socio-religious event in Nandigram on Monday, but as on Sunday’s event at Mahishadal, stayed mum on his political future. Adhikari’s public appearance was for a Raas Utsav event in Nandigram, where he steered clear of making any political statement. Instead, in a brief address, he spoke of the significance of the festival and his attachment to Nandigram and its people. Adhikari also underlined the importance of the ‘Raas’ ceremony — when Lord Krishna meets his followers on the banks of river Yamuna — and participated in a performance of devotional songs to Krishna. He later tried his hand at playing a traditional percussion instrument. However, a convoy of over a hundred motorcycles that accompanied his car to the venue was conspicuous in the triangular yellow flags that the bikes brandished. Each had “Om” written on them in the Devanagari script. Given the speculation over the possibility of Adhikari leaving Trinamul for the BJP or floating another party that was aligned to the NDA, the visual was deemed significant by many. Asked about the significance of the flags, Adhikari clarified later that he had nothing to do with them. “They were handed out by the Raas committee… they are the Raas committee’s, nothing to do with me,” he said. Last week, the East Midnapore leader and Nandigram MLA stepped down from Mamata’s cabinet, and other important posts, while retaining his membership of the party and the Assembly. If Adhikari quits the party, Trinamul insiders feel he might carry along with him his loyalists, which has the potential of dealing a big blow to the party before the crucial state elections. Dum Dum MP Roy, who has been acting as an emissary of a section in the senior leadership of Trinamul in a bid to to retain Adhikari, sought to dispel the perception that he was doing so without the sanction of 30B Harish Chatterjee Street (read chief minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee). “When it (the sanction) is no longer there, I will no longer pursue the dialogue,” said the MP. “Everything I have been doing (with regard to Adhikari) has been with the stamp of approval from the party. Everything I do in the future will also be done with the stamp of approval from the party. I am a part of Trinamul,” he added. Sources in Trinamul said that Mamata, who plans to hold a “mega” rally in Midnapore — an Adhikari bastion — on December 7, was neither encouraging nor discouraging of the party’s efforts to retain Adhikari. Two recent meetings between Adhikari — one of Trinamul’s tallest leaders and at the forefront of the Nandigram movement which had catapulted Trinamul’s swift rise to power — and Roy had failed to break the ice. Adhikari did step down from the state cabinet. A third meeting was to be held in the past weekend, but Adhikari cited his mother’s ill health and gave Calcutta a miss. He, however, made “apolitical” public appearances in his home district on Sunday and Monday. “I think politics is inseparable from patience and perseverance. Talks can continue,” said Roy. Rumours of Adhikari’s discomfort with the party had been doing the rounds for years. But the leader was especially displeased with Trinamul over losing control over six key districts, when the post of party observer was abolished in a major July reshuffle apparently orchestrated by Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee — Trinamul’s heir-apparent, which Adhikari had hoped to be — and poll strategist Prashant Kishor, whose alleged interference he does not approve of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Dilip’s legal notice to Abhishek||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh sent a legal notice to Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Monday, asking him to publicly apologise for the comments he had made at a rally near here on Sunday. At the meeting in Satgachhia, the Diamond Harbour MP had referred to Ghosh as a goonda (goon) and accused him of having links with the mafia in Bengal. The legal notice sent by Ghosh through his lawyer Partha Ghosh requests Abhishek to withdraw his remarks within three days “in the same manner in which they were made and published, along with an unconditional apology”. The BJP accuses the young MP of having links with drug and coal mafia and calls him bhaipo or bhatija (nephew), a reference to his relation with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. While addressing the meeting on Sunday, Abhishek attacked the BJP for “being afraid” to name him. “I will take names…Amit Shah is an outsider. Kailash Vijayvargiya is an outsider. Dilip Ghosh is a goon…I dare them to do so.” Ghosh admitted a legal notice had been sent on his behalf to Abhishek. “Legally one can be put in jail for some time…Law is a formality. He should’ve had some sense. It wasn’t courteous of him to use such language against someone who is an MP and the president of a party’s state unit,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||'Rival' political forces come together in Siliguri||Elected representatives of three prominent political forces in Bengal — supposedly rivals — attended an official event of the Siliguri civic body to attack the saffron ecosystem and stress the need for secularism. Trinamul leader and state minister of municipal affairs and urban development Firhad Hakim, CPM veteran and Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya and Congress MLA of Matigara-Naxalbari Sankar Malakar shared the dais at the event held to unveil a statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Kutcheri Road. In recent years, this is the first time in Siliguri when a minister of the Mamata Banerjee government shared the stage with CPM and Congress leaders. Hakim, who unveiled the 9-foot-high statue of Gandhi in presence of Bhattacharya, Malakar, district Trinamul leaders, among others, slammed the BJP, without naming it. “Gandhiji’s last words were ‘He Ram’. These days, these people, with their divisive ideology, are inappropriately using the name of Ram and trying to defame his glory...we have to swear to thwart their attempts,” said the minister. Bhattacharya, who also chairs the board of administrators at SMC, stressed the need to maintain secularism. “Thousands from different communities reside in and around Siliguri. At this time, it is a challenge for us to uphold secularism and ensure it is maintained across the country. We feel the installation of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue, who always advocated secularism, is absolutely relevant,” he said. Unusually, Bhattacharya praised Hakim for facilitating the statue’s installation. Over the past five years the CPM veteran has accused the TMC of being biased against the Left-run SMC. “Initially, there were problems in finding a suitable plot for this statue. I met the minister (Hakim) and requested him for a place. He took up the initiative immediately...,” said the CPM MLA. Malakar, also a working president of the Pradesh Congress Committee, also appreciated the initiative. The impact was not lost on Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP president. “What suddenly changed that they are singing praises of each other?” Ghosh asked. “The people of Bengal have rejected Trinamul, CPM and Congress and are walking with the BJP now.” Additional inputs by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||November ends with recovery rate at a new high of 93.23%||Bengal on Monday surpassed 4.5 lakh Covid-19 recoveries, as 2,730 recoveries logged till 9am took the total to nearly 4.51 lakh, and the recovery rate to a new high of 93.23 per cent. The state, which also reported 2,671 new infections and 48 deaths, recorded a drop in its total of active cases for the 35th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja. However, the lower number of infections reported on Monday was also because the state reported 38,178 tests, compared to the current level of around 45,000 daily tests. The state’s total test count went past 58.72 lakh, at 65,255 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.23 per cent. Having fallen by 12,892 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, the total active cases now is 24,298, back almost to where it was on September 16, 75 days ago. “We crossed the 4.5 lakh mark in recoveries today (Monday), 13 days after the 4 lakh mark (on November 17). The first 50,000 of Bengal’s recoveries were achieved on August 1, over a span of 137 days from the first case (detected on March 17),” said a minister. In the 35 days since Dashami, Bengal reported over 1.4 lakh recoveries and 1.29 lakh new infections, undoing much of the damage from a major spike in infections and relatively fewer recoveries for six weeks prior to the festival. Bengal’s recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 39 consecutive days, inched closer to the national rate of 93.86 per cent. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 4.83 lakh now, including recoveries and 8,424 deaths. Of the 48 deaths reported on Monday, 12 were from the city. Of the total toll, 7,049 or 83.7 per cent of the deaths were comorbid, according to the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Calcutta High Court’s intervention to prevent a spike in cases from overcrowding during Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath has seemed to work, going by the numbers of infections reported in late October and November. The state reported 27.91 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.95 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Maoist posters back in large numbers in Purulia||At least 30 posters and leaflets, along with large banners, suspected to be written by a Maoist organisation were found at several places in Purulia district on Monday morning with a call to people to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the rebel outfit’s armed wing. This is the first time since the Trinamul Congress came to power in Bengal in 2011 that such a large number of Maoist posters and banners have appeared in the Jungle Mahal. The printed and handwritten posters and banners were spotted pasted or hung at Madhupur in Bandwan block and Ramsi in Barabazar block on Monday morning. They were all seized by a large police team. The Maoist posters have surfaced in large numbers close on the heels of the Union home ministry withdrawing two battalions of the CRPF from Jungle Mahal districts of Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore despite objections from residents and political parties in view of next year’s Assembly polls. In its printed leaflets, the CPI (Maoists) asked people to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the formation of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army from December 2 to 4. The PLGA is the armed wing of the Left extremist outfit. The leaflets also advise Maoist sympathisers how to observe the PLGA’s anniversary and detail the outfit’s purported attacks in the past one year. The handwritten posters have asked the people to rise in protest against the Narendra Modi government’s new farm laws and its policy to hand over land to corporate entities. “Foil the conspiracy of the Centre to hand over the agriculture system to big capital and corporates in the disguise of the farm bill,” one of the posters in Bengali reads. S. Selvamurugan, the Purulia district police chief, said: “We have seized the posters and are conducting an inquiry.” Police sources said the appearance of the Maoist materials in huge numbers pointed to the rebel outfit’s efforts to prove its existence in the Jungle Mahal ahead of the elections. “Earlier, one or two posters had been found in Purulia district that shares border with Jharkhand. The call to observe the PLGA anniversary proves that the Left extremists are regrouping,” a police officer said. Gurupada Tudu, the Purulia district chief of Trinamul, blamed the Centre for the Maoists posters. “We had never witnessed such Maoist activity since our party came to power. We have always demanded adequate paramilitary forces in the region but the central government has withdrawn two companies of the CRPF,” said Tudu. The BJP, however, alleged that Trinamul was in cahoots with Maoists with an eye to regain its political base in a district where the saffron camp emerged as a strong force. “The Maoist move has the backing of Trinamul. The ruling party wants to create panic among the people through the Maoists, who had helped Trinamul come to power in 2011,” said Baneswar Mahato, secretary of the BJP’s Purulia unit. Political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty said Maoists always tried to spread panic before elections and the Purulia incident could be part of that strategy. “The appearance of Maoists posters in Purulia is very alarming. However, considering the political situation of Bengal, we can’t rule out the link of mainstream political parties with the incident,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-292
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Special trains extended till December 31||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to extend the services of a number of special trains, including some trains that connect north Bengal and the northeast with Calcutta, by another month. According to NFR sources, services of 11 trains were extended till December 31. Among these include four trains to Sealdah — the Sealdah-Agartala Special (four days a week), the Sealdah-Silchar Special (three days a week) and the Sealdah-New Alipurduar Special and Sealdah-New Jalpaiguri Superfast Special (the last two would run every day). Some other special trains that will continue to run through north Bengal during the next one month are Dr Ambedkar Nagar-Kamakhya Weekly Special, Kamakhya-Anand Vihar Express Special, Guwahati-Secunderabad Express Weekly Special, New Delhi-Dibrugarh Superfast Special and New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar Karmabhoomi Express Weekly Special train. “We are assessing the inflow of passengers and making necessary changes in train services. Another assessment would be done again after a fortnight or so to find out if these services need further extension,” said a source in NFR. Sandipan Ghosh, general secretary, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association, welcomed the extension of the trains, because earlier the railways had said the special trains would run only till November 30. “We had been deeply concerned as all stakeholders are expecting a good turnout of tourists during winter holidays. It is good the railways made the decision to continue services of the special trains for another month. We hope in due course the services would be further extended as many visit the hills and the Dooars in January,” Ghosh said. Like in other parts of the country, train services had come to a halt in north Bengal during the lockdown. As the lockdown relaxed in phases, only one train resumed between Calcutta and the region, which led to protests from commuters demanding more trains. The railways did introduce more special trains ahead of Durga Puja, but clearly stated these additional special trains would run till November 30. This again led to an outcry here. Also, those associated with travel trade expressed worry that tourists who want to visit north Bengal during winter would only have one train available from Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Firhad Hakim flays Centre for NH dilly-dally in Siliguri||State municipal affairs and urban development minister Firhad Hakim played the development card on Monday to draw support from Siliguri residents and simultaneously criticised the Centre for delaying a highway-widening project that he said could have eased traffic snarls in a major part of the city. Hakim, here to attend a Mahatma Gandhi statue-unveiling programme organised by Siliguri Municipal Corporation, claimed that the Narendra Modi government had not taken up the task to widen a stretch of NH31 that runs through the northern end of the city. In Siliguri, acute traffic congestion in and around Darjeeling More — the principal entry point to the city and the junction of NH31 and NH55 — is a major problem. “People here suffer traffic congestion at Darjeeling More. This is because of the lack of initiative of the Centre that delayed the process of widening that stretch of the highway,” Hakim told journalists at the PWD inspection bungalow. “We have completed land acquisition for the project. The chief minister had even spoken with the Union minister of surface transport and requested him to take up the project to reduce inconveniences of the residents. But the Centre has not taken any initiative.” This stretch of NH31 also connects Asian Highway II that skirts the city. Time and again, particularly after the four-lane highway was completed, the demand to widen the stretch of NH31 (a double-lane road now) into a six-lane highway with multiple connectors at Darjeeling More had been raised. State tourism minister Gautam Deb had also held a sit-in at Darjeeling More on it. Political observers pointed out that Hakim raised an important point ahead of the elections. It is evident that Trinamul leaders would highlight unfinished central projects to make their point, they opined. “In north Bengal, augmentation of road and rail infrastructure has remained a major demand and there are a number of pending projects where the Centre is yet to make a move. It would be interesting to see how BJP handles these allegations of delay and indecision,” an observer said. Hakim spoke on some other important projects of the city. He said the new drinking water project of Siliguri would be included under AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation & Urban Transformation) scheme. “We would also take up a comprehensive sewerage project for the city soon. A project with an estimated cost of Rs 150 crore has been planned for solid waste management of the city. The state has already sanctioned Rs 18 crore for it,” Hakim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
01-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC keeps tabs on truants as ‘possible defectors’||The Trinamul leadership in Alipurduar hinted on Monday that it would act tough against leaders and workers staying away from party events and are “possibly in touch with other parties”. Trinamul would simultaneously reach out to people to elaborate welfare schemes introduced and development work carried out by the Mamata Banerjee government during the past nine years. On Monday, district leaders, including party’s district chief Mridul Goswami, held a meeting at the district party office here where decisions were made on both issues. “Some leaders expressed their grievance over the absence of some colleagues, including elected representatives, at party events in the past one month or so. These leaders insisted that those staying away should be questioned if they intend to stay,” said a Trinamul insider. Goswami said they would serve showcause notices to two leaders. “We suspect some absentees are in touch with BJP and waiting for Suvendu Adhikari’s final call,” said a leader. On Monday, leaders such as Mohan Sharma, the mentor Alipurduar Zilla Parishad and some others were absent. Sharma, who is also the chairman of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, later said over phone that he was out of Bengal on a personal errand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
01-12-2020||West Bengal||Girl found hanging, finger at pictures||A 14-year-old schoolgirl of a village in Balurghat block of South Dinajpur was found hanging at her house on Sunday afternoon, the girl’s family blaming a youth who tried to blackmail her with her pictures clicked in a compromising position. Her family members filed a complaint against the neighbourhood youth at Balurghat police station on Monday, prompting the police to start a probe. Sources said the girl had been approached by the youth a few days back. When she ignored his advances, he showed her the pictures clicked on his phone and threatened to upload them on social media. “My daughter told us about the incident. We assured her that we would look into it but she panicked and became depressed. On Sunday, when she was alone at home for some time, she took this drastic step. It is because of the youth that we have lost her. He should be booked under law and punished,” said the girl’s father. A police officer said probe was on. “If the charges are found true, the accused would be arrested and charged with abetting suicide,” said a police officer. A joint team of foresters of Moraghat forest range and policemen from Banahart searched Haldibari tea estate in Banarhat of Jalpaiguri on Monday to seize a deer horn, illegal timber and tree-cutting equipment. In all, goods worth around Rs 4 lakh were seized from some locked quarters of the tea garden and probe on who were behind the racket was on, said Rajkumar Pal, Moraghat range officer. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
