02-12-2020||West Bengal||SSC candidates stage sit-in, Partha assures ‘prompt action’||Bengal Education Minister partha Chatterjee told a delegation of protesting School Service Commission Candidates on Wednesday that the government will take prompt action regarding their employment as soon as the court issues an order. The said candidates have cleared their examination and are awaiting appointments for a long time in schools. "I have told them we will ensure the government will promptly act once the Hon'ble court issues any order. We will not be found wanting," Chatterjee said. Around 100 SSC candidates, waiting for appointments in upper primary schools in the state since a long time, have been staging a sit-in since Tuesday before state Education Department headquarters at Bikash Bhavan in Calcutta. A delegation met the Education Minister on Wednesday afternoon to discuss their grievances. A spokesperson of the protesting candidates said that during the hour-long discussion, Chatterjee cited cases filed in the Calcutta High Court regarding SSC appointments as the reason behind the delay in the appointments of a large number of teachers in upper primary schools. "We will continue to sit here peacefully till there is a favourable development with regard to our demands," he said. An official from the School Education Department said Chatterjee met a four-member delegation of the protesting SSC candidates and urged them to withdraw their demonstration but they refused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Firhad Hakim second minister to take Covaxin shot||West Bengal Urban development minister Firhad Hakim became the first volunteer to take a shot of the COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin, in the Phase III trial in Calcutta, on Wednesday. The Phase-III regulatory trial of Covaxin started at the city-based ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED). “I feel I am quite lucky to be part of the trial. I am absolutely okay after taking the shot. I do not care even if I die while undertaking this trial,” the 62-year-old minister told reporters. Hakim said that he will be very happy if his contribution helps in the research for the vaccine. Hakim went through necessary check-ups to find out whether he was having any comorbidity. Earlier in the day, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar inaugurated the Phase III regulatory trial of Covaxin at the institute. At least 1,000 volunteers will be administered the Covaxin vaccine in the Phase III trial here. Meanwhile, West Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar has also expressed his willingness to volunteer for the vaccine trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s Oxford address postponed, TMC smells conspiracy||Citing “unforeseen circumstances”, the Oxford Union Debating society on Wednesday looked to postpone a scheduled online address by Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at the last hour. The move invited flak from the ruling Trinamul Congress leadership, which alleged "political pressure from the highest level" in the issue. Mamata was about to become the first woman chief minister of India to address 'The Oxford Union Debate' around 2:30 pm on Tuesday. However, at 1:50 pm, the organisers requested the programme be rescheduled stating that "nothing prevails over circumstances sometimes". The state home department acknowledged the matter and wrote on Twitter, “Today afternoon, the organisers have suddenly sought postponement and rescheduling of the programme at the last moment!" "The request has been made telephonically from the organisers' end, citing some unforeseen problems, a brief while ago. The programme with Oxford Union today stands cancelled," it added. Infuriated over the incident, the TMC leadership said that “political pressure” might be the reason behind such a decision. "This is unprecedented... A programme planned months ahead was cancelled a few minutes before the event was scheduled to start. This is not the first time that such a thing has happened. Earlier, too, her programmes at international fora and foreign visits have been cancelled at the eleventh hour. All sorts of pressure were applied from the highest level to stop Mamata Banerjee's address. We condemn such politics," a senior TMC parliamentarian, who wished to remain anonymous, told PTI. In 2018, the chief minister’s programme at Chicago to mark Swami Vivekananda's birth anniversary, her scheduled visit to China and her address at St Stephen's college in New Delhi were cancelled, one after another. The Oxford Union Debating Society, while offering its “sincerest apologies”, wrote a nail to the government saying, “Our audience sent a great many questions, and we were all working hard to pull a number of elements together. However, nothing prevails over circumstances sometimes; it seems." "I sincerely hope that the Hon'ble Chief Minister will understand and might honour us with her esteemed presence at the earliest possible convenience to you. With your permission, I will pass your details onto my successor, to whom I hand over this Friday," the mail added. State secretariat sources said that Mamata was expected to speak on the various welfare schemes launched by her government, including the 'Kanyashree', 'Rupasree', 'Krishak Bandhu' and 'Duare Bangla' programmes, during her address. She had received the invitation in July, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Sunderbans project to turn rainwater fit for drinking||An NGO on Saturday inaugurated a system in a Sunderbans village that will purify rainwater and make it fit for residents to drink. Safe drinking water is a major problem in the area, where most people rely on groundwater. Tests conducted by the NGO Mallarpur Uthnau have revealed that even groundwater is not safe. “The WHO limit for arsenic in water is 0.05mg/l, but here at Samsernagar the level (in ground water) is 3.45mg/l. WHO permits no more than 0.003mg/l of cadmium in water, but again here it is an alarming 2.8mg/l,” said Kunal Deb, the secretary of the NGO that has been working on environmental and livelihood issues since 1996. “The water has extreme levels of lead, mercury, cyanide, EColi and other bacteria. These can lead to cancers, metabolic and neurological problems in the residents.” The handful who can afford water purifiers are better off but even their machines are useless most of the day because of power-cuts. Samsernagar, for instance, had been without power for a month since Cyclone Amphan had struck on May 20. And when calamity strikes, even this poisonous groundwater is out of bounds as the tubewells get submerged. However, the Sunderbans receive 1,600mm of rainwater per annum. The NGO will harvest the rainwater on the terrace of a building. “Rainwater cannot directly be consumed because of pollution in the air,” said Deb. The project is built on the terrace of a concrete building in the neighbourhood — Samsernagar Swamiji Netaji Seva Sangha — where children come for coaching and adults for vocational training. About 1,000sq foot of the terrace has been taken for the project and it can provide 80,000 to 1 lakh litres of potable water a year. Water from the terrace drains into a 20,000 litre storage tank. A pump (that runs on kerosene) pushes this water into different layers of purification — charcoal, sand, gravel etc — and healthy levels of minerals are added to the water at this stage. The water then collects in a supply tank. When someone turns on the tap for a glass of water, the liquid undergoes one final stage of cleansing through an ultra-filtration membrane. The project cost was Rs 2.5 lakh, which has been raised through crowdfunding. One such donor is Jael Silliman, a Calcutta-based Jew, who mobilised her friends and family in Israel and the US to pool in. “In these times of Covid, people want to support one another, especially if they see the difference it is making. I visited the site for the first time today for the inauguration but have been forwarding them pictures of the development all this while and they are delighted,” said Silliman. The inauguration was done by Jahir and Jakir Gaji, whose father recently got killed in a tiger attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Truce with Suvendu reached: Trinamul||Suvendu Adhikari, who had resigned from the cabinet earlier this week, is not leaving the Trinamul Congress, party MP Saugata Roy said on Monday night. The statement followed a three-hour meeting in which Suvendu, the Nandigram MLA, sat face to face with MP Abhishek Banerjee, poll consultant Prashant Kishor and Roy. Sources said Suvendu spoke to chief minister Mamata Banerjee over Roy’s phone and sought her blessings. The Suvendu camp is expecting an important announcement by December 8, one source said, adding that there are chances of the MLA getting more importance in the party as well as the government. Roy, the Dum Dum MP and a Trinamul vice-president, said after the meeting: “I cannot divulge all the details. It was a beautiful, fruitful, amicable discussion.” Roy added: “Suvendu very much remains in the party. There is no question of him joining any other party. He will himself state everything in detail, on record, soon.” “Suvendu Adhikari is not going to BJP..., He is with TMC and we will work together to make Mamata win again,” Roy tweeted later. The meeting was also attended by veteran party MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay. Suvendu, who reached Calcutta on Tuesday evening from Contai in his personal vehicle, could not be contacted for his reaction. But sources close to him said that he might brief the media on Wednesday afternoon. Suvendu’s father Sisir, a Trinamul MP, said that it was good that the problems had been resolved. On hearing Roy’s statement, a senior Trinamul minister said: “This is indeed a miracle.” Suvendu had not been attending party programmes or cabinet meetings for the past few months. His cryptic comments at some apolitical programmes, which were endorsed by state BJP leaders, added to the speculation about him joining the saffron camp. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, who had welcomed Suvendu to his party, said: “What do I say? It is their party, their meeting, their business. I don’t know. It is up to them to say. I should not say anything.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata lashes out at PM and BJP over their attacks on Bengal govt||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sought to underscore her personal probity and lashed out at Narendra Modi and the BJP over their attacks on the Bengal government before questioning the alleged lack of transparency in the PM-Cares Fund. “I don’t even take a paisa as pension from Parliament despite being a seven-term MP... I am entitled to Rs 1 lakh per month as pension (from Parliament). I haven’t taken a paisa in six years. From the state, I can take Rs 1 lakh a month in salary and benefits, I do not take even a paisa. I pay for myself using my own money, even while staying at a government circuit house,” the chief minister told a news conference after a cabinet meeting. She preempted questions on her source of funds and attributed the money she made to royalty earned as the author of over 100 titles, in several languages, many of which are bestsellers. She also makes money from her original music. “I paint a little too. For that, so much envy. Why I paint, why are they bought? That money goes to the chief minister’s relief fund, to the governor’s relief fund. If I give some to my party to help it, what is your objection?” the chief minister asked. Mamata then questioned the controversial PM-Cares Fund, which has been accused of lack of transparency. “Lakhs of crores in your (Modi’s) PM-Cares, going where? Why no audit? Why different rules?” she said, accusing the Prime Minister’s Office and the Union home minister’s office of interfering with media houses and dictating terms for their content. Although she didn’t name Prime Minister Narenedra Modi, it was clear that she was targeting him in her diatribe. When she was asked about the Prime Minister’s apparent jibe – in a Varanasi event on Monday — at the state over a central farm scheme being disallowed here, she launched a counteroffensive. “The state government is an elected government, just like the Centre…. Projects that are already underway in the state, why will I introduce their replicas because the BJP said so?” asked Mamata, without naming the Prime Minister. She, however, did name the BJP and the Centre repeatedly. The Trinamul Congress chief was referring to central schemes such as Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, which she has not allowed to be implemented in Bengal. “Bringing some bohiragawto (outsider) goons and handing out chits…. “Do as I say, or else I will send you to prison”. This cannot be done in an independent democracy,” she added, repeatedly accusing Modi and his government of trying to demolish the federal structure and keeping the states out of the loop. The Trinamul chief was apparently referring to the resurgence of activity in Bengal by several central agencies over the past few weeks. Sources in her party said there are apprehensions of a “politically motivated” crackdown ahead of the elections, to try and corner Mamata. “Be prepared. In the future, people will reply by the inch. Without a war, Bengal’s people will not even yield an inch of ground. No matter how many agencies you unleash, no matter how many people are sent to prison,” she said. Mamata responded to allegations from the Opposition – the BJP, the CPM and even the Congress state unit seem to be on the same page on such issues — of corruption against her party and the government. “Above all, the CPM should be ashamed of itself. The biggest sardar of the BJP today is the CPM. I am sorry to say, the CPM wasn’t so shameless during the time of Jyoti (Basu) babu or Buddha (Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee) babu,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Tumpa touched  by first contact with sarkar||Tumpa Kundu, 36, a homemaker-turned-cook who lost her husband four years ago in Birbhum’s Bolpur town, left her home on Tuesday afternoon for her first-ever interaction with government officials as part of the Duare Sarkar programme. Kundu, with her two small sons, walked to the Duare Sarkar camp in the town’s ward 6 to find out if the government had schemes for her needs. Ever since she lost her husband, a grocer, she had been asking people, including the local councillor, about government schemes that could help her family, but no one had given her a clear picture. “Many people told me to go to the SDO and a few advised me to visit the municipality office. I could not muster courage to visit those offices,” said Kundu, a school dropout, as she stood in the queue at the Duare Sarkar camp. Apart from her two sons, Kundu, who works as a cook, has her visually impaired father and her mother to support. The five of them live in a mud house in the town’s Canal Par area. On Tuesday, Kundu finished work early and reached the camp around 1.30pm. After a 10-minute wait at miscellaneous services desk, she  met officials who asked her to fill up a form to apply for the Swasthya Sathi health insurance scheme. After submitting the form, which she filled up with the help of a youth, Kundu said: “It was overwhelming to sign and submit a government form for the first time.” Kundu said she had heard vaguely about government schemes but officials at the camp gave her clarity. “Till Tuesday, I had no idea about the eligibility criteria for various pensions. I was told I could apply for the widow pension if I came back with relevant documents. My father is also eligible for a monthly pension of Rs 1,000 as a physically challenged person,” she said, adding she would come back on Wednesday with papers. In Birbhum, around 7,000 people came to 25 Duare Sarkar camps on Day One. “The lady (Kundu) came in touch with the government for the first time,” said Sweta Agarwal, additional district magistrate (general), Birbhum. “We are very happy we could reach out to such people.” Four Santiniketan residents who interacted with Soumitra Chatterjee in the Tagore town that was the late thespian’s favourite weekend getaway remembered him at “Soumitra and Santiniketan”, an event lit up by adda and anecdotes, on Sunday. Organised by the Panchabon Art Resort in Santiniketan, those who took part in the adda were professor of Bengali in Visva-Bharati Manabendra Mukhopadhyay, Patha Bhavana teacher Debalina Dalal, Rabindra Bhavana official Nilanjan Banerjee and former Kala Bhavana curator Sushovan Adhikari. The other draw was an art workshop with sketches by some Kala Bhavana students on Chatterjee’s  screen and non-screen avatars. “Chatterjee was awarded the Deshikottama, the highest accolade of Visva Bharati... After his death, authorities didn’t host any event to pay him homage. But we tried our best to honour him in a small way…” said Tapas Mallick, resort owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest at deprival of state schemes in Malda||Over 100 villagers walked up to the Malda district magistrate’s office on Tuesday and held a demonstration against allegedly depriving them of benefits of state government schemes for years. The residents of the Kajigram panchayat in the Englishbazar block held the protest on a day the government launched “Duare Sarkar (government at doorstep)”. “Hundreds of us have been living at villages under Kajigram panchayat and are being deprived of cash and other benefits provided under different social welfare schemes. That is why we thought of knocking the door of the administration,” said Bappa Mondal, a demonstrator. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, said the authorities would look into the charges levelled against the rural body by the protesters. Satyajit Chowdhury, the Trinamul pradhan of Kazigram panchayat, however, denied the charges and alleged that the protest had been orchestrated by the BJP. In Bishnupur of Bankura, over a dozen women demonstrated at a camp set up under the “Duare Sarkar” campaign in ward 14 of the town. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bankura||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Duare Sarkar: 1.25 lakh people  turn up  on first day||Around 1.25 lakh people applied for benefits under government schemes at 20,000-odd camps set up under “Duare Sarkar (government on doorstep)”, said sources on Tuesday, the first day of the 60-day programme to increase the ambit of beneficiaries in the biggest outreach attempt of the Mamata Banerjee government. The camps wound up for the day at 4pm, but people in droves queued up till evening. Speaking at Nabanna, Mamata said that by 3.35pm, 1.18 lakh had people applied for various schemes. “The response is overwhelming. We will try to give benefit to all the eligible applicants,” she added. Senior government officials said the footfall went up at camps across Bengal after the chief minister’s announcement. Sources in the state government said the top brass was happy with the “overwhelming response” as it hinted that people still trust the ruling establishment. An official said that they expected footfall at the camps to rise in the coming days from positive word-of-mouth. “The camps will continue till January 31, 2021, and the first day’s figures suggest that it (the programme) is an instant hit... The ruling establishment wanted to connect with common people through the camps and it appears that people have responded with great interest,” said a source. Visits to some camps in districts revealed that most people were trying to get more information on how to apply for Swasthya Sathi, a fully free insurance scheme for all, allowing medical expense cover of Rs 5 lakh per family per year. The state government recently announced to bring 2.5 crore more people, from existing coverage of 7.5 crore people, under the scheme. The expansion was aimed at countering the BJP’s criticism that the state government did not allow people to avail the benefits of Ayushman Bharat, a central scheme offering insurance coverage. Reports from districts suggest people were queuing up for pension schemes, which the government offers widows, senior citizens and other weaker sections, and student scholarships. There was a big rush for caste certificates, too. “In lot of places, there was a rush of inquiries on caste certificates as these could not be issued during the nationwide lockdown creating a gap between the number of applications and certificates issued,” said a senior government officer. Some sceptics suggested that this outreach was launched to cover “past mistakes”. “The West Bengal Right to Public Services Act, 2013, seeks to ensure timely delivery of government schemes... Now questions on whether the Act has been implemented properly are pertinent as the government seems to have been forced to launch a programme to reach out to people with schemes,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, professor of political science, Rabindra Bharati University. A senior government official swatted away the criticism — some Opposition leaders are already hurling similar questions — by explaining the difference between the Act and the outreach. “The Act was brought about to ensure that a person gets a service within a specific timeframe after filing an application...Duare Sarkar, however, is an outreach exercise to ensure that people are not left out of schemes. As these people never applied under any scheme, the Act (and the timeframe clause) do not apply to them,” said the official. Based on ground reports, an official said, it was apparent that many had not applied for benefits under government schemes despite being eligible. “With this programme, the message is that the state government is keen to offer benefits to those who have not even applied for them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
02-12-2020||West Bengal||100 acres more for New Town IT hub, land leeway for Wipro||The Bengal cabinet on Tuesday allotted another 100 acres to Silicon Valley, a new IT hub in New Town, and allotted plots to 20 IT companies. The fast-track allotment was aimed at facilitating expansion of IT and IT-enabled services (ITES) companies through which the state government hopes to create 5 lakh new jobs in the next three years. The cabinet  cleared a proposal to allow Wipro to use 49 per cent of a 50-acre plot for non-IT  purposes. The government had given the 50 acres to the company to set up a development centre in New Town. “The Silicon Valley project had started with 100 acres and as the area has been filled up, we have allotted another 100 acres. We have also allotted land to 20 IT companies in the IT hub today,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Tuesday after chairing a cabinet meeting. Then, she announced the government’s decision to ease land use norms for Wipro. A similar relaxation was offered to Infosys, too, which was also given a 50-acre plot in New Town. In 2018, the Bengal government had allowed Infosys, which deferred its plan to come to Bengal as its proposal seeking SEZ status for its project was turned down by the state government, freehold land rights on a 50-acre plot in New Town, enabling the IT major to use 49 per cent of the land for non-IT purposes without seeking clearances from various departments. “Wipro will be allowed to use its plot on similar terms offered to Infosys,” the chief minister said. Mamata said the state government had requested Infosys to set up a software development centre and the IT major had responded in the affirmative. Sources at Nabanna said the initiatives suggested the state government had decided to relax some of the existing norms to help growth in the IT and ITES sectors so that its goal of creating 5 lakh jobs in these sectors in the next three years could be achieved. The Bengal government is aiming to create a policy environment and infrastructure so that 35 lakh new employment opportunities are generated in the state over the next three years. “The target is creation of 15 lakh jobs in the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector and 5 lakh jobs in the IT sector. The manner in which new companies were allotted land and the deal was sweetened for Wipro makes it clear that the government is serious about job creation in the state,” said a senior government official. Multiple sources in the government said with the land allotments and relaxations, Nabann is keen to send out a message that land availability for the purpose of industry is not a problem in Bengal. “There is a perception that getting land is a problem in Bengal... That issue is being addressed with utmost sincerity to aid the process of industrialisation, which is a must for job creation,” said a source close to Mamata. The chief minister on Tuesday also announced the government’s decision to hold 617 fairs at block, district and state levels over the next few months to give a boost to the MSME sector that has been struggling in the post-lockdown period because of sluggish demand. “It is estimated that trade of around Rs 156 crore would take place at the fairs and 3.64 lakh jobs would be generated,” said the chief minister A senior official pointed out that the government had already started working on a plan to meet its target of generating 15 lakh jobs in the MSME sector in the next three years. “The chief minister wants to build the base for achieving the target ahead of the Assembly polls so that something visible can be presented before the electorate,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logged 3,340 recoveries, 3,315  new cases on Tuesday||Bengal on Tuesday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 36th consecutive day, a spell that began since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Having fallen by 12,969 since Dashami, the total active cases in Bengal now stand at 24,221. The state on Tuesday also reported 3,340 recoveries, 3,315 new infections and 52 deaths, including eight from Calcutta. In these 36 days, Bengal reported over 1.44 lakh recoveries and 1.32 lakh new novel coronavirus infections, undoing much of the damage from a spike in infections and relatively fewer recoveries for a six-week period in the run-up to Durga Puja. The state now has a total of over 4.86 lakh infections since the onset of the pandemic, which includes over 4.54 lakh recoveries and 8,476 deaths. “After a fairly bad September and a terrible phase in the first three weeks of October, November turned out to be the month of a remarkable, unprecedented turnaround for us. We hope we are able to persist with this in December as well,” said a state minister. Bengal’s recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 40 consecutive days, rose to 93.28 per cent on Tuesday, closer to the national rate of 94 per cent. “We will soon surpass 95 and widen the gap with the national rate after bettering it,” said the minister. Crowded year-end revelries pose a threat of exposure to infection. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November had shown that the court’s instructions had been effective to contain the crowds. Of the total toll, 7,096 deaths or 83.7 per cent are comorbid deaths, said the state government. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.74, still lagging behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. With 43,241 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count went past 59.16 lakh, at 65,735 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.23 per cent. The state reported 27.28 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.98 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul youth and student wings protest TMC panchayat corruption in Malda||Supporters of Trinamul’s youth and student wings protested in front of the Malatipur panchayat in Chanchal-II block of Malda district on Tuesday, alleging corruption in a tender process for infrastructure work of over Rs 1 crore initiated by the Trinamul-run board of the rural body. Protesters openly asserted lack of transparency in the tender process. As the situation heated up, Mohammad Halim, the Trinamul pradhan, said they had decided to cancel the tender but said there had been no irregularity. “Some villagers pointed out that they know nothing about the tender. Though there has been no irregularity, the tender has been cancelled would be issued afresh to respect their opinions,” said Halim. Sources said in Malatipur, political parties in the Opposition had been raising the issue of corruption in the tender issued to install 22 submersible pumps, construct 10 concrete roads and a culvert and set up with plantation in nine different locations. But on Tuesday, supporters of Trinamul Youth Congress and Trinamul Chhatra Parishad assembled in front of the panchayat office and started shouting slogans against the pradhan and the Trinamul board, a resident said. “It is yet another loss of face for the party in the district,” he added. Officials at the BDO office of Chanchal-II block said they had ordered a probe into the tender process. “Now that the tender has been withdrawn, the next course of action would be determined as per the norms,” said BDO Dibyajyoti Das. This is the second time in past one week that Trinamul workers and leaders have raised their voice against panchayats run by elected members of the same party. On November 25, Trinamul leaders of Kaliachak-II block, led by party MLA Sabina Yeasmin, had held a demonstration in front of the local BDO office, alleging that the Trinamul head of Gangaprasad panchayat had indulged in corruption in connivance with the BDO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Bangladesh envoy inspects  rail route||Muhammad Imran, the new High Commissioner of Bangladesh to India, visited Haldibari in Cooch Behar district on Tuesday and inspected the ongoing work at the Haldibari-Chilahati rail route. There are indications that the rail route that would link India with Bangladesh (Chilahati falls in Nilfamari district, Bangladesh) may reopen later this month. Imran, who reached north Bengal on Monday along with first secretary Zakir Ahmed, visited the land customs station at Fulbari on Siliguri outskirts. Senior Border Security Force (BSF) officers accompanied him. Imran told the media at Haldibari that trains earlier ran through this route. “As far as resumption of services is concerned, the decision would be made after a high-level meeting between both countries.” Imran spoke with BSF and railway officials and also rode in a trolley along the rail route till the zero point. Senior officials of Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) welcomed him at the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||MP Raju Bista blames state for NH31-widening delay ||Darjeeling’s BJP MP Raju Bista on Tuesday blamed the Mamata Banerjee government for the delay in widening the NH31 near Darjeeling More, Siliguri’s main entry point, and said the state had not yet handed over the project report or land needed for the project to the Centre. His assertion comes a day after Firhad Hakim, the state municipal affairs and urban development minister, said that the Centre was responsible for the project’s delay that causes perennial traffic snarls at the city’s entry point. Hakim, who was here on Monday to attend a Gandhi statue unveiling event, had said chief minister Mamata Banerjee had spoken to Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari about the project but the Centre was yet to initiate it. “We have even acquired the land,” Hakim had said. Bista retorted on Tuesday that the stretch of the highway concerned was under the state PWD and not NHAI. The MP said that on July 29 this year, he received a written communication from Gadkari stating that the “state PWD has been advised to explore the option of developing the junctions at Darjeeling More and the Siliguri town underpass to a grade-separated junction within available ROW (right of way), or provide consent for furnishing land free from encumbrances and hindrances to develop these two junctions as trumpet interchanges to facilitate the local traffic.” A civil engineer that this paper spoke to explained that “grade separation” was a way to align a junction of two or more surface transport axes at different heights (or grades) so that they do not disrupt traffic flow to other transit routes, while “trumpet interchange” was a design used where a highway terminates to another highway (in Darjeeling More, NH55 meets NH31), and involves a loop ramp that links traffic entering or leaving the terminating highway with far lanes of the other highway. “The state PWD is developing a detailed project report to four-lane the stretch and is yet to hand it over to the Centre. Also, the Union ministry had asked for land so that NHAI can develop the stretch but that too has not been done by the state PWD so far,” said Bista. Widening of the road along the Darjeeling More stretch that will largely help ease traffic congestion in Siliguri can only start after the state PWD submits the DPR to the Centre, he said. “We also want this work to start immediately. The state minister (Hakim) can also send me the details so that I can take it up with the Union minister and help resolve the issues,” the MP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Binay Tamang camp counters Roshan Giri’s attack with rally ||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction), an ally of Trinamul since 2017, on Tuesday said the state government should not “play foul” with them, the assertion coming in the wake of the rival Bimal Gurung faction joining hands with Mamata Banerjee’s party too. The Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa faction held a well-attended public meeting at Kurseong Motor Stand on Tuesday, the same venue of their arch-rivals from the Bimal Gurung faction, who held their first meeting on Sunday after over three-and-half-years since the violent Gorkhaland agitation, resurfacing in the hills publicly only after the Gurung on October 21 dumped the BJP and allied with Trinamul. Roshan Giri, general-secretary of the Gurung camp, had on Sunday accused the Gurung camp of corruption and nepotism while running the GTA. On Tuesday, Anit Thapa and other leaders from the Tamang camp tried to paint Gurung as a leader without vision and with wrong agendas. Warring Morcha factions despite being TMC allies are competing to show their strength to the TMC. Both the meetings — Giri’s on Sunday and Thapa’s Tuesday — drew crowds. Thapa, general secretary of the Tamang camp, who also chairs the board of administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), said: “We would like to tell the state government that they must not play foul with us. We have been openly stating that we are working with the government. The government must understand (it).” The state government had appointed Thapa as the chairman of the hill body. “We jumped into the fire (by deciding to side with the state government during 2017 Gorkhaland agitation) and we are not afraid of fire,” said Thapa. Countering Giri’s allegations of corruption in the GTA, Thapa said: “They (the Gurung camp) are talking about audits. I know that when the state government wanted to conduct an audit (when Gurung ran GTA), the Gorkhaland agitation started and offices burnt to destroy papers. The GTA is now online and the government is aware of each and every file.” “When we were in jail during the 2013 statehood agitation, you (Gurung) accepted the GTA. You wanted your leader Anos Thapa to die when he was ill in jail because you thought that his death would intensify the agitation in Kurseong,” alleged Thapa. The Gurung camp, to justify their joining hands with Trinamul, said one of the reasons was to ensure that “displaced” people who had cases slapped against them during the 2017 agitation could return home. Thapa tore into this argument to say: “They are not displaced people but people who fled the hills leaving the common man on the lurch. You will not get Gorkhaland by pelting stones at police and burning houses.” Thapa said his party was trying to change the “political culture” in the hills and had allowed Bimal Gurung camp to hold a public meeting. Other party leaders said that the process had started to grant land rights to villagers of Nirpani in Mirik block and surveys in tea gardens and cinchona plantations would also be held. “Solving unemployment problem will be our major thrust area,” said Thapa. Gurung is scheduled to address a public meeting at Baga Jatin Park in Siliguri on December 6. Thapa on Tuesday countered that they, too, would hold a “mega rally” in Sukna soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu supporters hit, blame on Trinamul||Alleged Trinamul Congress supporters raided the homes of people who had offered a grand welcome to former minister Suvendu Adhikari at Sabang in West Midnapore on Monday. Suvendu’s supporters were also assaulted by the alleged Trinamul goons in Dosogram panchayat on Monday night. Adhikari had visited Dosogram on Monday to pay respects to former Trinamul block president Prabhat Maity’s wife who had died last week in Temathani. “At least 500 members of the apolitical platform Dada’r Anugami reached the Dheati bridge, 15km away from Temathani, to give Suvendu a grand welcome. There was a bike rally also,” said an eyewitness. “Adhikari paid his respects at Maity’s home in Temathani and left after 30 minutes, following which the supporters also returned.” Sources said around 20 Trinamul-backed goons raided the homes of those who had turned up to welcome the former minister and thrashed them in the presence of their families. One of them was held hostage at a local Trinamul office as well and warned against continuing to support Adhikari. “Later, Trinamul supporters carried out attacks with crude bombs in the Dosogram area around 1.30am today (Tuesday), particularly at the villages of Kolonda and Koptipur where at least 12 homes were vandalised,” said a resident. Kolonda resident and local farmers’ union president Jugal Malakar was a member of the bike rally on Monday evening. “We came back from the rally late in the evening and settled down for dinner. Out of the blue, Trinamul workers stormed into my home and beat me with blunt objects threatening me of dire consequences if I continued to be part of Dada’r Anugami,” he said. “I was dragged to the Botuabazar party office and held there till 3am. I was repeatedly threatened with violence if I did not quit Suvendu’s platform. I was let go only after I gave them a written undertaking,” added Arjun Manna, 37. Trinamul’s Sabang block president Amal Panda condemned the violence. “Though Dada’r Anugami might not have been in line with the party, violence should have been avoided.” In East Midnapore’s Haldia, a Trinamul councillor and president of Trinamul’s youth front, Ajgar Ali, called police on Monday to stop trucks that were campaigning for Adhikari’s Thursday rally. The posters on the rally were also torn down. “The trucks were going around campaigning for Adhikari’s December 3 mega rally when Ajgar called police and got the vehicles seized,” said a source. Responding to the allegations, Ajgar said: “Everyone here is Didi’s Anugami. No outsiders will come here and put up such posters under cover.” At Khejuri, a 3km-long bike rally of the BJP was attacked by alleged Trinamul goons armed with crude bombs on the Rosulpur-Boga road. The goons allegedly smashed several vehicles carrying the BJP supporters. Sources said the rally was organised by BJP mandal president Uday Shankar Maity, who has filed a complaint with the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
02-12-2020||West Bengal||ECL starts crackdown on coal smuggling||Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) has launched a drive to shut down illegal coal mines in its leasehold areas across West Burdwan, Purulia and Bankura districts on the heels of allegations that a section of ECL officials is in cahoots with coal smugglers. Accompanied by personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), members of the special task force of the ECL, which was earlier formed to check illegal coal mining, have been raiding several areas of the leasehold areas since Monday and filling up pits dug by the pilferers with sand. “We have already shut down two dozen illegal coal pits in Asansol and Jamuria. The drive will continue,” said an ECL official. He, however, refused to accept that the drive started following recent raids by the Central Bureau of Investigation and interrogation of some senior ECL officials in connection with coal smuggling. “It is our regular practice. We do this whenever we get information about illegal mining in our leasehold areas,” said the ECL official. On Saturday, the CBI had carried out raids and interrogated five ECL officials — two of them general managers – in Asansol in connection with the smuggling of coal. The CBI also lodged an FIR against them and the alleged kingpin of the racket, Anup Maji alias Lala, on November 27. Dhananjay Rai, 45, a security in-charge of ECL who was among those named in the FIR, suffered heart attack during the interrogation by the CBI at his residence in Asansol’s Sripur and later died at hospital. However, sources said the central vigilance team of Coal India had instructed all its subsidiaries, including the ECL, to take serious steps to stop illegal coal mining after the CBI found names of some senior ECL officials who had links with coal smugglers. As part of the modus operandi, the coal smugglers dig pits to extract coal illegally. The coal is then transported by the mafia by trucks in an organised manner. The sources said the illegal activity enjoyed the backing of a section of ECL officials, CISF jawans, police and Trinamul Congress workers. According to the sources, two police inspectors — one posted in Bankura and the other in Purulia — are under the CBI scanner for their alleged involvement in the coal smuggling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-291
