03-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu holds rally sans party flags, vows to serve Bengal||Disgruntled TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari Thursday said he will continue to serve the people of the state as a "son of Bengal and India." His comment came amidst speculations over his next political move following the impasse in the dialogue between him and the party, which had claimed that differences with him had been sorted out. Adhikari, who resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet last week, was seen on Thursday holding a rally here without banners or flags of the party. The rally was held to mark the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Khudiram Bose in Tamluk sub-division of East Midnapore district. His supporters were seen carrying the national flag during the programme. "The Constitution of our country speaks of government by the people, of the people and for the people. I am a son of Bengal and a son of India and will continue to serve the people of my state in that capacity," Adhikari told reporters when asked about his present political stand. His statement comes a day after leaders close to him had rejected the TMC leadership's claim of a rapprochement with him as "false", and said he is unpacified as his grievances have not been addressed. They said Adhikari, an influential leader with a mass base who had resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet and other positions that he held a few days ago, has maintained that it is "difficult for him to work with the party." Meanwhile, according to TMC sources, the party leadership has sent Adhikari a message on Thursday morning stating that "the details of the meeting were disclosed after all the issues were discussed and resolved. "Now if you have changed your stand, it is your decision," the message said. Senior TMC leader Saugata Roy, who was among those who held talks with Adhikari to resolve the differences, said the "Party will not say anything more on the issue and now it is for him to speak up." Adhikari is said to be miffed at the way senior TMC leaders went to town on Tuesday claiming all differences with him had been sorted out after a high-level meeting that he had with TMC MPs Abhishek Banerjee, Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandopadhyay, besides election strategist Prashant Kishor. Sources close to Adhikari said he did not want the details of what transpired at the meeting during the backchannel talks to be leaked to the media. He has been incommunicado after the Tuesday night meeting. Repeated calls to the former minister for the last three days went unanswered. All eyes are now on Adhikari's scheduled press conference on December 6 at his hometown Kanthi in East Midnapore district. Adhikari, a mascot of the Nandigram movement that added to the political heft of Mamata Banerjee and catapulted her to power, had resigned as minister of transport, irrigation and waterways last week, setting off speculation that he may quit the ruling TMC ahead of the state assembly polls next year. Several rounds of backchannel talks to pacify the leader, believed to be unhappy over organisational changes and the growing clout of Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor, have come to nought. Himself a two-term former MP, Adhikari's father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu are sitting TMC MPs from Tamluk and Kanthi Lok Sabha constituencies respectively. The family wields considerable influence in at least 40-45 assembly segments in West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram, parts of Birbhum -- mainly in the Junglemahal region and areas in minority-dominated Murshidabad. The state polls are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||SUV rams into Siliguri home, youth dies||A 30-year-old person died and eight members of his family were injured when an SUV rammed into their house at Gatebazaar, a locality in ward 32 of Siliguri, on Tuesday night. Police seized the vehicle. The driver has managed to escape. “Around 11pm, members of the family had gathered in front of their house. Suddenly, an SUV that was moving through the locality rammed into their house and hit them. The driver had no control over the vehicle. We immediately rushed and shifted the family members to North Bengal Medical College & Hospital where the doctors said one of them had died,” said a local resident. The deceased was Sunil Routh. All other members of his family, including two children, are still under treatment at the NBMCH. On Wednesday morning, Ranjan Sarkar, president of Trinamul’s Darjeeling district (plains) committee, and ward coordinator Tapas Chatterjee visited the spot. They promised help for the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Midnapore fugitive murder convict arrested ||One of the two fugitives, who had escaped from Midnapore district correctional home on Monday night, was arrested by Bijpur police from a hideout located on the Kampa-Baro Jagulia road in North 24-Parganas district late on Tuesday night. The two fugitives, identified as Mithun Das and Monojit Biswas, were convicted in the Rajib Das murder case that rocked Barasat in 2011. Both Mithun and Monojit were serving life terms at the Midnapore district correctional home along with Biswanath Chatterjee, who had also been convicted in the case. Mithun and Monojit had escaped from the correctional home by scaling the boundary wall with the help of an iron hook on Monday night. The jail authorities have suspended two guards of the correctional home for negligence in duty. A case has also been started against the fugitives. On Tuesday night, Bijpur police got a tip-off that Monojit had been seen moving around in the Charapole area on the Kampa road. A five-member team, led by the officer-in-charge of Bijpur police station, Triguna Roy, rushed to the area and found the duo in a house. While the police team managed to nab Monojit, Mithun managed to flee. Monojit was brought to Bijpur police station where he was handed over to a team of West Midnapore police. Bijpur police have begun a combing operation in the area and alerted all the nearby police stations about Mithun’s movement. Joint commissioner of Barrackpore police commissionerate, Ajoy Thakur, said: “Acting on a specific tip-off, a police team carried out a raid and nabbed one of the fugitives. He has been handed over to West Midnapore police.” An officer of Bijpur police station said: “We came to know that Monojit had taken shelter at his paternal house in Charapole area along with Mithun. From local sources we managed to get some of their pictures to be sure enough about their existence and carried out the operation.” On February 14, 2011, teenager Rajib was killed by Mithun, Monojit and Biswanath at around 11pm when he tried to resist a molestation attempt on her elder sister. Rajib, a school student, was accompanying her sister from Barasat railway station who was returning home from her workplace in Calcutta, when the trio tried to molest her near Kachhari Maidan close to the official residences of the district magistrate, superintendent of police and other senior administrative officials. As Rajib tried to resist the molestation attempt on his sister, the trio stabbed him at least 17 times killing him on the spot. The trio was arrested later. On February 12, 2015, the additional district judge of Barasat found them guilty and sent them to life imprisonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Malda BJP joining event a flop show||BJP leaders in Malda district had a loss of face on Wednesday as a major joining programme that they had planned at Malatipur area turned out to be a flop show as only a few people turned up to receive the party’s flag at the event. The saffron camp had put impetus on the programme and had claimed hundreds of youths from the minority will join the party, a move that they felt could help them in drawing support from across Malda, a district that has close to 55 per cent minority population. Sources said that the BJP had planned the event on the Alhadipur Primary School premises in Malatipur under Chanchal subdivision of the district. The dais was readied and even a feast was planned after the programme. A delegation of district BJP leaders reached the spot and started overseeing arrangements. However, as the day rolled, they could not find any of those youths — all of them were from minority communities as claimed by the leaders — approaching the venue. They started calling up their local leaders and workers, and soon, it became evident that only a few such youths will turn up at the meeting. This made them curtail the arrangements but they kept on waiting for them. Eventually, in the afternoon, 15-odd youths from the minority community reached the venue. They were inducted into the party by Dipankar Ram, a district general secretary of BJP in Malda. “The BJP leaders had time and again mentioned about the event and had claimed that hundreds of youths from the minority community would be on board. But they could hardly get a few and we doubt whether these youths would sooner or later leave the party. It was an utter flop show and indicates that the minority community has summarily rejected the BJP by not responding to the call,” said Moazzem Hossain, the chairman of Malda district Trinamul unit. In Malda, the BJP had managed to win one of the two Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and an Assembly seat in 2016. The party is now desperate to win support of minorities, keeping in mind that there are 12 Assembly seats in Malda and that in 2016, Trinamul could not win even one seat. In closed quarters, the BJP leaders have admitted that the youths who got into the party have acted as a face-saver for them. However, leaders like Gobinda Mondal, the district BJP president, accused Trinamul for being instrumental in deterring the youths. “We have learnt from our party sources that those who were keen to join our party were threatened by Trinamul in different ways. They are mostly peasants and daily-rated workers, thus could not withstand the pressure. That is why they refrained from attending the programme,” Mondal said. Trinamul, however, has brushed aside the charges. “Local BJP leaders might have tried to persuade them but these people could finally realise BJP’s true agenda. That is why they stayed back,” said Hossain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Plan for Mamata north Bengal tour||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to visit north Bengal in the middle of this month in an attempt to energise Trinamul Congress workers ahead of the Assembly polls, party leaders in Cooch Behar said on Wednesday. “We have information that the chief minister might visit Cooch Behar in the second week of December. There are indications that she will hold an administrative review meeting and address a public meeting that will be organised by the party,” said minister Rabindranath Ghosh. The chief minister might also visit Jalpaiguri during her north Bengal tour, sources said. Mamata’s visit has been planned after Cooch Behar (South) MLA Mihir Goswami left Trinamul and joined the BJP. His cabinet colleague Binoy Krishna Burman said: “The schedule is yet to be finalised. All necessary arrangements would be made to ensure a large number of people at the public meeting.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was due to give an interview to the Oxford Union Society at 5pm (10.30pm IST) on Wednesday but the event did not take place. A spokesman for the Oxford Union Society, which describes itself as “the world’s largest and most famous debating society”, told The Telegraph: “The event had to be postponed, but we hope to reorganise it at the chief minister’s earliest convenience.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Special kiosks for Bengal health scheme ||The Bengal government has asked district authorities to set up special kiosks for the Swathya Sathi scheme at the camps under the Duare Sarkar (government on doorstep) programme after it appeared that 60 to 70 per cent visitors were applying for the free-of-cost health insurance that gives coverage up to Rs 5 lakh. “On Wednesday, a clear instruction was given from the top brass of the government that a separate arrangement be made to attend to those who are coming to get information related to Swasthya Sathi. On the first day, it was observed that 60-70 per cent of the visitors applied for the health insurance scheme,” said a senior government official. On Tuesday, the first day of the 60-day programme to reach out to people left out of government schemes, more than 1.25 lakh people had turned up at 20,000 odd camps set up across the state. “Although today’s final report is yet to be compiled, data from districts suggest that number of visitors did not drop significantly on the second day. Majority of the visitors on the second day were also showing interest in Swasthya Sathi,” said a source. In Birbhum, out of 7,711 persons who had visited the camps on Tuesday, 5,716 had applied for Swasthya Sathi. Around 3,600 of 6,000 people who turned up at camps in Bankura on Tuesday also applied for the same scheme. “The figures show people are interested in the scheme and that’s why the government is laying stress on special kiosks,” said a source So far, sources said, the state has brought 7.5 crore people under the scheme. The chief minister had announced recently that remaining 2.5 crore people in the state would also be included the scheme. “The government would try to reach out to 2.5 crore people who are yet to be brought under the scheme through the Duare Sarkar programme,” said a source. Officials also pointed out that the government was laying stress on delivery of services on time. “There is a clear instruction to issue health insurance cards to those who will apply through the camps at the earliest. Required equipment like biometric scanners has to be installed at the camps so that the cards could be issued instantly,” said an official. People showing interest in Swasthya Sathi is an encouraging sign for the ruling establishment as the BJP has been attacking the Trinamul government for not implementing Ayushman Bharat, a similar health scheme run by the Centre, in Bengal. “If people accept the state government scheme, the BJP would not be able to attack the state government on the matter,” said a source. The state government has also asked district administrations to allow self-help groups to set up stalls at the Duare Sarkar camps from where they can sell their produce. “We have already asked all blocks to set up stalls for self-help groups to sell their products. It would help the women of the groups earn money too,” Bankura district magistrate S. Arun Prasad said. Moushumi Mukherjee, the head of a self-help group which set up a stall at a Duare Sarkar camp in Bolpur town. Said: “My team sold homemade food and ornaments worth Rs 1,000. We would go to other camps in Bolpur town.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Left farmer outfits to march to Raj Bhavan||All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a Left-backed farmers’ organisations, announced on Wednesday that  it would organise a march to the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta on December 16 to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws  and express solidarity with the farmers protesting on the borders of the national capital. “We have planned a series of programmes throughout December, including a march to the governor’s residence, to protest against the laws and state-sponsored atrocities against the farmers in Delhi,” said Amal Halder, the state convener for the committee. “First, there will be a public meeting at Rani Rasmoni Avenue (in Calcutta). From there, we would go to the governor to submit our deputation,” he added. In the past two days, the committee organised more than 500 small and big rallies across Bengal in a bid to “inform people about the state atrocities on farmers in Delhi”. Tens of thousands of farmers have amassed on the borders of Delhi to protest the new farm laws. According to committee leaders, farmers in Bengal are facing additional problems because they aren’t being able to sell their produce at rates fixed by the government. “The farm laws will have adverse effects on farmers. Moreover in Bengal, corrupt Trinamul leaders have forced farmers to sell paddy at less than Rs 1000 per quintal,” Halder said. At present, the government has fixed a minimum support price of Rs1,880 a quintal for paddy, Halder added. To protest against this, members of the committee will come out on the roads on December 20 with sacks of paddy and block roads in different districts across the state. The Bengal Congress has decided to hit the streets on the issue of price hike with a programme titled Bajare Bajare (in the markets).  Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the state party chief, has asked workers to organise rallies, street corner meetings and marches in all districts of the state from Thursday on this issue. On December 9, Congress workers across the state will submit deputations at district headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Dilip talks of outsiders’ contribution in Bengal||BJP state president Dilip Ghosh stirred a fresh controversy on Wednesday when he said non-Bengalis had made greater contributions to the state than Bengalis. The comment drew sharp reactions from the non-BJP parties — as well as from within the saffron camp — at a time a debate on “outsiders” and “sons of the soil” has become a part of political discourse in the state. Ghosh made the remark at a party event in Calcutta’s Canning Street, a locality dominated by Hindi-speaking people. “Since the British period, people from outside have been coming to Bengal for professional reasons. Labourers from Bihar have worked at jute mills and factories on either side of the Ganga. The contribution of people from outside Bengal to the state’s development has been more than that of Bengalis,” Ghosh said. “How have these people… these Biharis become outsiders for you today? Are Shah Rukh Khan or Prashant Kishore not outsiders,” Ghosh asked, trying to take a jibe at the attempts of the Trinamul Congress to tag his party as one of “outsiders”. Multiple sources in the BJP claimed while Trinamul was trying to tag the BJP as a party of “outsiders”, Ghosh’s comment was unnecessary. “From Prime Minister Narendra Modi to home minister Amit Shah, everyone is focussing on how to shed the ‘outsider’ tag. In such a situation, Dilipda shouldn’t have said this,” a BJP leader told The Telegraph. Partha Chatterjee, state minister and secretary-general of the Trinamul, said the Midnapore MP was trying to humiliate and demean Bengalis. “I believe Dilip Ghosh is unaware of the contributions Bengal has made in the nation’s overall development and struggle for independence,” Chatterjee said. However, the CPM and the Congress accused both Trinamul and the BJP of indulging in competitive politics of identity. State Congress president and leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Ghosh’s comment was an insult for Bengal. “Just as they have tried to divide Hindus and Muslims, they are now trying to create a rift between Bengali and non-Bengalis,” he said. Echoing Chowdhury, CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty said: “Bengal is the land of renaissance. We believe in inclusivity. People from other parts of the nation have preferred Bengal as a destination for jobs and opportunities. The BJP and Trinamul are trying to divide the state on the basis of language, caste and religion.” Later in the day, Ghosh said he wanted to iterate that non-Bengalis had contributed to the building of the state. He referred to industrialists such as the Birlas and the Neotias and said no one could reject the contributions those people had made in the development of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Hint at end to drop in total Covid active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 37th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja as the state logged 3,275 recoveries, 3,271 infections and 51 deaths. Having fallen by 13,024 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, the total of active cases now is 24,166. In these 37 days, Bengal logged over 1.47 lakh recoveries and 1.36 lakh infections. But the gap between the daily recoveries and the new infections has been reducing over the past couple of weeks, which suggests the spell of fall in the total of active cases might end soon. “This is something we have noted. The number of daily recoveries has been on the decline for a fortnight or so,” said a Bengal minister. “We are not ruling out the possibility of this spectacular spell of turnaround ending in a matter of days. But that will be temporary, according to our estimates. We will be back on track again in no time,” he added. The state now has a total of over 4.9 lakh infections, which include more than 4.57 lakh recoveries and 8,527 deaths. The recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 41 consecutive days, rose to 93.33, closer to the national rate of 94.06 per cent. “This is far more important. We don’t foresee a break in this spell at the moment. The recovery rate will keep rising,” said the minister. Of the 51 deaths reported on Wednesday, a dozen were from Calcutta. The total toll comprises 7,139 (83.7 per cent) comorbid deaths. The state’s mortality rate improved to 1.73, but it is still behind national rate of 1.45 per cent. With 42,624 tests on Wednesday, the state’s total test count went past 59.58 lakh, at 66,209 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.22 per cent. The state reported 26.55 per cent occupancy on 13,538 beds for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Over 5.01 lakh telemedicine consultations have been made on the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Morning after, Suvendu Adhikari signals change of mind||Trinamul Congress vice-president Saugata Roy appeared grim on Wednesday as he issued a statement suggesting a shift in former minister Suvendu Adhikari’s stand on a truce, barely 18 hours after the 73-year-old MP had said the rebellious East Midnapore leader was not leaving the party. In a dramatic turn of events after what Roy had described on Tuesday night as a “beautiful, fruitful, amicable discussion” between the sparring factions of Adhikari and Trinamul’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee, the Nandigram MLA sent a text message to Dum Dum MP Roy on Wednesday afternoon, stating it was “difficult” to work together. “I had communicated to you (media), truthfully, whatever happened at the meeting last evening and what was decided, in the presence of five people,” said Roy, one of the emissaries of the topmost tier of the leadership who had been relentlessly pursuing negotiation with Adhikari, hoping to retain him. The “five people” Roy mentioned were himself, Adhikari, Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek, poll consultant Prashant Kishor and Calcutta North MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay. The Trinamul chief had briefly joined the meeting telephonically, addressing Adhikari and others via speakerphone. “If there is any change of mind on the part of Suvendu, it is for him to decide and communicate to you,” added Roy on Wednesday afternoon, acknowledging receipt of the text message from Adhikari but refusing to divulge details on its content or react to it. However, given how the undying optimism of Roy on the Adhikari issue turned seemingly to pessimism — he said there was no scope for negotiation or further meetings if the former minister has, indeed, changed his mind — it became apparent that the frantic outreach from the Nandigram MLA’s camp since Wednesday morning, urging against believing the Triamul version, was with a clear purpose. According to sources, in the message to Roy, Adhikari told him that the concerns he had raised were yet to be addressed. “The issues I had raised are yet to be resolved. Without resolving them, everything is being imposed on me. I was to conduct a news conference on December 6. There, I was to state my position. But before that, you told the press everything,” said a Trinamul leader, quoting from the text, sent in Bengali. “It is difficult for me to work together. Please excuse me,” added the leader, quoting Adhikari’s text. Sources close to Adhikari said he would conduct that news conference on December 6, a day ahead of Mamata Banerjee’s proposed rally in Midnapore, where she had asked him to show up during the interaction on Tuesday night. Speculation has been rife for months that Adhikari, 49, who resigned from the cabinet on Friday, could join the BJP or float a new party aligned to the NDA, to deal a body blow to Trinamul in the Assembly elections. He is yet to resign from the party — he remains a general-secretary and part of the seven-member apex steering committee — and the Assembly. However, after the leadership almost pulled off a major coup on Tuesday evening by making Adhikari sit face to face with Abhishek and Kishor, claiming resolution thereafter, some saw in it a “miracle”. But things started changing soon after. At least one senior BJP leader — a Trinamul turncoat — said Adhikari had called him up late on Tuesday night and expressed “bitter displeasure” over what was being said by Roy and others to the media, as they were “lies”. Then, till around midday, the former minister’s acolytes reached out to several key loyalists —waiting for Adhikari’s decision to figure out their own political future — to not believe the Trinamul version. A senior Trinamul MP, with a relatively objective stand on the Adhikari issue, said both sides had been trying to use the negotiations to seek leverage. “The meeting had been arranged after Suvendu seemed almost over-eager. Suvendu had hoped the meeting and its content would be kept a secret, at least till he spoke to the media. He would probably have used the time to bargain, one last time, with the BJP. But Kalighat had other plans,” he said. “The public statements were deliberately issued. That cornered Suvendu and made him very angry,” he added. “Suvendu is yet to get what he wants from the BJP. That is why he is yet to jump ship.” The likes of BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, who sounded deflated on Tuesday night, were buoyant again over the developments of Wednesday. “These old men being brought out of virtual retirement by Trinamul to desperately try and keep their young leaders from leaving have not been able to convince them. Give them to us, we will take care of them. Such hilarity is rare,” said the Midnapore MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-289
03-12-2020||West Bengal||Brick kiln owner’s school for kids of labourers||Somaiya, the five-year-old daughter of a brick kiln owner, inaugurated a primary school for children of labourers working in brick kilns at Sarberia village in South 24-Parganas’s Sandeshkhali on Wednesday. Class VIII dropout and Somaiya’s father Seikh Sahajahan, 39, set up the school at one of the kilns owned by him to fulfil his unaccomplished dream of education by educating the children of the brick kiln labourers. There are around 900 labourers who work in the numerous brick kilns in North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, Sahajahan said. “It is a dream come true for me. The rootless life of the children of labourers used to haunt me. Their illiterate parents toil in the kilns and do not bother about the education of their children.  I feared the kids would one day end up as child labourers. That spurred me into starting an awareness drive among the labourers about the need of education. I shared the story of my life and the pain of being a dropout. Once they realised the need of education, I decided to set up a primary school for them,” Sahajahan, who is also a Trinamul leader and pradhan of the local Sarberia-Agarhati gram panchayat, told The Telegraph. The new school, which will have classes from I to IV, began its formal journey on Wednesday with around 300 students but teaching will start once Covid-19 pandemic restrictions are lifted. Sahajahan said the classes would be held from Monday to Friday and the school timings would be from 7am to 11am. To run the school, six local youths have been appointed as teachers, each of whom will be paid a monthly honorarium of Rs 4,000 by Sahajahan. Asked why he had decided to ask his daughter, who is a kindergarten student, to inaugurate the school, Sahajahan said: “I took Somaiya to tell the labourers that if she could go to school, why should their children be left out. I am happy that my effort has worked as the labourers have enrolled their kids who had dropped out of school to resume study.” Mizanur Mandal is one of those who enrolled her daughter who had dropped out of school to resume studies. “It was only because of Sahajahan bhai’s encouragement that my daughter can resume studies and does not remain illiterate like us,” he said. Apart from the seven class rooms, Sahajahan has built a vaccination centre at the school. “Education and vaccination are equally important for the children. Government health workers will be invited to vaccinate the children,” Sahajahan added. Sahjahan, however, lamented that he would not be able to offer mid-day meals to the children but plans to serve them biscuits during tiffin time. “I hope I will be able to serve them mid-day meal one day,” he said. Sandeshkhali Trinamul MLA Sukumar Mahato said: “No word is enough to praise Sahajahan. He is a man with a big heart. He has turned his pain into a noble gesture.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-290
