04-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP selling farmers' rights to corporate houses, says TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Friday expressed its ire against the "draconian" farm bills, which it alleged were passed without consultation with stakeholders and accused the BJP of selling farmers' rights to corporate houses. A TMC delegation will soon meet the agitating farmers in Haryana, party sources said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, while referring to her 26-day hunger strike against "forcible" land acquisition in Singur in 2006, expressed her solidarity with the farmers protesting the new farm laws. The TMC supremo was then an opposition leader during the Left Front rule in the state. She tweeted, "14 years ago on 4 Dec 2006, I began my 26-day hunger strike in Kolkata demanding that agricultural land cannot be forcefully acquired. I express my solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by Centre #StandWithFarmers." Banerjee had on Thursday threatened to launch a country-wide agitation if the "anti-farmer" new farm laws were not withdrawn. Senior TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar alleged that the new farm laws are "unconstitutional" and were passed to help the corporate houses. "We demand that these laws be withdrawn. These laws were passed not to help the farmers but were done to help the multinational and corporate houses. The intention of the BJP is to sacrifice the interest of the farmers to serve its own interest," she told reporters here. She also said that the TMC will launch a country-wide movement if the farm laws were not withdrawn. Marathon talks between the Centre and the agitating farmer unions on Thursday failed to end the standoff over the new farm laws as the protestors refused to budge on their demands and another round of discussions will be held later in a bid to forge a resolution. The government side, led by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, assured the group of nearly 40 farmer leaders that all their valid concerns would be discussed and considered with an open mind, but the other side stuck to their demand of repealing the three "hastily-passed" farm laws, saying there were several loopholes and deficiencies. Agitating farmers had on Wednesday demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the new farm laws as they threatened to block other roads in Delhi and "take more steps" if it failed to do so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet clears technology ventures worth Rs 3,000 crore||Bengal is hoping to create at least 40,000 jobs in the technology sector as it tries to crank up investments in the pandemic-hit year. The state expects to receive investments worth Rs 3,000 crore from 20 technology ventures in Rajarhat, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. These ventures were cleared by the state cabinet on Tuesday and will form Phase II of the Bengal Silicon Valley Hub in Rajarhat. Addressing the inaugural session of the 19th edition of Infocom — an initiative of ABP, which publishes The Telegraph — Mamata said these projects would create 9,000 jobs. The projects cleared on Tuesday, along with those cleared earlier and slated to come up in Phase I of the Hub, are expected to generate more than 40,000 jobs. The chief minister said technology giant Wipro had committed an investment of Rs 500 crore on its second campus, where 10,000 jobs would be created, taking the IT major’s total headcount in the city to 19,000. Wipro operates a special economic zone in Salt Lake’s Sector V. The Wipro project is not part of the Hub. In her speech, delivered from Nabanna — Infocom 2020 is taking place on a virtual platform because of the pandemic — Mamata spoke of the need to usher in digital technology to improve people’s lives and create employment opportunities for Bengal’s pool of talent. Mamata said: “We need to focus on the right priorities and create an environment of inclusive growth rather than polarise the polity. Technology can be a great leveller. Infocom must show us the way to bridge the digital divide and demonstrate how technology can spur growth and development.” The state’s top bureaucrats — chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and home secretary H.K. Dwivedi — sat by her side as she spoke. An Airtel data centre — one of the 20 Hub projects — will be built at a cost of Rs 350 crore. This is the second such centre by a telecom company at the Hub in Rajarhat. The other one is being developed by Reliance Jio. The Silicon Valley Hub sprawls 200 acres. TCS, part of the first wave of companies to come to the Hub, has taken up 20 acres to build a second campus. India’s largest IT company already employs 44,000 people in Calcutta and the headcount could go up to 61,000, the chief minister said. To meet the aspirations of job seekers, especially those who returned to Bengal during the pandemic, the state government has introduced a skill-matching portal called Karmo Bhumi. “Some 352 companies and 40,000 job seekers are registered with the site. The placement of 8,000 people has already been done,” Mamata said. Around 1,500 IT companies, including Cognizant, IBM and Cap Gemini, operate in Bengal, together employing more than 210,000 IT professionals. Infosys recently informed the state government that work on its maiden campus would start in July 2021 and be completed in two years. Mamata told the virtual audience about the rapid strides Bengal had made in the past eight years in terms of capital expenditure, and described the challenges it was grappling with since the outbreak of the pandemic. The state GDP has gone up 2.5 times from 2011, she added. “We are doing better than other states even though revenues are low…. If there’s a will, there’s a way. If there’s no will, there’s no way,” Mamata said. The three-day event, being live-streamed on a dedicated YouTube channel, has brought together 500 delegates from large, small and medium enterprises as well as government representatives from Bengal and other eastern states. Across 20 sessions, the event features 35 speakers, including Google India country manager and vice-president Sanjay Gupta, Accenture’s chief strategy officer Bhaskar Ghosh, Ericsson India Global Services managing director Amitabh Ray and the director-general of Software Technology Parks of India, Omkar Rai. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel will address a session on Friday. Amit Mitra, Bengal’s minister for finance, industry and information technology, will address the valedictory session on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s black kite riddle||Mamata Banerjee, known for her plainspeak, surprised Bengal’s political circles with cryptic avian comments on Thursday, which sources close to her interpreted as an indirect jibe at former minister Suvendu Adhikari’s potential flight from Trinamul’s nest. Asked on the eleventh-hour postponement of her virtual address at Wednesday’s Oxford Union Society event, she came up with a loaded answer. “There are times when we see a black kite (bird) flying in the sky and assume a storm is coming. There are times when the black kite is blown away by the storm. But when it passes, the black kite returns to search for its nest,” she said. “I said something without saying anything,” Mamata added. “A black kite is flying in the storm now. Keep watching. In future, the black kite will look for its nest, from me. Be it a black kite or a crow, a parakeet or a common myna… we have the ability to give (a nest). Bengal doesn’t run to anybody, everybody runs to Bengal. That is Bengal’s credit.” A senior Trinamul MP said Mamata made the cryptic comment, in an oblique reference to Adhikari, who has been trying to chart a different political course for himself. The source said Mamata told the top tier of her party’s leadership to move on from the Adhikari chapter. “She said the chapter should be deemed closed by all of us.” TMC vice-president Saugata Roy also said he would no longer pursue the matter. “I have nothing more to say about Suvendu (Adhikari). Whatever has to be said after this, he will say,” said the Dum Dum MP. “I do not have any interest in him anymore,” added Roy, in a departure from his relentless optimism the entire past week. Roy apparently changed his stand after receiving a message from Adhikari — following which Mamata issued her orders to disengage from the Nandigram MLA — on Wednesday, stating it was “difficult” to work together. The message was a drastic U-turn from the events on Tuesday night, described by Roy as a “beautiful, fruitful, amicable discussion” between Adhikari and Trinamul’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee. Adhikari is expected to make his political stand public at a news meet on Sunday. On Thursday, Adhikari made multiple public appearances in his home district East Midnapore, at apolitical events, to commemorate the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Khudiram Bose. But some of his remarks, said sources in the party, were indirect jibes at the Abhishek faction. “I have been coming here for decades…long before 2011 (when Trinamul came to power in Bengal). Now, because the village boy is on the ground, some living in flats have problems,” said Adhikari at an event. On the sidelines of another event, when asked what his political identity now was, Adhikari said: “A son of Bengal. A son of India.” “I will continue to serve the people of my state,” he added. Former CPM leader Laxman Seth, held responsible for long by Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari for the Nandigram situation on the ground, was seen on the dais of a Haldia event along with Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. Ghosh apparently defended Seth and suggested the CPM made him a scapegoat. Seth, who joined the BJP and the Congress since his expulsion from the CPM, has been a free agent for some time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Digital device for Class XII students in Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced that her government would distribute tablets to nearly 9.5 lakh Class XII students studying at 14,000-odd government or government-aided schools and 636 madrasas to enable them to attend online classes. “We will give tablets to all 9.5 lakh students of Class XII who are studying at government or government-aided schools or madrasas. This will help them attend some online classes before higher secondary exams,” said the chief minister at Nabanna during a meeting with Trinamul-backed state government employees’ union on Thursday. After making the announcement, she instructed education minister Partha Chatterjee to arrange for regular online classes for higher secondary students before the exam. “If required, give computers to the schools so that they don’t face trouble in conducting online classes,” said the chief minister. The Class XII students could attend classes for only about two months after the new session started in January as the coronavirus-induced lockdown came into effect from March 25. Unlike the private schools, the government or government-aided schools could not arrange online classes in the past eight months. “Most schools don’t have the required infrastructure to hold on-line classes... Besides, a majority of students at these schools didn’t have smart phones or laptops,” said a source. Sources said the scheme would leave an additional burden of about Rs 350 crore on the state exchequer. According to school education department sources, tenders would be floated to buy tabs and computers. “The chief minister wants to complete the project at the earliest so that the students can attend some classes before the exams. If the exams are held in May-June, we will try to ensure that online classes start by the end of January,” said another official. The initiative by the chief minister also holds political significance as many of the examinees would turn 18 and become first-time voters. “The ruling party will surely benefit if the roll-out of the scheme is handled properly,” said a source. But distribution of tabs alone cannot solve their problems, said a school headmaster. “A majority of the students of these schools are from rural areas and belong to low-income groups... It is still not clear whether they would be given Internet. If internet connection is not provided to the poor students, a large number of them could be left out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Dearness allowance back, 3% of enhanced salary||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a 3 per cent dearness allowance for nearly 8 lakh government employees and staff of government-aided institutions like schools, panchayats and municipalities from January 1, next year. “Despite the fact that we are facing financial distress as the Centre is not releasing funds under various heads, including GST compensations, we announce a 3 per cent DA to the employees from January 1, 2021. It should be remembered that we are giving a fresh installment of DA at a time the Centre has frozen DA for two years,” the chief minister said while addressing representatives of Trinamul-led state government employees union at Nabanna on Thursday. The 3 per cent DA is expected to give the majority of state government employees monthly hikes ranging between Rs 1,200 and Rs 2,000. The DA is estimated to cost the state exchequer Rs 2,200 crore a year. The chief minister’s announcement practically resurrects the dearness allowance, which was merged with the basic salary under a new pay scale that came into effect from January 1, 2020. Along with other benefits, the basic salary had gone up by 2.57 times under the pay scale that was recommended by the sixth pay commission. From January 1, 2021, the beneficiaries will get DA amounting to 3 per cent of the merged and enhanced salary. “So, the 3 per cent DA under the new pay scale is equivalent to almost 8 per cent DA under the previous pay scale,” said an official. A section of the employees, however, said 3 per cent DA would not be of great help for them as their due DA was not cleared for several years. Some employees said even after the fresh instalment, they would lag behind their central counterparts by 14 per cent. The central government employees get 17 per cent DA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Land papers not needed for dole application in Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said land documents would no longer be required to apply for financial assistance under the state government-run Krishak Bandhu scheme and the dole could be given based on farmer’s self-declaration of the plot’s ownership. Under the scheme, farmers across the state are offered Rs 5,000 per an acre annually. So far, nearly 45 lakh of a total of 72 lakh farmers in the state have been enrolled in the scheme. “The farmers are facing trouble in obtaining mutation certificates (which establish one’s ownership of land) on time and getting enrolled under Krishak Bandhu. I have asked the chief secretary to enrol farmers based on self-declarations. We want to bring all farmers under the scheme,” the chief minister said. Mamata said the state would start giving financial assistance to farmers — irrespective of their ability to prove land ownership — based on their self-declarations. She added in case it was found they submitted false declarations, they could be asked to pay a penalty. According to sources, the chief minister initiated the step primarily for two reasons. First, she wanted to counter the BJP’s propaganda that the Bengal government was denying farmers PM-Kisan, a similar central scheme, by not implementing it in the state “To counter the allegation, the chief minister has to ensure that all 72 lakh farmers in Bengal get the benefit of the state’s scheme. The relaxation will surely help the government achieve the target,” said a bureaucrat. Another reason, sources said, is to send out a message to the farmers’ community in the state that Mamata’s government is more farmer-friendly than the Narendra Modi dispensation. “The chief minister is protesting against the farm laws and also showing that she is sensitive to the problems faced by farmers,” said a source. Mamata’s initiative to make the farmers’ unrest an issue in the state was apparent on Thursday morning when she put out a tweet demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. “I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills,” the chief minister tweeted. In another tweet, Mamata said she would convene a meeting of her party leaders on the farm laws, dropping a hint that she was preparing to launch big scale agitation to mount pressure on the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||RT-PCR test becomes cheaper in Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday capped the cost of RT-PCR testing for Covid-19 at Rs 950 in Bengal’s private facilities, down from the existing Rs 1,500. “The state now has 95 laboratories approved by the Centre for Covid-19 testing, of which 45 — state-run and private — conduct tests using RT-PCR,” a minister said. Covid-19 testing by the RT-PCR method fell from the initial Rs 4,000-plus to Rs 2,250 in June, Rs 1,500 in October and Rs 950 now, he said. On Thursday, the state reported 44,130 tests, taking the total to 60.03 lakh, at 66,699 tests per million people. Bengal logged 3,257 recoveries, 3,246 new infections and 49 deaths, 12 from Calcutta. The state has 24,106 active cases in all, having fallen by 13,084 since Dashami on October 26, a continuous dip since 38 days. During these 38 days, Bengal reported over 1.5 lakh recoveries and 1.39 lakh new infections. The state now has a total of over 4.93 lakh infections, which includes over 4.6 lakh recoveries and 8,576 deaths. The recovery rate, rising for 42 consecutive days, rose to 93.38, closer to the national rate of 94.18 per cent. The state’s mortality rate improved to 1.73, but is still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of Bengal’s total toll, 7,180, or 83.7 per cent comorbid deaths. The state reported 26.05 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.03 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Locked Malda school building reduced to rubble||An old primary school building in Malda town has reduced to rubble overnight, much to the concern of residents and officials of the district education department. The Chhatra Bondhu Primary School in Kalitala under ward 10 of the town is run by the District Primary School Council (DPSC), founded in 1969, has a campus spread over some 1,500 square feet, 40-odd students and two lady teachers. Like thousands of other academic institutions of the state, the school was closed since the middle of March this year amid the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown. On Thursday, residents of Kalitala were surprised to see that the school building — with concrete walls and a roof of earthen tiles — was no longer there and debris was strewn all over the premises. The “mysterious disappearance” of the building led to a hue and cry, prompting former minister and local ward coordinator Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury to rush to the spot. The school, residents said, is barely 30 metres from Choudhury’s Trinamul party office. Choudhury called up Suniti Sapui, district inspector of schools (primary) and told him about the building. Sapui, after a site inspection, filed a complaint at Englishbazar police station.  “We have asked the police to find out how the building got dismantled. Our senior officials have been told,” he said. Choudhury, the most prominent Trinamul leader of the area, said he did not suspect foul play. “The building was in a deplorable shape. It seems  Amphan further weakened it and the building collapsed on its own. I do not think there is any foul play. Arrangements have been made to clear the debris as there is information that the building, under lock and key for months, has turned into a pit of snakes,” he said. Administrative officials are not ready to buy the theory. Though Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate, denied making any comment, administrative sources revealed they sought a quick report from the police. “The building may be old but there is no reason to believe it fell on its own. We suspect that it was deliberately demolished with some other interest. Police are probing and we hope the truth is out soon,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal rally versus Binay rally on Sunday||Leaders of the two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, both allies of the ruling Trinamul, will hold two separate show-of-strength rallies on Sunday. The twin rallies to be held at venues 80km from each other have suddenly raised the political temperature in north Bengal and sent the administration into a tizzy. While Bimal Gurung will address his first public meeting after a gap of three-and-a-half-years at the Indira Gandhi Maidan in Siliguri, the rival Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha will observe the foundation day of the party’s youth wing at Jamuni in Takvar of Darjeeling, an area considered to be Gurung’s bastion. “Hundreds of vehicles carrying supporters of both camps will be criss-crossing the hills and the plains... There is a major law-and-order concern for us,” said a senior police officer. Multiple sources said that the apprehension of a face-off comes from the intense competition between the two camps to prove their supremacy in the hill politics. “Both are allied to Trinamul and so it is likely that each faction will try to prove that it is more powerful than the other in north Bengal politics,” said a source. Earlier, the Gurung faction was supposed to hold the public meeting at Baghajatin Park, a ground in the heart of Siliguri. However, leaders of the faction later decided to shift the venue to Indira Maidan and said there would be huge turnout of party supporters from the hills, Terai and the Dooars and thus needed a larger ground. On Thursday, Bishal Chhetri, a vice-president of the central committee of the Morcha (Gurung camp), visited the ground. “Our president Bimalji (Gurung) will reach Siliguri on Sunday and will address a public meeting at Indira Gandhi Maidan here. We expect over one lakh supporters at the venue to listen to him,” said Chhetri. Back in May 2008, Gurung had addressed a similar public rally at the same venue. The Morcha leader, Chhetri hinted, will continue to stay in north Bengal to monitor the party's activities in the coming days. Leaders of the Tamang faction, when asked whether their rally was in response to Gurung’s first public appearance after a long gap, said theirs was an independent event that had nothing to do with the Gurung show. “Our event has nothing to do with Bimal Gurung’s event in Siliguri. We will observe the foundation day of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha Yuwa Morcha on Sunday,” said a leader from the Tamang camp. Ahead of the meetings, the administration is trying to make elaborate arrangements to ensure that there are no major law-and-order problems. “There is tremendous animosity between the two camps... There are genuine reasons to be worried. We are taking all precautions,” said a police source. According to him, the police are contacting the leaders of both the camps to diffuse tension ahead of the rallies. “Separate routes for participants of the two rallies are also being worked out,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
04-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, CPM offices attacked, BJP blamed||A couple of party offices of the Trinamul Congress and the CPM were ransacked in Hooghly’s Arambagh late on Wednesday night, bringing rivals on the same page with leaders of both accusing the BJP of the attacks. Along with the offices, a gram panchayat office was also ransacked in the attack. Sources said unidentified persons ransacked a Trinamul party office in Gourhati and damaged furniture late on Wednesday. They tore party flags and posters with pictures of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and ransacked the Trinamul-run Gourhati-II gram panchayat office. “The BJP is losing its support in Arambagh and that's why it chose to attack our party office and gram panchayat office. We have filed an FIR,” said Palash Roy, Trinamul block president in Arambagh. All-India president of the Trinamul Youth Congress Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to visit Arambagh on December 10 for a mass rally, Roy added. The goons went on to attack the CPM area committee office at Dongol More. The door of the office was damaged and 100 party flags were destroyed. The CPM branch office at Gourhati More was also ransacked. Local CPM leaders said the saffron camp was angry with the Left for leading the farmers’ movement against the Narendra Modi government in Delhi. “The success of the November 26 strike and the farmers' movement in Delhi have angered the BJP and they vented their ire at our party offices,” said Samir Bera a CPM leader in Arambagh. Though Bera accused the BJP directly, Purnendu Chatterjee, CPM area committee secretary in Arambagh, said: “We filed complaints against unidentified goons for the attacks but we cannot rule out the BJP’s presence." The BJP denied both allegations. “There is no reason to attack CPM party offices as the party has no impact in this area. Attack on the Trinamul office is result of its own infighting,” said BJP's Arambagh unit president Biman Ghosh. Responding to the complaints lodged by two political parties, police rushed to the area and a police officer said they were keeping an eye on such incidents in the run-up to state polls. “We have started a probe and will arrest those involved in the attacks,” said Arambagh SDPO Abhishek Mandal. These apart, a Trinamul party office in village Bankra of North 24-Parganas’ Hingalganj police station area was ransacked on Wednesday night. Local Trinamul leaders found on Thursday morning that the party office and a few shops were ransacked. Police have been informed. In West Burdwan’s Kanksa and Andal, tension erupted between Trinamul and BJP workers over capturing walls for graffiti. A group of Trinamul workers stopped BJP workers from writing graffiti on walls in Madanpur village of Andal, Trinamul workers saying they had already "marked" them as theirs. This led to a minor clash. In Bishnupur village of Kanksa, the BJP said walls marked “BJP” had been captured by Trinamul workers. Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
