05-12-2020||West Bengal||MLA murder: Mukul Roy named in supplementary charge sheet||BJP national vice president Mukul Roy has been named in a supplementary charge sheet filed by the West Bengal CID in connection with the murder of TMC MLA from Krishnaganj, Satyajit Biswas, sources said. The supplementary charge sheet was filed in a court in Nadia district on Saturday afternoon, they said. "Roy's active involvement, primarily as a conspirator in the killing of Biswas was found during the investigation," they said. CID sleuths had, earlier, questioned the BJP leader in this connection. However, the state agency did not name him in its first charge sheet filed in May last year. When contacted, Roy rubbished the charges and said that he had never believed in politics of violence. "At least 45 cases are pending against me. I do not believe in politics of violence and never indulge in such things. I challenge Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is also the police minister to say in the public that I have such kind of taste. "I was not involved in such things when I was with her party and not even now when I am a member of another political party," Roy told news agency PTI. CID sleuths had also named BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar in another supplementary chargesheet filed in September this year in connection with the case. Biswas, the state's ruling party MLA, was shot dead during a Saraswati Puja programme in Nadia district in February 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||State plea for north Bengal trains||A senior state bureaucrat has written to the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), requesting immediate resumption of intercity express trains in north Bengal that were stopped amid the pandemic-induced lockdown. On December 2, Rajesh Kumar Sinha, secretary of state transport department, sent the letter to NFR general manager, saying that commercial activities were slowly progressing towards normality in the region, and trade bodies had repeatedly appealed for the resumption of local train services. “The Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industry, North Bengal, requested the state government to take necessary steps for resumption of the intercity express train services in north Bengal, as the economic activities across north Bengal are gradually becoming normal. In this connection, I am to request you to let us know the views of the railway authority at the earliest for taking further necessary action from our end,” Sinha’s letter reads. In Calcutta and some other parts of south Bengal, the railways have resumed suburban passenger services from November 11 and non-suburban local passenger trains from December 2. Traders are keeping their fingers crossed. “Traders of this region are largely dependent on Siliguri. The Centre has already relaxed the lockdown in different sectors to encourage economic activities. If local passenger and express trains are restored, it will benefit the traders spread across north Bengal,” said Biswajit Das, the secretary of the Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “We appreciate that the state has immediately responded after receiving our appeal. We hope the railways make a decision now,” Das added. Before the outbreak of the pandemic, around 2.5 lakh passengers used to travel in these trains every day, said sources. Without them, commuters have to spend more time, money and effort to reach their destinations. According to sources, over 80 pairs of passenger trains and another 60 pairs of DEMU rakes run in north Bengal. While some are routed through the Dooars and several districts, there are local trains to destinations in lower Assam and Katihar in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal tea belt wage hike chant grows louder||The state’s delay in fixing minimum wages and lack of a tripartite wage agreement for annual increment have prompted Bengal tea workers to demand an immediate revision in their wages. In all, around three lakh workers serve in the tea industry. Apart from them, around 10,000-odd staff and sub-staff who work in the industry have also demanded revision of their salaries. “The workers have pointed out that had there been a three-year agreement (for increment) in 2017 (when the last agreement expired), it would have ended in 2020. They want a new agreement in force after tripartite talks unless the minimum wage rate is fixed,” said Alok Chakraborty, the president of Intuc–affiliated National Union of Plantation Workers. The demand has come as a fresh poser for Trinamul ahead of Bengal elections due in less than six months. That the demand is gaining ground in the tea belt has been perceived by Trinamul leaders. State labour minister and party leader Moloy Ghatak, who was in Alipurduar district on Friday, asserted in a public meeting organised by the party that the state would soon take appropriate steps in this regard. “We want to assure the tea workers and their families that the state government will take all steps during next couple of months for revision of wage rates,” said Ghatak at the meeting. Like its political contenders, Trinamul too is eyeing the Assembly seats of north Bengal, among which results of some 15 seats are decided by the tea population. A senior tea trade union leader based in the Dooars said it was necessary for the state government to take the initiative and see that the wage rate is revised ahead of Bengal elections. “Mamata Banerjee is trying to woo the tea population by expediting the implementation of the tea worker housing scheme but wage revision is an equally important issue,” he said. In the tea industry, wage rate is determined on the basis of tripartite talks and agreement signed for a period of three years. The last wage agreement was signed in 2015 (with retrospective effect from April 1, 2014) and expired on March 31, 2017. In 2015, the state also formed a committee of stakeholders and government officials to recommend the minimum wage rate to the government, which was a longstanding demand of the industry. In 2017, a tea worker used to earn Rs 132.50 a day. However, as no decision was reached on minimum wage, the demand to revise wage rate was raised, and eventually the state announced two interim hikes in 2018. Unlike earlier years, no agreement was signed this time. Also, as the state started supplying food grain at subsidised rates to tea workers and planters could make some savings from it, it was agreed that an amount would be added to the daily wage rate as a cash component of the ration. In all, the daily wage rate increased to Rs 176 in October 2018. The rate is the same even now, in 2020-end. Now that two years have passed after the last revision and no decision has been reached on the minimum wage, the workers want another hike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Elephant dead in western Dooars, finger at live wire||A wild elephant that strayed into the plantation of a tea estate in western Dooars was found dead on Friday morning, with electrocution suspected as the cause. Though autopsy report is awaited, it seems the elephant died after touching a power cable dangling from an electric pole in the garden. Foresters recovered the carcass and accused the tea garden management of carelessness. The carcass was discovered by some residents of Haldibari tea estate near Banarhat and under Dhupguri lock of Jalpaiguri district. They informed the manager-level personnel who in turn informed foresters. Soon, a team from the wildlife squad in Binnaguri went to the spot. The area was cordoned off and an excavator pressed to remove the elephant carcass amid hundreds of curious onlookers. “We have found a live wire dangling nearby and suspect that the elephant came in contact with it. The management should be more careful as power cables pass through the garden and a snapped wire can lead to human and animal deaths or injuries. We are waiting for the elephant’s post-mortem report,” said a forester. A team from WBSEDCL also visited the site. An inquiry and necessary repairs would be done, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Collapsed building in Malda gets political hue||The “disappearance” of a primary school building in Malda town turned into a political issue within 24 hours of the matter coming to light. While former minister and Trinamul leader Krishnendu Choudhury, whose party office is near the school, reiterated that the building collapsed on its own because of lack of proper maintenance, parties in the Opposition suspect the hand of real estate developers behind the building being reduced to rubble overnight. On Thursday morning, residents saw the building of the state-aided primary school in Kalitala area reduced to a pile of debris. The school, closed since March like others amid the pandemic, has 40 students and two teachers. An official of the district education department visited the spot and filed a complaint with the police, seeking a probe. On Friday, Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a state BJP leader, went to the site and spoke to residents. “We fail to understand how a school building can turn into rubble overnight. The residents with whom I spoke fumbled, which raised our suspicions. In Malda, the highhandedness of some real estate developers is nothing new. Even water bodies have been rampantly filled to raise buildings. The administration and the police should come out clearly on how the school building vanished,” said Sreerupa. Left leaders of the district also sought a proper inquiry. Ambar Mitra, the district CPM secretary, said the school was there for the past 51 years and that even if the building was old, why were no steps taken for its repair by the district education department. “There is information that the district inspector of primary schools (Suniti Sapui) who filed a police complaint on Thursday is trying to underplay the issue now. It would be his mistake if he thinks that the issue will subside,” he said. Sapui denied to comment on the issue on Friday. Trinamul’s Choudhury, however, said that the building had collapsed on its own. “Even the polling booth in the school was shifted a few years ago because the building was dilapidated,” the former minister said. Malda district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra said they asked for all official records of the school and were waiting for the police report too. “If it is found that the building did not collapse on its own but was dismantled, the administration will take appropriate steps,” said Mitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Duare Sarkar steps up to reduce crowds at camps||The Bengal government has taken the ongoing Duare Sarkar programme literally on the doorsteps of beneficiaries in many south Bengal districts through grassroots workers to reduce crowding at camps in view of Covid-19. Workers of ASHA (accredited social health activists), members of women self-help groups and panchayat level employees at East Burdwan, Birbhum and Bankura have been asked to visit homes to distribute application forms for a slew of government schemes under the Duare Sarkar programme, and help people fill them up too. Sources said the decision to distribute forms on doorsteps was taken as it was found that people had to queue up twice, first to collect forms and then submit filled-up ones. An official said apart from reducing crowds at camps, the move will also speed up the applications process. The effort is significant as a Duare Sarkar camp had to be suspended at Barasat in North 24-Parganas on Friday because of huge crowding, not advisable amid the pandemic. “Efforts are on to distribute forms at homes to avoid big queues at camps amid the pandemic. It will help in faster clearance of forms at the camps too,” said a senior district official in Birbhum. The state government’s two-month Duare Sarkar, launched on December 1, aims to host over 13,000 camps across Bengal to include left-out beneficiaries under its flagship schemes. Nearly 10 lakh people have attended 750 camps in first three days. Most beneficiaries had queued up to find out about the free health insurance or Swasthya Sathi scheme. “We have already fielded our ASHA workers to visit households and distribute forms. As most people want to enrol themselves under Swasthya Sathi scheme, we have provided field workers with enough forms,” said Enaur Rahaman, the East Burdwan district magistrate. An ASHA worker who went to distribute forms in a village on Burdwan outskirts said: “The move has been welcomed by people as they no longer need to stand in long queues to collect forms. We are also helping many to fill up forms.” In an effort to decentralise the form distribution process, ration dealers have also been roped in the process in districts such Birbhum and Bankura. Ration dealers have been asked to keep forms for the Khadya Sathi scheme and distribute them to those who need it. “As the goal of Duare Sarkar is to cover everyone under government schemes, distribution of forms on the doorstep will help people to visit camps only to submit filled-up applications. In the case of Khadya Sathi scheme, people can submit their forms at ration shops,” said Vijay Bharti, the Birbhum district magistrate. “We are also trying to organise additional camps where the turnout is huge,” Bharti added. The effort is also being carried out in Jungle Mahal districts such as Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram where many people have very little idea about government schemes. “ASHA workers are visiting households in remote areas of our district with forms and helping people to fill them up,” said Bankura district magistrate S. Arun Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s task for Suvendu’s dad||Mamata Banerjee on Friday urged her party’s Contai MP Sisir Adhikari, who is  Suvendu Adhikari’s father, to weed out those allegedly engaged in anti-party activities. At Mamata’s virtual internal party meeting with the top tier of the leadership, district unit chiefs, MPs and MLAs, sources said she gave a lot of importance to the Contai MP. Earlier, there were speculations on whether the 79-year-old MP, who is also a party vice-president and its East Midnapore chief, would attend the meeting, given Trinamul’s growing distance from his son. But not only did Adhikari Senior attend the meeting, he also came across as “amicable and amenable”. “In her inimitable style, she (Mamata) entrusted Sisirda with the task of getting rid of those involved in anti-party activities in East Midnapore. This was to everyone’s surprise, including Sisirda’s. But he responded with enthusiasm,” said a minister, adding that Mamata did not take the Nandigram MLA’s name. “She mentioned places like Nandigram, Haldia, Contai, Nandakumar and Ramnagar. She asked Sisirda to work with (Trinamul state president Subrata) Bakshi to ensure loyalists are posted as replacements,” the minister added. The patriarch of the Adhikari clan, a Rajya Sabha member said, has apparently kept a distance from his 49-year-old son’s activities in recent times and has been responding favourably to every outreach from Trinamul. “Sisirda is almost as inscrutable as Suvendu. But he seems earnest in his assertions that he does not want his son to leave the party,” said the Rajya Sabha member. At the meeting, Mamata also stressed the need for an “upright backbone” and the importance of courage against the BJP’s “manipulative” politics. “They (the BJP) are at it again, with their manipulative politics, misusing (central probe) agencies to scare people. Those who cannot overcome their fears are free to leave. For every such departure, we will bring up one lakh others…. I need people with an upright backbone,” she was quoted as saying. Mamata also said she had four generations of leadership prepared to lead the state long after her generation. Getting emotal, she said some “within” were looking forward to her death. “What can I say… some from within want to see me dead so that they can attain the post. What can I do? My death is not in my hands, but in the hands of god,” a source quoted her as saying. The source said that on hearing this, Bakshi “broke down”. “Bakshi got really emotional, he was almost inconsolable…. He kept saying she needs to live a long, healthy life, for the sake of Bengal. She calmed him down,” he said. Clarity on the Nandigram MLA’s political future remained elusive. He is likely to clear his stand over a news meet on Sunday. But a source close to the Nandigram MLA said that irrespective of what was being said publicly, the state government and the party are “clearly trying to give dada (Suvendu Adhikari) the message that they want him to stay”. He cited instances such as the transfer of IPS officer Sunil Kumar Yadav, against whom Adhikari allegedly had grievances, from the post of East Midnapore SP on Friday. Yadav was replaced by Praween Prakash. Also, last month, IAS officer Vibhu Goel, whom the former minister “likes”, was brought in as the district magistrate of East Midnapore. A south Bengal MLA said Adhikari would be in Calcutta for a slew of meetings with key loyalists on Friday and might meet a senior BJP leader too. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Keep going till laws go: Mamata to farmers||Mamata Banerjee on Friday sent a Trinamul delegation to the massive farmer agitation underway at Delhi-Haryana’s Singhu border, and spoke to farmers over phone to laud their movement against the Centre’s farm laws, urging them not to retreat till the “anti-people” laws are revoked. Her party’s Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien, who went to the Singhu border, spent four hours interacting with groups of farmers. O’Brien also used his phone to connect them to Mamata for interactions. “Do not retreat, do not withdraw your agitation till they repeal these anti-people, anti-farmer laws,” she urged protesters on phone. Referring to her own 26-day hunger strike during the Singur anti-land acquisition movement — which began on this day, 14 years ago — Mamata told farmers she was aware of their sentiments. “Your movement is our movement, it is India’s movement, a movement of all its people. Any help you need from us, from Bengal, just name it…. We are also beginning our own programmes in support of your movement. If you want, we can send our people to join you there,” said Mamata during one of the calls on the speaker phone. On Saturday, she is likely to interact with the Badal family and others in the senior leadership of the Shiromani Akali Dal of Punjab. The Punjab-based party had, till the controversial farm laws were passed, been a BJP ally for decades. Supporting the movement, Mamata has instructed her party to carry out a slew of events this month, including a three-day dharna at the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road in Calcutta, which she would attend. “So many laws they (the BJP-led Centre) made or changed, forcefully. They think they can get away with anything… with selling off the entire nation. We do not want to let (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji sell off the nation. A country cannot go on like this,” she told protesters on phone. Mamata thanked farmers for stepping up, asserting they were on the verge of making history. “It is imperative for all of us to work together to protect India. The India of farmers, the India of workers, the India of the youth, the India of mothers and sisters…. Your movement has unconditional support from us. It is destined to succeed,” she said, to cheers from the protesters. Sources in her party said the chief minister sees in the issue and protests, an opportunity to politically corner the BJP and its government in the Centre after the Covid-19 pandemic brought the nationwide protests against the citizenship matrix to a grinding halt. “She senses the possibility of a historic retreat by the BJP in this case, which she believes would be pivotal not only in national politics but also Bengal, with months left before the crucial Assembly polls,” said a Trinamul MP. Earlier in the day, she also tweeted a statement of support with the hashtag #StandWithFarmers, and reminded people of her 26-day hunger strike 14 years ago starting on December 4 against forcible acquisition of farmland. “14 years ago on 4 Dec 2006, I began my 26 day hunger strike in Kolkata demanding that agricultural land cannot be forcefully acquired,” she posted, expressing her “solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by Centre #StandWithFarmers”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
05-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to hold rallies against farm laws||Mamata Banerjee will hold a “mega rally” in Calcutta on December 10 and other programmes across Bengal to protest against the Narendra Modi government’s new farm laws and hold amendment to the Essential Commodities Act responsible for recent rise in the price of potato. The Bengal chief minister met her senior colleagues in the Trinamul Congress on Friday to draw up a roadmap on how to make the farm laws an issue in the state at a time the Centre seemed to be clearly on the backfoot because of the continuing protest by farmers on the borders of New Delhi. “After deliberations (in Trinamul), it was decided that the focus of the protests in Bengal would be on amendment to the Essential Commodities Act. Didi herself will launch the state-wide agitation from Midnapore on December 7. She also plans to hold rallies in Bongaon on December 9, in addition to a mega rally in Calcutta on December 10,” said a Trinamul leader. The fact that the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act would be the main point of the movement was clear on Friday morning when Trinamul MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar held the changes responsible for spiralling prices of potato and onion. Sources close to the chief minister have said it is a tactful move to identify the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act to build up the agitation as it has relevance in case of Bengal and people — even non-farming community — can understand its impact. A senior agriculture department officer said the state government had lost two important tools to contain prices because of the amendment. First, it can no longer conduct raids against hoarding of essential commodities like potatoes. Second, the government cannot curb movement of the commodities to other states. “The result was visible from October. Price of potato reached an all time high of Rs 45 a kg in retail markets. As common people felt the immediate pinch of the new farm laws, the chief minister is trying to use it to connect with them,” said the official. The sources also said Mamata was likely to point out during her rallies that the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act did not offer any benefit to the farmers while it left common people in trouble by encouraging the black marketeers. “For example, farmers had sold potato at Rs 10 to Rs 12 a kg in February-March this year. But common people had to buy the produce at Rs 45 in October-November after the new farm laws were introduced. So, only a section of traders and hoarders got the benefit of the new acts,” said a source. The Trinamul leadership, said multiple sources, is of the view that a series of rallies on the issue of rise in the prices of essential commodities would help them create a mood against the farm laws in Bengal, which has not yet witnessed any major protest till now. A source in Trinamul said the party was aware the two other laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act — did not hold much relevance in Bengal, where the established rules of agri business are a bit different. “The farmers of Haryana and Punjab are opposing the laws as they apprehend that the Centre might withdraw the system of offering minimum support price (MSP) for their produce citing that they have been offered a bigger market. But these two laws have little impact in Bengal as farmers in the state are neither dependent on mandis to sell their produce nor are they heavily dependent on the government’s procurement system,” said an official in the agriculture department. According to sources, only about 40 lakh tons of rice out of a total production of about 165 lakh tons are procured by government agencies annually. “So, roughly less than 25 per cent of the 72 lakh farmers can sell off their produce to the government securing MSP. As the majority of farmers, particularly small and marginal farmers, are dependent on the open market to sell their produce, these laws don’t have that much impact in Bengal,” said a source. As rice is the staple food in Bengal and the consumption requirement (158 lakh ton annually) is close to its annual production, farmers can get an average price for their produce throughout the year. “This is the reason why Bengal is historically not dependent on the mandi system to sell their produce to the government,” said an official who handled the responsibility of agriculture and food and supplies departments for years during the Left Front rule. And the law to allow contract farming has also little impact in the state as it was already allowed here a few years ago after farmers’ organisations were allowed to sign contracts with private investors. “Once we can build an opinion against the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, it would help to launch a bigger movement against the Modi government,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-288
