06-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC ‘moral support’ to farmers’ bandh on December 8||Trinamul on Saturday offered its “moral” support to the nationwide strike on December 8 against the Centre’s farm laws after the party’s senior leaders met the Shiromani Akali Dal here. Trinamul MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay said: “There will be moral support from the party, as we are in wholehearted agreement on the issues... But, because as a party our position is anti-bandh, we won’t be out on the streets to enforce one.” “Many events are lined up to back the movement, including protest marches in every block and ward of the state and a three-day dharna in Calcutta, which she (Mamata Banerjee) would participate in, starting December 8,” he added. “Her message is clear...relentless agitations across the country till the laws are repealed. Nothing less.” Bandyopadhyay, his Rajya Sabha counterpart Derek O’Brien and state labour minister Moloy Ghatak hosted a six-member Shiromani Akali Dal delegation, led by senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra, at Trinamul Bhavan. “It began with farmers, but now it is a movement of all. From our beloved chief minister of Bengal Mamata Banerjee, to Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, everyone is sympathetic...,” said Chandumajra. Left-backed protests The Bengal unit of the Left-backed All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) held protests across the state on Saturday against the farm bills. “We ended a three-day event on Saturday. We blocked roads on Thursday and Friday as well. We won’t settle for anything less than revoking the laws,” Amal Halder, state convener of the AIKSCC, said. The rally in Calcutta was joined by people from other outfits including the Joint Forum Against NRC, a common platform of organisations protesting against the new citizenship matrix. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Active Covid cases dip for 40 days on trot||Bengal on Saturday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 40th consecutive day since Dashami on October 26, with 3,207 recoveries, 3,175 new infections and 49 deaths in 24 hours till 9am. Over the 40 days, active cases fell from 37,190 to 23,964, with nearly 1.57 lakh recoveries compared to 1.45 lakh new infections, which a minister called “exemplary at this stage”. Its caseload of over 4.99 lakh infections has 4.67 lakh recoveries and 8,677 deaths. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.73 and recovery rate 93.47 per cent. “In what is a significant improvement, the mortality rate for infected males fell to less than 2 (to 1.99 per cent). That, for infected females, is 1.32 now. Before this 40-day period of turnaround, the rate for males was 2.09, and 1.45 for females,” said the minister. But it is still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the 49 deaths reported on Saturday, 14 were from the city. The total toll includes 7,268 or 83.8 per cent comorbid deaths. The recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 44 consecutive days, rose to a new high of 93.47. The national rate now is 94.33 per cent. “We are looking to end the year with less than 23,000 active cases and a recovery rate of over 95. We are on track to achieve both, at the moment,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. “There might be similar instructions for the Christmas-New Year spell of festivities,” said the minister. On Saturday, the state reported 44,389 tests, taking the total past 60.91 lakh, at 67,685 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.2 per cent now. The state reported 25.27 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.08 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Saradha group owner Sudipta Sen accuses politicians of taking cash||Sudipta Sen, owner of the Saradha group and main accused in the chit fund scam, sent a “prisoner’s petition” to the offices of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee with names of many politicians, including rebel Trinamul leader Suvendu Adhikari, alleging that they took money from him. Sen’s letter, dated December 1, 2020, has been submitted to jail officials, said sources.  Behind bars for seven years, Sen apart from Suvendu Adhikari, took the names of Congress’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty and Biman Bose, and BJP’s Mukul Roy. The petition says: “Respected Sir and respected Madam, I Sudipta Sen owner and director of Saradha Group of companies want to say that there are many influential persons, who have taken huge financial and….(illegible) from me... They include Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury (6cr), Sujan Chakraborty (9cr), Mukul Roy huge amount of money I cannot remember, Subhendu Adhikari (6cr), Biman Bose (2cr) and some other politicians of CPIM, BJP, Congress and TMC…” The petition also requests CBI and police action. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy, who was with Trinamul in 2013 when the Saradha scam broke, called Sen’s statement concocted. “This person is in the custody of state police…I feel the entire thing has been made up.” CPM MLA Chakraborty and state Congress chief Chowdhury separately accused the TMC and said that the ruling party was afraid of the Left-Congress alliance. Chakraborty added that it was “hilarious”  that a person in jail for seven years was coming up with names. Suvendu did not respond to the paper’s calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Bullets, bombs fly in TMC-BJP clash||Political rivalry between the Trinamul and the BJP took a violent turn in West Burdwan’s Barabani on Saturday when supporters of both the sides fought a pitched battle in which bullets were fired and bombs hurled. Six supporters of the saffron camp were injured, including one who suffered a bullet wound. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, who rushed to the Durgapur hospital to meet BJP worker Kalicharan Das who received a bullet wound, demanded President’s rule in Bengal saying: “The state has plunged into lawlessness.” Vijayvargiya also promised a statewide agitation. Ever since the BJP won the Asansol Lok Sabha seat in 2014, both sides have been at loggerheads in a region dominated by coal and sand mafia. On Saturday morning, around 200 BJP activists assembled at Jamgram village in Barabani to take part in BJP’s statewide “Aar Noi Anyay (No More Injustice)” programme, aimed to take on the Mamata Banerjee government’s “Duare Sarkar” (Government on Doorsteps). Aar Noi Anyay is an outreach of the BJP to reach out to more than a crore families with a leaflet highlighting “corruption and lawlessness in Trinamul regime”. “We had plans to carry out our programme peacefully, but Trinamul goons attacked us,” said BJP West Burdwan district chief Lakshman Ghorui. According to him, trouble started around 11am when he reached Jamgram. Suddenly a barrage of stones was hurled at BJP supporters, followed by a volley of crude bombs, Ghorui alleged, adding Trinamul supporters also opened fire. “We called police but they remained silent spectators,” alleged Ghorui. “Kalicharan Das, a BJP activist, received a bullet wound on the chest and is in a hospital in Durgapur.” Sources said BJP workers also retaliated after a while. As both the sides kept attacking each other for over 30 minutes, a large contingent of police led by ACP (West) Manav Singla brought the situation under control. “Investigations are on. No arrests have been made as of now,” said Singla. Trinamul’s Barabani MLA Bidhan Upadhaya blamed the BJP for creating an atmosphere of terror in Bengal. “The incident is a result of BJP’s infighting. We are not involved,” said. Trinamul leader and minister Moloy Ghatak also echoed Upadhaya. Saturday’s incident left the district administration worried as the clash took place at a time when chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit the region on December 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Trinamul bid to get Buddhists on board||Some leaders of a fledgling apolitical umbrella organisation of Buddhists said in the presence of senior Trinamul leaders on Saturday that they would stand by Mamata Banerjee in the state polls. The move, party insiders said, is an attempt to consolidate support for Trinamul from among the community. Around 14 lakh Buddhists reside in north Bengal and their support can help any political party earn an extra edge in a closely contested election. On Saturday, over 5,000 Buddhists, including monks, took out a rally in Siliguri, which ended in Baghajatin Park with a public meeting. The event was hosted by West Bengal Buddhist Cell with help from the refugee cell of Trinamul. A Trinamul leader said some leaders of the refugee cell of the party were instrumental in creating this new platform for Buddhists. “Mamata Banerjee and her government have done a lot for us. She introduced monthly pensions for our lamas (monks), constituted development boards for many hill communities for development among the poor, including Buddhists (who belong to many of these hill communities), and is working for the development of the hills. We want her to be the chief minister again and assert our support to her through this meeting,” said Nima Wangdi, a coordinator of the cell. State ministers Gautam Deb, Aroop Biswas, Rabindranath Ghosh and Binoy Krishna Burman were present. They lauded the decision made by members of the community and criticised what they termed the BJP’s aggressive politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung meeting today after years||Bimal Gurung of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha is likely to address his first public meeting after three-and-a-half years at the Indira Gandhi Maidan here off NH31 on Sunday, while the BJP has lined up a protest march to Uttarkanya, the branch of the state secretariat, on Monday. Gurung, who resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21 this year, is likely to elaborate on his decision to sever ties with the BJP and support Mamata Banerjee. “We are expecting a turnout of over a lakh,” said a leader of the Gurung faction. Roshan Giri, general-secretary of Gurung camp of the Morcha, visited the ground on Saturday to check arrangements and told the media that they would “raise the demand for Gorkhaland till our last breath”. Rival Binay Tamang camp, which had planned a public meeting at Jamuni in Tukvar of Darjeeling on Sunday to celebrate its youth wing foundation day, postponed it to Monday, spokesperson Keshav Raj Pokhrel saying “public safety comes first”, possibly over fears of clashes between rival factions though both now support Trinamul. On Monday, the BJP’s “Uttarkanya Abhijan” will protest the alleged lack of infrastructure development in north Bengal. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, youth front chief Soumitra Khan and others are likely to attend the event along with elected representatives. “Both are important political events. While the public meeting will give an indication about the support that Bimal Gurung has in the region right now, the protest march of BJP is the first major political activity of the party in north Bengal in months,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
06-12-2020||West Bengal||CID files fresh charges on Mukul Roy in MLA murder||The CID on Saturday filed a supplementary chargesheet against BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy before the Ranaghat additional chief judicial magistrate, accusing Roy of conspiracy and murder of Trinamul’s Krishnaganj MLA Satyajit Biswas. Biswas was shot dead near his home on February 9 last year. Roy’s lawyers termed the chargesheet “illegal” as the additional district and sessions judge had earlier issued curbs on any fresh investigation against him. Roy was questioned by the CID in March. Calcutta High Court granted Roy anticipatory bail. In September, the CID also filed a similar chargesheet against BJP’s Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar in the case. Five persons, including Roy, were named in the FIR lodged by Trinamul activist Milan Ghosh. On May 8 last year, the CID filed the first chargesheet with no charges levelled against Roy and Sarkar. Based on it, the additional chief judicial magistrate, Ranaghat, on June 14 discharged them of allegations, which prompted the complainant to file a revision application for further investigation to examine their role. On December 16, the ADSJ set aside the ACJM’s order and allowed a partial investigation restricting any fresh probe against the BJP leaders. Members of the BJP’s legal team alleged that despite the categorical curbs on any further investigation, the CID continued the probe to implicate its party leaders. “While setting aside the ACJM’s order (discharging the allegation), the ADSJ categorically restricted the scope of further investigation in the wake of the revision application. But the CID purposefully ignored it, violating the court order. We will move high court to quash this illegal chargesheet,” said Roy’s counsel Suman Roy. Roy said: “I am not bothered since I have absolute faith in the judiciary.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
06-12-2020||West Bengal||Sisir weeds out son Suvendu's ‘loyalists’||Trinamul Congress’s East Midnapore unit on Saturday began a crackdown on office-bearers said to be close to the rebellious Suvendu Adhikari as a couple of block presidents, including Nandigram’s, were removed by the party’s district chief Sisir Adhikari — Suvendu’s father. The move came a day after Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee entrusted Sisir, the 79-year-old Contai MP and a party vice-president, with the responsibility of replacing office-bearers of the party whom she accused of being engaged in anti-party activities. Trinamul sources said though a list of five leaders had been drawn up, the names of two, Nandigram block president Meghnad Pal and Bhagabanpur-II block president Manab Padua, were announced on Saturday. Sources said early on Saturday phone calls went out from Sisir to Pal and Padua, informing them that they would be replaced. The development came on a day sources said poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC — hired by Trinamul for Bengal elections — asked several party leaders to address news meets to clarify their allegiance to Mamata or Suvendu. Among those who held news meets were town president Biswanath Mahapatra, Nandakumar block president Sukumar Bera, Egra-II president Swarat Khara and Haldia coordinator Anandamay Adhikari. Anandamay said he felt “insulted” that I-PAC asked him to come clean. “These are attempts at widening the divide between Suvendu and Didi,” he said. Suvendu loyalists said they were being made “scapegoats”. “Dada (Suvendu) is still Nandigram MLA, general secretary of the party, part of its seven-member apex steering committee…. We are paying a price for fulfiling our roles and for being seen around him. This isn’t right,” said Pal. “I have done nothing wrong, nor have I liaised outside the party,” he added. Padua virtually echoed him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-287
