07-12-2020||West Bengal||Adhikary kin stays away from Mamata rally in Midnapore||Amid speculations over rebel TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari's next move, his politically influential family gave Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's rally in their stronghold on Monday a miss, prompting her to accuse the BJP of trying to break her party by using "moneybags". Adhikari recently quit as a minister and said it was difficult for him to work with the TMC leadership. A series of talks with interlocutors appointed by Banerjee failed to pacify the leader. Not just Suvendu, but the entire Adhikari family, father Sisir Adhikari and brothers Dibyendu and Soumendu, were conspicuous by their absence. Sisir and Dibyendu Adhikari are TMC MPs from Tamluk and Kanthi Lok Sabha seats and Soumendu is an MLA from East Midnapore. Their loyalists also largely stayed away from the rally. "All TMC MLAs of West Midnapore are present here today. I want to tell those who spread canards against TMC leaders that we are the most honest party. We are not like the BJP which is using its moneybags to dislodge opposition-run governments in states and trying to break opposition parties," Banerjee told the rally. Calling the TMC "a hard nut to crack" that will not surrender before the saffron party, Banerjee, without naming anyone, said she would also not give in to attempts to "blackmail and bargain" her party ahead of the polls. "Those who are corrupt are now joining the BJP. CPI(M) goons now have switched sides and are working as cadres of the BJP," she alleged. Banerjee had recently issued a stern warning to those indulging in anti-party activities and asked TMC leaders in touch with the opposition to quit the ruling party instead of weakening it. The rally at the Midnapore College Ground was held at a time when the rift between the TMC and Suvendu Adhikari has widened. After the failed talks, the TMC had said the rapprochement efforts were a "closed chapter". Adhikari last week organised a rally without the TMC banners and flags at Garbeta in West Midnapore district. The Adhikari family wields influence over at least 40 -45 assembly seats in West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram, parts of Birbhum -- mainly in the Junglemahal region and areas in minority-dominated Murshidabad. Elections to the 294-member Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||2 held with gold bars weighing 1.4kg in South Dinajpur||Acting on a tip-off, police in Gangarampur, South Dinajpur, seized gold bars worth Rs 75 lakh on Saturday, and arrested two persons. “We had information that two persons are illegally carrying gold bars to smuggle it to some other state. Accordingly, we intercepted an SUV at Chowpathi area,” said a police officer. The police searched the vehicle and the duo to recover 12 gold bars weighing 1.4kg. The two arrested are from Mangalpur of Balurghat. On Sunday, both were produced at a court in Gangarampur, which sent them to police custody for 12 days. “We need to find out how they got the gold bars and where they were supposed to deliver the consignment,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||CPM leader Susanta Ghosh returns to Garbeta after nine years||CPM leader Susanta Ghosh returned home at Garbeta in West Midnapore on Sunday after nine years to a rousing welcome by party cadres and villagers. After the Trinamul Congress rode to power in 2011, the former minister was named in the Benachapra skeleton case and arrested. After being jailed for several months, Susanta was granted bail by the Supreme Court on February 3, 2012. The court had granted him bail on the condition that he would not be able to enter his home district of West Midnapore. However, riding a recent Supreme Court order, Susanta on Sunday first returned to Salbani, from where he led a huge rally to Chandrakona, where he was felicitated by party cadres and local leaders at the party office. Addressing a rally in Chandrakona, Susanta said Trinamul had framed him in a false case as part of its political conspiracy. People will give a fitting reply to the conspiracy, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Kidnap finger at job con||A man from village Bindol barely 20km from here was abducted from his office by some unidentified youths on Saturday afternoon. His family members, who filed a complaint at Raiganj police station on Saturday evening, said abductors called up for ransom. Police suspect financial dealings might be the reason for the abduction of Bashu Das, 32, who runs the customer service point (CSP) of a nationalised bank in Bindol under Raiganj block of North Dinajpur. A source said Bashu had taken cash from some youths while promising them jobs through a private agency in Calcutta, but the jobs had not materialised. Bashu’s wife Manisha said her husband was working at his office near their home when the family heard shouts. “As we rushed out, we saw around 10 men dragging my husband to an SUV,” she said. Manisha said that she and her in-laws tried to prevent the youths but failed. Bashu was thrust into the SUV that sped away. Some other residents had also come out of homes and shops. Ajay Burman, an eyewitness, said: “Some of the youths told us to stay away or face consequences.” A video clip of the kidnap suspected to be shot on camera phone surfaced on social media, showing youths forcing a man into an SUV. The Das family received a ransom call from abductors, a source said, but the sum of money was not specified. “The family was told that the youth is safe but also asked to start arranging money without saying how much. Abductors hinted they would make further calls,” said the source. Suraj Thapa, the inspector-in-charge, said probe had started. “We are checking out video footage to identify the youths and the vehicle. Preliminary findings indicate the incident is a fallout of financial dealings,” said Thapa. A police source added: "It seems the youths promised jobs were mounting pressure on Bashu for cash refund.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Birbhum villagers to join coal mine survey team||The Birbhum district administration will form a special committee of local residents from various communities to accompany surveyors in the social impact assessment of the Deocha Pachami coal mine project to ensure that the venture, which recently ran into villager protests, proceeds smoothly. Sources said the decision was taken after survey work for the mega coal mine project — to identify landowners eligible for compensation — stopped with villagers in Saluka village of Mohammedbazar protesting the alleged omission of some families by the surveyors. “We are forming a team of 25 villagers from various communities to help communicate with the survey team and avoid misunderstandings. People will communicate in their own language, including Ol Chiki in tribal pockets, to inform villagers about the motive of the survey,” said Birbhum district magistrate Vijay Bharti. The surveying agency has mostly Hindi-speaking professionals, so language became a barrier. On November 30, some villagers from Saluka and adjoining villages stopped the survey, accusing team members of having land records that were not updated. This, villagers said, left many people outside the survey’s purview. The Bhumi Raksha Committee, formed to protect the rights of villagers and ensure proper compensation for all, halted the survey and said the process would be allowed only once a fresh list was prepared. District officials said many landholders had not updated their records for decades, leaving some people outside the official data that the survey team had. To overcome this hurdle, the administration has started approaching local block level land department offices to update land-related data. “Many landowners have land recorded in the name of their father or grandfather. So far the survey was carried out based on those names. But we have told local officials to update land records as soon as possible,” said a senior official. Now, the administration will mark houses with more than one owner to ensure they are not left out of the survey. District magistrate Bharti explained the process: “We have no problem with those families whose land records are yet to be updated. Suppose there are four families on a plot and land is recorded in the father’s name, we will refer to the plot number and A, B, C and D (as subdivisions). This means the plot number now has four owners.” The Deocha-Pachami coal block spread is over 11,222 acres with coal reserves of around 2.2 billion tonnes in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar. The coal block is so vast that it can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people, sources said. The coal mine will cover around 123 mouzas of Mohammedbazar where mostly tribal residents live. There are pockets with substantial numbers of Muslims too. The social impact survey for the coal mine, touted as a dream project of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has a year-end deadline and the administration wants to complete the process unhindered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP show of strength in Siliguri on Monday||Led by state and national leaders, hundreds of BJP supporters will take part in a protest march here on Monday. Named Uttarkanya Abhiyan — a march to the branch secretariat of the state government on Siliguri’s southern end — this will be the BJP’s first major political activity in the region in recent months. “People across the state will see an important political event in Siliguri on Monday. Many important state leaders will lead the rally and we will make our presence felt again,” said Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a state vice-president of BJP’s Kishan Morcha. Party sources said national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, state party chief Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy and state general secretary Sayantan Basu will attend the march. “It has been decided to bring in Tejasvi Surya as the event would be held under the banner of our youth front. He is likely to reach Siliguri on Monday morning,” a party leader said. Tejasvi is the BJP MP of Bangalore South and the all-India president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. Sources said party leaders in north Bengal districts have been asked to bring in supporters for the rally. Political analysts said that the BJP wants to reassert its strength through this event in north Bengal where it seeks to win 50 of 54 Assembly seats. “Also, there have been new developments, such as the departure of the Bimal Gurung faction as an ally and announcements by various community organisations backing Mamata Banerjee,” said an observer. Monday’s Uttarkanya Abhiyan appears to be the start of political activities in north Bengal till the state elections, he pointed out. The march has also put the police and the administration on alert. Barricades have been readied and additional police forces brought in from other districts, said sources. Congress march The state Congress will also organise a march in Raiganj, an erstwhile bastion of the party, on Monday. “Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will attend the rally that will move through different streets of the town. Many prominent leaders will take part in the march,” said Pabitra Chanda, a district Congress leader. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal|| 4 arrests after TMC-BJP clash in West Burdwan||The police on Sunday have arrested four persons in connection with Saturday’s clash between the BJP and Trinamul following the saffron camp's rally in West Burdwan’s Barabani on Saturday that snowballed into a pitched battle where bombs and bullets flew, and motorbikes were set ablaze. Sources said the four arrested include two each from the BJP and Trinamul. “We have received complaints from both BJP and Trinamul and so far have arrested four persons in connection with the trouble. Investigations are on and more arrests will be made. The situation in Barabani is under control and we have deployed policemen in the area,” said Biswajit Mahato, deputy commissioner of police (west). On Saturday, six BJP supporters were injured, including Kalicharan Das who suffered a bullet wound on his chest and was rushed to a Durgapur hospital during the clash that broke out between the Bengal ruling party and the saffron camp during the BJP’s rally on their Ar Noi Annay (No more injustice) campaign at Jamgram in Barabani block. Doctors at the hospital in Durgapur said the bullet lodged between Das’s heart and abdomen on the left side of his chest could not be removed surgically yet because of his present health status. “We have kept him under observation with medical support. We will try to remove the bullet on Monday,” said a doctor. BJP state secretary and party observer here Raju Banerjee said if attacks on their party activists keep happening they would strike back. “People will uproot Trinamul from the state within a few months (in the elections). If they (Trinamul workers) continue with such violence and attack our party workers we will retaliate,” said Banerjee. Banerjee held two rallies in Durgapur and Asansol on Sunday as part of BJP’s Ar Noi Annay programme, which is pitted against the ruling party’s Duare Sarkar. He later visited Barabani where the clash occurred. Trinamul denied the charges. “The BJP has realised it won’t come to power in Bengal and is frustrated. They are creating trouble on their own and blaming us for publicity. People will oust them from the state,” said Jitendra Kumar Tiwari, Trinamul president in West Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Tribal protest disrupts trains across north Bengal||Thousands from the tribal community walked up to a number of railway stations in the northern and southern parts of Bengal on Sunday to block the tracks and demand Sarna to be recognised as their religion by the Centre ahead of the census survey across the country next year. The rail roko disrupted trains across north Bengal and left thousands, including Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung and government job examinees, stranded. Traffic snapped in some highways as tribal protesters blocked them. In north Bengal, tracks were blocked at Adina station of Malda district and Dalkhola station of neighbouring North Dinajpur districts. For over three hours, trains could not move through these stations on the principal route that connects the region and the Northeast with the rest of the country. “Census will be conducted across India next year. We want our religion code to be recognised ahead of this exercise. So far, we have not been classified as members of a separate religious identity and it is time now that an appropriate decision is made in this regard,” said Durga Murmu, a representative of the Jharkhand Disom Party. Organisations such as Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan, All India Majhi Pargana Mandowa and other tribal groups joined the movement. In south Bengal, Kantadih station along Purulia-Asansol route, Jhankipahari station of Bankura along Purulia-Bankura route, Nalhati station and NH14 in Dubrajpur of Birbhum were affected, said sources. The protests disrupted services of at least six long-distance passenger trains in north Bengal, which include trains bound for New Jalpaiguri, New Alipurduar, Delhi and Calcutta. These trains halted in various stations. “Also, around 15 goods or parcel trains got stranded. Security persons were deployed in all locations to monitor the situation. Things became normal in the afternoon,” said an official of Northeast Frontier Railway. The rail roko caused hundreds of youths who had taken trains to Siliguri to miss reaching exam centres for the West Bengal State Public Service Commission clerk recruitment test. The state government requested the commission to give them a second chance. “GOWB has requested PSC to give an early second opportunity to examinees who have missed the Clerkship Part 2 examination 2019 at Siliguri today because of an unforeseen rail blockade today, whereupon PSF has agreed to do so for those examinees who missed the chance today,” the state home department mentioned in a tweet. The blockade also left Gurung stranded for a few hours. Gurung, who had boarded a train from Calcutta on Saturday to reach Siliguri, got stuck at Azamnagar Road, a station in neighbouring Bihar. He hired a car to reach Siliguri to speak at the public meeting. The Sarna demand, political observers said, gained ground because last month, neighbouring Jharkhand government passed a special resolution in the Assembly on the Sarna religious code. “Through the resolution, a special column in the 2021 census has been sought for Sarna followers who worship nature. Jharkhand’s move has bolstered the confidence of Bengal’s tribal population,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
07-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP signal to pro-CAA camp||BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said on Sunday that the Centre might implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act from next month to confer citizenship on a large section of refugees living in Bengal. “Most probably, from January, the process of providing citizenship would begin,” he told journalists here amid increasing discontent within certain sections deemed pro-BJP over the delay in the law’s implementation. “The Centre has honest intentions on the citizenship issue and introduced the act to help the religiously persecuted people (although only from India’s Muslim-majority neighbours) take refuge in our country. But the Trinamul Congress and some other parties have been misleading the people,” said Vijayvargiya. Members of the Matua community — deemed to have sided with the BJP in the general election last year — welcomed the announcement. “This is a great move. The Matuas have been eagerly waiting for its implementation and a permanent settlement of their citizenship issue for a long time,” said the BJP’s Bongaon MP and All India Matua Mahasangha chief Santanu Thakur. Nadda visit Sources in the BJP said its national president J.P. Nadda would arrive in Calcutta on December 9, instead of December 8. Nadda would participate in an outreach programme in the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency represented by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He will also visit the Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency represented by her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
07-12-2020||West Bengal||5 lakh Covid cases, 23,894 active ones||Bengal on Sunday logged a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 41st consecutive day, with a fall of 13,296 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 to 23,894 now. Also, Bengal’s recovery rate is 93.51 now, in an unbroken spell of rise for 45 consecutive days, since 87.44 recorded October 22, and inching closer to the national rate of 94.43 per cent. Taken together, the data show that much of the damage from the rapid spike in infections before Durga Puja has been undone. The state on Sunday reported 3,167 recoveries, 3,143 new infections and 46 deaths. Ten of the deaths were reported from Calcutta. Bengal’s total Covid-19 cases — 264 days since the first was detected on March 17 — went past 5 lakh to touch nearly 5.03 lakh, but the number includes 4.7 lakh recoveries and 8,723 deaths. The latest 50,000 cases were detected in 15 days, 4.5 lakh cases being reported on November 21. Prior to this, the state had logged its first 5,000 cases on May 30, 10,000 on June 12, 50,000 on July 23, 1 lakh on August 11, 2 lakh on September 13, 3 lakh on October 13, 3.5 lakh on October 26 and 4 lakh on November 7. “Yes, the total (caseload) is over 5 lakh now, but one must always remember it includes 4.7 lakh recoveries (and 8,723 deaths),” said a minister. “Also, the latest 50,000 infections took 15 days, compared to 14 and 12 days just before this.” In the 41 days since Dashami, Bengal recorded over 1.6 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.49 lakh cases found. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent overcrowding and worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The number of infections during festivals in October-November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. Similar instructions are likely during Christmas. However, the state’s mortality rate is 1.73, still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the total toll in Bengal, 7,307 deaths, or 83.8 per cent, have been attributed to comorbidities. With 44,186 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 61.35 lakh, at 68,176 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.2 per cent. The state reported 24.88 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.11 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung raps BJP, stands by Gorkhaland demand||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung, in his first public address on Sunday after three-and-a-half years, went after the BJP but simultaneously underscored that he had not softened his stand on statehood. “We will teach a lesson to  the BJP in the coming Assembly elections here and make them struggle for each vote in the hills, Terai, Dooars and across north Bengal. They (BJP) did politics by using us as pawns. Also, let me be clear that we will never deviate from our demand for Gorkhaland,” said Gurung to a crowd of 40,000-odd people at the Indira Gandhi Maidan here. The Morcha leader spoke on what made him extend his support to Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress. Mamata assured him of looking into the issue of a permanent political solution for the hills, Gurung claimed. “I have spoken to the chief minister on the issue. She has assured me that she is committed to bringing a permanent solution for the hills. I thank her because it is for her that I could come to this meeting. We will put all efforts to ensure that her party wins maximum number of seats in north Bengal,” said Gurung. He repeatedly fumed at the BJP, the party that he had allied with since 2009, and said Darjeeling MP Raju Bista  should resign. “We made him win the parliamentary election with a margin of lakhs of votes. But now we want to say the time has come to close his chapter. He should submit his resignation (as MP). This MP and his party did nothing to address our principal demand or the demand to confer Scheduled Tribe status on 11 hill communities,” Gurung said. At the meeting venue, a steady hum of “Gorkhaland” was witnessed throughout the day, whether in the songs played to entertain the crowd, or in recurring slogans chanted by leaders or in remarks made by leaders including Gurung or in crowd reactions. Political observers said Gurung and his associates want to send a message to their supporters that they had not softened their stand on Gorkhaland. “They also want to drive home the point that the decision to support Trinamul, a party that is completely against Gorkhaland, is a political move to defeat the BJP and that they still demand Gorkhaland,” said an observer. Gurung did not spare the other faction of Morcha headed by Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, and alleged corruption in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. In GTA, only 30 per cent of funds is being used for projects while the remaining 70 per cent is siphoned, he alleged. “There are two persons who have said that I need their permission to enter the hills. Who are they to make such comments? If I want, I can ascend to the hills tomorrow or the day after,” he remarked. The Morcha leader asserted that in another seven days, he would hold a public meeting in Darjeeling and in all will address around 20 meetings in hills and adjoining foothills. Gurung’s remarks indicate that he has drawn up a plan to revive his support base in the hills, Terai and the Dooars. Observers said both factions of Morcha are competing to prove to Trinamul that each has a larger support base than the other. The Tamang camp announced a public meeting in Sukna, some 10km from here, on December 13. “It would be interesting to see how these two factions plan strategies to prevent the other side from drawing the maximum support,” said a veteran in hill politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
07-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata set for rally on Suvendu’s turf||Mamata Banerjee reached Midnapore on Sunday evening on the eve of her “mega” rally billed as her show of strength on the home turf of rebellious party colleague Suvendu Adhikari. The chief minister is likely to take the dais at College Ground around 12.30pm on Monday. The party leadership has been working hard to ensure a 1.5-lakh-plus turnout. “This is now a major prestige issue. Midnapore is a bastion of the Adhikari clan. The show of strength will not only be crowd-wise, but also on the dais. Whoever doesn’t turn up will be identified as having sided with Suvendu,” said a Trinamul MP. Nandigram MLA Adhikari claims influence across Bengal, but his core strength lies in East and West Midnapore. Of the 31 Assembly seats between the two districts, Trinamul holds 27 (excluding the party’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das, who died of Covid-19). Of them, at least 15 MLAs are said to be close to Adhikari. The Trinamul MP did the math. “We know Suvendu won’t be present. Patashpur MLA Jyotirmoy Kar has Covid-19. Contai South MLA Chandrima Bhattacharya is on a party assignment in north Bengal. The Egra MLA is no more. That leaves possible 24 attendees,” said the MP. “We do not think we will see Contai North MLA Banasri Maity, Khejuri MLA Ranajit Mondal, Moyna MLA Sangram Dolui, Ghatal MLA Shankar Dolai, Keshiari MLA Paresh Murmu….The others, we’re keen to find out,” he added. Adhikari’s clan, associated with Trinamul, are also powerful. Father Sisir Adhikari is the Contai MP and East Midnapore party chief and a party vice-president. One of his brothers Dibyendu is the Tamluk MP, and another brother Soumyendu is Contai’s civic chairman. Sisir, maintaining cordial ties with Mamata despite his son’s stand, on Sunday said he would like to attend the event, but cited a “surgery in the big toe of my right foot”. Adhikari and his brothers could not be reached for their comments. Adhikari did not hold his anticipated “tell-all” news meet on Sunday on his political future. A source close to him claimed the news meet was a canard “spread by the party”. “Dada (Adhikari) has nothing to say to the media right now and won’t make political declarations while still being a member of the party and the Assembly,” said the source. “The news meet could have happened had the party not gone to town with details of Tuesday evening’s meeting between Dada, (Mamata’s nephew) Abhishek Banerjee and (Bengal poll strategist hired by the party) Prashant Kishor,” he added. After the party divulged to the media details of that meeting, that was also attended by senior MPs Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandyopadhyay (Mamata addressed them via speakerphone), Adhikari got intensely displeased and called off dialogue. It is felt that Adhikari, opposed to Mamata’s choice of nephew Abhishek as political successor and her appointment of poll strategist Kishor for commandeering Trinamul ahead of Assembly polls, may join the BJP or float a party aligned to the NDA. Chances of him staying on in Trinamul appear slim now. Sources in the party said Mamata would deliver a speech with a stern message. “Elements such as zero tolerance for anti-party activities, those looking to go should go, and we will defeat the BJP with or without opportunists should prominently feature in her speech,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-286
