08-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC-BJP clash during North Bengal bandh ||Activists of the ruling Trinamul Congress and the BJP on Tuesday clashed here over alleged tearing up of hoardings with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's picture during a 12-hour north Bengal bandh called by the saffron party, which evoked mixed response. The bandh has been called to protest the death of party worker Ullen Ray in alleged police firing during BJYM's march to 'Uttarkanya', the branch secretariat here, on Monday. Protest marches were held by bandh supporters at different towns and district capitals in north Bengal with roadblocks being put up at Coochbehar, Mathabhanga and Malda affecting traffic movement. However, no major untoward incident was reported from the region, official sources said. Markets and shops were partially open while private buses and other modes of road transport were fewer in number than usual. However, government buses were available. Tension mounted at Mahatma Gandhi crossing here over alleged tearing up of hoardings displaying messages and pictures of the chief minister. TMC and BJP workers clashed over the alleged vandalism and blocking of movement of traffic in the area. While the TMC alleged that the flex hoardings of the party supremo were damaged by the BJP supporters, the saffron party claimed that its flags were torn by the workers of the ruling party. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and Jalpaiguri MLA Dr Jayanta Kumar Roy on Tuesday visited the victim's family at Mengara village and assured his family that the party will bear the education expenses of his three school-going children. Police had fired teargas shells and used water cannons on Monday to quell a violent protest called by the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) against the Mamata Banerjee government during which Ray died. The BJP, initially, had alleged that Ray was "beaten to death" by the police during a baton charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Get rid of farm laws or go: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the BJP government at the Centre should immediately repeal the contentious farm laws or step down, and went on to announce her party’s in-principle support for Tuesday’s nationwide strike. “The BJP government (at the Centre) should immediately withdraw the farm bills or step down. It should not continue to remain in power after sacrificing the rights of the farmers,” the chief minister told a rally in Midnapore. “Tomorrow (Tuesday) there is a nationwide strike.... As a government we don’t support strikes, but as a party we fully support the nationwide movement of the farmers and support their issues.” In several parts of Calcutta, people on auto-rickshaws reminded residents over loudhailers about Tuesday’s bandh. The autos did not carry any party flags. The occupants did not appeal to shop owners or traders to keep their establishments shut. The bandh is scheduled to be observed in Bengal from 11am to 3pm. In Midnapore, as Mamata held the mic, one of her aides placed a sheaf of paddy and a garland made of potatoes, onions, eggplant and pointed gourds on the rostrum. “All of you know that farmers are protesting against the three farm laws.… I declare with this sheaf of paddy in my hand that I was with the farmers, I am with the farmers and I shall always be with the farmers,” Mamata said, drawing applause from her 1.3 lakh listeners, most of them from farming families in East and West Midnapore. Mamata did not bring up subjects like the minimum support price or contract farming, both non-issues in Bengal because of historical reasons. She spoke at length on how the new farm laws had taken away the states’ power to contain prices or ensure a steady supply of essential goods. Mamata used the opportunity to remind Bengal’s farmers that she had always stood by them. She referred to her anti-land-acquisition protests in Singur and Nandigram that had endeared her to rural Bengal and brought her to power in 2011. “We will keep protesting till the black farm laws are repealed,” Mamata, who has already reached out to the protesting farmers in Delhi and pledged her support to them, said. Several analysts think that the new farm laws do not necessarily change the rules of the game in the field of agriculture in Bengal, but there’s little doubt that the protests have offered Mamata a political opportunity in her fight against the BJP. By demanding the withdrawal of the bills, she has not only echoed the protesting farmers in Delhi but also joined other non-BJP parties in mounting pressure on a Narendra Modi government that increasingly finds itself isolated on the issue. Mamata’s speech reflected a plan to portray the BJP as “anti-people”, which she would like to use in her campaign for the upcoming Assembly polls. “The farmers are in distress as they fear their land will be taken over…. What is this government doing? They are privatising the railways, Coal India, Air India. They are against the people,” Mamata said. She then switched to campaign mode by offering a comparison with what her government was doing for the people of Bengal. “We are giving free rations to the people of Bengal till June.... After returning to power in next year’s elections, we will continue with the free rations,” Mamata announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Rivals unite on farmers’ strike today||Tuesday’s strike called by farmers’ unions demanding repeal of the contentious farm laws of the Narendra Modi government has brought political rivals Trinamul Congress, Congress and the Left Front together with Mamata Banerjee’s party expressing support for “tomorrow’s movement” of the peasants. “The issues on which the strike has been called has our support,” said minister and Trinamul spokesperson Chandrima Bhattacharya. “Since 2011, we have always been asked to oppose strikes but the chief minister’s announcement on Monday should be considered as an exception and her keenness to express solidarity with farmers fighting against the farm laws of the Modi government,” a Trinamul source said. The Left parties, however, saw in Tuesday’s strike an opportunity to assess the public mood on the farm law issue ahead of Assembly polls. “We had called a strike on November 26 and in less than two weeks, we are campaigning in support of another strike. If the people respond positively on Tuesday, as they did on November 26, we will understand that our message has been conveyed to them,” a CPM leader said. However, a section of Left leaders feels that with Mamata showing her solidarity with Tuesday’s programme, it would be difficult for them to assess the outcome of the strike. Reacting to Mamata’s announcement, Congress state president and MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “If the CM was worried about the fate of farmers, she could have brought an ordinance in the Assembly and stopped implementation of the farm bills in the state. States like Rajasthan have done that.” Trinamul leaders, however, said they preferred to be on the streets to oppose the laws. Trinamul has planned a three-day long sit-in demonstration in Calcutta from December 8 to protest against the farm laws. “The demonstration will be led by MLA Becharam Manna and rallies will be taken out in all blocks of the state,” minister Chandrima Bhattacharya said. The Left parties and the Congress will also take out a joint rally from Moulali in Calcutta on Tuesday to express solidarity with the strike. “We are confident of the strike’s success and will take out rallies across the state in support of the farmers,” said All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee convenor and CPM leader Amal Halder. Bengal BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, however, criticised Mamata and said she had no moral right to speak for the farmers. “Farmers of our state are exploited by the middlemen and can never avail themselves of the promised MSP. The strike is an attempt to divert attention from important issues,” he said. Donation A canteen run by the CPM and local residents in Jadavpur donated Rs 80,000 to the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on Monday. The canteen has been providing food packets at Rs 20 each to around 600-800 everyday for the past 250 days. State convenor of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Amal Halder said: “I was overwhelmed that a canteen run with people’s support could contribute in such a big way to help the farmers’ protest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Binay camp counters Bimal with roads||Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction) and GTA chairman, on Monday laid the foundation stones of three roads in Sukhiapokhri block while his youth wing held a meeting at Bimal Gurung’s stronghold Jamuni, a day after Gurung’s political homecoming in the district after three-and-half years. Gurung’s physical entry into hill politics after a gap has increased the political temperature this winter. Thapa’s activities of the past one week suggests that the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp now seem to be looking at a mix of development work with political activities to fortify the constituency ever since Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung camp held a public meeting in Kurseong last Sunday. In the past one week, Thapa inaugurated the Gorkha community hall at Kurseong, laid foundation stones of two other roads at Longview tea garden in Kurseong and one at Gopaldhara tea garden in Mirik and also directed his party supporters to organise rallies including a signature campaign to demand a separate subdivision of Pedong-Algarah in Kalimpong district. At Sukhiapokhri, where Tamang was also present at the event, Thapa while laying the foundation stones of three roads for an estimated budget of Rs 11 crore touched on Sunday’s Gurung’s rally in Siliguri. “What has Bimal Gurung done since 2007 (since the party was formed)?” questioned Thapa. “He talks about the vote results (Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly byelection). People had not voted for Bimal Gurung but for Gorkhaland,” said Thapa who criticised Gurung for being on the run since the Gorkhaland agitations in 2017. The BJP, supported by Gurung’s faction and other hill-based parties, had won both elections. In fact, Tamang lost the Darjeeling Assembly bypolls. Thapa added that he would reveal more during their “mega rally” at Sukna on December 13. Many observers see the Sukna rally as an attempt to counter Gurung’s homecoming rally at Siliguri on Sunday. While Gurung addressed the Siliguri rally on Sunday, Thapa was present at a football tournament final at Kurseong. “The Binay Tamang camp seems to be using all resources available with them to keep their camp intact,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP’s north Bengal ‘focus’ tells in violence ||Violence and arson erupted on Monday during the BJP’s Uttarkanya Abhiyan, a protest march to the state’s branch secretariat here, as supporters clashed with police and the party leadership alleged that a BJP worker died of wounds from pellets fired by the law enforcers. The BJP announced a 12-hour general strike across north Bengal on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar against “police atrocities”. “Our workers will wear black badges and host candlelight marches across the state,” said Kailash Vijayvariya, a national general secretary and Bengal minder of the party. A source in the BJP said that state party chief Dilip Ghosh received a call from the office of BJP national president J.P. Nadda, and asked to share details of Monday’s incident and the death of party worker Ulen Roy. Details were then conveyed to Union home minister Amit Shah’s office, the source added. The police, however, tweeted on their official handle that they acted with restraint. The police said in a tweet: “Today in Siliguri, serious acts of violence were committed by supporters of a political party during their protest programme. They resorted to arson, brick-batting, firing and vandalism of government property. Police showed restraint and didn’t do lathi charge or used firearms. Only water cannons and teargas were used to disperse the violent crowd. However, death of a person has been reported. Body is being sent for PM (post-mortem). The actual cause of death will be known only after the PM.” Trinamul leader and minister Gautam Deb accused the BJP of “planned vandalism”. Since morning, hundreds of BJP supporters started assembling at Jalpai More and Fulbari in northern and southern sides of the Uttarkanya campus. On both sides, the police had put up barricades. At Jalpai More, the BJP’s central and state party leaders and MPs delivered speeches. In the afternoon, they started towards Uttarkanya. A rally also started from Fulbari. According to eyewitnesses, protesters removed two barricades en route to Uttarkanya from Jalpai More, and breached one more barricade near Fulbari. Policemen made public announcements asking BJP supporters to leave, citing prohibitory orders. But as protesters targeted barricades, police fired water cannons and burst teargas shells. Most dispersed, but some pelted stones and glass bottles at the police. The police retaliated with teargas. Some supporters entered the traffic guard office of Siliguri Metropolitan Police at Jalpai More and ransacked it, setting ablaze office furniture on the road near Naukaghat More. Tyres were torched and some two-wheelers and shops were vandalised. In Fulbari, protesters ransacked a state-run motel. They also set on fire barricades. As supporters showed signs of regrouping and charged at barricades, policemen waved batons and burst teargas shells. Many protesters, including women, were arrested for perpetrating violence. BJP state party president Ghosh said 65-year-old party worker Roy of Gajoldoba in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district died of pellet injuries. “His injury marks suggest he was struck by pellets used in air guns. The police should clarify how he was hit by pellets,” Ghosh said. Ghosh added: “This apart, at least 15 other supporters of ours are under treatment at the hospital with injuries, and many other supporters and leaders were beaten up.” The leaders brought in outsiders and assembled anti-socials to create such a situation. If they try to foment tension in north Bengal, people will give them a fitting reply,” said state tourism minister and On BJP’s claim that one of their supporters died during the movement, Deb said it would be confirmed only after a proper inquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP parade on tested ground||State and central BJP leaders, who came to Siliguri on Monday for the Uttarkanya Abhiyan protest march, asserted that north Bengal, a region where it won seven Lok Sabha seats last year, was prominent on their radar for Bengal elections. State party chief Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy, national general-secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, state general secretary Sayantan Basu and almost all party MPs from Bengal were in attendance. BJP MP from Bangalore South Tejasvi Surya, who is also the national president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, flew in. Tejasvi lambasted Trinamul. “North Bengal has been neglected for years. I have come across thousands of youths who are from this place but travel to Bangalore as they don’t have jobs here. The Trinamul government could not bring in development to the region but brought in infiltrators from Bangladesh,” he said. A senior BJP leader from here said most prominent faces of the state BJP and some national leaders came for Monday’s protest. “Even Tejasvi Surya flew in. Our party is organising political activities across the state but we have hardly seen so many leaders sharing the dais for a protest march. This reconfirms that central leaders are concentrating on north Bengal,” the leader said. The BJP leadership, sources said, have also planned to redraw their strategies for the hills and foothills after losing the support of long-time ally, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung. Gurung, who addressed his first public rally in Siliguri on Sunday after over three years, openly flayed the BJP for alleged failed promises and said it would have to struggle for every vote in north Bengal. “For past 11 years, the BJP piggybacked on the Morcha to win the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat. Now that both Morcha factions are with Mamata Banerjee, BJP has to plan new strategies to win the Gorkha population,” said an observer. In the 2019 parliamentary elections, BJP secured a lead in 38, Trinamul in 12 segments and Congress in four of the 54 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal. “Trinamul could not win even one Lok Sabha seat in north Bengal. It bolstered BJP’s confidence and the party’s central leadership set a target of 50 Assembly seats from here in the upcoming elections,” the source said. BJP president J.P. Nadda visited Siliguri in October and galvanised party leaders of north Bengal, the source added. At internal party meetings, feedback was collected from elected representatives and party leaders across ranks. Many parallel posts and bodies were formed to work for state polls. In the coming days, the BJP plans to bring in central ministers to tea belts to interact with communities and stakeholders in tea and tourism sectors. Central and state leaders will also hold public rallies here. Committees from the district to booth levels, and the party’s frontal organisations, would take up programmes on local issues and implement the party’s “Ar Noi Annay (No more injustice)” campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||10,000 attend Congress protest rally||Around 10,000 Congress supporters hit the streets of Raiganj town on Monday to rally against central and state government policies, a major political event that the party could host here in recent times. Led by state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, participants walked 3km, sloganeering against the Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee governments. “The response shows people are fed up with central and state governments and want a change,” North Dinajpur district Congress chief Mohit Sengupta said. Chowdhury said Trinamul ministers and leaders voice resentments against their party every day and Mamata “should assess herself and her party”. He alleged both the BJP and Trinamul had “sheltered” Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung. North Dinajpur, the late Priya Ranjan Das Munshi’s turf, saw the Congress base shrink with the rise of Trinamul and BJP, but the rally showed the Congress had some support left, said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Active cases decline in Bengal, pace slows||Bengal on Monday reported 2,231 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,214 new infections and 48 deaths, 15 of them from Calcutta. However, though the state logged a drop in total active cases for the 42nd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami, the daily fall has been less sharp over the past couple of weeks, worsening Bengal’s position in relation to other states. Bengal, which had last month managed to drop to eighth spot among states with the most active cases, was back to being fourth on Monday, after Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka. Bengal, with 23,829 active cases on Monday, down from 37,190 on Dashami on October 26, has over 6 per cent of the nation’s total active cases. The state’s recovery rate is at a new high of 93.55, a little behind the national rate of 94.5 per cent. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 46 consecutive days to over six per cent since October 22. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.73, still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. “We have not been doing badly. It is just that some of the other states such as Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh did rather well over the past couple of weeks. We remain on track,” said a minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. Data on infections from festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. In the 42 days since Dashami, the state recorded over 1.62 lakh recoveries and 1.51 lakh infections. Bengal now has over 5.05 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.72 lakh recoveries and 8,771 deaths. Of the toll, 7,346 deaths or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. With 31,453 tests on Monday, the state’s total test count went past 61.67 lakh, at 68,526 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.19 per cent. The state reported 24.31 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated Covid hospitals, besides over 5.13 lakh telemedicine consultations amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Abhishek wife’s case||The Customs department on Monday moved an appeal before a division bench of Calcutta High Court for setting aside a single judge’s order that had quashed continuance of proceedings against Rujira Narula, wife of Trinamul Congress MP Abhishekh Banerjee, in connection with alleged discrepancies in her documents and baggage at Calcutta airport. The Customs had alleged Rujira and her sister had avoided an interrogation at the airport in 2019 when they were asked to explain certain discrepancies in their documents and baggage. The duo were returning from Bangkok.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
08-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata takes ‘blackmail’ bull by the horns||Mamata Banerjee asserted on Monday that BJP’s attempts to break the Trinamul Congress through blackmailing and bargaining would not be successful as she sought to counter the saffron camp’s narrative that Bengal’s ruling party would disintegrate before next Assembly polls. “You (BJP) may try your best in breaking the party or the government, but that won’t succeed with Trinamul,” the Bengal chief minister thundered at a public meeting at Midnapore College Ground. Trinamul sources claimed that over 1.3 lakh people from West Midnapore and East Midnapore attended the rally. The next Assembly polls are going to be the biggest challenge in Mamata’s four-decade political career as the BJP has managed to create a narrative that several senior Trinamul leaders are about to join the saffron camp. The narrative has started getting traction across the state, especially in the two Midnapores, as Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari, one of the key Trinamul leaders, resigned from the cabinet amid speculations he was about to leave the party along with a pack of other leaders. Trinamul sources said Mamata was aware that her biggest challenge lied in contesting that perception and that’s why the meeting was organised for the party workers in the two Midnapores, which were looked after by the rebel leader. In her 35-minute speech, she didn’t mention Suvendu even once, but obliquely referred to him and his alleged parleys with the ruling party at the Centre several times. “If someone thinks that Trinamul can be weakened ahead of the polls by blackmailing or bargaining, I want to tell the BJP and their friends that don’t play with fire,” said Mamata, who stressed repeatedly that Trinamul would return to power in 2021. “Those who have made a lot of ill-gotten money are going to the BJP to protect their money. This has become a fashion,” she added as she underscored that a few defections would not come in the way of Trinamul’s poll prospects. The comments, clearly aimed at Suvendu, were significant as they signalled that the Trinamul chief had closed the chapter with the rebel leader, who had apparently rolled out several conditions to continue his association with the party. She called out the names of almost all Trinamul MLAs from the two districts, who were sitting on two adjacent daises, in her speech, which was an attempt to prove that a majority of them were with her. The chief minister took care to explain that some didn’t show up — like Patashpur MLA Jyotirmoy Kar and Keshiari MLA Paresh Murmu — according to her advice as they were ailing. Mid-way through her speech, she also named Ranajit Mondal, MLA of Khejuri and a known Suvendu aide, for attending the rally. Another Suvendu loyalist, Moyna MLA Sangram Dolui was also at the meeting. “The only absentee was Contai North MLA Banasri Maity and we know that she is with Suvendu.... Didi proved that most MLAs still listen to her,” said a Trinamul source. While it is true that customary attendance of MLAs or a decent turnout at a rally prove little and a lot may change ahead of the elections, there is little doubt that Mamata was successful in proving that she still holds command over the party in the two districts, multiple Trinamul sources told this correspondent. However, Suvendu loyalists said West Midnapore had contributed more to the turnout and it was a proof that the rebel leader continued to call the shots in his home district of East Midnapore. In direct reference to the two Midnapores, she announced that the state government had managed to get Rs 15,000 crore investment in a deep-sea port in Tajpur, which would create 25,000 jobs in the two districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-285
