09-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharya hospitalised after facing breathing troubles||Former Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya was admitted to a hospital in south Calcutta on Wednesday afternoon as his breathing-related problems aggravated and his health condition is stated to be very critical, officials said in the evening. Bhattacharya, 76, has tested negative for Covid-19, they said. He has been put on ventilator support at the critical care unit of the private hospital, the sources said. "Mr Bhattacharya's RT-PCR test showed he was Covid negative and that is good news. The CT scan of his brain showed old lacunar infarcts. He is undergoing treatment at the CCU," a senior official of the hospital said. "He is presently on non-invasive ventilation (BIPAP) and maintaining an oxygen saturation of 95 per cent. He remains critical but responding to current treatment," he added. "Repeated tests showed an accumulation of carbon dioxide and a lower pH level, following which doctors decided to electively ventilate him after proper consent of family members," the offcial said. "His condition is very critical," he said further. Bhattacharya's pulse and blood pressure are stable and the veteran politician is on IV antibiotics and other supportive medications said a statement released by the hospital. His oxygen saturation deteriorated to 70 per cent in the morning and he became unconscious, following which he was rushed to the hospital. A two-member team of senior doctors was constituted to monitor the health condition of the veteran CPI(M) leader. Bhattacharya, who was the chief minister of West Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been suffering from COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and other old age-related ailments for quite some time. He had stepped down from the CPI(M)'s politburo, the central committee as well as the state secretariat in 2018. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her concern over Bhattacharya's health condition and prayed for his quick recovery. "Concerned to hear that former Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee has been hospitalised with breathing problems. Praying for his speedy recovery and wishing him well," she said. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also wished him a speedy recovery. State Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim visited the hospital and spoke to doctors. After speaking to the doctors, Hakim briefed the chief minister about Bhattacharya's present health condition. CPI(M) state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra urged the people to cooperate with the hospital authorities. "Comrade Buddhadeb Bhattacharya has been admitted for treatment of acute exacerbation of his respiratory problems in Woodland. No visitor is being allowed now. Well-wishers are requested to co-operate with the hospital authority for maintaining strict discipline in this regard," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Nadda launches party campaign from Mamata turf||BJP National President J P Nadda on Wednesday launched the 'Griha Sampark Abhiyan' in the city as a part of the party's 'Aar Noi Annay' (No More Injustice) campaign in poll-bound Bengal. The door-to-door campaign is part of the massive public outreach programme BJP has planned in the run-up to the state Assembly election due in April-May 2021. There was blowing of conch shells and showering of flower petals by women wearing red bordered sarees as Nadda's motorcade reached Bhawanipore area of the city. Party MPs Locket Chatterjee and Arjun Singh accompanied Nadda as his security tried to hold back the crowd when his vehicle negotiated the narrow lane to take him to some of the houses in it. "He gave me a booklet and asked me to read it when I greeted him. There was so much crowd and jostling around," a housewife told reporters later. Nadda visited a few households on Girish Mukherjee Road, a few km away from Cbief Minister Mamata Banerjee's residence, briefly interacted with the locals, heard their problems and requested them to give BJP a chance before boarding the car, party sources said. "No untoward incident was reported," a police officer present at the spot, said. Nadda is in Calcutta as part of a two-day visit to the state and will attend several party programmes, the sources said. On the other hand, in an apparent attack to the BJP without naming it,  Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that a political party was misusing the Constitution and urged everyone to pray together to save it as well as the country. Referring to the Constituent Assembly meeting for the first time on this day in 1946, Banerjee paid her tribute to all its members who gave shape to the country's Constitution. "On this day in 1946, the Constituent Assembly met for the first time. Tribute to all members of Constituent Assembly who gave shape to India's Constitution. These days, 'A' political party is misusing the Constitution. Let us pray together to save our Constitution. Save our India," Banerjee tweeted. On this day in 1946, the Constituent Assembly had met for the first time in New Delhi in the Constitution Hall, now known as the Central Hall of Parliament. Assembly polls in Bengal are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Now, government  on prison doorstep||The Bengal government has asked all district magistrates to organise Duare Sarkar camps at correctional homes in the state with thrust on enrolling prisoners in the health insurance scheme of Swasthya Sathi. “As the government has planned to reach out to all, we thought the inmates of correctional homes should not be deprived of welfare schemes. We think that apart from other projects, the all-inclusive Swasthya Sathi scheme will help our inmates get better treatment at private hospitals, too,” said Ujjwal Biswas, the state correctional administration minister. Sources said there were around 20,000 undertrials and 5,000 convicts at 60 correctional homes across Bengal and most of them were not covered by any form of health insurance scheme. Secretary of correctional administration Neelam Meena on Monday evening sent an email to all district magistrates asking for the arrangement of Duare Sarkar camps at jails immediately. Senior officials in the correctional administration are reportedly working on including all inmates in the state’s health insurance scheme despite facing a funds crunch. Prisoners are currently treated at health centres inside jails or government hospitals if the illness turns critical. “We have had to face situations where we admit many inmates to private hospitals to provide them with better treatment. We always have to plan in advance to secure assurance about the availability of funds. If all such inmates are covered under the health insurance scheme, then, we will not have to think twice before sending them to any good hospital,” said a senior official in Birbhum. The Birbhum district administration conducted a Duare Sarkar camp at the Rampurhat subdivisional correctional home on Tuesday morning. Senior government officials, including additional district magistrate (general) Sweta Agarwal and subdivisional officer Jagannath Bhar, were present and handed over Swasthya Sathi cards to three inmates. In Rampurhat, around 55 inmates were enlisted for health insurance and the rest of the 135 prisoners needed other benefits. The officials said a WhatsApp number and an email ID would be provided to family members of the inmates to send their particulars like Aadhaar or PAN cards as proof of address and date of birth. “We have decided to collect the documents virtually in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. If any family can’t avail itself of the facility, they can physically submit photocopies of those documents,” said a senior state government official. Piyush Pandey, the ADG and IG of correctional services, said all jails had been asked to extend all types of cooperation to organise the camps in the presence of senior government officials’ supervision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury invites defectors ‘home’||Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday invited those who had defected from the party to others in Malda to “return home”, a move being seen as a part of the plan to revive the organisation at one of its traditional bases in Bengal. “In Malda and in some other places, many leaders have left Congress and most have joined Trinamul. It is high time you desert Trinamul, which is a sinking ship, and return home. All of you will get due respect and positions in the party,” he said at a meeting. In north Bengal, Malda is considered one of the last districts where Congress still has some support base. Over the last few years, prominent Congress leaders, including Mausam Benazir Noor, had defected to Trinamul. Sources said the party lost two MLAs to Trinamul, which was looked after by Trinamul’s now-rebel Suvendu Adhikari. Adhikari’s distance from Trinamul, sources said, offered an opportunity to the Congress to claw back into relevance in the district with over 56 per cent minority population. “That’s why Adhirda gave a call to party leaders who had deserted the party, to return to Congress,” said a source. It is this district of north Bengal, from where Congress could win a Lok Sabha seat (Malda south) in 2019. Also, out of 54 Assembly segments of the region, the party managed to secure a lead in four segments. At the Malda meeting, Chowdhury was also elated to see over 15,000 people. “Even some of our district leaders here were concerned about the attendance of people as the BJP announced a strike in north Bengal. But I was confident and told them to go ahead with the programme. Congress supporters have proved again that Malda continues to be our place,” said Chowdhury. A Congress insider said that in Malda, many former party leaders who, after joining Trinamul, had developed close relations with Suvendu Adhikari over the years. “Among them, there are some who may prefer to return to Congress instead of following him in case he walks out of Trinamul. This missive is also for them and might give them a new option," he said. On Monday, Chowdhury was in Raiganj in North Dinajpur, another erstwhile Congress bastion, where he had walked in a rally that recorded participation of 10,000-odd supporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||11-year delay in arsenic-free water project||Nearly one lakh residents in the arsenic-contaminated Swarupnagar block in North 24-Parganas are yet to get pure drinking water, because a dedicated water supply project commissioned in 2009 is yet to be made operative by public health engineering (PHE) authorities. The authorities allegedly took 11 years to obtain approvals and funding to include an arsenic removal plant under a joint scheme of the state and Centre. Residents said that the PHE during 2009 had launched a project in Bithari village of Swarupnagar as a deep-tube-well-based water supply project. But, a few days after the commissioning, arsenic was detected in the supplied water. Eleven years on, the people of Swarupnagar are yet to get safe drinking water. Sanjib Sarkar, executive engineer of the PHE’s Barasat division, said: “After arsenic was detected in the water supply, we had to prepare a fresh project report to include an arsenic removal plant. It turned out to be a new project under a central scheme with shared funding by the state government. But delays occurred in obtaining sanctions and funding. Eventually, we completed it last year and tried to make two units operative after trial supply. But, pipelines laid in 2009 were found damaged at many stretches as the project had been abandoned for so long.” The PHE started repairing the pipelines that were also reportedly damaged by efforts to widen roads under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. According to WHO standards, drinking arsenic-contaminated water for extended periods or being exposed to it can cause cancer and skin diseases, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes, and impact the cognitive development of young adults that may even prove fatal. Srikumar Chakraborty, a resident of Swarupnagar, said: “All 22 blocks are arsenic-prone. In Bithari, the contamination level is 0.0114 mg/liter compared to the acceptable limit of 0.1 mg/litre. The water test report states that water samples do not comply with acceptable standards and are unsatisfactory for drinking purposes in the presence of iron and arsenic.” Sources in the district administration added that most of the 137 deep tube well-based water supply projects in 22 blocks of North 24-Parganas could not be made operative yet either owing to delays in getting approvals from the state government or power supply to operate the arsenic removal plant. Dulal Bhattacharya, local zilla parishad member, said that they ran from pillar to post these 11 years. “But pure water continues to elude us. The Left government was responsible for the commissioning of the project without examining water quality and later the Centre also has its share of the blame.” To address people’s grievances, the state government recently directed the PHE to ensure commissioning of the water supply projects, including that in Bithari, by March next year. “We are trying our best to replace damaged pipelines. We are hopeful to begin clean water supply by March 2021,” Sarkar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Tea belt shuns twin strikes, prefers wage to protest||The tea population of north Bengal did not respond to either of the strikes — the farmers’ nationwide one against the three farm laws or the BJP’s north Bengal strike to protest its supporter’s death —  on Tuesday and worked as usual. On November 26 too, when trade unions had called a nationwide bandh against labour and farm laws, around 80 per cent of tea estates were open. “Almost all the tea gardens were open on Tuesday and attendance of tea workers was the same like any other day. This clearly indicates that the tea workers are not interested in observing a bandh but instead prefer to join their jobs to ensure that they receive the day’s wage. It is a new trend in the tea sector.  Earlier, it was found that a bandh called by parties which have tea trade unions have been a success in the tea belt,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. Such a non-responsive attitude of the tea workers have left political parties, particularly the BJP, perplexed. This is because during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had managed to draw huge support from the tea population, both in the hills and in Terai and the Dooars. John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar who himself hails from the tea belt, admitted that the tea belt did not respond to their strike call on Tuesday. “To make the strike a success, it is necessary to reach out to people. Because of the paucity of time, we could not reach the tea workers this time. But I am not ready to buy the theory that the tea population no longer supports us. We will prove our support at the upcoming Assembly elections,” said Barla. Senior tea trade union leaders, who admitted that tea workers were disinclined to support strikes these days, said there might be a number of reasons for it. The workers, they said, have realised that nothing would change for them by observing a day’s strike. Instead they would stand to lose a day’s wage. “Also, some tea workers appear to be disillusioned with the trade unions as over five years have passed by and yet the unions could not make the state government announce a minimum wage rate for the tea industry,” said a union leader. He also pointed that earlier this year tea gardens had remained closed due to the lockdown, resulting in heavy loss in income. “The workers had to bear a loss of income during those days and it seems that now they do not want to lose even a day’s wage. That is why they have chosen to join their work during bandh days,” the leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Homes for subsidence victims||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee ended more than a decade-long wait of people, who had lost their residences because of subsidence in coal belt, when she handed over documents of homes built by the state government to five beneficiaries at Raniganj in West Burdwan on Tuesday. “Subsidence is a major problem in the coal belt that has rendered hundreds of people homeless here. This problem was never addressed earlier. Today, we started allotting homes to the people who had lost homes. It was a longstanding demand,” Mamata said during her West Burdwan administrative review meeting in Raniganj. While handing over the papers to the five beneficiaries, Mamata asked West Burdwan district magistrate Purnendu Maji to finish construction of 12,000 dwellings by February next year in the first phase. The district administration has so far completed construction of 3,564 homes in Andal, Barabani and Jamuria blocks. “People who lost their homes here have been waiting for a home for decades. We have to finish the work to provide them with houses  by February. We have arranged Swastha Sathi cards for all, free ration for all and no,w we want to give free homes here,” she said. The rehabilitation project was approved by the Centre in 2009 and a fund of Rs 2,629 crore was sanctioned in the same year following a Supreme Court directive. Former CPM MP and trade union leader Haradhan Roy had filed a PIL in the Supreme Court in 1997 demanding rehabilitation of those affected by subsidence. A master plan on rehabilitation was drawn up by the ECL following the instruction of the Supreme Court. The homes are being constructed under the Centre-funded rehabilitation programme for the people living in the district’s subsidence-prone coal belts. Altogether 29,000 dwellings will be constructed on 400-acre land by the Bengal housing department and Asansol-Durgapur Development Authority where around 1.5-lakh people will be rehabilitated. However, the project has hit a bottleneck with the Eastern Coalfield Limited (ECL) so far allowing construction only on 172 acres. Sources said the ECL had raised objections to the constructions of home on the remaining land as it has coal reserve under it. Since the area is coal-bearing zone, no objection certificate from the ECL is required before carrying out any construction. Local Trinamul leaders said the housing project would give the party an advantage to combat the BJP in the coal belt in next year’s Assembly elections and Trinamul would highlight the ECL’s “non-cooperation” in carrying out the project. “The people here have elected BJP’s Babul Supriyo twice to Parliament but other than making false promises, he has done nothing to address the problem of the subsidence-affected population. It is Didi (Mamata) who did it. In our campaign against the BJP, we will definitely highlight it,” said Jitendra Kumar Tiwari, Asansol mayor and party president in West Burdwan. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP led in all seven Assembly seats in the coal belt. At present, Trinamul has five MLAs, while the CPM has two. Rakesh Nunia, one of those who received papers for his house from the chief minister on Tuesday, thanked ‘Didi’ and said his more than a decade-long wait for a home was finally over. “We lost our home in 2011 following subsidence and have been staying in an abandoned ECL hospital building since then. We have been waiting for a permanent home for a decade. We are thankful to Didi,” he said. At Tuesday’s event, Mamata also handed over a 75-acre plot to 1,572 people who had sold their land for setting up the Kazi Nazrul Islam Airport in Andal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Gunshot kills youth at tourney||A youth watching a cricket tournament at a ground here died after a National Volunteer Force member fired from two pistols and one bullet hit him on Tuesday afternoon. Sheikh Todbir Ali, a 32-year-old farmer of Rananagar village, succumbed to the gunshot while he was being taken to Calcutta for advanced treatment. The alleged assailant, Biswajit Pradhan, has fled. Eyewitnesses said there was a heated argument between Ali and Pradhan when the Jhargram Premier League was progressing.  Pradhan pulled out two pistols and fired at Ali. While one bullet missed him, the second gunshot hit Ali’s temple even as he made a vain attempt to flee. Ali was rushed to the Jhargram Superspecialty hospital and then to Midnapore Medical College and Hospital. Doctors referred him to a private hospital in Calcutta in the evening but he died on the way. Ali’s younger brother Samim said Pradhan, a resident of neighbouring Bachhurdoba village, had also stabbed him after firing from the pistols. Angry residents of Bachhurdoba ransacked and burned portions of Pradhan’s home and blocked the Jhargram-Midnapore highway for over two hours. The sources said Pradhan’s brother worked with Bengal police. The investigators said prima facie, the two youths were known enemies. However, only one of the two pistols was registered in Pradhan’s name. “We are investigating the incident,” said additional superintendent of police (headquarters), Jhargram, Mir Sakir Ali. He said the police had launched a hunt for Pradhan. Organisers of the cricket league, the Jhargram Pratibha Anweshan committee, said they were “disappointed” that such an incident had taken place “at an esteemed venue in the presence of civic volunteers”. The tournament was inaugurated on November 30 by the district superintendent of police, Jhargram, Amitkumar Bharat Rathod. “We want the perpetrator to be brought to justice,” said secretary of the organising committee Tamal Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Police cite ‘shotgun’ wound, CM blames BJP||Bengal police have attributed the death of a BJP worker in Siliguri on Monday during clashes to “shotgun injuries”, pointing out that the law-enforcement agency does not use such a firearm. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee later blamed the BJP for the death for “publicity and propaganda”. Since the death of Ulen Roy, 65, who took part in Monday’s Uttarkanya protest in Siliguri that ended in a clash between marchers and police, the BJP had been alleging that police firing caused his death. The police tweeted on Tuesday: “As per the PM (post-mortem) report, ‘death was due to the effects of shotgun injuries’. Police do not use shotguns. It’s obvious that during yesterday’s protest in Siliguri, armed persons were brought and they fired from firearms. “The deceased received pallet injuries from a shotgun fired from close range by a person standing near the deceased in the protest. This is unprecedented. Bringing armed persons in protest programme and inciting them to fire unheard off. There was a malafide intention to create violence by the use of firearms.” Mamata told a public meeting in Raniganj that that BJP “has gone in a frenzy these days and their leaders spread false information”. “They themselves held the rally and killed one of their own supporters… for publicity and propaganda. You carried pellets and killed a person,” Mamata said. The state government has ordered a CID probe into Roy’s death. BJP leaders held the police responsible for Roy’s death and demanded a CBI probe. The state police are trying to hush up the truth and the   state is trying to conceal facts by assigning a CID probe, several state BJP leaders alleged. “That is why post-mortem was carried out past midnight and the case quickly recommended to CID. We want a CBI investigation. None of our supporters were carrying any such firearm and it seems that the police in Bengal have started using pellet guns now. We will also write to the Union home minister,” said Raju Bista, BJP’s Darjeeling MP. Fresh violence Violence erupted in Siliguri on Tuesday during the 12-hour strike in north Bengal called by the BJP as its supporters and those of TMC tore posters, banners and flags of each other’s parties and clashed at places that prompted the police to intervene.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-283
09-12-2020||West Bengal||For farmers, CM tweaks anti-bandh stand||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday repeated her unconditional support for farmers, lauded their agitation against the farm laws and declared she had “dedicated” the day to their cause, in a marked departure from her anti-bandh stand. Speaking at a state government event in Raniganj, West Burdwan, she said: “We supported this strike as a party, in a shift from our longstanding position on strikes. For only one reason… the issues now we agree wholeheartedly with. Jai kisaan, jai mazdoor (Hail the farmer, hail the worker).” She added they dedicated the day to “our farmers, my beloved brothers and sisters across India, currently agitating to save their livelihood and lives”. “They (the farmers) had called a strike till 3pm. To honour that, I started this programme after that time. I found out about the strike only a couple of days ago, by which time this programme was already fixed,” Mamata added. Speaking in Bengali, Mamata often switched to Hindi, in a clear indication of wanting to reach out to a wider, national audience. Though the Trinamul Congress chief had been avowedly anti-bandh since 2009, she openly endorsed this one. Mamata, now almost fully in campaign mode ahead of the crucial Bengal polls, underscored her empathy for farmers, reminding the audience of her anti-land acquisition movements in Singur and Nandigram, which propelled her to power in 2011. She said her party had launched sit-in demonstrations against the farm laws in every block of the state and rallies would be held in every civic ward. The three-day sit-in demonstration that started on Tuesday by her party’s farm wing, in front of the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road in Calcutta, would end with an address by her on Thursday. “After that, I will announce more and more programmes on this,” she said. At Raniganj, she also brought up other issues such as privatisation or sale of PSUs by the Centre, the alleged divisive nature of BJP’s politics, the “misuse of money” to win elections, the throttling of dissent. “For as long as we are alive, we will keep fighting for the people,” she asserted. Last week, she sent a delegation to the Singhu border and spoke over the phone to multiple groups of protesting farmers, lauding their movement. She also has been in regular touch with the Shiromani Akali Dal, one of the oldest NDA allies which withdrew support over the laws. Her party had also passively supported the 24-hour strike called by central trade unions on November 26 against Modi government’s policies. CPM veteran and Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya chose a different pitch to express solidarity with farmers during the nationwide general strike against farm laws on Tuesday. He played “street cricket” on Hill Cart Road. “Hartal Maney Cricket (strike means cricket)” the senior CPM leader posted on social media with some photographs. The veteran’s pictures, however, drew online flak for their alleged frivolity. Bhattacharya, when told that his posts had not gone down well with many, said he simply wanted to give a message that the nationwide bandh called by farmers, to which the Left had extended support, was successful in Siliguri. “The strike turned deserted streets into a perfect 22-yard for good batting practice. I just wanted to send a message that the strike was a success and so played cricket on Hill Cart Road,” he said. Report by Bireswar Banerjee, picture by Passang Yolmo||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal's recovery rate, inching up for 47 consecutive days||Bengal on Tuesday reported 2,971 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,941 new infections and 49 deaths, with 16 of them from Calcutta. However, the state’s decline in total active cases continued unabated for the 43rd consecutive day since Dashami on October 26. Since Dashami, total active cases fell by 13,440 to reach 23,750 on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate, inching up for 47 consecutive days now since 87.44 of October 22, stands at 93.59 per cent now. The national rate now is 94.61 per cent. “We (Bengal) had dropped to 28th spot among states in terms of recovery rate. Now we have risen to 21st spot. We would like to be in the top 10 in another month,” said a minister. In the 43 days since Dashami, Bengal recorded over 1.65 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.54 lakh new infections reported. “We were looking to end this year with less than 23,000 active cases and a recovery rate of over 95. While we are on track for the second goal, the first appears a little uphill at the moment,” admitted the minister. The state now has nearly 5.08 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.75 lakh recoveries and 8,820 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.73, behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the total toll, 7,389 or 83.8 per cent deaths were attributed to comorbidities. With 44,230 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count is past 62.11 lakh at 69,017 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.18 per cent. The state reported 23.72 per cent occupancy in 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.16 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
09-12-2020||West Bengal||Farmers stay away from fields||The strategy of anti-BJP parties in Bengal to link recent price rise to the Centre’s new farm laws did seem to work on Tuesday as a large number of farmers in southern districts participated in rallies in support of the agitating farmers on the Delhi-Haryana border and stayed away from fields. The fact that the south Bengal farmers took part in the protests and stayed away from their farmland — at a time they remain busy for rabi (winter) crop and potato cultivation — prompted the leaders of Krishak Sabha, the peasant wing of the CPM, to claim success of Tuesday’s strike. They linked the success to their campaign in rural areas pointing out alleged ill-effects of Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. “It was easy to connect the farmers on this particular issue as they are the worst sufferers. The farmers who had sold potato at Rs 8-10 per kg in February and March this year had to buy it by Rs 45 from market in November for consumption,” said Binod Ghosh, a member of Krishak Sabha’s East Burdwan unit. Several farmers who joined the protests said it was their first involvement in organised rallies or a strike. “I am not the worker of any political party, but I went to attend the rally today to oppose the law that did not help us. I sold my produce at Rs 10 a kg in March and I had to buy the crop at Rs 45 a kg a few days ago,” said Taroni Majhi, a 41-year-old sharecropper in East Burdwan’s Khandaghosh. Sources in districts like Birbhum, East Burdwan, Nadia, Murshidabad and Hooghly — which house more than 40 per cent of 72 lakh farmers in the state — said the overwhelming participation of the farmers in rallies was a pleasant surprise to them. Around 1,500 marginal farmers in East Burdwan’s Sargai village of Khandoghosh police station area participated in a rally organised by the Krishak Sabha. At Nanur in Birbhum, around 1,000 farmers took part in a similar rally. The Congress, which is in alliance with the Left Front in Bengal, also held protest programmes across the state. Pradip Bhattacharyya, senior party leader and a Rajya Sabha member, led a rally of thousands from the Quest Mall in Calcutta. Trinamul held protest programmes in all 341 blocks in the state. Trinamul insiders said they were not worried about the fact that farmers joined the rallies organised by the CPM and the Congress on Tuesday. Tea belt defies strikes Tea garden labourers in north Bengal did not respond to either of strikes — one by  farmers and the other by the BJP to protest its supporter’s death in Siliguri —  on Tuesday and worked as usual. Trade unions said the workers’ non-participation in the strike might be because of their realisation that nothing would change for them by taking part in shutdowns and delay in fixing their minimum wages. Additional reporting by our Siliguri bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-284
