10-12-2020||West Bengal||JP Nadda’s convoy pelted with stones during Diamond Harbour visit||Stones were pelted at Bharatiya Janata Party national president JP Nadda’s convoy on Thursday, when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in the South 24 Parganas district of Bengal, from Calcutta. Sources in the saffron party also alleged that BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s car was also totally ransacked in the attack. Vehicles of media personnel, too, were not spared, the sources said. “On our way to Diamond Harbour, TMC supporters blocked the road and pelted Naddaji's vehicle and other cars in the convoy with stones. This only shows the true colour of the TMC,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh told PTI. Later, police intervened and ensured the convoy’s safe passage. The saffron party, earlier in the day, alleged Trinamul Congress cadres of beating up its workers before Nadda’s visit at Diamond Harbour. Banners of the saffron party were torn at the venue of Nadda's programme and some of its workers were also beaten up by the ruling TMC, the state BJP sources said. “The rule of law has ceased to exist in Bengal. The opposition parties are not allowed to conduct their programmes. A jungle raj is going on in the state,” BJP national vice president Mukul Roy said. Local leaders of the TMC denied the allegations, saying that these are “baseless” and “politically motivated”. Ghosh also wrote a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday, and alleged that a "mob" of over 200 people with sticks and bamboo were demonstrating raising black flags in front of BJP's state unit office in Calcutta. Following this, the ministry sought a report from the Bengal government on Thursday on the alleged "serious security lapses" during the BJP president's visit, the circumstances and what action has been taken on it, a home ministry official said. “Today during his different engagement in Calcutta, it was observed that there were serious lapses on security arrangements, purportedly due to negligence and/or casual approach of the state police department,” he said in his letter. He also claimed that some of the protesters climbed on cars parked outside the party's office and raised slogans, and the "police did not intervene to stop them and casually allowed them to come within a close perimeter of Nadda ji's vehicle".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb's health condition improves but still critical||The health condition of former Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya improved a bit on Thursday but remained "critical", hospital sources said. The 76-year-old politician is "still on ventilator support", they said. "His health condition has improved a bit. He is also maintaining a steady PCO2 level and the reading of which is at 42 this morning. This is normal for COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) patients. "He is still on mechanical ventilator support and his condition remains critical," a senior official of the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said. His cardiac condition, pulse rate, blood pressure and oxygen saturation level are currently stable, the hospital said in a statement. "Preliminary investigation, including blood parameters and imaging, didn't show any significant abnormality. Sedation was stopped in the morning as a trial and the patient's sensorium was assessed and found to have improved," it said. A seven-member team of doctors reviewed the health condition of the veteran CPI(M) leader. "He will remain on mechanical ventilation for today and the process of gradual withdrawal from the ventilator support is being planned," the statement said. Bhattacharya was put on the mechanical ventilator support at the critical care unit of the private hospital where he was admitted on Wednesday afternoon as his breathing-related problems aggravated. Talking about his next course of treatment, a senior doctor said that adequate nutrition and other support is being taken care of. "As he is still on the ventilator support, the prognosis is guarded and critical. The doctors are keeping a constant vigil on his health condition and taking appropriate measures," he said. Members of Bhattacharya's family were briefed about his health condition and CPI(M) state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra visited the hospital during the day. The veteran CPI(M) leader's oxygen saturation level is at around 90-95 per cent, and he has regained consciousness, the doctor said. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 but the CT scan of his brain showed old lacunar infarcts. The CPI(M) leader was initially put on non-invasive ventilation (BIPAP) at the hospital after which his oxygen saturation level improved to 95 per cent. However, his condition deteriorated on Wednesday evening and he was put on mechanical ventilator support. Bhattacharya, who was the chief minister of Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been suffering from COPD and other old age-related ailments for quite some time. He has been away from public life for the past few years due to his health. He had stepped down from the CPI(M)'s politburo and the central committee in 2015 and gave up membership of the state secretariat in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid cases dip below 3,000 for 3 days on trot||Bengal on Wednesday logged less than 3,000 new Covid-19 infections for the third day in a row for the first time since August. Wednesday saw 2,956 new infections, 3,009 recoveries and 47 deaths, including 17 from Calcutta. The state also reported a drop in its total active cases for the 44th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total has fallen from 37,190 on October 26 to 23,650 on Wednesday, back almost to where it was 87 days ago, on September 13. In the 44 days since the end of Puja, the state logged over 1.68 lakh recoveries and 1.57 lakh infections detected. “Now the number of new infections is less even on days the testing is at a normal level. The positive confirmation rate has been dropping, in an indication of lower levels of Covid-19 spread,” said a minister. Bengal's positive confirmation rate is 8.17 per cent now, having improved from 8.27 on November 20. With 44,351 tests on Wednesday, the state’s total test count went past 62.55 lakh, at 69,510 tests per million people. The state’s recovery rate has been rising for 48 consecutive days, having risen to 93.64 from the 87.44 of October 22. The national rate now is 94.68 per cent. “Starting next week, we are looking at another cycle of surge in recoveries, when these numbers would look even better,” said the minister. However, the state’s mortality rate is 1.73, still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the total death toll, 7,428 or 83.8 per cent of the deaths were attributed to comorbidities by the government. The state now has nearly 5.11 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.78 lakh recoveries and 8,867 deaths. Bengal reported 23.51 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals, besides over 5.18 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Govt at homes of transgenders||The recent visit of Gulshan Biwi, a 65-year-old transgender, to the state government’s Duare Sarkar (government-on-doorstep) camp at Birbhum’s Rampurhat laid bare a harsh reality — that transgenders largely stay outside the loop of government’s welfare schemes. This prompted Birbhum district authorities to pull up their socks and hand over ration and Swasthya Sathi cards to eight members of the community on Tuesday evening as part of the Duare Sarkar initiative. “I thanked the officials for providing me my first ration card,” said transgender Laila Khatun, 35. “I had thought (before) that people like us cannot get government documents.” Khatun was among the eight transgenders who received the cards from a team of district officials, headed by additional district magistrate (general) Sweta Agarwal, at their home in Rampurhat on Tuesday evening. A district official said the drive to identify members of the transgender community and include them in government schemes would continue as they form a significant part of the state’s population. According to Census 2011, transgenders constitute 6.2 per cent of Bengal’s over 9.3 crore population. Asked why transgenders do not avail of government schemes, a senior government official cited social ostracism. Many transgenders beg on streets, in trains, buses and at traffic signals but do not visit government offices or camps fearing stigma, many sources said. Gulshan agreed: “Young people in our community avoid going to public places because people in general do not like our presence.” Gulshan, who went to the Duare Sarkar camp last Friday, said she had to return as she did not have any identity proof to enrol under welfare projects. “I was surprised when officials arrived on my doorstep and promised to help us get the necessary papers,” said Gulshan. Vijay Bharti, Birbhum district magistrate, said that they were carrying out a demographic survey of people attending Duare Sarkar camps. “This transgender (Gulshan) was the only one from the community to turn up, and it helped us reach out to others,” said Bharti. A district official said the administration at all levels had been asked to find out transgenders and reach out to them as they might feel uncomfortable to queue up at the camps. A senior government official said that the Birbhum experience had been shared across Bengal. “The initiative to reach out to transgenders will be done under Duare Sarkar across Bengal. All districts have been advised to follow the Birbhum model.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP posts gun clips  to contest  cop version||BJP leaders have uploaded video clips featuring purported state police officers with pump-action guns to suggest that pellets that killed a party supporter in Siliguri on Monday were fired by the law-enforcement agency. “The police in Bengal have lied. We have at least 10 such videos to prove that they use pump action guns. This is just a sample video. We will even knock the doors of the Supreme Court to get justice. They have killed our supporter and now trying to conceal facts,” Kailash Vijayvargiya, the BJP national general-secretary and Bengal minder, tweeted along with a video clip. The police had said on Tuesday that the post-mortem report suggested Ulen Roy succumbed to injuries caused by pellets from a shot gun. The police had added that they did not use such firearms. Trinamul leader and minister Gautam Deb said the gun seen in the video posted by Vijayvargiya was used to fire rubber bullets. “The BJP is known for fabricating real facts. The video that Kailash Vijayvargiya has posted, claiming that the police had fired pellets, does not stand. The gun shown is used for rubber bullets,” the  minister said. BJP information technology department chief Amit Malaviya also uploaded a video clip on social media. “Really? You don’t use shotguns? Then what is this? You killed BJP worker Ulen Roy in cold blood…. Truth is catching up,” tweeted Malaviya, addressing the state police. The police did not officially comment on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP spots trophy and tough test||The BJP has zeroed in on Bhowanipore, the home turf of Mamata Banerjee, as the seat to win in Bengal ‑ and national president J.P. Nadda learnt first-hand on Wednesday the hard work that remains to be done to accomplish the mission. Nadda told party workers at a  closed-door meeting in the evening to leave no stone unturned to ensure the defeat of Mamata, the sitting MLA of the constituency. If Bhowanipore can be won, snatching power in the state will become easy, a source quoted Nadda as telling the party workers. Earlier in the day, Nadda’s outreach was marred by complaints from several residents of a Bhowanipore neighbourhood. In a slum located on Girish Mukherjee Road, at least one of the residents expressed displeasure on record. “He came and went like a thakur (God),” said Rani Halder. “There are 40 families in this slum. Why did he visit only three families? He should have come to at least a few more of us…. None of us got a chance to tell him about our problems. We thought that is what he was here for,” she added. Bimala Jana, whose family Nadda did visit, virtually echoed Halder: “Our men have lost jobs in the lockdown. I wanted to tell him about it, but couldn’t.” Rubbing salt into the wound, Halder contrasted it with a visit from her local MLA about a year and a half ago. “When Didi (Mamata) came here to find out about our problems, she stood with us on the road and spoke to each and every one of us. She gave us a patient hearing. That programme was so much better organised,” said the Bhowanipore resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Vaccine storage class to start in Bengal ||Bengal will start training senior health officials in various districts from Thursday on how to handle cold chains after the Centre on Tuesday asked state governments to ramp up infrastructure to store Covid-19 vaccines and also prepare for the immunisation process. A cold chain is a temperature-controlled unit, where handlers are responsible for storage and preservation of vaccines for immunisations and last-mile delivery. There are 25-40 cold chain centres in each Bengal district where vaccines such as polio or tuberculosis are preserved. “In a video-conference on Tuesday, the central health ministry said Covid-19 vaccines would arrive by the end of this month or early next year. This requires training cold chain operators for appropriate preservation of the vaccines. A team of health officials from the state have recently undergone training in Delhi. They are being sent to districts to train health officials there. Once trained, the district officials will work as trainers for cold chain handlers,” said a senior health department official. The Union health ministry’s virtual meeting with the states was held a couple of days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi told an all-party meeting that the Covid-19 vaccination programme would be rolled out in the country shortly and the government was waiting for the nod of experts. Sources said the Union health ministry had told senior health officials of the states on Tuesday that the vaccines scheduled to be launched in India could be stored in a temperature range of 2-8 degree Celsius. “We have the capacity to store the new vaccines in our cold chains as they can maintain a temperature of 2-8 degrees Celsius. If the new vaccine required a temperature range of -70 degree or more, as in the case of Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine, the government would have had to create new infrastructure,” said a state government official. Health department sources said the districts had been divided into three zones — Burdwan, Presidency and North Bengal — for imparting training. Health officials, including deputy chief medical officers and district level nursing officers, along with representatives of World Health Organisation (WHO), will take part in the two-day residential training camp. The first training of the Burdwan zone will begin on Thursday in Bolpur, where officials of eight south Bengal districts will be trained. The training for officials in north Bengal will start from December 22 in Siliguri, while the schedule for districts under the Presidency range is yet to be drawn up. “Those who will get trained at these camps will impart training to cold chain handlers in the districts concerned,” said Jayanta Sukul, deputy CMOH (III) in Birbhum. Sukul will be among those who will be present at the training session in Bolpur on Thursday. Asked why it required training of cold chain handlers who are already in the job of storing vaccines, a health official said the new vaccine required specific storage mechanism and that needed to be disseminated to ensure that shots didn’t  get damaged. “Maintaining the required temperature range of 2-8 degrees Celsius while storing and transporting the vaccine is important. Such critical inputs need to be conveyed to the cold chain handlers,” he said. “The training will also assess the state of cold chains in a particular district and whether they have the required parameters to store the vaccine,” said a senior health official in Birbhum and added that they needed to clear doubts about “storage and disposal of syringes and other immunisation equipment”. Health officials said training cold chain handlers was a continuous process and held every two to three years. The last such state-wide training was organised in 2017. “This time it is a critical vaccine and we have made necessary arrangements to train officials who will be involved in the storage and immunisation process,” said Asim Das Malakar, the state family welfare officer and joint director of health services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata: Already citizens, why CAA?||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the Matuas were very much citizens of India and nobody could drive them out of the country, her assertion coming at a time some BJP leaders said that the process to implement the Citizenship Amendment Act, which they claimed would help the Matuas, was likely to begin soon. “Many people had come from Bangladesh as refugees...we have accepted you all. This is not just our home…This is your home too...You need no new certificate to stay here. Because you are all citizens. You are being cheated with the offer of citizenship through the CAA,” Mamata said at a rally in Gopannagar near Bongaon. The chief minister stayed firm on her stand against the new citizenship matrix. “There will be no CAA...No NRC. It is a ploy of the BJP to push the Bengalis out of Bengal to make it Gujarat,” Mamata said. “If the CAA is allowed to be implemented, they will ask you for your grandmother’s age, grandfather’s date of birth...Will you be able to submit all these?” she asked, adding that the state government had already ensured their rights as citizens by recognising refugee colonies. “The recognition of the colonies by the state government made you a citizen of this country naturally. So you do not need to be at the mercy of anybody for any new citizenship certificate...Nobody can evict you from here, ” she said. Of over 60,000 people who attended the rally at Gopalnagar Haripada Institution Ground, most were from the Matua community, lower caste Hindus who had fled Bangladesh. Wednesday’s rally was significant as Mamata managed to bring together 23 Matua community organisations, and accept their demands, including a state holiday on the birth anniversary of Harichand Thakur, who had formed the sect, and inclusion of only people from the community in the Matua Development Board. Mamata tried to contrast how she delivered on her promises while the BJP only gave “false assurances”. The Matuas had largely been Trinamul supporters since the change of guard in Bengal, but the BJP had since managed to make solid inroads in the community by playing the citizenship card. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP won in two Matua dominated seats, Bongaon and Ranaghat, coming as a big blow to Mamata and her party. Sources in Trinamul said Mamata was aware that discontent against the BJP was brewing among the Matuas as the CAA remained on paper with the Centre yet to frame the rules. Some BJP leaders like the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said recently that the act would be implemented from January. Later, Narottam Biswas, chief organiser of the Hari Gurchandh Bhakta Matua Mahasangha, said: “Mamata Banerjee is the only one to fight for the citizenship for the Matuas. The CAA cannot be accepted in its present form. It must be simplified unless withdrawn.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP tries to prove Bengali credentials, messes up again||You must be very brave — or stupid — to latch onto Rabindranath Tagore to prove your Bengali credentials and then mess up. The BJP must be very, very brave. The Bengal BJP unit’s official Twitter handle on Wednesday tweeted in Bengali that “Visva-Bharati is Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace”. Worse, it was attributed to the visiting BJP national president, Jagat Prakash Nadda, who traces his roots to Himachal Pradesh but spent his childhood closer to Bengal in Patna. Tagore was born in north Calcutta’s Jorasanko in 1861 and Visva-Bharati became a university 60 years later. In Bengal, it is next to impossible not to know this. If, by a quirk of fate, you are unaware of such elementary information, you are not expected to advertise it. The tweet, put out at 2.35pm by @BJP4Bengal, was taken down later. In grammatically questionable Bengali, the tweet read: “Rajnoitik drishtikon thekey dharona binimoy kora gonotontreyr shoundorjyo. Poschimbongo tar dharonaguli binimoy jonyo porichito (Exchanging ideas from political perspectives is the beauty of democracy. West Bengal is known for exchanging its ideas).” “Bishwobharoti holeyn Rabindranath Thakureyr jonmosthan (Visva-Bharati is Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace): Sri @JPNadda #BengalWelcomesNadda,” it added. Sources in the BJP said the fault did not lie with Nadda, whose speech was peppered with eager attempts to underscore the party’s Bengal connect. The mistake was apparently made by someone in the party’s IT cell, whose boss Amit Malviya is now a co-minder for Bengal. “Naddaji did refer to Visva-Bharati and Tagore. His exact words were ‘this is the land… where Visva-Bharati is situated, where Tagore was born….’ He didn’t mean that Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati. Someone’s carelessness in the IT cell is now going to cost us dear,” said a state BJP leader. In a tweet, the official handle of the Trinamul Congress pointed out that Tagore was born in Jorasanko. Then came the unkindest cut of them all: “Bohiragawtodeyr Banglay ashar aagey Banglar sanskriti, itihash o oitijhyo jeney asha uchit (Outsiders should learn about Bengal’s culture, history and tradition before coming to Bengal).” The BJP had drawn attention to its perceived unfamiliarity with Bengal when a bust of Bengal Renaissance stalwart Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar was vandalised last year and an anonymous statue was incorrectly identified as that of revered tribal leader Birsa Munda last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddha admitted  to hospital||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, was rushed to a south Calcutta hospital on Wednesday with acute breathing problems. He was “critical” and put on invasive “mechanical ventilation”, a bulletin issued by Woodlands Hospital on Wednesday evening. He tested negative for Covid-19 upon hospitalisation. But his HRCT (high-resolution CT scan) thorax showed features of old patches of pneumonia, the bulletin said. Bhattacharjee was admitted to the hospital at 2.40pm after his oxygen saturation level fell to 70 per cent and he became unconscious at home, an earlier bulletin said. “He was put on non-invasive ventilation and his oxygen saturation went up to 95 per cent, but the arterial blood gas test showed accumulation of carbon dioxide and low PH levels. So we had to put him on invasive ventilation after taking permission from his family,” said Woodlands official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited Bhattacharjee in the hospital. “We want him to get well soon,” she told journalists. Bhattacharjee has been suffering from breathing issues, CoPD and other age-related issues for a while. He was rushed to the hospital last year  with breathing troubles and an acute drop in blood pressure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Online ruckus over stadium ‘name change’ ||Former state minister and Trinamul leader Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury’s apparent decision to name the stadium run by the District Sports Association (DSA) in Malda after his elder brother has drawn flak. He was also reprimanded by officials of the district administration and asked to remove the metallic letters of the new name from at the entrance of the sports arena. The stadium, inaugurated on April 4, 1962 by then Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, has six galleries including a VIP gallery, surrounding a lush green ground. It has the capacity to accommodate 15,000-odd spectators. On Wednesday, a picture of the stadium’s main entrance with the new name “Subhendu Choudhury Stadium, Malda” surfaced on social media. Soon, comments from people came flooding in, as they questioned the DSA’s decision of suddenly coming up with a new name for the familiar landmark. It was soon learnt that Krishnendu, who is the secretary of DSA, made the move. Subhendu Choudhury was his elder brother and also the former secretary of DSA. He died on September this year of Covid-19 complications. Subhasish Sarkar, another former secretary of DSA, was quick to raise questions. “The new name of the stadium is definitely questionable. Before changing the name, a resolution has to be adopted at a meeting of members. Also, the decision has to be approved by the state government and the administration. No such approval was taken,” he said. Officials of the administration called up Krishnendu and asked him to remove the alphabets which were put at the entrance of the stadium. The former minister, who initially was flummoxed by the reactions, later tried to downplay the change. “It was a minor mistake. Actually, it has been decided to name each gallery block after the name of prominent players and sports administrators of the district. The name was put at the entrance by mistake,” said Krishnendu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Malda youth Held with “madness drug” ||The police seized around 6,000 Yaba tablets — globally dubbed the “madness drug” — from Kadamtala under Kaliachak station and arrested a person in this connection on Tuesday night. Sources said Sakiul Sheikh of Mozampur was heading to Mahadipur under Englishbazar police station in a two-wheeler. A police team stopped him and found him with tablets. “During primary interrogation, the youth stated that he had to deliver the tablets to a person in Mahadipur. We are trying to find out whether these people are carriers or are involved in a smuggling racket,” said a police officer. A case under the NDPS Act has been filed against Sheikh. In a separate incident, three persons were arrested from Mahadipur with 450gm of brown sugar on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Binay turns focus on Dooars||Binay Tamang, the bête noire of Bimal Gurung, on Wednesday held his first meeting with his party leaders from the Dooars in the region itself. The meeting surprised many political watchers because since 2017, when Tamang formed a breakaway faction, had not shown much interest towards the Dooars. But now, with both Tamang and Gurung, who head rival factions of the Morcha and are both aligned to Trinamul, it looks like the Tamang considered it prudent to pay attention to the Dooars. Gurung’s statehood agitation from 2007 to 2017 was active in the Dooars, too. He is likely to address a public meeting in the Dooars this coming Sunday. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Tamang camp) admitted that this was the first time that the party was holding a meeting in the Dooars. “We organised a karmi sabha (workers’ meeting) at a closed hall at Nagarkatta in the Dooars. Earlier, our leader had addressed a meeting in the Dooars on an invitation of another Dooars-based organisation,” said Pokhrel. On Wednesday, Tamang said his party would hold a mega rally in the Dooars by February, “either at Birpara or Jaigoan”. Tamang further pointed out that the people of the Dooars were only being used by political parties. However, he did not utter Gurung’s name during the nearly 40-minute speech at the Adivasi Cultural Centre at Nagarkatta. Tamang raised Dooars-centric issues like the need to improve health infrastructure and set up a parallel bridge to the Coronation Bridge, one of the main connecters between Siliguri and the Dooars. Tamang’s decision to foray in the hills also comes at a time when Gurung is looking at reactivating his party activities in the Dooars. Sources said that Gurung is scheduled to address a public meeting in the Dooars this Sunday at a time Tamang and his deputy Anit Thapa address a public meet at Sukna near Siliguri. Many believe that the Sukna meeting by the Tamang camp will counter Gurung’s meeting at Indira Gandhi Maidan last Sunday. “With Gurung expected to foray in the Dooars (Gurung has not yet come up to Darjeeling but is currently in Siliguri), the Tamang camp also seems to be making efforts to reach out to the Gorkha population in the Dooars,” said a hill observer. It is largely believed that the Gorkha population can influence anything between six to eight assembly seats in Dooars and Terai (another area in the plains.) Unlike the hills, where voices for Gorkhaland statehood is in the majority, the scenario is different in Dooars with a mixed demography. Gorkhas are not in a majority in most areas of the Dooars. “With both factions supporting Trinamul, there seems to be a feeling in TMC that Gorkhas would vote as wished by Gurung or Tamang. However, TMC strategists should understand that Gorkha leaders might not have the last word during the Assembly elections,” the observer added. Tamang formed a breakaway Morcha in 2017 and aligned with TMC. Gurung was on the run but resurfaced in Bengal on October 21 in Calcutta and announced support to TMC and dumped BJP. Additional inputs from our Jalpaiguri correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to visit north Bengal next week||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will visit north Bengal next week to address party workers and supporters of Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar in two public meetings. Mamata’s visit, Trinamul insiders said, would be significant amid the ongoing BJP-TMC turbulence in the area, with the BJP making it clear that north Bengal, where it won seven out of eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019, was its focus. Party sources said Mamata will reach Uttarkanya in Siliguri on December 14. The next day, she would take a chopper to Jalpaiguri for a public meeting at ABPC Ground. On December 16, she would speak at  the Raas Mela Ground of Cooch Behar. She would then leave for Calcutta via Bagdogra. Earlier, it was decided that as supporters of both Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar would attend the first meeting, the venue would be located midway. “However, our party leaders told us yesterday (Tuesday) that the first meeting would be held in Jalpaiguri town, seven days after BJP’s protest march (held last Monday). It seems the party wants the meeting near where BJP workers had perpetrated violence to pass a message to residents of the region,” said a TMC source. Senior officials of the administration and police and TMC leaders visited the he ABPC Ground in Jalpaiguri, some 35km from Fulbari, where Ulen Roy, a BJP worker, fell to pellets on Monday. In Cooch Behar, the selection of the venue for Mamata’s public meeting is significant, pointed out political observers. “The Raas Mela (or Rashmela) Ground is in the heart of the district headquarters, and more importantly, Cooch Behar South Assembly seat. The MLA of this seat (Mihir Goswami) recently defected from TMC to BJP and it seems the TMC wants to assert its support base here to put pressure on BJP,” said an observer. Goswami joined BJP in Delhi last month, but is yet to step down from the MLA’s post. “We expect the chief minister to guide us on how to take up political activities in this Assembly seat after the changed situation (MLA’s defection),” said a party leader. Additional inputs from our Cooch Behar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
10-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker found hanging, party cries foul||A BJP worker from a village in Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar was found hanging inside the deserted premises of a local girls’ school on Wednesday, prompting his wife and the party to accuse Trinamul of murdering and hanging the victim. “Trinamul goons have killed Swapan Das, one of our party workers, in Tufanganj. In Bengal, all types of inhuman acts are being carried out to deal with people who are in opposition,” BJP’s national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said a tweet in Hindi on Wednesday. Trinamul leaders have brushed aside the charges and said the BJP was “trying to do politics over dead bodies”. Sources said Swapan Das, 36, a resident of Andaran-Fulbari village of Tufanganj and a known face of the BJP in the area, had been missing since Tuesday morning. Das used to work at a jewellery shop. “We searched for my husband everywhere on Tuesday but could not find him,” said his wife Chumki. “On Wednesday, I came to know his body has been found inside the girls’ school. I suspect that Trinamul supporters murdered and hanged him for being associated with the BJP. I want exemplary punishment for all those involved.” Malati Rava Roy, the BJP district president of Cooch Behar, called it “a planned murder”. “His feet were touching the ground and there were bloodstains. His wife has filed a complaint with the police. We will continue our movement unless the assailants are arrested,” Malati said. BJP workers and supporters alleged this was the second case in north Bengal during the past 48 hours when a BJP worker has been “murdered”. On Monday, they said, Ulen Roy, 65, another party worker from Jalpaiguri dictrict, had died from “police pellets” while he was participating at the party’s protest march — Uttarkanya Abhiyan — in Siliguri as a part of their campaign Ar Noi Annay. BJP supporters also demonstrated in front of the school when a police team reached the spot to recover Das’s body. Later in the day, as policemen took away the body for post mortem, a group of BJP workers assembled in front of Tufanganj police station and demonstrated for a while. Shibapada Pal, the block Trinamul president of Tufanganj and a spokesperson of the party in the district, said no one from the was involved in the incident. “The BJP is trying to do politics over dead bodies. People are watching them and will give them an apt reply,” Pal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-282
