11-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee critical but showing signs of improvement||The health condition of former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee remained critical on Friday but he has shown signs of improvement in almost all clinical aspects and is alert at present, the private hospital where he is undergoing treatment said in a bulletin.  The veteran CPI(M) leader, who has been suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other old age-related ailments, was admitted to the hospital on December 9 as his breathing-related problems had aggravated.  Bhattacharjee has shown signs of improvement "in almost all clinical aspects, he is conscious and alert at present," the bulletin said.  He communicated with his wife and daughter "satisfactorily" this afternoon and his blood pressure, pulse and oxygen saturation are stable, it said.  The 76-year-old leader is currently on non-invasive ventilation.  According to the bulletin, intravenous (IV) fluids, IV antibiotics, IV steroids and other supportive medications are on and some more time is needed "to say he is completely out of danger."  Bhattacharjee who was the chief minister of West Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been away from public life for the past few years due to ill health.  He had stepped down from the Politburo and the central committee, the top decision-making bodies of the CPI(M), in 2015 and gave up membership of the state secretariat in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Seven held in Bengal for attack on Nadda's convoy||Seven persons were arrested in Bengal on Friday for their alleged involvement in the attack on BJP national president JP Nadda's convoy a day ago, a senior police officer said. Four persons were arrested from Falta, and three from Usthi police station area, both in South 24 Parganas district, he told news agency PTI. All seven of them were booked under various sections of the IPC for rioting, obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions and other offences. Nadda's convoy was pelted with stones on Thursday morning by alleged TMC workers at Sirakol in Diamond Harbour area of South 24 Parganas district, where he had gone to address a rally. Several BJP leaders including its Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya suffered injuries, sources in the saffron party claimed. Two suo moto cases were subsequently lodged against unknown people for carrying out the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Dhankhar warning to Mamata: Don't play with fire ||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Friday said he has sent a report to the Centre in the backdrop of the violent attack on the convoy of BJP chief J P Nadda, and castigated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over the deteriorating law and order situation. Pulling her up for her repeated remarks calling the BJP a party of outsiders, Dhankhar asked her to desist from such politics as would weaken the national fabric. He said it is shameful that the attack on Nadda occurred on International Human Rights Day. "I have sent my report to the central government whose contents cannot be shared on account of propriety," he told a press conference at Raj Bhawan. He alleged the violators of law in Bengal have the protection of police and administration and any resistance by the opposition is quelled. "The governor is not a post office...he will not fiddle around in Raj Bhawan when human rights are being violated," he said, and asserted "the governor will vindicate his oath, come what may." It is the duty of the governor to protect the Constitution, he said. Dhankhar said the chief minister is also under constitutional obligation and has to act in accordance with the Constitution. Referring to Banerjee's remarks calling the BJP a party of outsiders, Dhankhar said, the citizenship of India is one and insider-outsider politics should stop. A section of bureaucrats, he alleged, is acting as "political servants" despite getting paid from the state exchequer. "Accountability will be enforced," he said, and asked Banerjee "not to play with fire". "The law and order situation in the state has been worsening with each passing day. Despite cautioning the chief minister and the administration nothing has happened," he said. Dhankhar said the "non-responsive" stance of the chief minister towards the Raj Bhawan is an indication that governance is not in accordance with the Constitution. Underlining that distancing of governance from the rule of law cannot be accepted in democracy, he said, "unconstitutional parameters is at an alarming level making it extremely difficult for me to conclude that governance in the state is according to the constitution." Terming the attack on J P Nadda's convoy on Thursday as most "unfortunate and a slur on democracy", he said, "the violators of law in Bengal have the protection of police and administration". "Present political scenario in Bengal is that any opposition is ruthlessly suppressed...the human rights were in flames yesterday." Describing Banerjee's comments on the attack on Nadda's convoy as "most unfortunate", he said "I take a very serious note of the statement that emanated from the honourable chief minister. How can a responsible chief minister, believing in rule of law...Constitution, believing in Bengali culture talk the way she did." Banerjee had uttered distorted versions of the BJP chief's surname at a rally in Calcutta on Thursday and termed the attack on his convoy a "staged act".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata flags BJP’s blunder on Tagore||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday appealed to “all lovers of Bengal’s civilisation” to protest “a bigger lie” by BJP that Rabindranath Tagore had been born at Visva-Bharati. She was referring to the BJP Bengal unit’s official Twitter handle issuing a tweet on Wednesday with a quote, attributing it to the party’s national president J.P. Nadda, stating that Tagore, one of the foremost Bengali icons, had been born in Visva-Bharati. Addressing the culmination event of the Trinamul Congress’s three-day sit-in near Gandhi statue in Calcutta on Thursday in favour of the nationwide farmers’ agitation, Mamata said: “Such mega liars, let me give you one example…. Their (the BJP’s) babus held a meeting even yesterday (Wednesday) and said Rabindranath Tagore was supposedly born in Visva-Bharati, at Santiniketan. Tell me, what can be a bigger lie, a bigger attempt to alter history?” BJP sources had said Nadda — whose speech was peppered with attempts to substantiate his party’s Bengal connect — did not actually say so in his speech but the mistake was made by its IT cell. The tweet, put out at 2.35pm on the microblogging site by the @BJP4Bengal handle, was taken down later. But by then, many netizens and Trinamul Congress had noticed it, and taken screenshots of the faux pas for circulation. “He was born in 1861  and Visva-Bharati came into being 60 years later. If he was born there, what about Jorasanko Thakurbari (Tagore’s actual birthplace in Calcutta)?” the Trinamul supremo asked. “Those who can come up with such gigantic lies about even Rabindranath Tagore, what do you expect them to do about you and me? They have shamed Bengal…. I appeal to all lovers of Bengal’s civilisation, culture… members of the civil society, everyone… protest, resist, roar,” she said. “Demand answers. Changing Tagore’s birthplace, smashing Vidyasagar’s statue, wrongly identifying Birsa Munda… this brand of fake politics cannot go on for long,” said the Trinamul chief. Such incidents have allowed Mamata to portray the BJP as the bohiragawto (outsider) trying to invade and ruin Bengal, a charge that has become a staple of her speeches in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls. “You had planned the Vidyasagar vandalism…. Will not tolerate every lie. Enough is enough. Tagore’s birthplace, the controversy the BJP has created, the malicious propaganda…. They are manipulators and violators of history. Trying to attack the very backbone of Bengal and its culture,” said Mamata, ordering her party to take this to the people during a 10-day outreach exercise at the grassroots from Friday. “Bishwokobi (Tagore), forgive them; for they do not know what they are doing,” she added, in a Biblical reference. “They want to eliminate Bengal from India.” A minister said Mamata would increasingly weave such elements into her campaign against the BJP and refer to attempts to deify “controversial” figures that the saffron ecosystem considers iconic — such as Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Deendayal Upadhyaya — often at the cost of more widely accepted icons with inclusive, secular philosophies, such as Tagore and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb still on ventilation||Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, stayed on ventilation on Thursday, but his pulse, blood pressure and cardiac condition are stable, and oxygen level in blood is normal, Woodlands Hospital sources said. He had been hospitalised on Wednesday with breathing problems. A medical bulletin shared by his party said Bhattacharjee was “on sedation and ventilated, oxygen saturation is 95%”. A Woodlands official added that both oxygen as well as carbon dioxide levels in his blood — an issue which had kept doctors worried since Wednesday — had improved and was normal. He also added that preliminary medical investigations and imaging did not show any “significant abnormality and his cardiac condition was currently stable”. The medical board formed to treat Bhattacharjee met on Thursday morning to discuss on the next course of action. Bhattacharjee’s daughter Suchetana Bhattacharjee and CPM colleagues Surjya Kanta Mishra and Fuad Halim were present at the meeting. “Sri Bhattacharjee will remain on mechanical ventilation for today and the process of gradual withdrawal of ventilator support is being planned,” the hospital official added. “He (Bhattacharjee) is presently on IV fluids, IV antibiotics, IV steroids and other supportive medications. He is on Ryles tube feeding,” the hospital bulletin read. A doctor treating Bhattacharjee said his condition was more critical this time than when he was hospitalised in 2018. “We had to put him on ventilation with the family’s consent yesterday (Wednesday). He is improving. Our next challenge is to safely bring him out of ventilation.” A source in the CPM said that senior leaders were in constant touch with the hospital management and the doctors. Younger leaders from the SFI and DYFI are present at the hospital round the clock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Rank jump despite dip in cases||Bengal on Thursday reported a dip in its total active cases for the 45th day since Dashami on October 26, but was ranked third among states with the most number of active cases, after Maharashtra and Kerala. Bengal’s total active cases fell from 37,190 on October 26 to 23,451 now. A minister explained the apparent contradiction between dip in active numbers and jump in rank. “We have not been doing badly. Others, such as Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Delhi have been doing relatively well over a fortnight or so, which is why our position has deteriorated,” he said. Bengal logged 2,951 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,801 new cases and 49 deaths on Thursday, with 19 from Calcutta. The recovery rate rose to a new high of 93.7 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.73 per cent. The national recovery rate now is 94.77 per cent, and national mortality rate 1.45 per cent. Of the total toll, 7,470, or 83.8 per cent were attributed to comorbidities. In the 45 days since the end of Puja, the state has recorded over 1.71 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.6 lakh new cases found. For the fourth successive day the state reported less than 3,000 new infections, the first time since August. “We are back on track for ending the year with less than 23,000 active cases and a recovery rate of over 95,” the minister added. The state now has over 5.13 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.81 lakh recoveries and 8,916 deaths. With 42,152 tests on Thursday, the state’s total test count went past 62.98 lakh, at 69,978 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.16 per cent now. Bengal reported 22.88 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.21 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Convoy nautanki by BJP and boss: CM||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the BJP and its chief J.P. Nadda of “nautanki (drama)” to grab headlines whenever their programmes flop in Bengal, alleging Thursday’s Diamond Harbour incident was “staged” by the saffron camp, hours after the BJP used it to claim the collapse of law and order in Bengal. The chief minister, at a sit-in demonstration of her party at Mayo Road in Calcutta in solidarity with farmers’ agitation, also named Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government in her accusation. “Every single day, this chief minister, that Union minister, this leader, that leader, coming here… they have no work at all…. From the Union home minister (Amit Shah) to Chadda, Nadda, Phadda, Bhadda, Gadda… all of them, coming here for programmes,” said Mamata, apparently furious over the BJP’s deployment of a battery of heavyweights in its quest to conquer Bengal in the state polls next summer. “Whenever they conduct something, and they won’t get decent crowds here, so they will stage incidents. Nautanki, so that national news pays them enough attention,” added the Trinamul Congress chief. “Who was waiting and watching, with cameras, on the road? Such precise angles, such capture of key moments. Even how the last car of the convoy is allegedly getting hit, who recorded that? Was it all planned?” The diatribe from Mamata, also the state home minister, came hours after the state police issued a statement asserting everyone was safe. In the afternoon, senior officials of the Diamond Harbour police district visited the spots where some vehicles in Nadda’s convoy were allegedly attacked with stones and brickbats, and spoke to a few witnesses. A detailed report would reach the state home department by Friday, sources said. Ahead of the report, the state police came up with two tweets that said Nadda had reached the venue safely. “Shri JP Nadda, National President, BJP reached safely at the venue, Diamond Harbour, South 24 Pgs. Nothing happened to his convoy. Few bystanders at Debipur, Falta PS, Diamond Harbour PD, sporadically and suddenly threw stones towards vehicles trailing long behind his convoy,” the police tweeted. “Everyone is safe and situation is peaceful. Matter is being investigated to find out actual happenings,” the police said in a second tweet. “Even if a small incident took place, although I don’t see how that’s possible…. I have told police to probe everything. We will not tolerate every lie. Enough is enough,” said Mamata. She demanded answers on the size of Nadda’s convoy. “Why do you have scores of cars in your convoys, when I can manage with two or three? It is a safety issue… I am saying this from a place of genuine concern. You, the BJP, should control this,” she said. The chief minister asked why the state government had to shoulder the blame of any security lapse when such leaders bring their own security cover, manned by central forces personnel. “Even the most unimportant, uneducated leaders, even goons of your party get at least four security personnel… with big guns, from the Centre. Only central forces, CISF, CRPF, commandos…. How then do they touch your cars, despite all that?” she asked. “You don’t rely on our security cover, you only take central forces. You don’t even let the state know and provide security cover on your own, although law and order is a state subject. But whenever there is a problem, you will abuse the state,” she added. Mamata also accused the BJP-led Centre of using diversions to distract whenever it finds itself in a corner because of its “anti-people policies”. “The Narendra Modi babu government only does drama, stages incidents, manufactures videos, sends to all media houses. The media is powerless. The journalists have no fault. The owners have all been purchased. If the owners don’t obey, their channels will be blacked out,” she alleged. Citing instances of “diversionary tactics”, she said: “When the anti-citizenship matrix movement was at its peak, the Delhi riots… the accurate casualty count is yet to be released…. Similarly, with the farmers’ movement… some nautanki. Now they might say Pakistan attacking, Israel attacking, Nepal attacking, forget the farmers,” she added. “This is a huge game by the BJP. This is how Hitler rose, as did Mussolini, Ceausescu… all of them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP: 2 more injured by pellets||Leaders of the BJP in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar have claimed two more supporters  who had joined Uttarkanya Abhiyan protest march in Siliguri on Monday were injured by police pellets. Since Monday, the party has claimed that police fired pellets that fatally injured BJP supporter Ulen Roy, 65. According to party sources, Amardip Roy, a BJP leader of Haldibari block in Cooch Behar, was admitted to the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri on Wednesday evening with pellet injuries and shifted to a private nursing home in Siliguri on Thursday. “He was hit by pellets on his abdomen and hand. Initially, he was taken to the local hospital in Haldibari and shifted to Jalpaiguri where doctors confirmed pellets were still lodged in his body. He is under treatment in Siliguri now,” said Palen Ghosh, the Jalpaiguri district president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. BJP leaders in Alipurduar said Jogesh Roy, one of their supporters from Tapsikhata on the outskirts of Alipurduar town, was hit by pellets and rubber bullets. Jogesh , an ex-serviceman, claimed that he was hit by two rubber bullets in the abdomen and four pellets on the chest. He showed the rubber bullets and a pellet. “After the march, I took a car and visited a doctor at Falakata. I did not go to any nursing home in Siliguri as police had started detaining our supporters,” said Jogesh. Suman Kanjilal, a district secretary of BJP in Alipurduar, added: “Police have fired pellets at our men and denied it blatantly. We suspect some more of our supporters suffered similar injuries.” The police, in their tweets on Monday and Tuesday, said water cannons were fired and tear gas shells burst but not pellets. They said that Roy died of pellets from a shotgun at “close range” and accused people of bringing firearms to the protest. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the BJP of killing their own man for “propoganda”. On Wednesday, BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya and Amit Malviya posted videos of purported policemen with pump-action guns in a bid to prove police pellets killed Roy. Trinamul minister Gautam Deb said the gun in the clip posted by Vijayvargiya was the kind that fired rubber bullets. Second autopsy The police filed a petition with the chief judicial magistrate’s court, requesting the order for a second autopsy on Ulen Roy is recalled. The plea said three doctors were present and videography of the process had been done in the first post-mortem, like what the court stated in its order for a second-one, to justify the recall. The court will hear the case on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Abhishek ups ante on ‘outsider’ ||Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday called BJP leaders Amit Shah, J.P. Nadda and Kailash Vijayvargiya “bohiragawto (outsider)” and said they didn’t know the culture and tradition of Bengal “BJP leaders demand that they not be tagged as outsiders. They can’t name me even after I dared them to take my name from the Diamond Harbour rally on November 29. They can only utter bhaipo (nephew). But I am taking their names — I am calling out that Kailash Vijayvargiya is an outsider…Amit Shah is an outsider. J.P. Nadda is an outsider,” the Diamond Harbour MP told a rally in Hooghly’s Arambagh on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had laid the pitch for Trinamul’s “outsider” campaign as she has been consistently attacking the BJP for sending “outsiders” to the state and accused them of being unfamiliar with Bengal’s culture and tradition. To assist the state unit in the run up to the 2021 Assembly elections, the central leadership of the BJP divided Bengal into five zones and appointed leaders from outside the state to head them. Those who have been appointed to take care of the five zones are Vinod Kumar Sonkar, Vinod Tawde, Dushyant Kumar Gautam, Harish Dwivedi and Sunil Deodhar. Lambasting the “outsiders” for their lack of knowledge about Bengal’s culture, language, tradition and icons, Abhishek referred to the 2019 incident when a group of people came out of a poll rally, which had then BJP president Shah at its head, and vandalised the statue of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. “It is a party where people can’t read Bengali, write Bengali and can’t even speak the language. They don’t know the culture and tradition of Bengal. Will you (crowd) not question the party on that? Those who vandalised the bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar will not be able to answer your query?” he said as the 20,000 strong crowd at the Garhbari ground in Arambagh shouted in affirmation. Abhishek also referred to the attack on the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda and other party leaders, who were on their way to Diamond Harbour to attend a meeting on Thursday. “Today BJP’s J.P. Nadda went to Diamond Harbour and fell into a ditch. What can I do? I can’t take responsibility for the spontaneous agitation by the people,” Abhishek said. While daring the BJP leaders for a debate, he asked Trinamul workers to highlight the development projects undertaken by the Mamata government during the party’s reach out programme in the next few months. “I am ready to participate in a debate with any BJP leader from Delhi or Bengal. We will show what our Didi (Mamata) has done for Bengal in her 10 years’ (of her rule) and contrast it with what their (Narendra) Modi has done for the state in these seven years. (Will tell them) how many international honours and appreciations Bengal has received and (ask them) how many the country has received (under Modi),” he said. The MP asked Trinamul leaders and workers to take the BJP head on and seek a report card of the Narendra Modi government when BJP leaders would visit them. Without naming Nadda, who claimed that the BJP would win over 200 Assembly seats in Bengal, Abhishek said Trinamul would emerge victors in not less than 225 constituencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-280
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Stones hit Nadda convoy in Bengal||Stones were thrown at several cars in the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda en route to Diamond Harbour on Thursday. The BJP described it as an example of the “lawlessness” in Bengal, and Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted that the Centre was “seriously looking into the matter”. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the BJP and Nadda of indulging in “nautanki (drama)”. A Trinamul MLA said a convert to the BJP had made abusive gestures at a crowd gathered to protest the farm bills, triggering the incident. Residents at the Shirakol crossing, a little over 32km from Calcutta, said they were relieved that the incident did not snowball. Over 40 per cent of the population in the area is Muslim, and mischief-mongers could have fomented trouble elsewhere in the age of fake news. “The police did well to contain the situation,” a teacher said. Nadda — travelling in a bullet-proof car — reached the venue as scheduled and unhurt. “Shri J.P. Nadda… reached safely at the venue…. Nothing happened to his convoy. Few bystanders at Debipur, Falta PS, sporadically and suddenly threw stones towards vehicles trailing long behind his convoy,” Bengal police tweeted. “Everyone is safe and the situation is peaceful.” The BJP claimed that at least 17 cars and 127 bikes were damaged and 35 bikes could not be found. The party said its Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy were injured. “Today I could reach here only because of the blessings of Ma Durga,” Nadda said while addressing party workers at Diamond Harbour’s Radio Station ground. Nadda was on a two-day trip to the state to prepare the BJP for the upcoming polls. “What I saw today on my way here proved the lawlessness and intolerance prevailing in this state. Trinamul goons left no stones unturned to stop us,” he said during his speech, delivered on the home turf of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee who represents Diamond Harbour in the Lok Sabha. Several BJP leaders blamed three Trinamul legislators — Giasuddin Molla, Saokat Molla and Sonali Guha — for the incident at Shirakol. Giasuddin, the local MLA, said he and the others had assembled for a protest programme against the farm bills. “The incident shouldn’t have happened. Saokat-da was continuously asking the crowd to be peaceful and let the convoy pass,” Giasuddin told The Telegraph. He said the crowd reacted because Rakesh Singh, a Congress turncoat now in the BJP, had made abusive gestures at the people gathered for the Trinamul programme. The Union home ministry has sought a report from the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Sacked contract workers strike to get re-hired||A group of contractual workers engaged earlier for the third rhino habitat of Bengal resorted to an indefinite sit-in demonstration at a forest range office since December 8 to demand they be hired back. The protest made official work at the Pundibari forest range office on the outskirts of Cooch Behar grind to a halt. Protesters said that three years back, 32 contractual workers had been engaged to ready the habitat but since July2020, they were told that their services were no longer required. “Initially, we used to receive Rs 6,800 a month that eventually reduced to Rs 6,300 a month. On July 1, we were told not to join our job and then seven months’ salary was due. That is why we launched this indefinite sit-in demonstration and want us to be re-hired,” said Shibu Sarkar, one of the agitators. Sources in the forest department said that in 2018, the workers were hired on temporary basis. On July 1, an order reached local forest officials saying that they could not be engaged any more. “Most of them are local residents. Recently, the state forest department appointed Ban Sahayaks (forest assistants) where locals were supposed to be recruited. None of these youths was recruited which has further aggrieved them,” said a resident of the area. “We are trying to persuade protesters to withdraw their agitation and have informed our senior officers,” said Sanjit Kumar Saha, the divisional forest officer, Cooch Behar. Jumbo roadblock In Naxalbari of Siliguri subdivision, residents of Chowpukuria came out on Asian Highway–II on Thursday and blocked it for one-and-a-half hours, alleging loss of life and property due to elephant depredation. Residents under the banner of All India Krishak Sabha — the CPM farmers’ front — demanded that the forest department create a wildlife squad for the area to tackle this problem. “Around 100 elephants are wandering in the locality for past couple of months. The herd raids villages and tea gardens, damages property and even kills people. People are spending sleepless nights. A wildlife squad should be formed and posted to tackle elephant depredation in and around Naxalbari,” said Jharen Roy, president of Krishak Sabha’s Darjeeling district unit. The blockade, which halted traffic movement along the highway for one-and-half hours, was lifted when foresters reached the spot and assured them of appropriate steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||‘Witch-hunt’ with rods kills one, injures two||A man was killed and two women seriously injured when people attacked them for “practising black magic” at Maynakhola, a locality adjacent to Bhagatpur tea estate under Nagrakata police station of Jalpaiguri district on Wednesday night. Police rescued the women, Chameli Oraon and Korio Kewar, neighbours aged over 50, currently under treatment at Malbazar hospital. Mongra Oraon, 60, who the attackers had alleged was their “mentor in witchcraft”, died on spot after being beaten by iron rods and sticks. Nine persons have been arrested. Sources said for past few months, some residents suspected Chameli and Korio were “practicing black magic” that made people fall ill. On Wednesday night, a group of people went to these women’s homes and caught them. Others asked Mongra, who also stayed nearby, to come out and accused him of being the mentor to the women. They took all three of them to Maynakhola, an adjacent locality, and started beating them with iron rods and sticks. As some residents informed Nagrakata police, a team went to the spot and managed to rescue the women. Mongra, however, died on the spot. Policemen recovered his body and carried raids to nab attackers. Nine persons were arrested in this connection. Amir Minz, Mongra’s nephew, accused some villagers of lynching his uncle. “They should be punished,” he said. The incident put the administration and the police on alert as such “witch-hunts” are rarer now in north Bengal tribal belts. “We will soon start an awareness campaign in the area so that people do not fall prey to such superstitions. Police have been asked to take stringent steps against all involved in Wednesdays crime,” said Bipul Kumar Mondal, the BDO of Nagrakata. The arrested were produced at a local court in Jalpaiguri on Thursday. Five were sent to judicial custody and four to police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Woman found dead, finger at 3am call||The body of a 19-year-old married woman, who had allegedly been raped and murdered, was recovered from an area behind her home in a village in Murshidabad’s Daulatabad block, around 15km from here, on Thursday. The victim’s mother filed a complaint of rape-and-murder at Daulatabad police station but did not name anyone in connection with the incident. She, however, suspected that a person who had made a call on her daughter’s mobile phone around 3am on Thursday. Around six months ago, the teenager had got married to a mason, who is a resident of Murshidabad’s Raninagar. The girl had come to live at her mother’s place a month ago when her husband left home for Kerala where he works at a construction site. The girl’s father died a year ago and her mother runs the family by working at a bidi factory. The teenager’s younger sister said that around 3am someone called on her mobile phone. “She took the call and stepped out of home while talking on the mobile phone. I thought it was a call from her husband and she had stepped out to avoid speaking in front of me. I went back to sleep.” When the family woke up in the morning, they could not find her. They started looking for her and found her lying dead on the patch of land behind their home. Prima facie, it looked like she had been raped and killed. The mother of the deceased said she had a “genuine suspicion” that the untimely caller was behind the crime. “It won’t take much time for the police to identify the killer. I have genuine suspicion that the person who had made the call on my daughter’s phone killed her. I demand justice for the heinous crime.” Murshidabad superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar said probe had started. “The mobile phone of the deceased has been seized and it will help identify the person who had made the early morning call. We hope to arrest the killer soon,” the district police chief said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||Minister inspects ‘BJP’s vandalism||State tourism minister Gautam Deb visited the state–run motel, Pather Sathi, located at Fulbari on Siliguri’s southern tip which was allegedly ransacked by BJP supporters during the party’s Monday protest march Uttarkanya Abhiyan and said that Trinamul would highlight the saffron party’s vandalism during its campaign. The minister also inspected the damaged traffic guard office near Naukaghat — also allegedly vandalised by the saffron camp on Monday — and Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) officials to assess the damage. The properties are located within the ambit of the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat, of which Deb happens to be the Trinamul MLA. “That the BJP supporters had perpetrated violence is evident from the damage caused to Pather Sathi and to the traffic guard office. The attack also hit the earnings of a self-help group of underprivileged women who run the services of Pather Sathi,” Deb said after inspecting the damage. The Pather Sathi building has two double-bedrooms, a dormitory, dining space and kitchen. Sources of the SJDA, which owns the building, said a preliminary estimate of the damages puts it around Rs 10 lakh. Along with the building off Asian Highway II, and a couple of kilometres ahead of the India-Bangladesh border, BJP supporters also ransacked a bus and a couple of bikes in Fulbari area. Deb said during the past few years, Fulbari had emerged as a new township near the international border, with private health clinics, educational institutions and industrial estates. “Unfortunately the BJP, which does not have any concrete issue, indulged in vandalism and created unrest in the area for political mileage,” Deb said. He said they would highlight before people the destruction. “We will ensure that people know what the BJP has done in the name of a protest march,” he said. Trinamul sources said festoons, banners, hoardings and leaflets, with pictures of the damaged structures and violence during BJP’s Monday’s march and Tuesday’s north Bengal strike would be prepared soon. “Those would be displayed across the region and leaflets distributed among people to show how BJP cadres fomented tension in and around Siliguri. These will also be shared on social media so that more and more people can learn about the destruction,” a Trinamul insider said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
11-12-2020||West Bengal||A Taj for hills to cap off Covid year on a high||Political instability in the hills and the worldwide pandemic notwithstanding, the Ambuja Neotia Group in partnership with the Taj group are ready to open the first of the five planned properties at the picturesque Makaibari tea garden in Kurseong from December 14. Industry veterans feel this development will be a game changer for Darjeeling tourism. The 72-room Taj Chia Kutir Resort & Spa at the world-famous Makaibari tea garden, spread over 22 acres, is fully ready. The entry of the Taj group in the region is expected to give a fillip to high-end tourism. “We are delighted to partner with IHCL under the “Taj” brand…….This partnership will give a strong impetus to the development of tourism in eastern region,” said Prosenjit De, vice-president of hospitality, Ambuja Neotia Group. Indian Hotels Company (IHCL), South Asia’s largest hospitality company, is owned by the Tatas, and manages properties under the Taj, Vivanta and Ginger brands. Suresh Periwal, advisor, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network, who has been in the industry for the 52 years, said that entry of the “Taj brand” would be a game-changer. “Taj is an internationally known brand and the presence of such brands can be a game changer. It will definitely make the presence of Darjeeling even stronger in the international tourism map,” said Periwal. The Ambuja group has invested around Rs 150 crore in the Makaibari property, providing a much-needed investment for hill tourism. The Kurseong property, complete with heated swimming pools — a not-too-common option in the hills, international culinary choices and other high-end amenities, is also looking at promoting wellness tourism. Darjeeling was considered a health sanatorium by the Britishers. Of late, resorts are being set up in tea gardens of Darjeeling hills but this Kurseong property is the largest so far in terms of occupancy. The group also has properties in other parts of the region and plans to create a circuit to show the diversity in the region. “The plan is to set up a circuit right from Calcutta to Dooars to Darjeeling to Sikkim and other places in the region,” said V.S. Dwivedi, director, AN Group. Construction in Kurseong started in 2017 but the hills were soon closed for 104 days due to the Gorkhaland agitation. Things had barely limped to normality when came the Covid pandemic. “Our dateline was delayed by six months,” said Dwivedi. The four other properties which are being developed by Ambuja Group and will be operated under the Taj brand are being set up near Gangtok and Patna and two in Calcutta. The total investment in these five properties is estimated at Rs 800 crore. “Taj Guras near Gangtok and the one in Patna should be operational by 2022 while the Calcutta projects should be completed by the second quarter of 2021,” said Dwivedi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-281
