12-12-2020||West Bengal||New laws to provide flexibility to farmers, says Bengal BJP chief||Amid protests by farmers in Delhi over the new farm laws, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said the agriculture reform measures will help them get better access to markets and realise a higher price for their produce. Speaking at a party's programme in Paschim Medinipur district, he said farmers in the state have been deprived of getting a remunerative price for their produce. "Earlier, a farmer was forced to sell his produce to middlemen. They sold potato at Rs 5 per kg, while we are buying it at Rs 40. They are unable to sell their paddy at minimum support price," he said. They have been compelled to sell paddy at Rs 1,200- 1,300 per quintal, instead of an MSP of over Rs 1,600, he said. "The new farm laws will provide flexibility to farmers to sell their produce in markets where they get a better price," Ghosh said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the new farm laws which they claim will dismantle the minimum support price (MSP) system. They are protesting against the three new laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Enacted in September, these laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen from the supply chain and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Nadda: central deputation order for 3 Bengal IPS officers ||Two days after the alleged lapses in security during BJP chief JP Nadda’s visit to Bengal, the Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday unilaterally called in three IPS officers of the state to serve in the central deputation, officials said. The three officers, Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour), Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) and Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal), were responsible for the security of the BJP President. “Three Indian Police Service officers belonging to the West Bengal cadre have been called to serve in central deputation in view of the lapses that allegedly led to the attack on Nadda's convoy in West Bengal,” an official of the home ministry said. This move is likely to escalate tensions between the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress government in Bengal and the BJP-led central government. It follows a Thursday incident, when Nadda’s convoy was attacked on his way to Diamond Harbour, allegedly by TMC “goons”. “The decision has been taken under the rules governing the all India service officers,” the MHA official said. Usually, the state government's consent is taken before any all India service officer is called to serve in central deputation. The three officers are perceived to be close to the present dispensation in West Bengal. On Friday, the Bengal government decided not to send its secretary and police chief to New Delhi in compliance with Union Home Ministry's order regarding the attack. Chief Secretary  Alapan Bandopadhyay wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, saying he has been directed to request the Centre to “dispense with the presence of the state officials” in a December 14 meeting, indicating that he was acting under orders of the state government. The Union Home Ministry has summoned Bandopadhyay and DGP Virendra on December 14 for an explanation on the law and order situation in the state, following Governor Jagdeep Dhankar’s report on the attack on Nadda. The police have arrested seven persons, including a BJP leader Rakesh Singh, in relation to the matter. Three FIRs have been drawn up for allegedly provoking crowds at Shirakol and Debipur on Thursday. The two other FIRs were lodged against “unknown persons”. Soon after the vandalism, a video footage showing a man resembling Singh urging BJP supporters to attend Shah’s rally with sticks went viral. Singh had said the video had been doctored. “The FIRs are under different sections of the Indian Penal Code, including rioting and obstructing public servants from discharging public duties,” a police source said while explaining the case related to the attack on Nadda’s convoy. Senior officers from  the Diamond Harbour district police said four persons had been arrested from Usthi and three others from Falta after the police had lodged suo motu complaints. “We are trying to find out more about the alleged attackers and more arrests are likely,” said a senior officer of the Diamond Harbour police district. Within an hour of the arrests, the district police bosses submitted a report to the home secretary underlining the arrangements that had been made for Nadda’s public meeting at Diamond Harbour and his journey from Calcutta on Thursday. The report was later handed over to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The BJP had claimed at least 17 cars and 127 bikes had been damaged and 35 bikes could not be found in the aftermath of the attack in Shirakol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||NCW deadline to Bengal over ‘inaction’ on complaints||The National Commission for Women warned the Bengal government of submitting details of over 260 complaints from the state to the Ministry of Home Affairs if the administration fails to address them within 15 days, its chairperson said on Saturday. Rekha Sharma was on a two-day visit to the state to probe into the “inaction” on 267 complaints, which includes two initiated by the women’s rights panel itself. “The worrisome situation in West Bengal is that the police don't reply, and no action has been taken on the complaints,” Sharma said. “Neither the director general of police nor the chief secretary meets me, and this is not the first time. They send their subordinates who are clueless about everything,” she told PTI. “In the last eight months, there have been more than 260 complaints, and no report has been sent to us,” the NCW chairperson added. Sharma further said that she will write to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in this regard. If the commission does not get any response within 15 days, the issue will be forwarded to the home ministry. “We met the governor during our visit this time. I am not saying the government can control things, but it can at least take action,” she said. The NCW has expressed concern over the “rising problem of trafficking of women” from north Bengal and tribal areas. Women and Child Development Minister of Bengal Sashi Panja said women are safer in the state than any other area of India. “The state government has taken all steps for the security of the women. The allegations against the state administration are baseless and politically motivated,” Panja said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb stable now, on non-invasive ventilation ||The health condition of former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was stable on Saturday morning, an official said. Bhattacharjee, who is on non-invasive ventilation, slept well last night, she said. "Mr Bhattacharjee is okay. He is still on NIV and taking it well. He is maintaining all critical clinical parameters. Last (Friday) night was uneventful," said the official said of the south Kolkata hospital where he is being treated. The veteran CPI(M) leader was extubated from mechanical ventilator support on Friday morning. "He is conscious and alert at present. His blood pressure, pulse and oxygen saturation are stable. His urine output is satisfactory. He is on IV fluids, IV antibiotics, IV steroids, and other supportive medications are on," the official said. On Friday, Bhattacharjee, 76, met his wife and daughter and communicated with them satisfactorily. The former chief minister was put on mechanical ventilator support at the critical care unit of the private hospital where he was admitted on Wednesday afternoon as his breathing-related problems aggravated. Bhattacharjee, the chief minister of Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been suffering from COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and other old age-related ailments for some time. He has been away from public life for the past few years due to his health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP’s Rajbanshi card in clash that lead to death of worker||The death of a BJP worker and injuries suffered by a few other supporters of the party from the Rajbanshi community, allegedly during the December 7 Uttarkanya Abhiyan protest march, made both BJP and Trinamul leaders fight a vital perception battle ahead of Bengal polls. Deceased Ulen Roy, a small tea grower hailing from Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, injured Jogesh Roy of Alipurduar and Amardip Roy of Haldibari, are all Rajbanshis. Of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal, around 15 are reserved for SC candidates, with Rajbanshis in bulk. In at least 10 more seats, Rajbanshi votes play a decisive factor. BJP, which is claiming that police pellets hit all three men, is using the community card to claim that Trinamul and the state government have time and again hurt the Rajbanshis. “The state police have fired pellet guns during the protest which led to Ulen Roy’s death and left some others injured…the party will highlight how the Mamata Banerjee government fired pellets on Rajbanshis,” said Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president, adding the BJP had given financial aid to Ulen’s family and is taking care of the treatment of the injured. Five BJP MPs from north Bengal have promised to take care of Roy’s family. On Friday, state BJP Rahul Sinha had been to his house, party sources said. BJP leaders are also referring to the death of Debendra Nath Roy, the BJP MLA of Hemtabad in North Dinajpur and a Rajbanshi, found hanging earlier this year. Though police and the CID have maintained that Roy killed himself over financial issues, BJP leaders have alleged murder. Trinamul leader and tourism minister Gautam Deb rubbished the charges. “BJP is responsible for the unfortunate death of one of their supporters. Once things settle down, I will visit the victim’s village to speak with his family,” said the minister, also MLA of Dabgram-Fulbari where violence had erupted on Monday. Khageswar Roy, Trinamul MLA of Rajganj where Ulen’s house is located, asserted he would meet the family. Next week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to address public meetings in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar with a high Rajbanshi concentration. “There are chances that the chief minister will counter the BJP’s current stoking of Rajbanshi sentiments,” said an insider. He added that Trinamul would play the development card and highlight how during Mamata’s tenure, a university had been set up in Cooch Behar in the name of Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshis, two language academies and a development and cultural board for the conservation and promotion of their language and culture. “Also, our government has met the longstanding demand of former KLO militants and linkmen with jobs,” the Trinamul leader added. Autopsy uncertain The issue of second post-mortem of deceased BJP supporter Ulen Roy remained indecisive even on Friday. The district and sessions court here cancelled the second-autopsy order issued by the chief judicial magistrate’s court on December 8 but also instructed the CJM court to hear the plea of Ulen’s sister Santibala within three days and issue an order. Santibala had pleaded for a second autopsy. “The (district and sessions) court heard the case on Friday and cancelled the CJM court’s order. The court also ordered the CJM court to hear both parties (Santibala and the state) during next three days,” said Somnath Pal, a government lawyer. “We don’t know whether to withdraw the case so that we can take the mortal remains of my brother for his last rites or wait for the next hearing,” Santibala said. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb out of mechanical ventilation||Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, was put out of mechanical ventilation on Friday. Doctors said the CPM veteran was conscious and alert. A bulletin issued by the Woodlands Hospital, where he is admitted since Wednesday after acute breathing trouble, said his lungs were working on their own. On non-invasive ventilation now, he met wife Mira and daughter Suchetana, the bulletin said. However, he will take some more time to come out of danger. “Treating doctors are observing and managing him 24x7. We have to give some more time to say he is completely out of danger. So the prognosis at this time remains guarded and critical,” said the bulletin. CPM leader and doctor Fuad Halim said Bhattacharjee was better. "I hope he continues like that," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Convoy attack: Seven held, FIR on BJP leader||Police have arrested seven persons for allegedly attacking with bricks and stones the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda while he was on his way to attend a rally at Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas on Thursday. Three FIRs have been drawn up, including one against BJP leader Rakesh Singh, for allegedly provoking crowds at Sirakhol and Debipur on Thursday. The two other FIRs were lodged against “unknown persons”. Singh, a 48-year-old former Congress leader from the Kidderpore area had contested the 2016 Assembly polls from Calcutta Port as a Left-backed candidate. He joined the BJP before the Lok Sabha polls last year. He has cases of arson, rioting and extortion pending against him. Last year, Singh was arrested by Calcutta police in connection with the vandalism at Vidyasagar College, where a group of outsiders barged into the north Calcutta college while a BJP procession led by then party chief Amit Shah was passing by and smashed a bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. Soon after the vandalism, a video footage showing a man resembling Singh urging BJP supporters to attend Shah’s rally with sticks went viral. Singh had said the video had been doctored. “The FIRs are under different sections of the Indian Penal Code, including rioting and obstructing public servants from discharging public duties,” a police source said while explaining the case related to the attack on Nadda’s convoy. Senior officers from  the Diamond Harbour district police said four persons had been arrested from Usthi and three others from Falta after the police had lodged suo motu complaints. “We are trying to find out more about the alleged attackers and more arrests are likely,” said a senior officer of the Diamond Harbour police district. Within an hour of the arrests, the district police bosses submitted a report to the home secretary underlining the arrangements that had been made for Nadda’s public meeting at Diamond Harbour and his journey from Calcutta on Thursday. The report was later handed over to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. At least 350 police personnel of different ranks, including deputy superintendents of police and inspectors, were detailed along the entire route of Nadda’s journey, sources in the know about the report’s content said. He was “covered” by a group of over 20 CRPF personnel and provided with a bullet-proof vehicle in keeping with his Z-category security, said a source. The report mentions except for Shirakol, the convoy was not stopped at any other location despite several people standing along the way with black flags and placards to protest new farm laws. The report also mentions that the alleged attack at Shirakol on Thursday afternoon lasted for about 15 minutes and the situation was brought under control effectively following intervention by the police. The situation could have otherwise spiralled out of control, the officers said. The BJP had claimed at least 17 cars and 127 bikes had been damaged and 35 bikes could not be found in the aftermath of the attack in Shirakol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Convict trailing convoy made lewd gestures: Trinamul||Trinamul on Friday stood its ground on the alleged attack on BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy a day before, questioning the alleged presence of a “convict” and extra cars and bikes en route, accusing the BJP of provocation and challenging the Centre’s authority to summon the state chief secretary and director-general of police over the incident. Trinamul leader Mamata Banerjee, who launched a belligerent counter-attack after the alleged incident on Thursday, was silent on Friday. Trinamul fielded Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, a party vice-president, and Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee, part of the seven-member apex steering committee of the party, to address the media on the party’s stand. “Mr Nadda was given a security cover...which was adequate,” said Kalyan Banerjee, referring to the Z-category protectee (Nadda), who is entitled to a bullet-proof car, escort vehicles from the state as well as CRPF personnel and personal security officers of the CRPF, among others. “When such an escorted convoy is being taken, others cannot join it. But scores of additional cars in front and behind, besides many motorcycles were seen,” he said. “From such an unauthorised rally accompanying the convoy, a certain (BJP leader) Rakesh Singh — he is a convict, 59 criminal cases are pending against him — opened his car door and kept making lewd, offensive gestures at Trinamul supporters gathered near a party event’s dais,” the Serampore MP added. “The question is why Mr Nadda was going along with such a convict... who kept doing such offensive things while accompanying his convoy? Why was there such provocation? Nadda himself broke the law,” he said. The Serampore MP said three cases were being pursued by the police over Thursday’s incident, one of them against Singh. He said seven persons had already been arrested. “Every meeting, every rally, every political programme of the BJP now has outsider goons, criminals, anti-social elements, with illegal firearms,” he alleged. Dum Dum MP Roy said it was the BJP’s diversionary ploy to take away attention from the “the positive narrative, a development-oriented discourse” his party had been trying to focus on in the run-up to the state polls. Later in the day, the party issued a statement on Twitter in response to alleged acts of vandalism on Banga Bhavan in Delhi and Trinamul heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee’s residence in the national capital. “By vandalizing the Banga Bhawan in Delhi, @BJP4India has once again proven that violence is their only solution to undermine the 10 years of good work by @MamataOfficial!” it posted on the microblogging site. “This attack showcases BJP’s sheer disregard for the cultural sentiment of the people of West Bengal!” it added. Serampore MP Banerjee, who is also a lawyer by profession, questioned the Centre over its summons to chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and director-general of state police Virendra in the wake of the incident. “No central government official has the jurisdiction to issue such summons to the chief secretary and the director-general of police for something like this. They want to discuss the law and order situation? According to the Constitution, it is a state subject. If it is on law and order, these officials and the state government are answerable to the state Assembly. Not anybody else,” he said. Banerjee also added that the letter from the Centre was “not only illegal but unconstitutional”. The party’s top-tier leaders such as state ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim also reacted to attacks from the saffron camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah visit scheduled to up ante||Union home minister Amit Shah will be in Bengal on a two-day tour on December 19 and 20, the party announced a day after its national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy had allegedly been attacked on its way to Diamond Harbour on Thursday. Multiple BJP leaders said Shah would up the ante against the Trinamul Congress on the alleged attack and lay stress on the “breakdown” of law and order in the state, which would be a major plank of the campaign for the party in the 2021 Assembly polls. “Amit ji will be in Bengal on a two-day tour... He will visit North 24-Parganas and Birbhum,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu. Several leaders of Bengal BJP said Shah’s visit must be seen in the context of Thursday’s incident. “The home minister was supposed to tour Bengal in December. However, after the attack on Naddaji, it is natural that Amitji will politically counter the incident during his tour,” a source in the party said. In spite of condemning the incident publicly, a section of BJP office-bearers said they were happy with the political mileage the attack had given to the party. “We’ve been speaking to people since the incident happened. Even the ones who oppose us ideologically condemned the attack,” a source said while adding that Shah’s presence, after the incident, would help the party. According to the leader, the incident has managed to establish the narrative about worsening law and order in Bengal. Shah may also attend a programme organised by the Viswa-Bharati University in Santiniketan. Shah spoke to BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy over phone. “I received a call from Amit Shahji. He asked me about yesterday’s incident,” Roy said. “He has asked me to send a detailed report on how the Trinamul people attacked us unprovoked on Thursday,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Arrest in Manish Shukla murder case||The CID team probing BJP leader Manish Shukla’s murder case arrested one more accused from a hideout in Titagarh, adjacent to the Kalyani Expressway, in the early hours of Friday. Sources in the CID said the accused Nasir Ali Mondal, a resident of Basanti in South 24-Parganas, was a local link of alleged mastermind Subodh Singh. Acting on information gleaned during interrogation of those already arrested in the Shukla case, a CID team raided Nasir’s hideout in Titagarh and nabbed him. Produced before a court in Barrackpore on Friday, he has been remanded to 10 days of police custody. With this, the CID has so far arrested nine persons in connection with Shukla’s murder. Last month, police had arrested Amar Yadav, an accomplice of Subodh Singh, who is an expert in the maintenance of improvised firearms and is currently lodged in a jail in Bihar’s Nalanda. Shukla, a former councillor of Titagarh Municipality, was gunned down on the night of October 4 on BT Road in Titagarh by four motorcycle-borne assailants. CID sources said Nasir, a long-time aide of Subodh, had accompanied the assailants. “Nasir was present during the attack on Manish Shukla and had probably fled to Bihar. He recently returned and took shelter in Titagarh. We got a tip-off about his location on Thursday night and formed a team to nab him early in the morning,” a CID officer said. The conspiracy behind the murder allegedly unfolded with the arrest of local trader Khurram with whom Shukla had an enmity. CID eventually came to know about the Bihar link following the arrest of Subodh Rai, a resident who provided logistic support to contract killers and arranged rented rooms for them in Barrackpore. On October 30, the CID took custody of Sujit Kumar Rai, and Roshan Kumar Yadav, two sharpshooters from Punjab who had been arrested by Punjab police in connection with a robbery case in Ludhiana. Subodh Singh had given away names of Bihar-based criminals Sujit and Roshan and spoken about their involvement in the murder when a CID team interrogated him in Nalanda jail last month. The duo also confessed to their role in the murder. Enamul Haque, an alleged kingpin in the cow smuggling racket operating on the India-Bangladesh border, was sent to judicial custody by a CBI court in Asansol on Friday. Enamul was arrested from New Delhi by the CBI last month but sent to isolation after testing positive for Covid late last month. The CBI on Friday pleaded with the court to grant 14 days’ custody. After hearing both sides, the court rejected the CBI’s plea and sent Enamul to judicial custody. Another accused, BSF commandant Satish Kumar, was again sent to 11 days of judicial custody. Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Bolpur breadwinner mom gets help||Tumpa Kundu, 36, a homemaker-turned-cook from Birbhum’s Bolpur town, who had gone to the Duare Sarkar camp on December 1, received her Swasthya Sathi and ration cards on Friday. The Telegraph had reported on December 2 about Tumpa’s plight. Tumpa got widowed four years ago in East Burdwan and now lives in Bolpur town with her visually impaired father, mother and two minor sons. To fend for herself and her family, she works as a cook at people’s homes, but finds it tough to manage her household expenses. Before the Duare Sarkar camp on December 1, Tumpa had gone around asking people, including the councillor, to help her avail government schemes and make her “home management” a bit easier. But, as she had told this newspaper earlier, specific information was scarce. People would ask her to meet officials in the district administration or at the municipality, but she was too nervous to do so. At the Duare Sarkar camp, Tumpa finally learnt that she and her father were eligible for widow and disability pensions, respectively. But a new problem arose. She did not know how to follow up on these pensions as she was not used to talking with officials or even if she had the relevant papers. But when Tumpa’s plight was reported in the newspaper, government officials knocked on her doorstep and resolved some of her problems. Tumpa was called at a government camp near her house on Friday where additional district magistrate (general) Sweta Agarwal handed her Swasthya Sathi and ration cards. Senior government officials said they processed her application for widow pension and enrolled her name for a home under a scheme. Officials also said Tumpa had not been getting her ration under the Khadya Sathi scheme as her ration card had not been transferred from East Burdwan, where she lived with her husband. “We transferred her ration card from Burdwan to Bolpur, and gave her a fresh ration card,” said an official. “We have asked the municipality to enlist her name for widow pension. Once enrolled, she will Rs 1,000 a month,” said a senior official. “I am really happy today. I never imagined that big officials would come to know about my problems. They assured me that I will get my widow pension soon,” said Tumpa. She added that she had also learnt that her father would get a disability pension under the state government’s Manabik scheme. District magistrate Vijay Bharti said they wanted to reach out to people  left out of government schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal|| JMB suspect held in Birbhum||The Special Task Force of Calcutta police arrested an alleged operative of the Jamaat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), a banned Bangladeshi terror outfit, from Paikar in Birbhum in the early hours of Friday. Najibullah, 50, was arrested from his home at Kashimnagar near Paikar after STF officers, who had been shadowing his activities for some time, got evidence of his alleged terror-related activities. “Najibullah had a Facebook account in the name of Saqib Ali and used to spread radical ideas and hatred against non-Muslims,” said a senior STF officer. “He used to inspire youths to take the path of fundamentalism.” Saqib, it now appears, is the name of one of Najibullah’s four sons. Although it’s quite early into the interrogation stage, the sleuths believe Najibullah was part of the gang that was involved in serial blasts at Bodh Gaya, Bihar, in 2013. The police seized several electronic gadgets, including a laptop, a CPU, SIM cards and cellphones, from Najibullah’s possession. The police though have made it clear they were yet to find out whether Najibullah had any IS connection or not, but the investigators said Najibullah’s JMB links appeared to be quite strong going by the types of books and other literature that were seized from a printing press that he used to run at his village. Preliminary investigations revealed that Najibullah had finished his basic education at a madrasa in Uttar Pradesh and later worked as an imam of a mosque in Hiyatnagar in Birbhum district. Family members said he had left his work as the imam and started running the printing press. Najibullah lives in a joint family with six brothers. He has four sons and three daughters. The eldest daughter is 16 years old and the youngest son is one-and-a-half year old. “My father used to take orders for printing. A group of police officers turned up around 1.30am today (Friday) and took him into their custody. We still don’t know what his fault was,” said Sibgatullah , 15-year-old son of Najibullah. He is a Class IX student at a local high school. The arrest comes within a month of the National Investigation Agency picking up madrasa teacher Abul Momin Mondal from Raninagar in Murshidabad. On Friday, NIA officials said they would want to interrogate Najibullah to find out whether he was present during the Khagragarh blast in Burdwan in 2014. A JMB module was allegedly involved in the blast, the NIA said, and it was vital to find out whether Najibullah was a part of that same module.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||2,753 new infections, 23,281 in all ||Bengal on Friday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 46th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, with 2,873 recoveries, 2,753 new infections and 50 deaths, 13 from Calcutta. Since Dashami, active cases have fallen from 37,190 to 23,281. The state also reported less than 3,000 new cases for the fifth consecutive day. Bengal, however, stayed third among states with the most active cases after Maharashtra and Kerala. Bengal has over 6 per cent of the national total of active cases. The state now has over 5.16 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.84 lakh recoveries and 8,966 deaths. Of the total toll, 7,514, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. In the 46 days since Dashami, the state recorded over 1.74 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.62 lakh cases detected. The state’s recovery rate rose for 50 consecutive days from 87.44 on October 22 to 93.76 per cent now. The national rate now is 94.85 per cent. The mortality rate is 1.73, still behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Calcutta High Court’s intervention to prevent crowding to keep a leash on the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath seem to have worked. “We are trying our best to ensure there’s no new spike from the Christmas-New Year spell of festivals,” said the minister. With 42,131 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 63.4 lakh, at 70,446 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate – the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted -- is 8.15 now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 22.71 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.23 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Two tea gardens in Dooars get banking ease||Residents of two tea estates in the Dooars can avail banking services from near home from now on, as the State Bank of India (SBI) opened customer service points (CSPs) at the gardens on Friday. This move will be convenient for both workers, and their employers — the tea companies. For the past couple of years, most of the tea companies had been bearing additional costs as the Centre imposed TDS (tax deducted at source) at the rate of 2 per cent on annual cash drawings above Rs 1 crore. This is because in the tea industry, wages, bonus and other payments are still made in cash with most gardens located in remote areas. Workers find it inconvenient to travel so far to banks to draw the money. Sumit Ghosh, the secretary of the north Bengal branch of Tea Association of India (TAI), said they had been working for months now to facilitate the opening of mini-banks or CSPs in the tea gardens itself. “This would, on one hand, reduce the additional expenditure that tea companies have to bear for drawing cash above Rs 1 crore, and on the other hand, encourage tea workers and their families to get into the banking system,” said Ghosh. The association, sources said, could get the support of the SBI to open CSPs in a number of gardens, both in Terai and in the Dooars. “Tea companies have also responded to our call by providing logistic support with room, power supply, water and other facilities so that the CSPs can run. On Friday, we opened two new CSPs at Kurti and Patharjhora tea estates (both in the Dooars). The facility will help the tea garden population as well as residents of adjacent areas,” added Ghosh. A TAI source said that so far facilities had opened in nine tea estates of the Terai while proposals had been submitted to open CSPs in 17 more tea gardens — five in Terai and seven in the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Barbs fly on TMC-Gurung bonhomie||Senior Left and BJP leaders trained their guns at chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her party on Friday over the reappearance of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung in north Bengal. Gurung has serious charges against him in the wake of the violent Gorkhaland agitations of 2017. A few years back, the same Trinamul government had slapped over 100 police cases on Gurung and declared him absconding, TMC’s rivals said. CPM leaders of Darjeeling district at a news meet here said the recent bonhomie between Gurung and Trinamul deserved to be questioned and chief minister Mamata Banerjee had to answer how the Morcha leader could freely about. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri, said Gurung’s recent emergence in the state’s political arena was surprising. “We would like to know what happened to the police cases filed against him and whether his name has been dropped from the chargesheets...” Left leaders accused Trinamul of “divisive politics” in the hills. “Trinamul is encouraging both lobbies of the Morcha (Gurung and his rival Binay Tamang) only to draw support during the Assembly polls. It is a wrong strategy that can lead to breach of peace in the hills,” a CPM leader said. On October 21 this year, Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta and announced parting ways with BJP to support Mamata Banerjee in the 2021 state polls. He stayed on the outskirts of Calcutta for over a month. On December 6, he reached Siliguri for his first public meeting after three-and-half years, and is staying at a hotel here. On Sunday, he will address a public meeting at Birpara in Alipurduar. State BJP leader Rahul Sinha on Friday was equally critical about Trinamul’s stand on Gurung. “Bimal Gurung is leading a public life. It seems that Trinamul has suddenly changed its stand. We are firm on our stand, and once Assembly elections are over, will sit with hill residents to discuss their issues,” said Sinha. Trinamul leaders are tight-lipped about Gurung. Sources said Trinamul will keep a distance with him for a while. “The state leadership is monitoring his activities. We have no comments,” said a senior Trinamul leader when asked about Gurung.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||20 injured in campus clash||At least 20 persons, including students, were injured during a clash initially between the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad (TMCP) and right-wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) supporters, which the BJP youth wing later joined, at the Gobardanga Hindu College in North 24-Parganas on Friday. ABVP supporters allegedly ransacked the TMCP-run students’ union office, damaged furniture and vandalised over a dozen bikes in retaliation to an attack earlier in the day on its delegation that had gone to the college to submit a deputation demanding justice for an alleged assault of two of its supporters by TMCP students wing on December 8. The clash fanned tension in the vicinity of the college in the town’s Jamdani area, forcing shops to pull down shutters. A large police contingent from Gobardanga and Habra finally brought the situation under control. Barasat superintendent of police Avijeet Banerjee said: “Police teams have been deployed in the area and we have begun a probe to examine what led to the flare-up.” Till late Friday evening no one, however, was arrested. Trouble started brewing around noon when an eight-member ABVP team went to the college to submit a deputation demanding justice for its two assaulted supporters, both third-year undergraduate students, on December 8 when they had gone to submit hard copies of their online exam papers. When the ABVP deputation reached the college campus on Friday, a group of about 30 TMCP activists allegedly barged inside and began beating up members of the delegation. As the news of attack on the ABVP deputation spread, many supporters of the BJP's youth wing rushed to campus and went on a rampage. College sources said violent BJP activists ransacked the TMCP-run student union room, broke furniture, fans, glasspanes and damaged 17 motorcycles. TMCP supporters were chased and beaten up by BJP activists. Police dispersed the warring sides. Anik Chakraborty, vice-president of ABVP North 24-Parganas unit, said: “There was no provocation from us. We came to submit a deputation to condemn the assault on two of our student activists by TMCP supporters and outsiders.” Anik added: “We went to demand a ban on entry of outsiders to the college and this angered Trinamul activists who started beating us. They molested two of our women activists and beat us with iron rods, bamboo sticks. Five of us had injuries that required stitches.” President of the Gobardanga unit of the Trinamul Youth Congress Pradipta Dutta Roy blamed “ABVP activists aided by local criminals” for “unleashing terror on campus. “They assaulted our activists, ransacked our union office, damaged bikes and vandalised college property. At least 10 of our activists have been injured.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Underage bride brought back home||An underage girl, spotted after her marriage was solemnised with rituals on Tuesday, was rescued by the child protection committee, the panchayat, an NGO and the police, from a village under Habibpur police station of Malda district on Thursday. Sources said the 15-year-old girl from a village in Mangalpura panchayat of Habibpur was married off to a youth on Tuesday. After her marriage was over, representatives of the child protection committee of the district got information about it and learnt that the girl was at her “in-law’s” and that a reception would be held on Thursday. They informed the police and on Thursday evening, a joint team reached the groom’s house. The groom fled with some of his relatives. The team members spoke with a relative of the youth and the bride. Baijayanti Sarkar, head of the local panchayat who was with the team, gave a declaration in writing that the girl would be sent to her parents immediately. “She said the girl will not be allowed to live with her husband before she turns 18. The head of the panchayat will keep a watch on the girl,” a team member said. Asked how an underage marriage could be held, Shibendu Shekhar Jana, an officer of the child protection department, said families of the bride and groom might have taken advantage of the pandemic. “We could rescue the girl but got a little delayed. The campaign would be intensified again across the district, particularly in rural belts,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||124-bed Covid hospital soon||The health department of Darjeeling district will open a hospital for Covid-19 patients at a new building on the premises of North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH), Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty (OSD) deputed in north Bengal for Covid-19, said. A 124-bed hospital would be opened in the building that was supposed to be used as a night shelter for families and relatives of patients but had remained unused. “It is a four-storey building in an isolated location. There is space to set up 124 beds. Earlier, we had proposed to the state health department that the building could be used as a Covid hospital. We have received approval and we will soon open this facility here for Covid-19 patients,” said Roy. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in the district, the health department had been using two private nursing homes which it had acquired from authorities concerned to hospitalise patients. Over the past few weeks, the number of cases in the district came down, which made the department plan on running a hospital on government premises and gradually vacate the private nursing homes. On the new hospital, Roy said they would open a 20-bed critical care unit for serious Covid patients with 104 general beds for other Covid patients. “We may need five to seven days to carry out civil and electrical work. The state PWD department will be assigned with this responsibility,” he said. “Once this pandemic period is over, this building would be used as the emergency unit,” said a hospital official.  Shopkeeper tests To prevent contamination, the health department has planned tests for all shopkeepers who deal with hundreds of people every day. “There are plans to start conducting Covid tests for all shopkeepers of the city. If any of them tests Covid-19 positive, he can be an easy transmitter as he comes in contact with numerous people. If he tests negative, the department will issue a certificate that it is a Covid-free shop. The same shop owner will be tested again after seven to ten days,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
12-12-2020||West Bengal||Centre calls top officials, Bengal demurs||The Centre has called the Bengal chief secretary and the director-general of police to New Delhi next week in connection with the stoning of some cars in the convoy of the BJP national president but the state government has requested the Union home secretary to “dispense with” the presence of the two officials. “While further reports are being obtained and compiled, in the circumstances, I am directed to request you to kindly dispense with the presence of the state officials in the meeting, considering that the state government is already addressing this issue with utmost seriousness,” Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said in a letter to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Friday. The chief secretary sent the letter after the Union home ministry asked him and DGP Virendra to be in Delhi on Monday for a meeting on law and order in Bengal. The Union home ministry had sought a report from the state government on Thursday on the attack on Nadda’s convoy, and the summons to the officials came on Friday. A former special secretary in the Union home ministry in Delhi described the Centre’s action without waiting for the state’s report as unprecedented and political. “The two officials have been summoned on the basis of a report from Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar that he sent on Friday morning on the law-and-order situation in the state,” an official in the Union home ministry said. Officials in Calcutta said they were surprised that the chief secretary -- an IAS officer – had been summoned by the Union home ministry. “The cadre-controlling authority for IAS officers is the DoPT (department of personnel and training, which reports to the PMO), and the home ministry has no authority to summon the chief secretary. The home ministry can summon the DGP as it is the cadre-controlling authority for IPS officers,” an official said. The chief secretary’s letter, a Nabanna source said, was written to explain the “ground reality”. In the letter, the chief secretary detailed the steps that had been taken to provide security to Nadda and the action taken after the incident. The letter said the state government had posted four additional SPs, eight deputy SPs, 14 inspectors, 70 sub-inspectors and additional sub-inspectors, 40 RAF personnel, 259 constables and 350 members of the auxiliary forces on the route and at the programme venue in Diamond Harbour. Nadda was on his way to Diamond Harbour to address a rally. “In addition, the state government had provided a bullet-proof car and a pilot to Nadda,” the letter said. Bandyopadhyay referred to the possible reasons behind the incident despite such a heavy deployment of forces. “The tagging of many vehicles to the protectee convoys, however, made the situation unwieldy, because typically, security authorities are to handle a protectee convoy of a few vehicles only,” the chief secretary wrote. He listed the steps initiated by the state government after the incident to make it clear that the administration was not sitting idle. “Further, 3 cases have already been registered in this connection, while 2 of them are specifically for vandalism, one each in Usthi PS and Falta PS, both under the Diamond Harbour police district. 7 persons have been arrested in these 2 cases,” the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-279
