13-12-2020||West Bengal||Vijayvargiya calls for deployment of central forces in Bengal||Accusing Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of “banking on violence” to “return to power” BJP General Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya on Sunday said central forces should be deployed in the state immediately. He said that this should be done to “put an end” to the “political violence” that engulfs the atmosphere of the state these days. The leader urged the Election Commission to ensure free and fair elections in the state in April-May next year, saying there should not be any provision for fear and violence. “Mamata Banerjee knows that the land under her feet has slipped and so she is trying to return to power in the state on the strength of violence,” he said. “I urge the Election Commission to deploy central forces from now itself in order to put an end to the prevailing atmosphere of political violence and terror in the state,” Vijayvargiya told the media at Shantiniketan in Birbhum district. The ruling Trinamul Congress and the BJP have been engaged in a tussle over the attack on saffron party president JP Nadda’s convoy during his Bengal visit on Thursday, while he was travelling to Diamond Harbour. The Ministry of Home Affairs has called on three IPS officers of the state cadre to join the central deputation. The three officers -- Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour), Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) and Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal) -- were responsible for the security of the BJP chief during his December 9-10 visit to the state. On Sunday, Vijayvargiya met Visva Bharati Vice-Chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty to discuss details about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's virtual programme to mark the foundation day of the central university on December 24. Later Vijayvargiya told reporters, “The PM, who is the Chancellor of Visva Bharati founded by Gurudev Rabindanath Tagore, is slated to address the programme virtually. We discussed the modalities. It was an informal meeting.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Kin of BJP supporter to move high court for second autopsy ||The family of Ulen Roy, the BJP supporter who died of pellet injuries during the party’s protest march in Siliguri on December 7, will file a petition on his second post-mortem at Calcutta High Court circuit bench here on Monday. The saffron party has been claiming that Roy died and some others were wounded by pellets fired by police. The police have denied firing pellets. Soujit Singha, the lawyer representing Roy’s family, said: “As the issue of Ulen Roy’s second post-mortem is indecisive, we will move Calcutta High Court.” On Friday, the district and sessions court here rejected a December 8 order of the chief judicial magistrate’s (CJM) court for Roy’s second post-mortem. But the court also directed the CJM court to hear the state and petitioner — Roy’s sister Santibala had petitioned for a second autopsy — during the next three days. Singha, also district convener of BJP’s legal cell in Jalpaiguri, said they would also petition for a CBI probe on Roy’s death and other incidents. On Saturday, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri Jayanta Roy took eight party supporters from Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH). All were injured by pellets, MP Roy said. “We found nine more supporters hit by pellets that police fired at our men (during the march). On Saturday, eight of them went to NBMCH... Some have developed orthopaedic complications,” he added. Trinamul leader and minister Gautam Deb said Ulen Roy’s death was unfortunate but the BJP was doing politics over his death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya assures Matuas on CAA||The BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya on Saturday called on the Thakurnagar home of party MP and All India Matua Mahasangh chief Santanu Thakur, who has been voicing the community’s discontent over the Centre’s delay in implementing the citizenship law. During Vijayvargiya’s visit in the backdrop of Amit Shah’s proposed visit to Bengal on December 19, Thakur demanded the Union home minister visit the Matua turf to announce implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. “We have...requested Kailashji to convince Amit Shahji to visit Thakurnagar…There is tremendous pressure on us over the CAA… We are hopeful that the BJP leadership knows it well and Amit Shahji comes here to make the announcement (of its implementation). We have reiterated these points to Kalashji,” Santanu told the media after the meeting. Sources in the BJP said Vijayvargiya went all the way to Thakurnagar to meet the Mahasangh leaders and Thakur as the party was worried over the restlessness of Matuas over the delay in implementing the citizenship law. Speaking to the reporters, Vijayvargiya refuted claims that Thakur was annoyed with the party leadership about the delay. “He is a BJP MP and held a meeting with the home minister a few days ago. The CAA will be implemented by January or February next year,” he said. Vijayvargiya arrived at Thakurnagar around 1pm and held talks with leaders of the Matua Mahasangh and lunched with them before leaving. The visit of BJP’s Bengal minder to Thakurnagar also comes close on the heels of Mamata Banerjee’s December 9 rally in Gopalnagar where the chief minister announced that Matuas were Indian citizens and did not need CAA. She also vouched not to allow implementation of the CAA in the state, while announcing a slew of measures to win over the Matuas. The sudden move of Mamata has left the BJP jittery as the Matuas had largely been Trinamul supporters since the change of guard in Bengal, but the BJP had since managed to make solid inroads in the community by playing the citizenship card. To counter Mamata’s renewed effort to woo Matuas and her staunch opposition to the citizenship law, the BJP wants to use Shah’s visit as the votes of the Namashudra community would decide winners on quite a few seats in next year's Assembly polls. A source in the Mahasangh said one more reason for Vijayvargiya’s visit to Thakurnagar was to personally convince Santanu that the law would eventually be implemented. The source added that even after Saturday’s meeting Subrata doesn’t appear to be convinced. “We have learnt that the Centre is planning to implement the Citizenship Act very soon. But we will be happy if Amit Shahji visits Thakurnagar by January and makes an announcement about its implementation from here,” Santanu said. BJP insiders said efforts were on to ensure that Shah visited Thakurbari to make the announcement as it was crucial to win the support of the Matuas largely spread over North 24-Parganas and Nadia and a few districts in north and south Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal’s Darjeeling public meeting on December 20||Suspense has lifted from the most anticipated development of hill politics in recent times with the announcement that Bimal Gurung would reach Darjeeling next Sunday. Gurung reached Siliguri on December 6 but hasn’t gone to the hills. Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung camp, told The Telegraph: “Bimal Gurung will reach Darjeeling on December 20 and we will hold a public meeting at the town’s motor stand.” The last public appearance of Gurung in Darjeeling was during the Independence Day celebrations of 2017. It was held at Ging tea estate on the outskirts of the hill town. Giri did address a public meeting on November 30 at Kurseong. But Gurung’s presence in the hills is expected to create a different impact. Observers believe Gurung’s arrival in the hills after over three-and-a-half-years is enough to draw crowds throughout his Siliguri-Darjeeling route and to the public meeting. It is not clear whether Gurung would change his base from Siliguri to Darjeeling after the public meeting. Leaders of the Gurung faction’s youth front on Saturday lambasted the BJP and the party’s Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba for allegedly doing nothing to arrive at a permanent political solution for the hills. “We severed ties with BJP because of the doublespeak. We supported the party but for 11 years, it did nothing to address our principal demand. The MLA of Darjeeling is the most inactive public representative we have seen so far...,” said Prakash Gurung, youth front leader, in Siliguri. Ahead of going to Darjeeling, Gurung will be in Birpara of Alipurduar district on Sunday (December 13) to address a public meeting. On the same day, the rival faction of Morcha headed by Binay Tamang will organise a meeting at Sukna, around 10km from Siliguri. “The race to prove the support of the majority of the Gorkhas in the hills and plains before Trinamul leadership is truly on,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||CAA opponents warm up in Calcutta||Kaneez Fatima asked her husband to do her share of work on Saturday so that she could be part of a gathering that not only looked back at the events that unfolded this time last year but also resolved to continue the fight just when storm clouds were gathering again. Over  200 Calcuttans came together at Rajabazar on Saturday, the first anniversary of the citizenship act. The meeting was organised by the Joint Forum Against NRC, a public platform associated with the anti-CAA and anti-NRC movements in Bengal. The forum said on Saturday that its supporters were ready to start protests the moment the BJP-led Centre started implementing the act. “The act came into being exactly a year ago, which led to nationwide protests. If the Narendra Modi government issues a gazette notification to implement the act, we will again hit the streets to prevent its implementation,” said forum convener Prasenjit Bose. “The BJP is gearing up with its politics of communal polarisation as polls are nearing. This is why their leaders are talking about the CAA again,” Bose said, adding these comments prompted them to prepare for protests again. Union home minister Amit Shah’s proposed visit to Bongaon on December 19 was a part of the BJP’s plan to fuel pro-CAA sentiments and polarise Bengal voters, he added. Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha constituencies, both currently represented by the BJP, are dominated by the Matua community. Some members of the community have problems with citizenship, and the BJP is trying to woo them with the new citizenship matrix. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has told the community that they were already citizens and did not need the laws. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya met the Matua community in Thakurnagar, North 24-Parganas, on Saturday and told them that the act would be implemented by January or February. On Saturday, among the audience at Rajabazar was Fatima, 43, from Narkeldanga. Fatima, who makes cardboard trays for a living with her husband Abu Zafer, 53. They have two school-going daughters. “Today (Saturday) I asked my husband to do my share of work as well, so that I can come here,” Fatima told this correspondent. “This protest was led by women like me and if they need me to come and sit here again, I will. It is, after all, a question of my identity and my country,” Fatima added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker lynched during outreach at Halisahar||A BJP booth committee president was allegedly beaten to death and six  party workers were injured at Halisahar in North 24-Parganas during the saffron party’s outreach programme on Saturday evening. The BJP has accused Trinamul of the attack while the latter has blamed the saffron party’s internal bickering. BJP’s Saikat Bhawal, a contract worker with Halisahar Municipality, was allegedly beaten to death with bricks, iron rods and bamboo sticks while distributing party leaflets in Barendra Para near the municipality in the town. Residents informed the police who came to see Saikat and his party colleague Khokon Das bleeding on the ground. Both were rushed to JNM Hospital in Kalyani, where Saikat was declared dead. Khokon is critical. BJP leaders alleged Trinamul had tagged Saikat, a resident of Dompara Lane, ward 9, an “outsider” and fatally assaulted him. “Trinamul has planned to eliminate our party workers by tagging them outsiders. It is a planned murder,” BJP’s Bijpur MLA Subhranshu Roy said. Local Trinamul leader Subodh Adhikary no party worker was involved. “It is the fallout of BJP’s internal bickering,” he said. Police have been deputed in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul alleges Centre of 'terrorising' Bengal officials||Trinamul on Saturday alleged that the Centre was “terrorising” IAS and IPS officers in Bengal in response to the Union home ministry’s central deputation call for three IPS officers who were tasked with BJP president J.P. Nadda’s security for the Diamond Harbour event on Thursday. The BJP has been blaming Trinamul for the  convoy attack en route to Diamond Harbour, the constituency of Trinamul heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. Trinamul veteran Kalyan Banerjee on behalf of the party shot a missive to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, urging him not to “behave like a servant of Amit Shah (union home minister)”. “Your motive is very clear that by taking them you want to create pressure upon the said three police officers. It is shameful and dangerous that all laws have been thrown out in the river by your action at the instance (sic) of Shri Amit Shah,” wrote Serampore MP Banerjee, also Trinamul’s chief whip in the Lok Sabha. “You are indirectly trying to impose emergency in the state of West Bengal. You are terrorising all IAS and IPS officers of our state. Your every path suffers from mala fide exercise of power,” he added. Banerjee, also a lawyer, told Bhalla that he disapproved the move through the letter on behalf of his party as Parliament was not in session. “Do not be a servant of Amit Shah but behave like an appropriate central government high official,” he wrote. Sources in Trinamul said it would tackle the problem on both fronts, administrative and political. In the letter, Banerjee also raised questions on the ministry’s summoning of state chief secretary Alapan Bandhyopadhyay and director-general of state police Virendra to Delhi for an explanation on Bengal’s law and order in the wake of the Nadda-convoy incident. “Can you, under the Constitution of India and any other law, intervene in respect of law and order of the state? It appears that with a political motive and at the insistence of your minister, who is a political person belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), you have issued the said letter,” wrote Banerjee. “You are trying to coerce the officers of the state of West Bengal with political vindictiveness. It appears also you are interfering with the federal structure embodied under the scheme of the Constitution of India,” he added. Trinamul also started taking out rallies in every block and ward of the state to condemn Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace gaffe by Bengal BJP during Nadda’s visit. On Wednesday, the BJP state unit’s official handle had issued a tweet with a quote, attributing it to Nadda, stating that Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati. Sources in BJP attributed the mistake to its IT cell. The tweet has since been taken down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddha is conscious, alert and has also communicated with doctors verbally||Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 76, admitted to Woodlands Hospital with acute respiratory distress on Wednesday, is stable now, his doctors said on Saturday. He is conscious, alert and has also communicated with doctors verbally, a news bulletin issued by the hospital said, adding that oxygen saturation in his body is 94 per cent and his vitals, including blood pressure and pulse, are stable. Bhattacharjee, who was brought out of mechanical ventilation on Thursday, showed no sign of deterioration for the next 24 hours.  “This is a good sign,” a hospital source, adding that the CPM veteran had slept well on Friday night. Though Bhattacharjee is being fed through the Ryles tube, doctors are considering its removal in due course. He has expressed his desire to be released from hospital immediately, but doctors are keeping him under observation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati to hold Pous Utsav but not the fair because of the pandemic||Visva-Bharati in a meeting on Saturday decided to hold Pous Utsav but not the fair this month because of the pandemic. In response, the state government is mulling an alternative to the Pous Mela this year. “There will be no Pous Mela this year. We will conduct only traditional rituals and programmes following Covid protocol. We have invited our Chancellor and chief minister for the centenary celebrations. However, we are yet to get their confirmations,” said Kishore Bhattacharya, one of the joint secretaries of Karmi Mandali that conducts programmes in the varsity. Pous Mela started in 1894 and is a key event in Bengal’s calendar. Pous Utsav includes prayers, convocation of varsity’s two schools — Patha Bhavan and Shiksha Satra — and an event to mark Visva-Bharati’s centenary celebrations. This varsity has invited its Chancellor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the centenary event on December 24. However, as Pous Mela is an important event for tourists and traders, the state government is working on a plan to hold a fair on the Dak Bungalow ground in Bolpur town. The government wants to hold the fair with the help of NGOs. “We have received proposals from half a dozen organisations (to hold the fair),” said Abhijit Sinha, mentor of Birbhum zilla parishad that owns the ground. Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, an apolitical platform, is one among those who have approached the zilla parishad to organise the fair. “We want to organise the fair mainly for two reasons. One, the fair gives a steady income to the local artisans who wait for Pous Mela to sell their produce. The fair is important this year because they have suffered due to lockdown. If political rallies can be held, there is no reason for the fair not to be held,” said Samirul Islam, secretary of the outfit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal’s active cases dip to 23,034||Bengal on Saturday logged 2,913 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,710 new infections and 44 deaths, and appeared nearing its goal of having fewer than 23,000 active cases by the end of 2020. The state’s total active cases numbered 37,190 on Dashami on October 26, but have now fallen to 23,034, back almost to where it was on September 7, 96 days ago. The total active cases dipped for the 47th successive day since Vijaya Dashami. On Saturday, the also state reported less than 3,000 new cases for the sixth consecutive day. “Till a few days ago, as the rate of drop in total active cases slowed down, it appeared that we would not be able to achieve our target of ending the year with less than 23,000. But as of today, we are just 35 cases away from sub-23,000,” said a minister. The first Covid-19 death was reported on March 23. The state took 264 days to cross the toll of 9,000. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.73, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. However, since Dashami, the mortality rate has improved from 1.85. Prior to this, Bengal logged 500 deaths on June 17, 1,000 on July 15, 2,000 on August 8, 3,000 on August 27, 4,000 on September 14, 5,000 on October 1, 6,000 on October 18, 7,000 on November 3, and 8,000 on November 22. “The latest 1,000 deaths took 20 days, slower and hence, better than the 16-19 days it took in the earlier per-1,000 deaths, the minister pointed out. “We are on track to achieve our other goal, of ending the year with a recovery rate of over 95,” the minister added. The state’s recovery rate has been rising for 51 consecutive days to touch a new high of 93.83 per cent. The national rate now is 94.9 per cent. In the 47 days since the end of Puja, the state recorded over 1.77 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.65 lakh cases. The state now has over 5.19 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.87 lakh recoveries and 9,010 deaths. Of Saturday’s 44 deaths, 16 were from the city. Of the total deaths, 7,553, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. With 42,107 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count went past 63.82 lakh, at 70,914 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate – the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted -- is 8.14 now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 22.22 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.25 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
13-12-2020||West Bengal||Toll boycott brings farm protests to Bengal||The ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab borders against the contentious farm laws spread to Bengal on Saturday with hundreds in Hooghly and Howrah taking over toll plazas for a few hours in the day and allowing vehicles to pass without having to pay tax, while demanding the laws be scrapped. Farmers’ unions agitating on Delhi borders had given a call to supporters to take over toll plazas across the country and allow free movement of vehicles on Saturday to escalate their agitation after several rounds of talks with the Modi government stayed inconclusive. The impact of the “takeover toll plaza” call in Bengal is significant as the BJP-led Centre has been trying to downplay the ongoing farmers’ protest as “discontentment” in two or three states only, and projecting the laws as major reforms in the agriculture sector. “If we don’t protest now, we will be forced to buy flour or rice at Rs 500 per kilo as multi-national companies will dictate the price mechanism and create artificial scarcity because the new laws have removed the cap on hoarding,” said a protester among the 300, including women, who joined the social service outfit Sikh Sangat to take over the toll plaza in Hooghly’s Dankuni on NH2 for around three hours. People shouted anti-farm-law slogans and waved placards demanding the laws be scrapped. Similar protests were held at toll plazas at Dulagarh and Bally in Howrah. Sources said that around 500 people in all reached Dulagarh and Bally. Around 150 members of trade union fronts of the CPM and the Congress — Citu and Intuc, respectively — took over the toll plaza on Vidyasagar Setu (second Hooghly bridge) in the afternoon. Baldish Singh, a member of the Sikh Sangat, who protested at the Dankuni toll plaza, said the ongoing peasant movement was “everybody’s”. “Farmers who are protesting against these new farm bills in Delhi and elsewhere are representing not just the farming community but the people of the entire country. The farm laws will harm farmers as well as common people as the price of agricultural produce will spike once multinational companies step in. People must come out in support of the farmers,” Singh said. A toll plaza employee in Dankuni said toll collection had been hit for two hours only — not more — and the protesters did not use force to stop tax collection. He added that the toll plaza employees had accepted the proposal of the protesters to stop collecting toll tax. “A group of people came and appealed to us to stop collecting toll tax for a few hours. We agreed and toll tax collection was stopped from 11.30am to 1.30pm. We lost around Rs 4-5 lakh because of the protest,” said toll collection agency official at Dankuni . Though political parties did not directly participate in Saturday’s protest, those opposed to the farm laws welcomed the movement to take over toll plazas across Bengal. “We are taking an active part in the protests demanding the repeal of these farm laws and therefore we support the Sikh Sangat’s show of solidarity with the farmers at Dankuni toll plaza,” said Debabrata Ghosh, CPM’s Hooghly district committee president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-278
