14-12-2020||West Bengal||Vijayvargiya provided with bullet-proof car after attack in Bengal||Days after he came under attack during his visit to Diamond Harbour in Bengal, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya has been provided with a bulletproof vehicle by the Centre. He arrived in the city on Monday afternoon to take part in a programme at Mathurapur in South 24 Parganas. "As per the order of the Union home ministry, I have been provided with a bulletproof vehicle," the BJP's Bengal minder told reporters at the airport. Stones were thrown at several cars in the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda en route to Diamond Harbour on December 10. The BJP described it as an example of the “lawlessness”, and Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted that the Centre was “seriously looking into the matter”. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accused the BJP and Nadda of indulging in “nautanki (drama)”. Several vehicles in Nadda's cavalcade were damaged in the attack. Sources in the BJP said its leaders including Vijayvargiya and vice-president Mukul Roy sustained injuries in the melee. The ruling Trinamul Congress and the BJP have been engaged in a tussle over the attack on saffron party president JP Nadda’s convoy during his Bengal visit on Thursday, while he was travelling to Diamond Harbour. The Ministry of Home Affairs has called on three IPS officers of the state cadre to join the central deputation. The three officers -- Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour), Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) and Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal) -- were responsible for the security of the BJP chief during his December 9-10 visit to the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt depriving Asansol of Central funds, alleges TMC leader||Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari, a Trinamul Congress leader, has written to the Bengal government, accusing it of depriving the industrial town of central funds. Tiwari, also a TMC MLA, wrote to Municipal Affairs Minister Firhad Hakim, stating that the Asansol Municipal Corporation has been deprived of Rs 2,000 crore central funds as the state government created hurdles in the selection of the town in the Smart City project. "In his letter, Jitendra alleged that the Centre selected Asansol for the Smart City project but the state government created hurdles and ensured that it is dropped," a senior Trinamool Congress leader said. "He blamed political reasons for it and said that had Asansol been selected, the city would have got Rs 2,000 crore. The state government and the party is looking into the matter," the leader said. When contacted, Tiwari said it is a confidential letter. "It shouldn't have leaked to the press," he said. "Whatever I have to say, I will tell the party and the minister. I will not discuss the matter with the press. I am a loyal soldier of the party," he added. Tiwari, a key TMC leader in the West Burdwan district, recently also resigned from the board of governors of a college in Asansol. Hakim said he would talk to Tiwari to address the grievances. "I tried to contact him but couldn't connect. I would request him not to fall into the trap of the Centre. The Smart City project is hyped, 50 per cent of the funds are to be given by the state government," he said. Union Minister Babul Supriyo, who is the local MP, supported Tiwari, accusing the TMC government of depriving the industrial town. "Whatever Jitendra Tiwari has said is right. The TMC government has deprived the people of the state for its vested political interest," he said. The development comes amid rising dissent within the Trinamul Congress as Bengal goes to poll early next year. Party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari gave up cabinet portfolios amid speculations over him joining the BJP. Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee has also openly criticised a section of the party's leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Small tea growers in north Bengal seek land tag  ||Small tea growers in north Bengal have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to ensure they get no-objection certificates (NOC) for tea cultivation on their land from the state land and land reforms department. This official recognition will enable them access to the benefits of state and central schemes, they have said. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, the president of Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), said there were over 50,000 small tea growers in north Bengal who contribute around 62 per cent of the tea produced in Bengal. “However, only a few of us have the NOC that the state government had issued around 20 years back. As most growers do not have NOC of the land on which they run their plantations, they do not have official recognition and are bereft of various benefits of state and central governments,” Chakraborty said. He said that way back in 2001, the then Left Front government of Bengal had announced that growers who had set up their plantations ahead of June 30, 2001, were the only ones eligible for the NOC. Accordingly, 7,435 growers of the region could get NOC from the state. Sources said recently, the BJP government in neighbouring Assam had come up with a decision to issue free NOCs to growers with land holdings up to 10 bighas. There are around one lakh small tea growers in Assam. In Bengal, small tea plantations are spread over districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, Cooch Behar and North Dinajpur. Growers have also said that if the Bengal government starts issuing NOCs, it would also boost the state exchequer. Growers will have to pay conversion and mutation charges of their land to the government. In their letter to Mamata, growers also requested her to see if the state could extend certain schemes meant for traditional farmers to the sector. “We have also urged the chief minister for a short meeting during her upcoming visit to north Bengal so that we can apprise her in detail about the sector and its issues that provides jobs to around 25 lakh people in the region,” Chakraborty said. “We are first-generation entrepreneurs and all those associated with the sector are local residents of north Bengal. Small tea growers, workers who serve these plantations and others in the sector are from various communities, including Rajbanshis, tribals and Muslims,” added the Cista president. With these demands coming a few months ahead of state elections, the Mamata Banerjee government needs to mull over them, considering the large number of people involved in the sector, political observers have said. “Several rural pockets have emerged as hubs of small tea growers. Now that many have learnt that NOC is being issued by the BJP government in Assam, they expect a similar move from the Bengal government. Also, BJP leaders here will take no time in flagging the issue and giving assurances to growers. It will be interesting to see how the chief minister and her party handle the demand,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Whistle-blowers left out, villagers write to Mamata||Some 100 families from villages of Kazigram panchayat under Englishbazar block of Malda have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging they were denied the state’s Swasthya Sathi facility for protesting against “corruption” in the Trinamul-run local body. “Because we protested against irregularities and wanted to avail the state’s welfare schemes too, some people in the panchayat started insisting that we withdraw the complaints. Those who refused were not included under the state’s free health insurance scheme (Swasthya Sathi),” said resident Bappa Mandal. This prompted them to write to Mamata, said another resident. “We feel block and the district administration will be active if Didi takes notice of the issue and passes orders to them. We have also sent a copy of the letter to administrative officials here,” he said. The letter from villagers comes at a time the state government launched “Duare Sarkar”, an initiative to extend the benefits of state-run welfare schemes to most people across Bengal, including those who were never a part of any scheme. Swasthya Sathi has been the top draw in the Duare Sarkar initiative. In Kazigram, some people had been vocal against the panchayat authorities, alleging that many workers were not paid wages for services rendered three years back under the 100-days work scheme. Residents had also complained about irregularities in sanctioning of houses under the states scheme and that many people were bereft of benefits of other schemes like “Samabyathi” (financial assistance to conduct one’s last rites) and pension for senior citizens. On December 1, the day Duare Sarkar was launched, a group of people held a sit-in demonstration in front of the district magistrate’s office. A resident filed a police complaint against the panchayat head Satyajit Mondal too. Mondal, however, denied the charges and said they are taking all initiatives to ensure that those eligible for the health insurance scheme and others had been included as beneficiaries. “We suspect that the BJP has provoked some of them,” he said. “These people did not turn up at the camp of Duaare Sarkar where forms for enrolment under the scheme are being issued. An official in the district administration said they are looking into the allegations. “So far as enrolment of prospective beneficiaries is concerned, we will not entertain any discrimination. We are looking into the allegations,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||New Bengal traders’ outfit flays Centre for retailer woes||Representatives of many business oufits on Sunday announced a common trade body and came down heavily on the Centre for “policies affecting retailers”. The newly formed Paschim Bengal Traders Welfare Association accused the Centre of “step-motherly attitude towards retailers” and appeasement of corporate groups. “The pandemic severely hit retailers and traders, yet we pay GST and other taxes to central and state governments. But the Centre is allowing corporate houses to enter retail and supporting them,” said Khokan Bhattacharya, outfit president. He said around 600 traders from 10-odd business outfits had joined the association, and they planned to meet the state commerce and industries minister and tourism minister to apprise them on their plight. He said online shopping had affected their business. “On one hand, the Centre is stressing vocal for local, and on the other, encouraging online business.” Yugraj Sirohia, association secretary, said they wanted maximum retail price (MRP) in all sectors, online promotion of local products, pension scheme for traders who have regularly paid GST for 10 years and rebate on interest of loans taken for micro, small and medium enterprises. “There should be no discrimination in taxes and other charges levied on offline and online trading,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Express train damper for Digha tourism||The South Eastern Railway has withdrawn services of the Howrah-Digha AC Super train since December 1, a move that has hit the flow of tourists to sea town Digha, which beginning March this year has suffered a series of lockdown-enforced hurdles. The tourist resort, heavily reliant on local and express trains for ferrying tourists, received a shot in the arm with the resumption of the Howrah-Digha AC Super during Puja season in October but sources said this month the train had been “running at a loss” and tickets were “prohibitively expensive”. “The 450-seater chair-car was carrying less than 100 passengers a day for those months. It is because the round fare for that train was Rs 900 against the Rs 200 you would get for normal express trains,” said a railway source on condition of anonymity. Despite the high ticket prices, hoteliers in Digha had reported an uptick in their occupancies starting from Puja season. Now, passengers coming from Calcutta are compelled to opt for an alternative tourist destination or board local trains operating between Digha and Panskura or Mechheda or Santragachhi. “The railway’s decision to terminate the train from December 1 is affecting Mandarmani and Tajpur tourism as well. This is a tourist-reliant area, and cessation of express trains from Howrah has hit the industry hard. We are hoping for South Eastern Railways to take a positive step soon,” said a member of the Digha-Sankarpur Hoteliers' Association. The withdrawal of the Howrah-Digha AC has compounded the problem for tourists as the South Eastern Railway is yet to resume services of the Tamralipta and Kandari express trains that had stopped plying since the lockdown in March. Many tourists from Calcutta and its surrounding areas are resorting to expensive private vehicles or buses for their weekend getaways. Swapan Deb, 50, a lawyer from Tollygunge in Calcutta, travelled last weekend to Digha with four family members. Deb shelled out Rs 10,000 for hiring the vehicle when he was accustomed to booking the Tamralipta express for a tenth of the price for the whole family. Sources in the hoteliers association said they were working on a formal proposal to submit to the Digha Sankarpur Development Authority (DSDA) on the resumption of the two express trains from Howrah. “The current situation is a problem for tourists not only because there are no express trains from Howrah but also because of the timing of local trains. The last train reaches Digha now at 11.15am, which is inconvenient,” said one hotelier. Tourists prefer arriving in the morning, not near lunch time. DSDA vice-chairman Akhil Giri said the situation needed to be remedied given Digha’s “paramount” importance in Bengal’s tourism economy. “Daily footfall reached 20,000 persons post unlock. Inconveniencing so many people does not make sense. We will appeal to railway authorities to resume express trains,” he said. If Puri can have trains and buses, why not Digha," he added. Railway officials said the decision to resume express trains was up to the Union railway ministry. “If the state government gives us a specific proposal regarding this train, we can forward it to the ministry,” said divisional railway manager (Kharagpur), Manoranjan Pradhan. “Covid protocols dictated these route closures. Additionally, the Howrah-Digha AC Super route was running at too huge a loss to bear," added another senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Forty-six  who lost kin to elephant attacks get jobs||The district police, headed by SP Amitkumar Bharat Rathore, issued employment orders to 46 residents of Jhargram villages who had lost family members to elephant attacks since 2011. The move came a month after chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the area and said an employable youth of each family that lost a member to elephant attacks would get jobs as special home guard. Sources said after medical tests and preliminary training, all 46 would be deployed at police stations in the district. “Elephant attacks have always been a menace to our livelihood and lives. Other than destroying crops, particularly paddy, elephants storm our villages and trample anyone in their way,” said Daman Hembrom, 35, whose father was killed in 2018 as a part of a hula or search party to scare away elephants. “This job offer is a huge relief,” he added. Addressing the ongoing problem, villagers and district officials said other measures were also underway to address the threat to crops and people in Jhargram’s Bhowda, Kolabani and Chinchurgheria villages amid forests where a herd of 16 was spotted as recently as this month. “The state government has received a proposal from the forest department about the construction of ditches to deter herds, but we have received no response yet,” said Jhargram divisional forest officer (DFO) Basab Raj Holichhi, referring to the controversial move employed in other districts which sometimes has proven fatal for fallen elephants. Chinchurgheria resident Dulal Baskui said their chief concern in the rural forest belt was protecting their harvest from elephant herds. “Loss of life is not as rampant as loss of our crops. We appeal to the state government urgently to do something to protect our crops,” Baskui added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal officials to skip Delhi meet||Bengal chief secretary and director-general of police will not attend the meeting on the state’s law and order in New Delhi on Monday for which the Union ministry of home affairs summoned the duo to Delhi, said a source at Nabanna. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and DGP Virendra were asked to be present in the capital on Monday in the wake of the attack on BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy on Thursday. “We did not get any response from the Centre after the chief secretary’s letter in which he requested the MHA to dispense with the presence of two officials.… As Delhi remained silent on the issue, we consider that they have accepted the request,” said a senior state government official. “The chief secretary has already sought exemption from the meeting. So, I think the Centre would not drag the issue further. If the issue is dragged further, the state would initiate appropriate measures, including legal recourse,” said another bureaucrat. The state government did not get any response from the Union home ministry after it conveyed to New Delhi that three IPS officers — who were posted on central deputation  by the MHA — would not be released. The Centre had asked the state to release the officers, who were posted in the nearby places where Nadda’s convoy was attacked, by December 15. The state sent a letter on Saturday expressing its inability to release the officers as they were doing well in Bengal. “According to the service rules of IPS officers, in case of any disagreement on deputation of cadre officers, it is incumbent upon the state government concerned to give effect to the decision of the central government. But I cannot recall any instance where the provision was exercised. It has to be seen if the Centre would use this provision despite the state’s objection,” said a source. Sources in the state government said it might move to court if the MHA went ahead with its decision to attach the officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker’s body found in in East Burdwan pond||A BJP worker was found dead with multiple injuries in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali on Sunday, within 24 hours of another allegedly lynched in Halisahar, North 24-Parganas. The body of Sukhdeb Pramanik, 33, was found in a pond. The BJP linked his death with his presence at a rally on December 10 to condemn the attack on J.P. Nadda’s convoy. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya accused Mamata Banerjee of “trying to retain power only through violence” and said he would appeal to the Election Commission to deploy central forces now. Trinamul dismissed the allegations. Early on Sunday, police also arrested three Trinamul workers in connection with the murder of Halisahar’s BJP booth-committee head Saikat Bhawal on Saturday. Saikat had been lynched during a BJP outreach event near his home. Suman Saha, Sudipta Ghosh and Somnath Ganguly (a.k.a. Kelta) were arrested based on a complaint filed by Saikat’s brother Sagar with Bijpur police. The trio, allegedly close aides of Trinamul leader Subodh Adhikary, were produced before a court in Barrackpore and ordered three-day police custody. Another prime accused named in the FIR is missing. Trinamul leader Adhikary denied the allegations, claiming the murder had no political link and was a fallout of personal rivalry. “We told police to arrest culprits without considering political identities,” he said. Ajoy Thakur, joint commissioner of the Barrackpore police commissionerate, said they had begun a murder case. “Three persons out of four named in the FIR have been arrested,” he said. Earlier in the day, BJP supporters demonstrated in front of Bijpur police station, accusing the police administration of inaction over alleged atrocities unleashed by ruling Trinamul. BJP leader and Bijpur MLA Subhranshu Roy said: “Trinamul has to pay the price for this politics of violence. They are afraid of losing power and are trying to unleash terror. We have been showing restraint despite losing our party workers. But, if the police take it as a sign of our weakness, they would be making a blunder”. Tension flared at Saalbagan under ward 12 of Burdwan town after a BJP party office was allegedly set on fire by suspected Trinamul supporters. BJP supporters blocked an arterial road for about four hours in protest, shortly before a Trinamul party office was ransacked allegedly by suspected BJP supporters in the town in an apparent retaliation. In Hansnabad’s Parghata area, at least 10 Trinamul supporters and a civic volunteer were injured during a clash with BJP supporters on Sunday morning over retaining control of a fish farm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah to visit  Visva-Bharati on December 20||Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to reach Visva-Bharati on December 20 and BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya and Anupam Hazra met vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Sunday to discuss the visit, four days ahead of a virtual address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chancellor of the central university. Sources in the BJP’s Bengal unit said Shah’s visit was scheduled as a damage-control effort after the gaffe over Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace last week in a tweet that quoted party president J.P. Nadda. BJP national-secretary Hazra said Shah had expressed his desire to visit the varsity and meet its officials during the next weekend. “We know December 24 is the foundation day of Visva-Bharati and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is its chancellor. He wanted to address the Visva-Bharati community apolitically as the varsity’s glory and image were tarnished in the recent past,” said Hazra. “Amit Shah would like to visit and meet the officials of Visva-Bharati. He would also participate in a procession to boost the morale of our workers in Birbhum. After the procession, he would address the workers,” he added. On Wednesday, the Bengal BJP’s official Twitter handle had issued a tweet with a quote, attributing it to the party’s national president J.P. Nadda, stating that Tagore had been born in Visva-Bharati. BJP sources had said Nadda did not actually say so in his speech but the mistake was made by its IT cell. The tweet was taken down later. A senior BJP leader said Shah would speak to Chakrabarty and other officials regarding the current situation on the campus and the issue of violence following protests against the boundary wall of the Pous Mela ground. Nadda has tested positive for Covid-19, prompting chief minister Mamata Banerjee to wish him speedy recovery and good health. Nadda had toured parts of Bengal a few days ago, and stones were thrown at some cars in his convoy, triggering a political row. “Heard about BJP National President Shri @JPNadda testing positive for Covid-19. Wishing him a speedy recovery and good health. My prayers are with him and his family during this time,” Mamata tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal daily Covid cases below 3,000 for a week||Bengal reported seven consecutive days of less than 3,000 new Covid-19 cases with 2,580 infections recorded on Sunday. This is for the first time that less than 3,000 cases being logged daily for a week since a similar spell ended exactly four months ago on August 13. The state logged 2,994 recoveries and 47 deaths on Sunday, contributing to the total of active cases dipping for the 48th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. “Today, we achieved our goal of taking our total of active cases to less than 23,000 by December 31. Now, to the next goal of taking our recovery rate past 95,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 52 consecutive days, rising on Sunday to yet another new high of 93.94 per cent. The national rate now is 94.96 per cent. In the 48 days since the end of Puja, the state has recorded over 1.8 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.68 lakh cases found. “Our total of active cases has fallen (since October 26) by nearly 15,000 to 22,573. We are back almost to where we were on August 4, which is 131 days ago. That is remarkable improvement,” said the minister. The state now has over 5.21 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.9 lakh recoveries and 9,057 deaths. With 41,218 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 64.23 lakh, at 71,372 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.12 now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. “The fall in the positive confirmation rate is a clear indicator of less spread of the infection,” said the minister. The 47 deaths reported on Sunday included 11 which occurred in Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 7,598 (83.98 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.73, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. Bengal reported 21.6 per cent occupancy on 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 102 dedicated hospitals. Over 5.27 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided so far during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Cooch Behar airport wings clipped for now||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has decided not to renew the licence for the Cooch Behar airport from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), leading to a fresh controversy in the district with Trinamul and BJP trading charges. According to sources in the AAI, the licence to run the Cooch Behar airport that is issued by the DGCA is valid till January 27 next year. However, as there is no flight service at the airport, the AAI has decided not to renew the licence right now. “It is a decision made at a higher level. We have nothing to comment on it,” said Moloy Kanti Dey, the airport director of Cooch Behar. Sources said that though there are no flight operations, the AAI had to bear expenses for the airport’s upkeep, a major reason for not renewing the licence. “That is why it has been decided not to renew the license. In due course, if there are proposals from airline companies to fly from here, the airport can be reopened again. Similar decisions have been made for some other smaller airports elsewhere as well,” said a source. In Cooch Behar, the airport had been developed by the royals. Flight services had come to a halt 25 years ago, in 1995. Since then, efforts had been made a number of times to resume flight services, but eventually those didn’t work out. In July last year, Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, had landed at the airport on a nine-seater flight and had assured that flight services would resume soon. This led to an impasse between the state and the Centre, with flight services not taking off. “One of the reasons for the non-resumption of flights at the Cooch Behar airport is the small runway. The length of the runway is such that at best only 20 to 25-seater plane can land or take off from the airport,” said an official. Now, the recent decision of the AAI to not renew the airport’s licence has come as a fresh disappointment to local residents and created a fresh political tussle between Trinamul and BJP.  Both the parties are blaiming the other for the airport’s debacle. Malati Rava, the district BJP chief, accused the Trinamul government of being “politically vindictive.” “It is because of the state’s lackadaisical attitude and political vindictiveness that flight services could not start from here. Last year, our MP had come on a flight and had spoken with a private airliner to start the services but the state government withdrew policemen and fire services,” said Rava. Trinamul leaders on the other hand, accused the Centre of “non-cooperation”. “Our chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) had put in efforts a number of times to make the Cooch Behar airport operational,” said Abdul Jalil Ahmed, a district leader of the party. “But the Centre  never helped to make the airport operational, and now, it has planned not to renew the licence. Such a decision by the AAI, which is after all a central government agency, will not go down well with Cooch Behar residents,” Ahmed added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Don’t tease a tiger just because it is quiet: Binay||Public meetings of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s two factions separated by nearly 100km on Sunday sent a clear message that the politics of the Darjeeling hills still remained unsettled though the BJP is a common enemy of both the camps. The Binay Tamang faction issued a veiled but strong message to the Trinamul Congress that it should not be taken lightly. This is despite the fact that the Tamang faction is an ally of Trinamul which is in power in Bengal. “The government must understand. We were the ones to douse the fire of 2017 (during the Gorkhaland agitation). The person who can douse a fire also knows how to ignite a fire,” Tamang told the public meeting at Sukna in Darjeeling district. Tamang added that he was “a tiger” but he should not be teased just because he was quite “and sleeping in the morning”. “When I wake up in the afternoon, I, too, eat meat.” Many interpreted the statement as an attempt by Tamang to harden his stand against the state government. Tamang’s deputy Anit Thapa who is nominated by the state government to head the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration also said “two khukris” should not be kept in the same sheath. The message from the two leaders was clear that they were in no mood to accept Trinamul’s decision to ally with Bimal Gurung. Nearly a 100km away at Birpara in Alipurduar district, Gurung targeted the BJP. “During Narendra Modi’s visit to Birpara, Modi had told me that our (Gorkhas’) problem is their problem. But in the past 10 years, they (BJP) did nothing but only used us,” said Gurung. He also claimed Alipurduar BJP MP John Barla and Birpara BJP MLA Manoj Tigga had won their seats because of the Morcha’s support. “I asked Amit Shah to give the BJP ticket to John and promised his victory. Birpara MLA Manoj Tigga also won with our support. I would request adivasis, Rajbanshis, Biharis and other people not to vote for the BJP,” said Gurung. A political observer pointed out that while Gurung seemed to be clear in his stand against the BJP, the Tamang camp looked tough on Trinamul. “The Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp seems to be trying to send a message that Trinamul should not cosy up to Gurung. The statement is an indication that Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa have come off age and that they, too, should not be taken lightly,” said an observer. The statements by leaders from both the camps suggest that politics in the hills has not settled ever since Gurung declared his support for Trinamul on October 21. “The complete story of hill politics has not unfolded. The tone of the speeches of the leaders of both the camps suggests that there could be realignment in hill politics once again,” said an observer of hill politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Railway relief for North Bengal Tea Park investors||The Railway Board has agreed to issue no-objection certificates to entrepreneurs so that they can borrow from banks and other financial institutions to develop their projects on their plots at the North Bengal Tea Park that exists on land leased out by the railways to the SJDA. In 2008, the Siliguri-Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) had obtained land from the railways near New Jalpaiguri station — the largest railway station in north Bengal — on lease. The SJDA had then divided it into two parts to use the bigger plot of 50 acres for a tea park for entrepreneurs and the smaller one of 24.5 acres for a dry port. Expressing his relief at the Railway Board nod, Sanjit Saha, chairman of the NB zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), admitted that without it, getting funds was a major stumbling block in the development of the tea park. “Many entrepreneurs could not open their units as they could not arrange the finances to do so. It is good that the railway board has finally said that no-objection certificates would be issued to entrepreneurs who have taken up plots at the tea park. This will go a long way in bringing in fresh industrial investments in the region,” said Saha. So far, around 132 private investors have taken plots at the tea park. The Tea Board has also taken a plot and established a quality control laboratory on the site. “We expect an investment of around Rs 1,000 crore at the tea park in the coming days that will help in generating employment for over 5,000 people. It is a major development of the region,” added Saha. At the park, tea packaging units, warehouses and some other ancillary units related to the tea sector are likely to come up, said sources. CII representatives, who had been instrumental in getting this assent from the Railway Board, and have time and again raised the issue with governments and elected representatives, also feel that the dry port will get functional soon. The dry port or the inland container depot (ICD), they said, would considerably reduce the expenses of logistics for importers and exporters of the region. “The MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) sector of north Bengal and northeast and those in horticulture and agriculture sectors, can package any kind of product, starting from fruits and vegetables to heavy machinery, in containers which would be transported to any destination by the railways from the ICD,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
