15-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata alleges Centre’s interference in Bengal affairs||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the Centre of interfering in the state's jurisdiction by summoning IPS officers to serve under it. Banerjee also dared the Union government to impose President's Rule in the state, lashing out at the BJP for trying to convert West Bengal into "riot-torn" Gujarat. She reiterated that BJP national president J P Nadda's convoy was not attacked and wondered why "convicted criminals" were accompanying him. "If the BJP and the central government think they can scare us by bringing in central forces and transferring state cadre officers, they are wrong. The Centre is summoning our officers... No one wanted to hurt him (Nadda) or his convoy," Banerjee said at a rally here. "Why were so many cars accompanying his convoy? Why were convicted criminals accompanying him? The goons who vandalised the bust of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar last year were also accompanying Nadda... People get infuriated when they see such goons roaming free... I dare the Centre to impose President's Rule in Bengal," she added. Referring to a recent letter addressed to the prime minister by BJP MP Subramanian Swamy over changing the national anthem, the chief minister said the people of the state will give the party a befitting reply if it goes ahead with such a "misadventure". "They want to change the history of our country, and now the national anthem," she said. Banerjee also said refugee colonies have been recognised in West Bengal, and no one needs to fear the National Register of Citizens, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Population Register. "BJP has created a new religion of riots and hatred among communities," she alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb discharged from hospital||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday, almost a week after he was admitted following breathing troubles. Bhattacharjee will however have to remain on non- invasive ventilation (BIPAP) support, undergo physiotherapy and follow restrictions on movement at home, besides sticking to a prescribed diet, doctors said. The veteran communist leader was admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta on December 9 and put on mechanical ventilator support at its critical care unit, after his breathing-related problems escalated. The 76-year-old former chief minister's health parameters improved subsequently, following which doctors took the call to discharge him on Tuesday. A senior hospital official said a makeshift ICU has been set up at his home, where a critical care expert and medicine specialist will monitor his health. Bhattacharjee, the chief minister of West Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been suffering from COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and other old age-related ailments for some time. He has been away from public life for the past few years due to his health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal University offers BSc in tea science ||North Bengal University (NBU) on Monday introduced a three-year undergraduate course in tea science. So far, the varsity had been offering postgraduate and post-doctoral (PhD) courses in the field. “We have introduced tea science, which is a new subject at the undergraduate level. Those studying the course that will be taught on university campus and get a BSc degree in the subject. This is the first time that any university of the country has come up with such a course,” said Subires Bhattacharyya, the vice-chancellor of NBU. He said that the varsity now had a full course at all levels from undergraduate to post-doctoral in the course. “We expect students from different parts of Bengal and from other states to come here and join the course,” added the VC. As of now, 20 seats are available for the tea science undergraduate course. At the department, five faculty members will teach the subject, said sources. “A number of students have taken admission in the course and online classes will start from Tuesday,” said a faculty member. Along with Bhattacharyya, state tourism minister Gautam Deb, director (research & quality control) of the Tea Board Biswajit Bera, faculty members and students who have taken admission in the course were present at an event hosted by the varsity to launch the course. Pranab Ghosh, a former head of the department of tea science, said students studying the subject would have job opportunities in the tea industry. “Those finishing the course can find jobs in tea estates. It is a job-oriented course and there is scope for higher studies (in the subject) under one roof,” said Ghosh. The minister appreciated the varsity for introducing this new course. “NBU is one of the best universities in north Bengal. It has been conducting research work on tea which can help the industry that is considered one of the principal employment providers of the region,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP toiling to win 50 seats in north: Dilip Ghosh||State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said on Monday that the party would pull out all stops to win 50 seats in north Bengal in the next Assembly elections. The BJP had won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats and secured lead in 38 Assembly segments in the 2019 general election. “In north Bengal, we will win 50 Assembly seats. Our leaders and workers at different tiers are toiling to ensure the party’s victory in these seats. People of the region had extended overwhelming support to us in 2019. We had won seven Lok Sabha seats and missed the eighth by a meagre margin,” said Dilip Ghosh. There are 54 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal. Ghosh, who is touring north Bengal, attended an interactive programme at Gangarampur in South Dinajpur on Monday morning. Later, he addressed a public meeting in Patiram, on the outskirts of Balurghat. Over 100 workers from other political parties joined the BJP at the event, claimed party leaders. Speaking at the meeting, the BJP state chief said his party didn’t want imposition of Article 356 of the Constitution in Bengal. “We feel the imposition of the article will benefit the BJP….. it is not our party but Mamata Banerjee who wants it. Nowadays, she is trying to gain people’s sympathy but such tactics will not work,” said Ghosh. That the BJP is focussing on north Bengal is evident from a series of activities the party undertook in the region in recent times. Last month, a series of internal meetings were held in Siliguri where new posts were created to monitor political activities and assess the situation, right up to the booth level. State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu also spoke at the Patiram meeting. The chief judicial magistrate’s court in Jalpaiguri on Monday sought the post-mortem report of BJP supporter Ulen Roy from police. Roy had died from pellet injuries on December 7 after a clash had broken out in Siliguri during a protest march by the BJP. “The court said the post-mortem report should be placed before it on Tuesday,” said Soujit Singha, the lawyer representing the deceased man’s family. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Villagers block road for erosion guard wall in Kalyani||Over a thousand villagers from eight villages in Kalyani’s Sarati panchayat on Monday launched an “indefinite” demonstration to protest alleged administrative apathy in starting the construction of a permanent guard wall to prevent the erosion of the Hooghly river embankment. Villagers formed the Ganga Bhangan Pratirodh Committee, an apolitical platform, and under its banner also blocked the Kalyani-Ranaghat state highway at Ishwaripur near Kalyani town, suspending traffic for about 10 hours. Protesters sought “immediate commencement” of construction of a permanent guard wall (also called a protective dam), compensation and rehabilitation of about 40 families who recently lost homes and farmlands to erosion. The blockade was withdrawn for the day at  6pm after district officials said the matter would be looked into. Villagers, however, said their demonstration against apathy would go on till work on the 950m guard wall from Roydanga village started, adding that was a promise made last year by the administration. In south Bengal, many areas adjacent to rivers like Hooghly, Malda, Murshidabad and Nadia are affected by erosion of the river embankment, attributed to the obstruction of the river’s natural flow caused by the Farakka Barrage. This erosion, which started in the early 60s with the barrage project, is now termed a “long-term natural disaster” to which both the Centre and state have found no permanent solution. Sukur Ali Mondal, joint convener of the villagers’ platform, said: “Erosion eats up our homes and farms every day and our suffering is deepened by the cavalier attitude of the administration.” SDO Kalyani Hirak Mondal said the irrigation department’s proposed 950m wall was waiting for the finance department’s approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, BJP play infrastructure card in north Bengal ||Trinamul and BJP leaders in north Bengal seem to be running a race to tom-tom state and central infrastructure projects, respectively, on their campaigns ahead of the Assembly election scheduled next summer. Both sides are gathering information on infrastructure projects particularly those related to road and railway connectivity in north Bengal to prove to the electorate that they have taken major initiatives for the region, which is traditionally perceived as “neglected”. “In another three days, north Bengal will witness a historic development by way of rail connectivity, as on December 17, the Haldibari-Chilahati (in Bangladesh) railway route would be reopened. The central government has made it possible for the project to come true and after a gap of 55 years (the route had closed in 1965), train connectivity between Bangladesh and the region will resume,” said Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a prominent BJP leader of the area. The BJP, party insiders said, will also highlight the second rail bridge that has come up over the Teesta river along the principal rail route that moves through north Bengal and connects the northeast with the rest of the country. The bridge is likely to be commissioned in January next year. The saffron party, which is banking on the north Bengal electorate and has iterated its target of winning 50 of the 44 Assembly seats from the region, will also talk about the second bridge coming up over the Ganga at Farakka, the second bridge over Teesta along NH27 near Jalpaiguri that has been recently commissioned and two bypasses which are under construction in Islampur and Dalkhola of South Dinajpur. Trinamul leaders of the region are also not sitting back. Bengal’s ruling party is eyeing the new Joyee bridge that the state government is building over Teesta to connect Haldibari with Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar. “The bridge is likely to be opened next month. Our chief minister Mamata Banerjee has always focussed on infrastructure development and once this bridge is made operational, road connectivity between north Bengal and northeast will improve greatly. Also, export and import from north Bengal districts, the northeast and Bhutan to Bangladesh will get a boost, particularly after reopening of the new rail route to the neighbouring country,” said Chandan Bhowmik, a district Trinamul leader in Jalpaiguri. Trinamul also intends to mention that it is the state government that has cleared the decks for expansion of Bagdogra airport by providing the required land to the Centre, said sources. They would also point out that it is because of Mamata that the two Asian Highways (II and 48) have come up in north Bengal. “The central government, on the other hand, has failed to finish the four-laning of NH27, the principal highway that connects northeast, in the region even though the project started almost two decades ago,” a Trinamul leader said. Political analysts from the region said that the infrastructure card would be played by both Trinamul and BJP, along with a host of other issues, in the campaign. “It would be exciting to see whether by highlighting new projects whether BJP manages to retain its support it had garnered in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls or whether Trinamul manages to revive its base,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||GNLF team off to Delhi to meet Amit Shah||A three-member delegation of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) left for Delhi on Monday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders. Sources in the hill party said the purpose of the visit was to discuss the permanent political solution of the hills, an issue time and again flagged by hill parties. The delegation of party president Mann Ghising, general secretary Mahendra Chhetri and Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba who had won on a BJP ticket at the 2019 bypolls, left for Delhi after a call from the Union home ministry. “We received a call from the Union home ministry on Monday and were told that a meeting would be held in Delhi. It seems that the Union home minister will be present but are yet to know other details like the agenda and venue,” said Chhetri. “We would, however, hold talks only on the issue of permanent political solution and not any other issue,” he added. The delegation’s trip to Delhi follows Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s decision to sever ties with the BJP and support Trinamul. Gurung was an ally of the BJP since 2009. In last year’s Lok Sabha polls, GNLF joined hands with the BJP and also fielded Zimba as a BJP candidate in the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll. However, for the past few months, GNLF leaders have spoken against the BJP and its Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and questioned the Centre’s silence to address key demands of the hills. A political observer said Gurung parting ways with the BJP had been a setback for the saffron camp in the hills and it urgency to continue its ties with the GNLF was greater. So far, the BJP won hill polls piggybacking on hill parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah to skip Matua bastion, CAA hand seen||The BJP has said Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the Matua stronghold of Thakurnagar during his two-day Bengal tour was cancelled. BJP sources said the cancellation of the visit suggested that the Centre was not yet ready to implement the Citizenship Amendment Act, a major demand of the Matuas. Instead of Thakurnagar in the Bongaon Lok Sabha constituency, Shah will go to West Midnapore on the Day 1 of his Bengal tour from December 19. “Amitji is coming (to Bengal) as scheduled but the plan to visit Thakurnagar has been changed. He will visit West Midnapore to take stock of the party’s organisation in the Midnapore zone,” said state BJP vice-president Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury, who is also the in-charge of the party’s Nabadwip zone, under which the Bongaon parliamentary constituency falls. “Amitji will visit the Nabadwip zone later,” he added. Although Roy Chowdhury didn’t elaborate on the replacement of Thakurnagar with East Midnapore, multiple sources in the BJP said the sudden change in Shah’s itinerary was significant. Several BJP leaders, including state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu, had earlier said Shah would visit Thakurnagar to address the concerns of the Matuas as discontent was brewing in the community over the delay in the implementation of the CAA. BJP’s Bengal minder and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya had visited Thakurnagar last week and met local party MP Santanu Thakur to draw up the details of Shah’s programme amid a buzz in the saffron camp that the Union home minister would make some announcements on the implementation of the CAA during his coming tour. “It seems the Centre is not yet ready to implement the CAA and hence, Amitji is not visiting Thakurnagar,” a source in the BJP said while adding that the plan to drop Thakurnagar from Shah’s itinerary would hurt the party. “The Matuas are already unhappy with us over the delay in framing of the CAA rules. Sensing an opportunity to woo the Matuas back, Mamata Banerjee had recently visited Bongaon and met representatives of the community,” said a BJP insider. A section of the Matua Mahasangha has held Santanu Thakur responsible for the change in Shah’s plan. “The MP is not protecting the interests of the community,” said a Matua leader. The grumbling in the community over the cancellation of Shah’s visit prompted Prasenjit Bose, convenor of Joint Forum Against NRC, to remind Matua leaders that the citizenship issue was being dangled before them only as a carrot. “The Matua leadership must understand that the BJP is only using them as a vote box,” said Bose, whose organisation held several meetings with the Matua leadership on the citizenship issue. Shah’s plan to visit Midnapore has also led to speculation in the BJP about the possible reason. “There is a rumour that some senior Trinamul leaders in the Midnapore region will join the BJP during Amitji’s visit,” a source said. However, MP and state BJP general secretary Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, who held a preparatory meeting with party workers at Kharagpore in East Midnapore on Monday over Shah’s visit, rejected all speculations. “Both Thakurnagar and Midnapore were options in hand and we zeroed in on the latter,” Mahato said. “Amitji will visit freedom fighter Khudiram Bose’s house here (in Midnapore) and will have lunch at a farmer’s house. He will also meet BJP workers on December 19.” Sources said offices were being set up for each leader in charge of five BJP organisational zones in Bengal. “These leaders will stay in the respective zones they have been assigned till the Assembly elections are over and hence, they will need work space,” said a BJP leader. Sunil Bansal, the general secretary (organisation) of Uttar Pradesh, who oversees the Calcutta zone will have his office at the state BJP headquarters at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane in the city. Pawan Rana, Bhikhubhai Dalsaniya and Ravinder Raju will have their offices in Midnapore, Nabadweep and Burdwan zones, respectively. Ratnakar, the joint general secretary (organisation) of Bihar, will have his office in the north Bengal zone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC MLA needles Bengal governement on ‘denial’ of funds||Jitendra Tiwari, Trinamul Congress MLA from Pandaveswar and chairman of the board of administrators at the Asansol Municipal Corporation, has fired off a letter to Bengal urban development minister Firhad Hakim, saying the city lost out on central funds because of the state government’s refusal to be part of the Smart City Mission for “political reasons”. The letter from Tiwari is an embarrassment for the Mamata Banerjee dispensation at a time the Union government is accusing Nabanna of denying people of Bengal the benefits of central schemes like Ayushman Bharat, a health insurance scheme. “I am grieved to state that our city was chosen by the ministry of Urban Development, Government of India under the Smart City Mission Project which if would have been allowed by you our city could have received funds amounting Rs 2,000 crore… But due to political reasons we were not allowed to get the benefits of this project by the State Government,” Tiwari wrote. He also mentioned in his letter that Asansol could have received another Rs 1,500 crore under the Centre’s solid waste management project had the urban development department allowed. The letter has left the ruling establishment in the state in an uncomfortable situation as Tiwari has raised questions about the policies of his party’s government. Several Trinamul insiders said the letter would help the BJP launch another round of offensive against the state government. “The BJP has been asking why the state did not join central schemes like Ayushman Bharat and PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana... Now, if a Trinamul MLA raises similar questions, it is definitely uncomfortable for the party,” a Trinamul insider said. In 2016, the chief minister had announced that Bengal would not join the Centre’s Smart City Project, saying the state had to pay more for the project and it only focused on a particular city or area. “We will develop all cities and towns as smart cities,” the chief minister had announced then. Minister Hakim said in Calcutta on Monday that he had spoken to Tiwari on various issues over the past few months but he had never talked about the Smart City Mission. “Government’s policy is framed in the Assembly and he is a part of it. I guess some people are misleading him. The chief minister said that her focus was to develop all towns as smart cities and we are working on it,” said Hakim. The ruling party has got into a damage control exercise as Hakim is set to hold a meeting with Tiwari in Calcutta on Tuesday where poll strategist Prasant Kishore is also likely to be present. BJP’s Asansol MP and junior Union minister, Babul Supriyo, said: “I may have political differences with Tiwari but I must say thank you to him for gathering courage to bring out the fact in public.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Farmers block highway over ‘unfair trade’ in Malda||Hundreds of paddy farmers blocked NH512 that connects Malda and South Dinajpur on Monday morning, alleging irregularities at the state-run paddy procurement centre of the Kisan Mandi in Malda’s Gazole. Farmers of Gazole, one of the largest paddy producing blocks of Malda, alleged that only one counter of the paddy procurement camp of the Kisan Mandi was open, which slowed the process of selling paddy. This deprived many of minimum support price (MSP) and helped middlemen thrive, they alleged. At a time farmers are protesting in Delhi against farm laws that allegedly removed the MSP buffer, this agitation shed light on challenges that growers have to face even outside of the laws. Farmers’ fronts of the Left and Congress jumped into the fray, opening a toll plaza on NH12 near the NH512 to enable vehicles to go through without paying tax. Police had to go to the spot to control the agitation. The situation became normal by afternoon. Farmers like Sunil Baskey, Dibakar Sarkar, Mamud Hassan and Akhtar Hossain said  the single counter had delayed the whole process of trade and affected their income. “Last week, we had to take back our produce home as there was a long queue (at the single mandi counter). This week, the situation was the same. It deterred us from getting MSP. We were asked to come after two or three months. Frustrated with this delay, many farmers were forced to sell their paddy in the open market at a much lower price,” said Hassan. Another farmer alleged that as MSP for paddy was higher in Bengal than neighbouring states, some middlemen procured paddy from Bihar, brought it to the mandi and sold it there for a tidy profit. “They are running a syndicate while genuine farmers like us are getting deprived (of a fair price),” said Sunil. Malda DM Rajarshi Mitra said some people were trying to foil the aim of the (paddy procurement) camp for vested interests. “We will open another procurement centre by Friday,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung stand worries TMC||Several Trinamul Congress functionaries apparently told Mamata Banerjee on Monday that Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s stand of extending support to the ruling party on one hand and demanding a separate state on the other could be detrimental to its prospects in the upcoming Assembly polls. The chief minister reached here on Monday afternoon for a three-day north Bengal tour and then held a series of meetings with Trinamul leaders and senior Jalpaiguri district administration officials. “Bimal Gurung has been reasserting the demand for Gorkhaland at his public meetings. This has left our local leaders and workers perturbed as people have started raising questions. We have passed on the feedback to our senior leadership that even a section of our workers is feeling disgruntled because of Gurung’s comments,” said a Trinamul source. Gurung, who had resurfaced in Calcutta in October after a gap of three-and-a-half years, had announced that he was severing ties with the BJP and would support Mamata Banerjee and her party in the 2021 Assembly elections. Last week, the Morcha leader reached Siliguri and addressed a public meeting in the city. On Sunday (December 13), he spoke at another meeting in Birpara, Alipurduar. At both his meetings, the Morcha leader tried to drive home the point that even though he was supporting Trinamul, he would continue to press for Gorkhaland, a demand that is staunchly opposed by Mamata and Trinamul. A number of Trinamul leaders based in Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts said they couldn’t ignore the strong anti-Gorkhaland sentiment in the Terai and the Dooars. “Trinamul workers have pointed out that resentment is brewing among people who ask how the party can get Bimal Gurung on board when it is against Gorkhaland? He has compulsions and can never drop the demand. We are also confused whether it would be apt to take up joint political programmes with him in the coming days,” said a Trinamul leader. State tourism minister Gautam Deb who was among Trinamul leaders who called on Mamata at the PWD bungalow here, said they wanted to move together to ensure peace and development in the Darjeeling hills. “The state government and our party have a clear stand on the issue (of separate statehood). All we want is to walk together so that peace prevails in the hills and the Dooars and they develop. On Monday afternoon, the chief minister arrived in Bagdogra and took a chopper to Jalpaiguri. On Tuesday, she will head for Cooch Behar where she will speak at a public rally on Wednesday. A three-member delegation of the Gorkha National Liberation Front left for Delhi on Monday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders. Sources in the GNLF said the purpose of the visit was to discuss the “permanent political solution” of the hills, an issue time and again flagged by hill parties. The delegation of party president Mann Ghising, general secretary Mahendra Chhetri and Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba who had won on a BJP ticket in the 2019 bypolls, left for Delhi after a call from the Union home ministry. “We received a call from the Union home ministry on Monday and were told that a meeting would be held in Delhi. It seems that the Union home minister will be present but are yet to know other details like the agenda and venue,” said Chhetri. “We would, however, hold talks only on the issue of permanent political solution and not any other issue,” he added. Additional repoorting by Bireswar Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Biggest dip yet in active cases but fewer tests||Bengal on Monday recorded the sharpest drop by 1,189 in total active Covid-19 cases since the onset of the pandemic, as the total fell to 21,384, back almost to where it was on August 2, 134 days ago. However, the number of tests conducted was 31,671, considerably less than the 42,000-45,000 conducted on an average every day. The state’s recovery rate, which has risen for 53 consecutive days, went past the landmark of 94 per cent, to touch 94.18. The national rate now is 95.05 per cent. With 1,834 new Covid-19 infections, Bengal also reported eight consecutive days of less than 3,000 new cases. The state also logged 2,980 recoveries and 43 deaths on Monday, including 16 from Calcutta. The total active cases showed a decline for the 49th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. “On Dashami, the total active cases in Bengal were 37,190. In these 49 days, it has gone down by 15,806. That’s an improvement of 42.5 per cent. At this stage of the pandemic, that is highly commendable,” said a minister. In these 49 days, the state has recorded over 1.83 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.69 lakh new cases found. The state now has over 5.23 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.93 lakh recoveries and 9,100 deaths. However, the state’s mortality rate is 1.73 per cent, still lagging behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the total deaths in Bengal in the pandemic, 7,634 or 83.9 per cent have been attributed to comorbidities, including diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and renal problems, by the state government. Calcutta High Court had intervened with a set of instructions against overcrowding to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over the festivities of Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. The state is now hoping that the upcoming Christmas-New Year spell of revelries do not result in a further spike in infections. At this point, the state’s total test count is 64.55 lakh, at 71,724 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests done — is 8.11, having improved fairly steadily from 8.27 of November 20. Bengal also reported 20.89 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic and over 5.29 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Rampage by stray horses halt winter cultivation in Suri||For months now, farmers from a cluster of villages in Suri, Birbhum district, have borne the brunt of horseplay. At least 300 farmers of Balijuri, Meje, Banskathi and other neighbouring villages on Monday wrote to the local police station and the block development officer that they had been run roughshod by a group of seven stray horses. The rampage of the horses since June has compelled farmers to put a halt to winter cultivation. Officials must capture and tame the horses, the letter said. The villagers insisted that the authorities identify the owners of those horses which had been munching on their crops and running amok on their farms. The horses seem to have been “let loose” by their owners to save on feeding expenses during the lockdown, the residents unanimously say. “This is an agriculturally rich area, and animals have no business wreaking havoc here, especially when they have private owners. Panchayat authorities need to step in immediately or there will neither be any winter produce nor income for this area,” said Binaj Mondal, a farmer from Meje. Mondal added that the number of farmers ready to stop winter cultivation was around 1,000, far more than the 300 who wrote to the police and the BDO about the horses. “These horses were first spotted grazing by a pond near Balijuri. We did not pay them heed initially but within a few days, when they finished all the grass by the pond, they were all over our crop fields wreaking havoc,” said farmer Bappa Das Baishnav, who owns and cultivates 3.5 acres of land. “Now we are on the verge of giving up on winter cultivation altogether, because aside from eating our paddy, onions and other vegetables, these horses seem intent on trampling the fields, playing strange games among themselves and even encroaching on our stockpile areas at night,” he added. The farmer added that over 1,000 acres of cultivable land had been affected by all the horsing around. The horses seemed to go without sleep at nights as well. “We hear them whinnying and thumping their hooves late into the night. It is strange. One time I saw a horse scratching its back against a crop cluster as a dog would do,” added another farmer. Asked, panchayat officials said they had begun a search for the horses’ rightful owners but had been unsuccessful so far. “We don’t know from where the animals came. We have visited at least a dozen neighbouring villages to search for the owners, but to no avail,” said Munmun Ghosh, chief of the Balijuri gram panchayat. Block officials claimed they had already contacted forest officials, requesting them to tame the animals, but were told that horses didn’t belong to the “wild” animal category. “Foresters refused the responsibility point blank,” said Aniruddha Roy, the block development officer of Dubrajpur. “Now, we have requested the police to help us in this regard. Villagers can’t catch running horses. We have also asked the local gram panchayat to campaign in adjoining villages in case anyone is interested in taking the animals away,” Roy added. A police officer in Dubrajpur police station added that they did get the mass petition from villagers on the taming the horses. “But what can we do with those animals even if we capture them?” he asked quizzically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
