16-12-2020||West Bengal||Amid rumours of joining BJP, Suvendu quits as MLA||Rebel Trinamul Congress MLA Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday stepped down from his role at the Bengal Legislative Assembly, a month after he quit as a state minister. Adhikari submitted his  resignation as an MLA to the Assembly secretary, party sources said. The 50-year-old, an MLA of Nandigram constituency in Purba Medinipur district, is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to the state or earlier. Adhikari is also scheduled to go to Delhi and meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week, sources said. “In Delhi, he (Adhikari) is likely to meet Modiji and Amitji, besides some others in the topmost tier of the BJP leadership. He might join the BJP in Delhi on Friday itself. Or, he might return with Amitji and join in the mega rally of the BJP in Midnapore on Saturday,” a source said on Tuesday, hours after the leader addressed yet another “apolitical” event at Haldia. “His mind is made up. He cannot stay in Trinamul anymore. There have been generous offers from elsewhere, such as the Congress, but he is going to the BJP,” added the source, pointing out that the Centre had already granted Z cover security to Adhikari. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier on Wednesday attacked the BJP over coercing TMC leaders to the party, and labelled the detractors as "opportunists". “Imagine the audacity of the BJP leaders, they are calling up my state president Subrata Bakshi and asking him to join the party. The BJP doesn't have any political courtesy or ideology. And, there are one or two opportunists who only work for their benefit,” Mamata said. “The old-timers of the party are our real assets. The BJP is trying to coerce TMC leaders to join. It is using moneybags to break opposition parties... But, we will fight and defeat them in the assembly polls,,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee released from hospital||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was released from a private hospital in Calcutta on Tuesday after being admitted there with acute respiratory problems on December 9. Bhattacharjee, 76, will remain in supervised homecare at his residence with non-invasive ventilation support and physiotherapy. His mobility will also be restricted. The CPM veteran had been put on mechanical ventilator support at the hospital’s critical care unit after his chronic respiratory problems had got aggravated. Over the past few days, his health parameters improved — while he kept insisting on going home — allowing the medical team supervising his treatment to decide on his release. “Sri Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee is being discharged from hospital with acceptable clinical parameters. He is given homecare advice and all other relevant advice on nutrition, medication, nebulisation, BiPAP, physiotherapy. Hospital team of doctors and nurses accompanied him during the journey,” read a statement from the hospital. “He is made comfortable at his home as much as possible. We wish him an uneventful stay and recovery. He and his family have expressed their happiness on medical services and thanked the doctors and hospital team for the support extended,” it added. A senior hospital official said a makeshift intensive care unit was set up at Bhattacharjee’s Palm Avenue residence, where a critical care expert and a medicine specialist would monitor his health. The official said Bhattacharjee completed his course of antibiotics on Monday. Other supportive medicines are still on. The former member of the CPM politburo had been the chief minister between 2000 and 2011. He was the Jadavpur MLA from 24 years till 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
16-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC MLA Jitendra Tiwari skips meeting with Firhad Hakim||Jitendra Tiwari, Trinamul Congress MLA from Pandaveswar and chairman of the board of administrators at the Asansol Municipal Corporation, skipped the meeting with urban development minister Firhad Hakim on Tuesday in Calcutta amid murmurs that he was distancing himself from the party. The meeting was urgently called by Hakim and Trinamul’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor was scheduled to be present. Tiwari, who is also Trinamul’s West Burdwan district president, shot off a letter to Hakim, saying the city (Asansol) had lost out on central funds because of the state government’s refusal to be part of the Smart City Mission for “political reasons”. Sources close to Tiwari said he wanted to discuss the issues only with chief minister Mamata Banerjee once she returned to Calcutta after her visit to north Bengal. Both Tiwari and Firhad got involved in a war of words over the letter. Sources said Tiwari and Bengal housing minister Aroop Biswas had a brief telephonic conversation on Monday after the letter triggered a controversy. “Aroop Biswas called up Tiwari on Monday evening and asked him to say whatever he wanted to Mamata Banerjee. He also assured him of arranging a five-minute meeting with the chief minister to discuss the matter,” said Trinamul leader in Asansol who is close to Tiwari. Sources said Tiwari had been asked to be in Calcutta on December 18 to meet the CM. Tiwari was on Tuesday seen busy in attending several programmes of the AMC where he repeatedly said he was ready to quit his chair to fight for the development of Asansol, his home town. “I am not hankering for chair or power. All that I want is to develop Asansol as it is my city and for the purpose, I need funds. I am ready to quit the chair if I am asked to,” he said. However, sudden development in the ruling party politics surprised everyone in Asansol. Sources said the relation between Firhad and Tiwari turned bitter since the minister raised allegations against Durgapur mayor Dilip Agasty during an administrative review meeting of the chief minister last month. At the meeting, Firhad accused Agasty, who is close to Tiwari, of not working properly. Later, Mamata ordered to remove Agasty from the meeting after describing him as “good for nothing”. However, Agasty remained in his chair and recently held a meeting with the chief minister during her visit here last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Govt informs state election commission that it is ready to hold CMC polls||The Mamata Banerjee government has informed the state election commission that it is ready to hold polls to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation but 45 days are needed to frame the voter list according to the requirement of civic polls after the revised electoral roll is published on January 15, administrative sources said. “The state government and the SEC would file an affidavit in the Supreme Court to this effect on Wednesday. The government and the SEC would require 45 days as the voter list has to be rearranged because the number of booths in the civic and the Assembly polls would be different,” said a senior state government official. The revised voter list published by the Election Commission of India on January 15 is for Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. The civic polls are conducted by the SEC. The BJP had recently filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking polls to the CMC and other civic bodies in the state. The court asked the SEC to submit an affidavit pointing out when the elections could be held. If a 45-day window is allowed after the revised voter list is published, the civic polls have to be held in March, which many officials said, would not be possible as dates for the Assembly elections are expected to be announced by then. “The state government might propose to hold the polls in March next year, but for practical reasons, they are unlikely before June,” said a source. The officials have explained why elections cannot be held just ahead of the Assembly polls. “It is possible to hold Lok Sabha and Assembly polls simultaneously as the ECI holds them and can place two EVMs in each booth which is linked to one control unit,” said an official who monitored local elections several times. As the civic polls are held by the SEC and the Assembly elections by the ECI, it is not possible to place two separate EVMs in a booth. Also, the polling officials cannot be asked to control both the EVMs. “Moreover, it would not be possible for the SEC to arrange the required number of EVMs if the CMC polls are scheduled ahead of the Assembly elections. This is because all voting machines would be kept ready for Assembly polls during that period,” said an officer. The elections to the CMC had been deferred because of the Covid-19 pandemic and Firhad Hakim was appointed as the chairman of the board of administrators. “The state will present the ground reality. It will then depend on what the court orders,” said a source. Although science and technology minister Bratya Basu said the Trinamul Congress was ready to face the CMC polls in March, his colleagues said the state government would seek the 45 days very tactically. “We know civic polls are unlikely to be held in March and that’s why we proposed to hold them just ahead of the Assembly elections. We cannot take the risk of holding CMC elections just ahead of Assembly polls as nobody can guarantee that voting would be held peacefully,” said a minister. “We cannot take any risk given the bitter experience of 2018 panchayat polls where complaints of muscle flexing were levelled against us and that had hurt us in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal witnesses 50 consecutive days of drop in total active cases||Bengal on Tuesday achieved a landmark in its spell of turnaround in the Covid-19 pandemic since Durga Puja with 50 consecutive days of drop in total of active cases which fell by nearly 17,000 during the period. The state on Tuesday logged 2,965 recoveries, 2,289 infections and 45 deaths, bringing the total of active cases down to 20,663, back almost to where it was on August 1, 136 days ago. “Our goal was to end the year with less than 23,000 active cases — mind you, we were at 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami (October 26) — but now less than 20,000 appears highly likely. Not even the most optimistic of estimates within the government was able to forecast this remarkable achievement,” said a minister. The recovery rate, which has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 54 consecutive days, reached yet another new high of 94.33 per cent. The national rate now is 95.12 per cent. In the past 50 days till Tuesday, the state recorded over 1.86 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.72 lakh cases detected for the same period. “During this period, we managed an improvement of 44.44 per cent in our total of active cases,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. The state now has nearly 5.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.96 lakh recoveries and 9,145 deaths. With examination of 41,569 swab samples recorded on Tuesday, the state’s total test count rose to 64.96 lakh. Tests per million people are 72,186. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.1 now, having improved fairly steadily from 8.27 on November 20. Tuesday’s 45 deaths included 14 from the city. Of the total deaths, 7,675 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.73, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. Bengal reported 20.16 per cent occupancy on 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 102 dedicated hospitals. Over 5.31 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided so far during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee says AIMIM on BJP payroll to divide minority votes||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged, without naming the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), that the party was on BJP’s payroll to divide minority votes in the Bengal elections. Referring to the recent Bihar polls, Mamata at a public meeting in Jalpaiguri  alerted her Trinamul leaders, workers and Bengal’s minority community to the AIMIM, which she referred to as “a party from Hyderabad”. “The BJP is now bringing in a party from Hyderabad to divide minority votes….. You know what happened in Bihar. This party has assembled some people here as well...The party is on BJP’s payroll. Be alert,” Mamata said. The AIMIM, headquartered in Hyderabad and headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, won five Assembly seats in Bihar’s Seemanchal area, leading to allegations that the party split the votes of the anti-BJP Mahagathbandhan to pave the way for the BJP-JD(U) victory. Mamata did not name the AIMIM even once, but it was evident that she was worried that Owaisi’s attempts to organise the minorities electorally would hurt her party. “They (the AIMIM) will move into Hindu areas and resort to criticism so that Hindus vote for the BJP. They will move into Muslim areas and will speak there to draw their votes. In this manner, the BJP will try to collect Hindu votes while they (the AIMIM) will try to gather Muslim votes. What would be left for me then?” asked Mamata. Owaisi has already said his party would field candidates in Bengal districts such as Malda, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur with a high concentration of minorities. A couple of days back, Owaisi met his party leaders of Bengal in Hyderabad to talk poll plans. Mamata also played the development card in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar to try and revive her support base in north Bengal where BJP had secured a lead in 38 of the 54 Assembly constituencies at the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In Jalpaiguri, she announced the state would create two new civic bodies in Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri and in Falakata of Alipurduar and a new block at Kranti in Jalpaiguri. In Cooch Behar, where she went in the afternoon, she inaugurated the new campus of Maharaja Jitendra Narayan Medical College and Hospital and two fire stations at Jaigaon in Alipurduar and at Fulbari on Siliguri outskirts. She also laid the foundation stone for the headquarters of the Narayani battalion of state police named after the Narayani Sena, the troops of the Cooch Behar royals. She also met her party’s elected representatives and key leaders and asked them to work together, and keep an eye on the India-Bangladesh border, sources said. No second autopsy The Jalpaiguri family of BJP supporter Ulen Roy who died of pellet injuries during the party’s protest march in Siliguri on December 7, on Tuesday withdrew their petition for a second post-mortem. The Roy family’s lawyer said they went through the post-mortem report and expressed satisfaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari likely to join BJP during or after Modi meet||Rebellious Trinamul Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari is likely to join the BJP during or after a visit to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah this week, sources close to the dissident said on Tuesday. Sources said Adhikari, who turned 50 on Tuesday, would resign as Trinamul member and its Nandigram MLA over the next couple of days and leave for Delhi on Thursday. “In Delhi, he (Adhikari) is likely to meet Modiji and Amitji, besides some others in the topmost tier of the BJP leadership. He might join the BJP in Delhi on Friday itself. Or, he might return with Amitji and join in the mega rally of the BJP in Midnapore on Saturday,” said a source, hours after a public appearance by the East Midnapore leader in yet another “apolitical” event at Haldia, where he was bitterly sarcastic — albeit anonymously — towards Trinamul and its leadership. “His mind is made up. He cannot stay in Trinamul anymore. There have been generous offers from elsewhere, such as the Congress, but he is going to the BJP,” added the source, pointing out that the Centre had already granted Z cover security to Adhikari. Sources in the Union home ministry corroborated the claim. “The ministry has granted him Z category security after assessing his threat perception. He is likely to get either Central Reserve Police Force or Central Industrial Security Force cover comprising 20 security personnel,” said a ministry official. When he resigned as minister last month, Adhikari gave up the Z-category security given by the state home department under chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The fact that Adhikari is all set to up the ante on chief minister Mamata Banerjee became clear on Tuesday as he attacked the Trinamul chief — without naming her — over her bohiragawto (outsider) leitmotif against the BJP. “We are Indians first, then Bengalis,” he told an event attended by over 10,000 people in Haldia to commemorate freedom fighter Satish Chandra Samanta’s birth anniversary. “Satish Chandra Samanta (a five-term MP from Tamluk, for the Congress and the Bangla Congress) never thought of Jawaharlal Nehru as a bohiragawto. Nehru never thought of Samanta as a non-Hindi speaker. There was mutual respect. That is what India is,” he added. A senior Trinamul MP said with this rebuttal, Adhikari tried discrediting a core theme of Mamata’s anti-BJP campaign. The Trinamul chief has repeatedly been accusing the saffron camp of trying to break the very backbone of Bengali culture, prompting eager attempts by the BJP to substantiate its Bengal connect. Adhikari also took on Trinamul over its alleged hegemonism. “For the people, by the people, of the people… this the Constitution has said. This has to be brought back to Bengal…. For the party, of the party, by the party… why should this system prevail?” the rebel leader asked, adding that he had never been in greed for posts and had toiled for the masses all his life. “Nandigram was a mass movement. It did not belong to a party. It did not belong to a person. It belonged to the people…. Like the Independence movement against the British…. In Nandigram, the people won,” said Adhikari on Tuesday. In north Bengal on Tuesday, the Trinamul chief lambasted Adhikari. However, she, too, did not name him. “There is no need for making comparisons to see who is bigger…. Thriving for 10 years in the party in power, thriving for 10 years in the government, taking it all, then looking to tie up with others when the elections approach… this opportunism, I will not tolerate. Keep this in mind,” said Mamata, who has considered Adhikari “a closed chapter” for weeks. Adhikari, speaking earlier in the day, said he did not believe in personal attacks. “There have been some attacking me personally. They occupy major posts…. Remember this, when the people go to the jute cubicles (voting enclosure in booths) in a few months, they will respond to you with their fingers, aimed at a specific button (on the electronic voting machines),” he said, apparently suggesting a Trinamul defeat. BJP national general-secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party's Bengal minder, said he called up Adhikari to wish him on his birthday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata accuses BJP of cheating hill residents and trying to divide minority votes||Chief minister and Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday told Bengal’s Gorkha population that only her party could come up with a “permanent political solution” for the hills, a term that her political adversary BJP had used before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in response to the Gorkhaland demand. Mamata, while speaking to a gathering of around 15,000 at the ABPC Ground here, slammed the BJP for “cheating” hill residents by promising a separate state of Gorkhaland. “The BJP drew support from the hills time and again by promising Gorkhaland but eventually, it turned out to be a hollow promise. It is only us (Trinamul) who can bring a permanent political solution for the hills. I thank my brothers and sisters in the hills as they have finally realised that the BJP has duped them again and again over these years. We want peace to prevail in the hills and in the Dooars,” she said. Mamata’s use of “permanent political solution”, a phrase the BJP used in its election manifesto last year, is significant, said a political observer. “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region,” BJP’s manifesto had said. The 2019 election results proved that the BJP had indeed made deep inroads in the hills as in the entire north Bengal as the party won seven out of its eight Lok Sabha seats. The political landscape in the hills changed significantly since May 2019, with long-time BJP ally Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung dumping the party for Trinamul camp in October 2020. A political analyst said Mamata’s speech on Tuesday was a clear indication that she was referring to a permanent political solution as part of her attempt to woo the Gorkha population, who play a decisive factor in five to six Assembly seats. Mamata tried to explain how her approach was different from that of the BJP. “We did not win (here) in the Lok Sabha polls, but we carried out our development (work). The BJP on the other hand did not do anything for the region. They promised to acquire closed tea estates... nothing happened. On the other hand, we took up a series of initiatives for people of this region, including the tribals and Rajbanshis,” she said, speaking on the housing scheme for tea workers, jobs for former militants and cultural board and language academies for the Rajbanshis. Referring to the BJP, she said: “I am usually a peace-loving person but if I face any attack, I will retaliate in such a manner that it would be tough for you to counter. BJP is trying to foment tension among communities,” said Mamata. Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, the president and general secretary of one of the faction of the Morcha, headed for Calcutta on Tuesday on an “emergent assignment”, Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the faction’s spokesperson said. The trip is ahead of December 20 when Bimal Gurung, who heads the rival faction, will hold a public meeting in Darjeeling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
