17-12-2020||West Bengal||Stormy Mamata battles tempest ahead of Bengal polls||Mamata Banerjee was Thursday waging a hardy battle with the Modi government that demanded three of her IPS officers on central deputation against her will, and another with mutinous TMC leaders led by a regional satrap seeking to thwart her bid for a third term in office. As the West Bengal chief minister was busy containing the fallout of an internecine feud in her TMC following a rebellion by a redoubtable Suvendu Adhikari, the Centre shot off a fresh letter to her government to immediately relieve three IPS officers for central deputation. Suitably provoked, a combative Banerjee dubbed the move “unconstitutional and unacceptable” and a “brazen attempt to control the state machinery by proxy”, escalating tensions between the state and the Centre. The Centre’s missive came on a day when Suvendu Adhikari, considered a leader with mass appeal that any TMC leader could have after Mamata, quit the party, amid intense speculation about his joining the BJP at Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s rally in East Midnapore on Saturday. Adhikari, the face of the Nandigram movement against the Left Front government’s land acquisition policy for rapid industrialisation, had aided Banerjee’s rise to power in 2011 when she decimated the Left and the Congress. The assembly polls in 2016 were a breeze for the tempestuous leader, who now appears bracing for a storm. Five days after the West Bengal government said it will not relieve the three IPS officers, the Centre sent a fresh missive on Thursday, asking the state to immediately release them so they could take up their new assignments. In a communication to the West Bengal chief secretary, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said, according to the IPS cadre rules, the Centre prevails over a state government in case of any dispute between the two. Quoting the rules, the MHA noted in case of any disagreement between the central and the state governments, the “state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government”. The three officers ‑ Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour), Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) and Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal) ‑ were responsible for the security of BJP chief J P Nadda during his December 9-10 visit to the politically volatile state. The Centre wants them shifted account of alleged dereliction of duty that led to an attack on Nadda’s convoy in Diamond Harbour constituency of TMC MP and Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee. Several vehicles in the convoy were damaged and BJP leaders received injuries in the attack. A livid Banerjee responded with expected anger. “This move, particularly before the elections is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It's unconstitutional & completely unacceptable!” she said. “GoI’s (Government of India) order of central deputation for the 3 serving IPS officers of West Bengal despite the State's objection is a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS Cadre Rule 1954,” Banerjee tweeted. In its letter, the home ministry insisted that in accordance with the IPS cadre rules, the Centre prevails over the state in case of a dispute. However, Banerjee recalcitrantly asserted in another tweet, “We wouldnt allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow-down in front of expansionist & undemocratic forces.” Adhikari, a two-term MLA and twice Lok Sabha member, meanwhile, resigned from the primary membership of the party. “I am writing to tender my resignation as a member of All India Trinamool Congress as well as from all other positions held by me in the party and its associate organs with immediate effect,” Adhikari wrote. Ending his two-decade-old association with the party, the political heavyweight thanked Banerjee for opportunities she gave him, and said would he will always value the time he spent as its member. Adhikari had resigned as a member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet and from several other posts that he held last month. A seasoned politician that he is, Adhikari delayed his resignation from the state assembly and the TMC, all the while testing the political waters. On Wednesday night, he held a closed-door meeting with several disgruntled TMC leaders, including Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari and senior MP Sunil Mandal. Tiwari, an MLA from Pandebeshwar constituency who recently slammed the state government for allegedly depriving the industrial town of central funds for “political reasons”, resigned as the chairman of the Board of Administrators of Asansol Municipal Corporation on Thursday afternoon. Senior TMC leader Diptangshu Choudhary, who, too, was present at the meeting, has also quit as South Bengal State Transport Corporation chairman. As an abrasive Banerjee claimed only those not wedded to TMC’s ideology and concerned about not getting party tickets were jumping the ship, the BJP claimed it was the “beginning of the end” for West Bengal's ruling party which will now “collapse like a house of cards”. Hailing Adhikari's decision, BJP national vice president Mukul Roy claimed that “this is the beginning of the end of the ruling party which will now collapse like a house of cards”. “We will welcome Suvendu with open arms,” he said. “The day Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the state cabinet, I had said I would be happy if he leaves the TMC and joins the BJP. Today, he has left the party. We will be happy to welcome him,” Roy said. Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu are sitting TMC MPs from Tamluk and Kanthi Lok Sabha constituencies respectively. Another brother is an MLA and heads the local municipal body. The family wields considerable influence over at least 40-45 assembly seats in Paschim Medinipur, Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram, parts of Birbhum ‑ mainly in the Junglemahal region ‑ and some areas in the Muslim-dominated Murshidabad district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Deputy Election Commissioner oversees poll preparations in Bengal||Amid high-pitched political campaigns for next year's battle of ballots in West Bengal, Deputy Election Commissioner Sudeep Jain on Thursday held hectic parleys with district officials to review poll preparedness across the state. Sources close to the chief electoral officer in Bengal said Jain, who arrived in the city on Wednesday night, will be interacting with government officials over the next two days. He is also likely to coordinate with health officials to find out about the Covid-19 safety measures that need to be put in place during the poll process. The opposition BJP had earlier claimed that free and fair polls cannot be held under the state administration and sought the deployment of central forces in the run-up to the elections. The ruling TMC quashed the claim and said the saffron party would keep looking for such excuses as it would need them to justify its electoral reverses later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||MHA asks Bengal to relieve IPS officers, Mamata hits back||The Centre on Thursday asked the Bengal government to immediately relieve the three IPS officers who have been transferred to the central deputation, officials said. It said that all of them had been given new assignments, added the officials. In a communication to the chief secretary of Bengal, the Ministry of Home Affairs said that as per the cadre rules of IPS, the Centre’s decision carries more weight than that of the state in case of a dispute. The MHA added that the three IPS officers in question were already tasked with new assignments and they should be released immediately. Bholanath Pandey has been appointed as SP in the Bureau of Police Research and Development, Praveen Tripathi as DIG in the Sashastra Seema Bal and Rajeev Mishra as IG in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the official said. The Bengal director general of police has also received a copy of the communication. Lashing out at the Centre over the decision, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she would not bow down before ‘expansionist’ and ‘undemocratic’ forces. In a series of tweets, Mamata said that it was a deliberate attempt by the Centre to encroach upon the state's jurisdiction and demoralise the serving officers in West Bengal. “This move, particularly before the elections is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It's unconstitutional and completely unacceptable,” she said. “GoI's (Government of India) order of central deputation for the 3 serving IPS officers of West Bengal despite the State's objection is a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS Cadre Rule 1954," Mamata tweeted. “We wouldn't allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow-down in front of expansionist and undemocratic forces,” the chief minister tweeted. The Home Ministry directed the three IPS officers to join in central deputation for their alleged dereliction of duties following the attack on the convoy of BJP president JP Nadda last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari resigns from TMC, others follow suit||Just a day after quitting as a member of Bengla’s Legislative Assembly, rebel leader Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the primary membership of the Trinamul Congress, sources said. According to them, the senior leader wrote to TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee apprising her of his decision to resign from the party's primary membership. “I am writing to tender my resignation as a member of All India Trinamool Congress as well as from all other positions held by me in the party and its associate organs with immediate effect,” Adhikari wrote. Ending his two-decade-old association with the party, the former TMC heavyweight thanked Mamata for the opportunities given to him, and said would he would always value the time he spent as its member. Adhikari on Wednesday had stepped down from his role at the Bengal Legislative Assembly, a month after he quit as a state minister. The 50-year-old, an MLA of Nandigram constituency in Purba Medinipur district, is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to the state or earlier. He had submitted his resignation letter as an MLA to the Assembly secretary, party sources said. Adhikari is also scheduled to go to Delhi and meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week, sources said. “In Delhi, he (Adhikari) is likely to meet Modiji and Amitji, besides some others in the topmost tier of the BJP leadership. He might join the BJP in Delhi on Friday itself. Or, he might return with Amitji and join in the mega rally of the BJP in Midnapore on Saturday,” a source said on Tuesday, hours after the leader addressed yet another “apolitical” event at Haldia. Hinting that a rebellion was brewing in the ruling party ahead of the assembly polls, Adhikari had on Wednesday night held a closed-door meeting with its disgruntled leaders, including Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari and senior MP Sunil Mandal, in Paschim Bardhaman district. Tiwari, an MLA from Pandebeshwar constituency who recently slammed the state government for allegedly depriving the industrial town of central funds for "political reasons", resigned as the chairman of the Board of Administrators, Asansol Municipal Corporation, on Thursday afternoon. Senior TMC leader Diptangshu Choudhary, who, too, was present at the meeting, has also tendered his resignation from the post of South Bengal State Transport Corporation chairman. “The BJP is such a party that it lacks even the basic ethics and etiquette,” Mamata told a public meeting in Cooch Behar on Wednesday. “It is surprising that they have called up even some of our senior leaders like (state president) Subrata Bakshi and (Birbhum chief) Anubrata Mondal. Leaders from Delhi had called them and had sought meetings with them. Both have declined…. This exposes the BJP’s desperation to engineer defections,” she added. The Adhikari camp believes he holds sway in more than 70 Assembly seats. The BJP feels Adhikari can decisively influence the outcome in 40-odd seats. Mamata, according to sources close to her, does not think that number is over 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Tiger census through camera trapping method begins in Sundarbans||The tiger census through camera trapping method has started in West Bengal’s Sundarbans, which, according to the last estimate, was home to 96 big cats, an official said. The process of camera installation in the Sundarbans, one of the largest mangrove forests in the world, has been completed in the first phase, and the movement of big cats will be monitored for a month, he said. "We have already installed many cameras. The forest department will also put 272 more in January. Overall 1,164 cameras will be installed at 582 locations this time," Sundarbans Tiger Reserve field director Tapas Das said. Altogether 10 teams comprising 120 forest personnel are taking part in the exercise, he said on Wednesday. According to the last census, the tiger population in the Sundarbans reserve forest had increased to 96 from the previous estimate of 88. Of the 4,200 sq km area in the Sundarbans, 3,700 sq km is the habitat of big cats. Tiger estimation in the mangrove forest had traditionally been done by the pugmark method, the forest official said, adding that the last counting exercise was primarily based on camera trapping technique. The pugmark method was field-friendly, but due to some drawbacks, the Project Tiger authorities developed a new methodology for monitoring of tigers, co-predators, prey and habitat. The camera trapping technique is more reliable than the traditional method of counting pugmarks, another forest department official said. According to All India Tiger Estimation Report 2018, the country has emerged as one of the biggest and safest habitats for big cats in the world. The last four-yearly tiger census report said the population of the big cat in the country had grown from 1,411 in 2006 to 2,967 in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Govt to vacate some private Covid beds as cases decline||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to release some of the beds at private hospitals requisitioned for treatment of Covid-19 patients as the number of active cases have steadily declined in Bengal over the past one month or so, said a senior state government official. “Now the total numbers of active cases are coming down gradually and rates of hospitalisation of Covid patients are also going down. Under these present circumstances, it has been decided that these beds of private hospitals requisitioned by government may be released in phases,” reads an order issued by the director of health services. According to sources, in the first phase, the state government is set to release 748 beds in total out of 1,448 beds requisitioned at 13 hospitals spread across eight districts. These beds include critical care beds, high dependency beds and general beds. Although the state government decided to reduce Covid beds in rural districts, it is still cautious about the beds in Calcutta as the city is still reporting highest number of daily cases in the state. That is why the state government decided to release only 100 general beds at KPC Medical College and Hospital and retain 710 beds at private hospitals. “The number of active cases has comedown to 20,000-odd these days from 38,000-odd in the last week of October. The state decided to release some beds as the private hospitals can admit non-Covid patients to the beds to be released by the government,” said an official. The state government has made it clear that these beds could be requisitioned again if situation demands by issuing a three-day’s notice. According to senior government officials, the decision would release some of the pressure on the state exchequer. “So, far, the state has spent more than Rs 10 crore to requisition beds at private hospitals. If some of the beds could be released, the pressure on the struggling exchequer would be eased,” said a source. The state government has also decided to close down some of the safe homes, which were set up at private establishments, because of lack of patients. “Nowadays, over 90 per cent patients are either asymptomatic or having mild symptoms. Such patients are preferring home isolation. So, most of the beds at the safe homes are lying unused,” said a senior government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||AIIMS Kalyani set for January start||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Kalyani is all set to become functional in January new year, when it will launch an OPD with at least eight departments with preparations to offer services to a limited number of patients. Alongside, efforts are also made to launch the in-patient service on a small scale in four departments which are projected to be operative in full capacity only by September next year. AIIMS Kalyani’s executive director Ramji Singh told The Telegraph on Tuesday that out-patients would be offered service in general medicine, paediatrics, surgery, obstetrics-gynaecology, ophthalmology, ENT, dermatology and psychiatry “for the time being”. However, owing to limited faculty strength, only a restricted number of outpatients will be registered every day until the full-fledged outpatient department (OPD) is formally inaugurated in April next year following all central directives. AIIMS Kalyani will offer medical services in at least 40 departments, of which OPD services will be offered in at least 17 until they become completely operational in conjunction with super specialty services. “The OPD is now our top priority. Apart from launching patient services, we need this to be operative since it will help students get exposure to clinical education,” Singh said. Sources at the AIIMS said preparations for launching the OPD had been hindered during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. It is being further delayed reportedly owing to non-arrival of equipment and furniture as shipments sent by Centre’s supervising organisation, HSCC Limited, had been stranded by road blockades by farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi. “We are hopeful that the equipment and furniture will arrive soon so that we can complete the set-up to begin the OPD service”, Ramji Singh said. Singh also confirmed efforts to launch the IPD service. “The process of launching the IPD will begin once the OPD is operational. Our effort is to launch limited inpatient services as early as possible, preferably before April. We have a target to begin the full fledged in-patient service by September next year,” Singh said, adding that the number of beds was yet to be ascertained so far. “Our plan is to have complete infrastructure, even for limited IPD, so that patients can be provided with all the required emergency support and never be put at risk,” he added. A process of recruitment of faculty has bee commenced at the new hospital. In the first phase, 19 faculty members had been appointed, whereas later 25 new faculties were selected and 11 of them joined. Meanwhile, a fresh recruitment drive has also been initiated. Last month, the first batch of 50 MBBS students was graduated. With the shifting of academic activities to its own campus in Basantapur, AIIMS authorities increased the seat capacity to 125 for the second batch, of which 107 students have already been admitted. Classes will begin in January, an official said. The construction of the AIIMS Kalyani had begun in 2016 on 179.82 acres of land allotted by the Bengal Government at Basantapur, which is located on the outskirts of Kalyani town, 45 km away from Calcutta and connected by NH12. Two companies were assigned to construct the campus in two phases. In the first phase, the OPD and residential buildings were constructed. The second phase work is going on and is set to meet the targeted inauguration of the entire project in September 2021. Officials of the Union health ministry and the AIIMS’ governing body are at present working in coordination with the Bengal government so that infrastructure outside the premises — like a four-lane road, bus bay and a police station — is ready in time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Foresters kill leopard in self-defence||A leopard that entered the campus of Rangapani cancer hospital near here on Wednesday evening was shot dead when the animal attacked forest department employees who arrived for its tranquillisation. The big cat was believed to have strayed out of the Bagdogra forest. The animal also injured an elderly man on the hospital premises, after which a team of foresters arrived and fired a dart at it. The foresters thought the leopard became unconscious and started arrangements to net and take the animal away. However, the big cat awoke and mauled five foresters, including range officer Sanjay Dutta. They opened fire in self-defence and the leopard died on the spot. The foresters’ injuries were not serious. The carcass of the leopard was taken for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||2,293 Covid cases and 46 deaths in single day in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 2,767 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,293 infections and 46 deaths as the state’s total of active cases fell to 20,143 and the rate of cured patients rose to 94.45 per cent. The total of active cases has fallen for 51 consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, improving by nearly 46 per cent in this period. The state is now on the verge of ending the year with less than 20,000 active cases, far better than its earlier goal of sub-23,000. “This has been an exceptional period of turnaround, for nearly two months now. We are also very close to achieving our other goal of ending the year with the recovery rate of over 95,” said a minister. The recovery rate, which has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 55 consecutive days, went up in the period by over seven per cent. The national rate now is 95.24 per cent. In the 51 days since the end of Durga Puja, the state has recorded over 1.88 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.74 lakh cases found during the same period. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The daily numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. The state now has close to 5.28 lakh Covid-19 cases, including nearly 4.99 lakh recoveries and 9,191 deaths. With the examination of 42,256 swab samples being reported on Wednesday, the state’s total test count rose to 65.38 lakh. The tests per million people are 72,655 now. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.08 now, having improved fairly steadily from 8.27 November 20. The 46 deaths reported on Wednesday included 17 from Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 7,714 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to 1.45 per cent at the national level. Bengal reported 19.49 per cent occupancy on 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 102 dedicated hospitals. Over 5.33 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari resigns as Trinamul MLA||On a day Suvendu Adhikari resigned as Trinamul MLA, Mamata Banerjee accused the BJP of trying to lure senior party leaders like Subrata Bakshi and Anubrata Mondal. “The BJP is such a party that it lacks even the basic ethics and etiquette,” the chief minister told a public meeting in Cooch Behar on Wednesday. “It is surprising that they have called up even some of our senior leaders like (state president) Subrata Bakshi and (Birbhum chief) Anubrata Mondal. Leaders from Delhi had called them and had sought meetings with them. Both have declined…. This exposes the BJP’s desperation to engineer defections,” Mamata added. Defections when elections are round the corner are neither new nor unusual in India. Of late, the BJP has switched focus to “persuading” rival legislators elsewhere in the country to dump their parties, topple Opposition governments and field them afresh. Over the past few years, the BJP has managed to gain control of several states despite losing the Assembly elections there, such as Goa, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, besides attempting it in Rajasthan, in what is informally called Operation Kamal. “Now, it seems Bengal is the new market and the BJP is out there with a big shopping bag,” said a political observer. On Wednesday, former Trinamul minister Suvendu Adhikari resigned as the Nandigram MLA. He then headed for the home of Trinamul’s Burdwan East MP, Sunil Kumar Mondal, in Panagarh where he met several loyalists, including Pandaveswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari and Diptangshu Chowdhury. The meeting at Mondal’s home was seen as a precursor to several Trinamul leaders, including lawmakers, joining the BJP over the next few days. Adhikari sought to take anticipatory protection by sending a letter to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, seeking his intervention against possible persecution born out of political vendetta. “A large number of politicians planning to switch to a different party, going into a huddle, then involving the governor’s office... we have seen such developments frequently in other states. Now, it seems that resort politics has come to Bengal,” said a bureaucrat. With over 34 years of Left rule and decades of Left-oriented movements before that, Bengal had been immune to this trend for decades as ideological battles had been at the centre of the political discourse in the state. Left leaders like Sujan Chakraborty and Congress state president Adhir Chowdhury have been accusing Mamata of having imported the politics of defection in Bengal. “In the end, a snake charmer dies of snakebite. This was always going to be the case, sooner or later, for her (Mamata). Poetic justice,” said Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. Several Congress and Left legislators had joined Trinamul since 2011 -– more so since 2016. Trinamul had itself broken away from the Congress. Although none of the three parties would acknowledge it, there is an element of ideological compatibility among Trinamul, Congress and the Left -– which is not the case with the BJP, making it obvious that something more than political belief is acting as a catalyst for the realignment of loyalties. “There is no ideology involved in this. This is nothing but bargaining for posts,” Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy said. Adhikari was an MLA from Nandigram, where a significant percentage of voters are Muslim. In his speeches since the Nandigram movement days, he had always spoken about his commitment to protecting the minorities. “He and the other leaders preparing to leave Trinamul will have to recalibrate in a big way if they are to join the BJP and fit in,” said an observer. Predictably, there is despondency in Trinamul amid the fear of large-scale defections and its likely impact on the polls, although senior leaders stated on record that they were not worried. Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee, who along with Adhikari is part of Trinamul’s seven-member apex steering committee, said it was “good riddance”. “He is over-ambitious and over-confident. He wants to be the chief minister…. We will win with or without him, because our leader is Mamata Banerjee,” said the MP. The Adhikari camp believes he holds sway in more than 70 Assembly seats. The BJP feels Adhikari can decisively influence the outcome in 40-odd seats. Mamata, according to sources close to her, does not think that number is over 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Farmers march to Raj Bhavan protesting farm laws||Around 40,000 people, mostly farmers, marched to the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta on Wednesday afternoon to demand the repeal of three new farm laws by the Centre. The march was held under the banner of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a Left-backed farmer’s organisation. The rally, the organisers said, proved that the farmers’ protest was not confined to the states of Punjab and Haryana. “Today’s protest was the biggest farmers’ rally that we had organised in Bengal till now. The turnout of people from far-flung districts indicates that farmers in Bengal are worried about their future,” said Amal Halder, the state convenor of the committee. Hannan Mollah, the general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, said: “At the meeting in Calcutta, farmers came from Panskura in Midnapore to Uluberia in Howrah and Gaighata in Bongaon, which proves that the protests are getting a pan-India shape,” he added. The turnout, several organisers said, was very significant as some experts had said the new laws would not affect the lives of farmers in Bengal because the structure of agri-business in the state was different from that in northern states. “But we’ve managed to convince the farmers that these bills will leave their future uncertain,” a leader said. Sukumar Manik, 42, a farmer from Panskura in East Midnapore, was in the march. Manik is a small farmer and owns around 8 acres of land. He says he currently sells his produce to the middlemen. However, he is afraid if corporate houses invest in agri-business the situation would be worse. “The big investors might give us more money than the middlemen. But the amendment in the essential commodities act allows them to hoard as much as they want. This means that they will sell my crops at a price ten times more than what I got,” Manik said. Echoing Manik’s concerns, Shashanka Mondal, 55, from Gaighata in North 24-Parganas said the new laws would leave small farmers with no work. “Why will big corporates buy crops from small farmers like me? They will need huge quantities and hence will do business with big farmers. What will we eat?” Mondal, who owns around four acres, said. A delegation on behalf of the AIKSCC went to meet the governor with a memorandum. However, since he was not in Calcutta, the letter was submitted to his office. Mollah told The Telegraph that the AIKSCC would observe December 20 as Shaheed Diwas or Martyr’s Day across the country, in memory of 30 farmers who had lost their lives during this movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata renews pledge against citizen matrix||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee repeated her pledge against the Narendra Modi government’s citizenship matrix on Wednesday to revive her support base in Cooch Behar — the district that shares border with Assam where the National Register of Citizens (NRC) had been published last year. “We will never allow the BJP to implement the NRC, CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) or the NPR (National Population Register) in Bengal. The BJP is playing divisive politics by using these tools and we will not let it happen,” Mamata told a public meeting at the Rashmela Ground here. After the publication of the NRC in Assam, its repercussions were felt in districts like Cooch Behar and Alipurduar. Hundreds of families living in these districts had expressed concern over the future of their family members who stay in Assam and could not make it to the NRC. A senior leader here pointed out that there were hundreds of women from north Bengal districts, particularly Cooch Behar and Alipurduar, who got married in Assam. Also, there are others who have roots in these districts but stay in Assam. “Many of them could not find their names in the NRC and discontentment was brewing in their families. Mamata will try to use the issue to her advantage,” he said. Mamata and state leaders of Trinamul, sources said, also passed two directives to their colleagues in Cooch Behar. First, they have been asked to work together as infighting is one of the key issues in Cooch Behar that the state leadership found tough to handle. A section of party leaders feels presence of multiple lobbies in the party was one of the reasons for the BJP’s emergence as a force in the district. Second, the district leaders have been asked to be on alert to BJP functionaries from Assam who would be deputed in north bengal. At the meeting, Mamata also tried to woo Rajbanshi voters by bringing Bangshibadan Burman to the dais. Burman, a leader of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association —  that is believed to have clout in the community — also holds posts in the development & cultural board and the language academy of Rajbanshis which were constituted by the state government. “We will support Trinamul in the Assembly elections next year. Mamata Banerjee has done a lot for us and north Bengal as a whole,” the Rajbanshi leader said in his speech. The chief minister also spoke about Nasya Sheikh— a Muslim community of the region. For the past few months, they have been demanding a development body. “If we can form so many development boards….. we can also look into this demand,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu submits letter to quit as MLA||Nandigram legislator Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday submitted his resignation as MLA in further indication of his switch from the Trinamul Congress to the BJP along with loyalists months before Assembly polls. However, the resignation letter was not handwritten by Adhikari in the presence of the Speaker and handed over directly, as mandated by rules. Adhikari is likely to visit Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah this week. The rebellious leader suddenly showed up at the Assembly building around 4pm, three hours after Speaker Biman Banerjee had left. The former minister delivered the handwritten resignation letter to officials and left. Speaker Banerjee later said he would look into the matter and act according to the rules, as the letter had neither been handwritten in his presence nor handed to him directly. “I do hereby tender my resignation from the member (sic) of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly. Steps may be taken for its immediate acceptance,” wrote Adhikari, who turned 50 on Tuesday. Almost immediately after, he left the city to attend a meeting of several loyalists at Burdwan East MP Sunil Kumar Mondal’s residence in Burdwan. Sources close to him have said he might leave for Delhi on Thursday and meet Modi, Shah and others in the top tier of the BJP leadership. It remains undecided whether Adhikari would join the BJP in Delhi or Bengal. “One thing is fairly certain, that Dada (Suvendu) would return along with Amit Shah and attend the mega rally in Midnapore on Saturday,” said a source. He also said Adhikari was likely to resign from Trinamul’s primary membership as well as he was still a general-secretary of the party and part of its seven-member apex steering committee. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy, who acted as an emissary for weeks trying to retain Adhikari, said the former minister had “betrayed” the party. “He has managed an understanding with the BJP. What deal the BJP has offered him, what bargains have taken place between them, I cannot say,” said Dum Dum MP Roy. “If somebody is unable to be happy even with three key portfolios in the cabinet, if somebody is unhappy with nothing less than deputy chief minister, or the chief ministerial berth itself, then there is nothing to discuss. There is no ideology involved in this. This is nothing but bargaining for posts. The BJP must have assured him of a post he wants. Let him see what the BJP actually gives him,” he added. “Our party will continue to function the way it has.” Hailing the resignation, Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy — now a national vice-president of the BJP — said he would welcome him. “This is a big step in the history of Bengal’s mass movements,” said Roy, once known for testy ties with Adhikari while both were in Trinamul. However, Roy, too, left primarily because he couldn’t accept Mamata’s nephew being elevated while he was the de facto Number Two. While the Adhikari camp believes he holds sway in over 70 Assembly seats. The BJP believes he can decisively influence the outcome in 40-odd seats. Mamata, according to sources close to her, does not think that number is over 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Owaisi says Mamata allegations are baseless||Asaduddin Owaisi, the chief of Hyderabad-based All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), said none could buy him with money and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegations were baseless. Mamata had told a public meeting in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday: “The BJP is now bringing in a party from Hyderabad to divide minority votes….. You know what happened in Bihar. This party has assembled some people here as well...The party is on BJP’s payroll. Be alert,” Mamata said. The AIMIM leader, who was in Lucknow on Wednesday, said: “No man is born who can buy Asaduddin Owaisi with money. Her allegations are baseless. She is restless and should be concerned about her own home. So many people from her party are going to the BJP.” The AIMIM chief also accused Mamata of “insulting” voters in Bihar. “So far you’ve only dealt with obedient Mir Jaffers and Sadiqs. You don’t like Muslims who think & speak for themselves. You’ve insulted our voters in Bihar. Remember what happened to parties in Bihar that kept blaming their failures on “vote cutters.” Muslim voters aren’t your jagir,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Hill leaders in Calcutta and Delhi for talks||Anit Thapa, the chairman of the board of administrators at the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, was in Calcutta, while leaders of four different hill parties were in Delhi on Wednesday to meet BJP leaders. It is safe to assume that no local political leader worth his salt is in the Darjeeling hills now. This is a clear indication that regional politics is being shaped by state and central politics, said an observer. Anit Thapa of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang camp is in Calcutta for an “administrative meeting” when all current discussion in Darjeeling is politics. The Tamang camp has been with the Trinamul Congress since 2017. Tamang’s bete noire Bimal Gurung who was earlier aligned with the BJP now backs Trinamul. As of today, factually, Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung are with Trinamul. When Trinamul Lok Sabha candidate Amar Singh Rai lost the election in Darjeeling a year ago, the Gurung camp was with the BJP. BJP candidate Raju Bista had won the election. On Wednesday, the Tamang camp said Thapa was in Calcutta for an important meeting for administrative reasons. Neeraj Zimba, the GNLF leader who won Darjeeling Assembly byelection on the BJP ticket by defeating Binay Tamang a year ago, told The Telegraph from Delhi: “We will be meeting the Union home minister, Amit Shah, tomorrow (Thursday).” According to Zimba, R.B. Rai, the president of the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), Akhil Bhartiya Gorkha League (ABGL) chief Pratap Khati and some other hill-based political leaders would also meet Shah. Apolitical organisations, which, too, had supported Raju Bista, however, have not yet been invited, as informed by Zimba. Observers believe hill politics is in a state of flux. “The political situation in the hills seems to be aligned between two power centres, Trinamul and the BJP, but the common feeling in the hills is that nothing has been politically concretised,” said an political observer. “Three months later, when the code of conduct will be in place during the Assembly elections, hill politics would be crystallised.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
