18-12-2020||West Bengal||Mukul Roy accuses TMC of indulging in vindictive politics against political opponents ||BJP national vice president Mukul Roy on Friday blamed the Trinamool Congress of slapping multiple false cases against the saffron party leaders who had earlier quit TMC and charged it of pursuing vindictive politics against political opponents. Roy told reporters here that when he or Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh were in the TMC fold there were no cases against them. "But ever since Arjun and I joined BJP, 55 cases were slapped against me and over 65 against him (Singh). Arjun's son too has been charged with false cases after he joined politics," Roy told newspersons here. "This (TMC) is a vindictive government which will be defeated in the next assembly election," he said. Singh was present at the interaction. To a question, Roy welcomed the Supreme Court order on Friday granting interim protection to five BJP leaders, including himself, Singh and Kailash Vijayvargiya in criminal cases lodged against them in Bengal and directing the state police not to take any coercive action. "We hail the Supreme Court order, We know the truth will prevail," he said. Welcoming several panchayat members from Paschim Medinipur district who switched over from TMC to BJP, Roy said many of them are from the minority community. "It shows people of different communities and faiths are uniting in Bengal under BJP to remove the undemocratic TMC government." He claimed that the ruling TMC will not be able to secure more than 100 out of the total 295 seats in the 2021 state polls with its leaders at different levels and ordinary activists quitting the party in droves. He, however, did not want to comment if Barrackpore MLA Silbhadra Dutta, who quit TMC Friday will join BJP. Asked to comment on reservations expressed by Asansol MP and Union Minister Babul Supriyo about TMC MLA and former chief of Asansol Municipal Corporation joining the BJP, Roy wondered why the media highlighted such issues and hinted it was not a serious one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Shilbhadra Dutta should have consulted us before leaving: TMC||Hours after Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta quit the party, the Trinamul Congress said that he should have reached out to the leadership over his grievances rather than just resigning. Speaking to reporters at Calcutta, Firhad hakim, senior TMC leader and minister, said he was shocked at Dutta’s resignation. “Being a senior leader, Dutta should have approached the top leadership if he had any grievances. What I know is that Dutta had some issues with a section of local party leaders. Can it be a reason good enough to sever all ties in the present situation,” Hakim said. “I can only say that Dutta was liked by ‘Didi’ (Mamata Banerjee) and their relation was beyond politics. We all know what she did during his serious ailment,” he added. TMC district president of North 24 Parganas, Jyotipriyo Mallick said TMC is like a banyan tree, which will not be affected with a few leaves falling off as it is deeply entrenched in the lives of the people of Bengal. “Our leader is Mamata Banerjee and she always has the backing of the masses,” he said. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh called the ruling party a sinking ship and said nobody, who has self-respect, would remain in the party. “Only its supremo (Mamata Banerjee) and her nephew (Abhishek Banerjee) will be left in the party along with a handful of their supporters,” he said. Ghosh said Dutta and former minister Suvendu Adhikari are welcome to join the BJP along with other TMC leaders who have quit the party. Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh of the BJP urged Dutta to join his party and claimed, “Shilbhadra-da was not being allowed to work in the Trinamul Congress.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Another MLA quits TMC as Amit Shah is to visit Bengal ||In a third jolt to the Trinamul Congress within 24 hours, Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta resigned from the party on Friday. Dutta, a two-term MLA, said he has sent the resignation letter to Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee by email, triggering speculations that he may join a long list of party leaders who have either joined the BJP or is willing to, ahead of the assembly elections, likely in March-April. “I think that I am unfit in the party in the present scenario. But, I will not resign as an MLA,” he told reporters. “Why should I resign as an MLA? I have won by people's votes. If I go (resign) away, where will they go,” he added. The move comes within a day after party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari left the TMC, and following his suit, Pandabeswar MLA and Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari resigned too. While all the rebel leaders are speculated to be joining the BJP, Home Minister Amit Shah is scheduled to visit Bengal for two days. The minister will arrive in Calcutta on Friday night to take stock of the BJP's affairs in the state as the assembly elections draw near. Shah, after staying the night at a Calcutta hotel, will meet NIA officials the next morning. “On Saturday morning, he has a scheduled meeting with NIA officials. Then he will visit Swami Vivekanada's residence in north Calcutta to pay tributes,” a BJP leader said. “Later, Shah will travel to Midnapore where he will pay tributes to revolutionary Khudiram Bose and offer puja at two temples,” he said. After this, he will visit a farmer's home for lunch, followed by a public rally at the Midnapore College ground. “There are chances that several TMC leaders will join the party at this rally. After the rally, he will return to Calcutta and hold meetings with state leaders and take stock of the organisation,” the saffron party leader said. On Sunday, the home minister will visit the Visva- Bharati university in Shantiniketan, and lead a roadshow at Bolpur. Thereafter, he will hold a press conference and leave for Delhi. Shah’s visit comes in the backdrop of growing animosity between the Centre and the state with the Home Ministry asking the West Bengal government to immediately relieve its three IPS officers for central deputation, provoking a combative Mamata Banerjee to brand the move as “unconstitutional and unacceptable”. Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee on Friday said he has not accepted the resignation of Trinamul Congress MLA Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation. He said that it does not conform to the provisions of the Constitution and the rules of the House. Banerjee also noted that the senior TMC leader did not hand over the resignation letter to him personally. The speaker further added that he had no clue if the “resignation is voluntary and genuine”. “Unless and until I am satisfied that the resignation is voluntary and genuine, it is not possible for me to accept the same in the light of the provisions of the Constitution of India and the rules of procedure and conduct of business in West Bengal Legislative Assembly,” the Speaker told reporters. Adhikari submitted his resignation letter as an MLA at the Assembly secretariat on December 16, a month after he quit the Mamata Banerjee cabinet as minister. The Speaker was not present in the House at that time. Banerjee further said that Adhikari has been asked to appear before him personally in his chamber on December 21 to make his submission in the matter. “I do hereby tender my resignation from the member (sic) of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly. Steps may be taken for its immediate acceptance,” wrote Adhikari in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta quits TMC||Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta resigned from the Trinamool Congress on Friday in the third major exit from the party in the last 24 hours. Dutta, a two-term MLA, said he has sent the resignation letter to Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee by email, triggering speculations that he may join a long list of party leaders who have either joined the BJP or is willing to ahead of the assembly elections, likely in March-April. "I think that I am unfit in the party in the present scenario. But, I will not resign as an MLA," he told reporters. "Why should I resign as an MLA? I have won by people's votes. If I go (resign) away, where will they go?" he added. Over the last few months, Dutta has been vocal about his opposition to election strategist Prashant Kishor and the way he was handling party affairs. Dutta, once a Mukul Roy loyalist when the BJP leader was in Trinamool Congress, has also spoken against a section of the party's leadership. In a jolt to the TMC ahead of the assembly elections, heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari quit the party on Thursday after giving up his cabinet portfolios in the state government and resigning as an MLA. Hailing Adhikari, Pandabeswar MLA and Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari also quit the party, amid speculations that they may switch over to the BJP. Former minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee too has announced that he would leave the party and join the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Hill team meets Centre on promises ||A delegation of BJP alliance partners from Darjeeling, along with BJP national secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, met Union minister of state home G. Kishan Reddy in Delhi on Thursday on the progress made in the BJP's 2019 election manifesto on two key demands, that of granting tribal status to 11 hill communities and finding a permanent political solution in the hills. The delegation included BJP MP Raju Bista and his party colleagues, and representatives of the GNLF, CPRM, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League, Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha and Sumeti Mukti Morcha. These are the parties which had supported Bista during the last Lok Sabha election with the exception of Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha which is now supporting Trinamul. After the meeting, Reddy tweeted: “…It was reiterated to the delegation, of our govt’s commitment to transform the region to one of the most prosperous, progressive & peaceful region in India, and informed them of the steps we have taken & progress made towards fulfilling the Sankalp Patra commitments we have made to the people here.” Bista in a written statement after the meeting added: “Hon’ble Reddy ji...assured the delegation that, the government on its part has been sincerely working towards the inclusion of left-out Gorkha tribes at the earliest.” Bista also said that finding a permanent political solution of the hills was “top priority” for the Centre. Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA from the GNLF who won the bypoll on a BJP ticket, said the meeting “was truthful.” “We realised that the issues that the Centre discussed in earlier meetings (with Bimal Gurung faction) were not in consonance with what had been told to the public,” said Zimba, this assertion hinting at a move to discredit Gurung. The Centre’s assurance this time suggests that unlike in the past it would be a make-or-break situation for the BJP in the hills. The BJP won both Darjeeling Lok Sabha and Assembly seats last year but many believe that if the BJP fails to deliver anything concrete the advantage would be lost in the Bengal polls. Past promises of the BJP-led government have not yielded much for the hills. An RTI query had revealed that the Office of the Registrar General of India, under the home ministry, had not warmed up to the demand for including the 11 hill communities in the ST list. Despite this, there were purported video statements of Union ministers that the tribal status could be granted any day. It has not happened yet. Observers believe that while  BJP is still in a strong footing at the moment in the hills, failure to come up with concrete steps to readdress the two issues promised in the election manifesto could put the saffron party on a sticky wicket. “It would not take a moment for the BJP to lose all its support base from the hills. If no concrete steps are taken, NDA’s current allies would not think twice about charting a separate course. The next three months are crucial for the BJP and hill politics,” said an observer, adding “only meetings and assurances won’t help the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah attempts to connect with Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah will visit places associated with Bengal’s three leading icons — Rabindranath Tagore, Swami Vivekananda and Khudiram Bose — during his two-day visit to the state in a bid to establish the saffron camp’s connect with Bengali culture and tradition while countering the Trinamul Congress’s concerted effort to label the BJP as a party of “outsiders”. “Amitji will visit the ancestral house of Swami Vivekananda in Calcutta and Khudiram Bose in Midnapore on December 19. On December 20, he will visit Rabindranath Tagore’s Visva-Bharati University in Bolpur’s Santiniketan,” a state BJP leader said. Shah, who has decided to lead the electoral fight in Bengal almost as a personal project, doesn’t want to give Trinamul any room for criticism when it comes to establishing the BJP’s Bengali credentials. Hence, the decision to pay tribute to the three icons is part of a well thought-out strategy, the BJP leader said. According to Shah’s official itinerary, he will spend 30 minutes each at the residences of Swami Vivekananda and Khudiram Bose. However, at Santiniketan — where he will pay floral tributes to a chair once used by Tagore in Visva-Bharati — Shah will participate in a series of programmes spanning over an hour and 45 minutes. Sources in the BJP said senior leaders had realised “one cannot be enough Bengali, if that person doesn’t connect with Tagore”, and that was why Shah would spend almost two hours on the varsity campus. “Recently, our social media cell made a faux pas when they tweeted that Tagore was born at Visva-Bharati and had attributed it to our national president J.P. Nadda. Trinamul made a major issue of it,” a member of the party’s youth wing pointed out. “We believe Amitji’s Visva-Bharati tour will undo the damage,” the BJP’s youth wing leader added. A university official said Shah would also meet vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty during his visit to Santiniketan. A section in the BJP said while attending a road-show in Santiniketan, Shah was likely to address the issue of rampage on the varsity campus over the building of a boundary wall to fence the Pous Mela ground on August 17. The under-construction wall was pulled down and university property bulldozed by a mob led by Trinamul’s Dubrajpur legislator Naresh Bauri. “The visit of Amitji is important as Trinamul-backed goons had vandalised the gate of the university and ransacked the campus. The incident had exposed Trinamul’s attitude towards Rabindranath Tagore, while they were trying to establish the BJP as an anti-Bengali party,” said former MP and BJP leader Anupam Hazra. During his upcoming visit, Shah will continue with his lunch politics and is scheduled to have food at the residences of two marginal families. In Midnapore, he will have lunch at a farmer’s home at Belijuri village, while in Birbhum, he will sit down for food with a family of minstrels (bauls) in Santiniketan. Shah is also scheduled to visit multiple temples during his tour and hold meetings with senior members of the state BJP leadership. In the aftermath of the December 10 “attack” on Nadda’s convoy during his visit to Diamond Harbour, BJP leaders want Shah’s two-day trip to pass off peacefully. A BJP leader said that “volunteers” — at least a thousand each for Midnapore and Bolpur — would be deployed along the road that Shah would take in both the places. “We can’t take risks after what happened to our national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy at Diamond Harbour,” said Samit Kumar Das, the party’s chief for West Midnapore district. He added that the volunteers would stand amongst the crowd to ensure that Shah’s convoy covered the route without a hitch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Chilahati-Haldibari rail route reopens after 55 years||A goods train crossed the Indo-Bangla border to reach Haldibari station in Cooch Behar amid loud cheers on Thursday, as this rail route between India and Bangladesh reopened after a gap of 55 years. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina in a virtual bilateral summit inaugurated the service that had been a longstanding demand of north Bengal. The route — only for goods trains for now — was opened a day after both countries celebrated Vijay Diwas to mark the victory of Indian forces over Pakistan troops during the Bangladesh liberation war of 1971. While Modi stressed strengthening bilateral relations with Bangladesh, Hasina underscored the need to work together to help the economies of both nations. “I believe both the countries further integrate our economies by taking advantage of the available synergies. Our ongoing connectivity initiatives are working as catalysts in this regard. A prime example is resumption of the Chilahati-Haldibari rail route which we will inaugurate today (Thursday),” Hasina said at the virtual summit. Sources in Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) — the route falls under this railway zone — said this was the fifth rail route to connect India with Bangladesh. The existing four, all of which connect various stations of Bengal, are Petrapole-Benapole, Gede-Darshana, Singabad-Rohanpur and Radhikapur-Birol. Only the Calcutta-Dhaka Maitree Express on Gede-Darshana ferries passengers, the rest are all goods trains on these routes. Since morning, hundreds of Haldibari residents came to the station to see the historic event. At 11am, as the two Prime Ministers inaugurated the route, a goods train with 30 empty wagons and two guard rooms departed from Chilahati to head for Haldibari. There were two each loco pilots, assistant loco pilots and guards on board the train. It reached the zero point where officials of the Border Security Force (BSF) and Customs carried out the checking. The train then chugged into Haldibari station where people rejoiced. Many enthusiastically clicked pictures of the decorated loco while many others clapped and welcomed the train. Officials of NFR welcomed the Bangladesh Railway staff. After some time, the train returned to Chilahati. “It is a dream come true. Much earlier, trains used to run between Calcutta and Haldibari through this route but the service came to a halt during the India-Pakistan war of 1965. We have waited for long for the train route to reopen. It finally happened,” said Azizul Haque Sarkar, a Haldibari resident. Another resident, Rupa Chowdhury, said this route could save commuters time to reach Calcutta from north Bengal and the Northeast. “Right now, we must travel over 600km to reach Calcutta by train. If passenger trains bound for Calcutta move through Bangladesh, we need to travel only 450km or so,” Rupa said. In October this year, a news release issued by Bangladesh press information department had stated that its government was also mulling introduction of passenger train services between Dhaka and Siliguri. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal surpasses 5 lakh Covid recoveries||Bengal on Thursday went past 5 lakh Covid-19 recoveries and a recovery rate of 94.56 per cent. The total active case count went below 20,000, back almost to where it was on July 28, 142 days ago. With 2,747 more recoveries on Thursday, the total recovery count rose to nearly 5.02 lakh, 17 days after going past the 4.5 lakh mark. “The first 50,000 of Bengal’s recoveries took 137 days (since the first infection was detected on March 17). We have been achieving the recent 50,000 recoveries in 12 to 17 days,” said a minister. The state now has 5.3 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.02 recoveries and 9,235 deaths. Bengal on Thursday logged 2,245 new infections and 44 deaths, 10 of which were from Calcutta. The state’s total active case count fell to 19,597, a decline of 52 consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, improving by over 47 per cent in this period. “Our goal was to end the year with less than 23,000 active cases. Now we are already below 20,000… we are back to where we were nearly five months ago,” the minister said, praising the post-Puja turnaround. In these 52 days, the state has recorded over 1.91 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.76 lakh cases found. The recovery rate has risen for 56 consecutive days. The national rate now is 95.4 per cent. Of the total deaths, 7,751, or 83.9 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November proved the efficacy of the court’s instructions. With 42,473 tests on Thursday, the state’s total test count rose to 65.81 lakh, at 73,127 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.06 now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 18.71 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.35 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||35 students test Covid positive in IISER||Thirty-five students of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER)-Calcutta’s Mohanpur campus near Kalyani in Nadia have been detected Covid positive during a mass RT-PCR test. The outbreak has prompted authorities to shut down the institute till December 28. Five faculty members who reside on campus also tested positive and are in isolation. The teachers paid for their tests. The infected students — all asymptomatic, said IISER’s dean of students’ affairs Balaram Mukhopadhyay — have been quarantined in the visitor’s complex under the supervision of the institute’s medical unit. The institution’s authorities will conduct random Covid tests on 25 per cent of its students every month starting January till the time the pandemic is effectively over. Mass RT-PCR tests were conducted on 530 students, including 443 hostel inmates, with the support of the institute’s students’ affairs council and Covid volunteers in collaboration with a diagnostic facility. “Conducting random tests on students on a rotational basis has become necessary to avert a possible outbreak of Covid,” IISER’s dean of students’ affairs Mukhopadhyay said. A few Covid infections reported among students early in December led the IISER administration to conduct the mass Covid test on campus. Entry to the research complex has also been restricted and only a few students are allowed to enter to maintain live stocks. Even the dining facility at the canteen has been replaced with takeaway food packets. The IISER, which in a student-friendly gesture had waived off part of the semester fees and provided laptops and data packs to its less privileged students for ease in online learning, also indicated that resumption of physical classes would not be possible before March. The authorities have asked first-year students to stay at home and join online classes from January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||EC for daily reports on law & order in Bengal from now on||Deputy election commissioner, Sudip Jain, who is on a five-day visit to Bengal, expressed concern over the prevailing law and order in the state and asked district magistrates and police superintendents to file daily reports from now on. The move, officials said, is unprecedented as the Election Commission usually seeks daily reports on law and order once the polls are declared. “In 2016, the DMs were asked to file daily reports after elections were declared on March 5. The move to seek daily reports from now onwards suggests the EC is concerned about law and order,” said a senior government official. Jain, who held meetings with the DMS and SPs of south Bengal districts and top government officials at a city hotel on Thursday, made it clear that the authorities should ensure that all the candidates got an equal chance to campaign in the run up to the polls. “It is clear the EC has taken note of the complaints lodged by Opposition parties during the last panchayat and civic polls. That is why the poll panel is trying to initiate all required steps to ensure free and fair Assembly polls,” said a source in the chief electoral officer’s office. Jain also asked the DMs to ensure that an error-free electoral list was published to avoid any kind of troubles during the polls. The revised electoral roll is set to be published on January 15 and the EC is trying to ensure that all applications to enroll names and delete bogus voters are entertained, sources said. “Jain asked the top officials to deploy enough number of booth level officers to ensure that activities related to electoral roll is carried out without any trouble,” said a source. Sources also said the EC laid stress on identifying sensitive booths right away so that a proper mapping of the sensitive booths could be done before the polls. “The poll panel laid stress on the issue as deployment of forces would depend on the number of sensitive booths and areas,” said a DM. Jain also met representatives of political parties where Opposition leaders complained about the law and order in the state. The Trinamul Congress lodged a complaint against the BJP with Jain for attacking the chief minister in an obscene way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Convoy attack: Fresh fireworks in IPS row||The Union home ministry on Thursday posted three Bengal-cadre IPS officers on central deputation, ignoring the state government’s objections. The central ministry asked the state to release the three officers immediately in the latest salvo in a standoff that started when stones were thrown at some cars in the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda in Bengal last week. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee refused to yield ground, describing the Centre’s order as “a colourable exercise of power” and “blatant misuse of an emergency provision of the IPS cadre rule”. The Union ministry sent a fresh letter informing the Bengal government of the three officers’ new responsibilities. The letter said the state had to adhere to the Indian Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, on the posting of the officers. The rule says that “in case of any disagreement, the central government’s decision shall prevail”. The Union home ministry has informed the state that Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour police district) will be posted as SP, Bureau of Police Research and Development; Rajeev Mishra (ADG, south Bengal) will be posted as IG, ITBP, while Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) will be posted as DIG of the SSB, a source said. The three IPS officers were responsible for ensuring security of Nadda when the cars in the convoy were attacked. The IPS officers were directly in charge of the areas where the incident took place, the sources said. “As punishment, they have been recalled and posted on central deputation for five years,” said a joint secretary in the home ministry. Mamata tweeted: “The Government of India’s order of central deputation for the serving IPS officers of West Bengal despite the state’s objection is a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS cadre rule, 1954.” The chief minister pointed out that the move was initiated by the Centre to put IAS and IPS officers in Bengal. “We wouldn’t allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow down in front of expansionist and undemocratic forces,” Mamata tweeted. Senior government officials said that the state government did not indicate its next course of action till late in the evening. “It is likely to write another letter to the Union home ministry expressing its inability to release the officers. Till now, there is no plan to move court,” a source said on Thursday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Congress to start work on pact with Left||The Congress minder for Bengal Jitin Prasada told the state leadership on Thursday to go ahead with work on formalising the alliance with the Left, including seat-sharing. Prasada was at a meeting here where state party leaders sought a formal go-ahead from the high command for the alliance with the Left in the run-up to Bengal elections. According to sources present in a meeting with him, Prasada urged the state leadership not to wait for the formal approval — which, according to him, was only a matter of time. Prasada is currently in Calcutta on his first visit since assuming charge as the party’s Bengal minder. He met the chiefs of various committees and other senior office-bearers during the day, before going into a huddle with the election committee headed by state party president Adhir Chowdhury. A senior Congress MLA said every leader spoke in favour of the alliance with the Left. “Outside of three districts, our party has no scope of putting up a decent fight on its own,” the MLA said. A party veteran said Prasada promised that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi would devote a lot of time to Bengal in the next few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Viswa-Bharati students voice Shah misgivings ||Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Santiniketan on December 20 has run into opposition by a section of Viswa-Bharati students, who have written to vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty reminding him that the ideology and activities of the BJP leader and his party went against the anti-fascist principles of the varsity’s founder Rabindranath Tagore. “In has been the history of Santiniketan to raise its voice against fascist aggression. Rabindranath himself had been the face in the fight against fascism…He was on the side of Romain Rolland against the fascism of Hitler-Mussolini…Today in that Santiniketan, (a person like) Amit Shah is going to set foot…he is the leading face of a force that is trying to impose fascism in the country... We as students of the varsity are strongly opposing his visit and participation in a various varsity’s programme,” the letter written to the vice-chancellor by the Visva-Bharati Student’s Unity, a platform of several Left-wing students ’unions, states. “We appeal to our VC and other officials not to welcome this kind of person (Shah) to Santiniketan and tarnish the ideology of Rabindranath and Santiniketan,” the students’ appealed through the letter. Falguni Pan, a students’ leader of the platform, said: “Shah has no right to visit Visva-Bharati as it is a place associated with Rabindranath who had always stood against fascism. On the other hand, Shah represents a party that believes in divisive agenda and has taken several anti-people steps, including farm laws and citizenship matrix. So we have written to the VC asking him to stop the visit of such a person to the campus.” Students across the country have been taking part in protests against the Narendra Modi government’s policies since December last year. They have taken part in protests to voice their opposition to issues ranging from the citizenship matrix to the farm laws. The students also reminded the VC that a BJP leader had proposed to replace the National Anthem written by Tagore. “Shah’s visit to Santiniketan is nothing but political drama. If he sticks to his plan, we will stage a protest against his visit,” said SFI leader Somnath Sow, who is a member of the Visva-Bharati Student’s Unity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Resignation a day keeps Suvendu pot boiling||Suvendu Adhikari tendered his resignation from the Trinamul Congress on Thursday amid suggestions that he and his loyalists would join the BJP in the presence of Amit Shah in the state on Saturday. The rebellious former member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet wrote to her, thanking her for the “challenges and opportunities” afforded to him during his two-decade association with the party. With the resignation, Adhikari also stepped down as general-secretary of the party and from its seven-member apex steering committee. Adhikari’s resignation from the party came a day after his resignation as Nandigram MLA and 20 days after he stepped down as minister. Adhikari loyalist and Pandaveswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari also quit the party on Thursday. A source close to Adhikari said the former minister was trying hard to engineer a slew of desertions. “Five MPs, 20-odd MLAs and hundreds of elected representatives from the panchayat and civic bodies are likely to leave in days. Hundreds of organisational office-bearers of the party will also leave with him,” added the source, adding it was “just the tip of the iceberg”. Besides obvious names such as Trinamul’s Burdwan East MP Sunil Kumar Mondal, at least 13 MLAs from East and West Midnapore, and five from North and South 24-Parganas would leave within days, the source added. Through Thursday, resignations kept pouring in from various tiers of the party in the districts, as Adhikari loyalists felt emboldened to step forward. Also, Adhikari would not go to Delhi this week, contrary to what was being said earlier. “He will first join the BJP, possibly at Amit Shah’s Midnapore event on Saturday, and go to Delhi to meet the Prime Minister,” said the source, adding that Adhikari’s followers were arranging for 50,000 people from his home district East Midnapore alone for the the Shah event. The Adhikari camp believes he holds sway in over 70 of Bengal’s 294 Assembly seats. The BJP believes he can influence 40-odd seats and Mamata, according to sources close to her, not more than 20. A Trinamul MP, until recently part of the party’s talks with him, said Adhikari was trying to achieve an “exodus” allegedly at the BJP’s behest. “That is what this tediously long build-up was part of… Suvendu clearly has cunning advisors and is looking to generate the bandwagon effect,” said the MP, referring to the psychological phenomenon in which people do something because others are doing it, irrespective of their own beliefs. “A reason for this is the recent change in the BJP’s stand, enforced by Shah, on Trinamul-deserters. Now they are willing to welcome anybody from Trinamul, other than Mamata Banerjee and her nephew,” he added. Adhikari attended an “apolitical” event in East Midnapore on Thursday, shortly before scoffing at Speaker Biman Banerjee’s decision against accepting or rejecting his resignation from the Assembly on technical grounds. The BJP is visibly jubilant at the turn of events but guarded in its formal response. “With these developments, it does appear that Suvendu Adhikari might join the BJP,” said the party’s state unit chief and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh. “Though there’s still time till Saturday and we can’t confirm unless he says something, it does look like that he’ll join us in the presence of Amit Shah. Anyone who wants to bring true change in Bengal is welcome in the BJP,” he added in a marked departure from his stand of sidelining newcomers. On record, Trinamul tried putting up a brave face. “Trinamul Congress is a very big party. Its fate is not determined by a handful of people…. Suvendu or some others leaving could be a big deal for the media, but it does not matter to the party, its workers and its supporters,” said Subrata Mukherjee, minister and party vice-president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP ‘seizes’ overloaded trucks on NH12||Ranaghat BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar on Thursday got police in Nadia’s Santipur to seize and book a dozen trucks plying on NH12, which connects south Bengal to the state’s northern districts, with overloaded consignment. Sarkar was on his way to a BJP programme in Nadia’s Gangnapur around 11am on Thursday when he was caught in a massive traffic jam on the highway near Santipur. When he found that slow-moving overloaded trucks, which were travelling from Jharkhand’s Pakur to Calcutta with stone chips, were the reason for the traffic snarl, he got down from his car and intercepted a few of those vehicles. Seeing their MP in action, local BJP workers also joined him. Sarkar called the police to the spot and got the trucks booked for overloading. “The police were not performing their duty and I had to act in public interest. Travelling on NH12, particularly between Santipur and Jagulia, has become a nightmare because of the callous approach of the police that allows truckers to ply overloaded vehicles on the route. The nexus between the police and truckers is damaging the roads,” Sarkar said. Sources said after intercepting five trucks, Sarkar called Santipur police who seized a few more trucks and charged them. Political observers said given the evolving situation in the state in the run up to the Assembly elections, it was significant the police responded with such alacrity to the call of a BJP MP and seized 12 stone chips-laden trucks and charged them for overloading. “I was shocked to see overloaded trucks crawling on the NH12 bypass. The overloaded trucks were damaging the highway but there were no cops to act against them. While the road is getting damaged, the police look the other way and earn from the truckers,” Sarkar said. Senior officers of Ranaghat police district preferred to remain tight-lipped about the MP’s allegations and intervention. However, a police officer claimed that traffic congestion on NH12 was largely because of poor road condition. “We regularly file cases for overloading but trucks ply slowly on the stretch because it is filled with craters and drivers are afraid that vehicles could overturn,” the cop said. Earlier on Wednesday night, Sarkar got caught in a jam on Santipur bypass of NH12 while returning home. An overloaded vehicle had broken down and it led to the traffic congestion on the highway. Sarkar got out of his car and created a passage with the help of his security personnel to move forward. Sarkar alleged that the police were missing from action despite the chaos on the highway. Although several commuters welcomed the MP’s initiative, the Trinamul leadership in Nadia dubbed it as a “road show” to grab people’s attention. A PWD engineer said that overloading increased stress on the road and damage set in early.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest over tea wages||Workers of Makrapara tea estate in Alipurduar district skipped work on Wednesday and worked for only an hour on Thursday as protest against the delay on the part of the management to clear their wages. Since September, workers of the garden — 441 in all — did not get wages. On Thursday, workers protested under the banner of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union in the presence of Mannalal Jain, union vice-president. The garden’s manager gave in writing to Jain that September wages would be credited to workers’ bank accounts by afternoon and October’s by December 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu impact in north Bengal||A number of Trinamul leaders and functionaries at different rungs in north Bengal either resigned from posts, quit the party or threatened to do so on Thursday following Trinamul stalwart Subhendu Adhikari parting ways months before the crucial state elections. In Malda, five presidents of “anchal committees” (panchayat level committees) in Bamangola block of the district tendered their resignations, expressing ire over Trinamul's functioning. Tafiur Rahaman, Manik Mahato, Narayan Mandal, Shyamal Mandal and Sakeb Hansda, who used to head the committees in five panchayats, said they sent their resignation letters to Mausam Benazir Noor, the Malda district Trinamul chief. “For past few months, some leaders in district and state level have been neglecting those working in the grassroots. No heed is paid to our suggestions and there is always an attempt to impose decisions without consulting us,” said one among the five. None has cut ties with Trinamul so far. District leaders, when asked on the issue, said it would not affect the organisational base of the party. “We believe they took such a decision as some of their political aspirations were not met with,” said a leader. In Siliguri, Dipankar Arora, a former secretary of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district committee, severed ties with the party. “I am a follower of Suvendu Adhikari. As he walked out of Trinamul, I too made the decision,” Arora said. In Cooch Behar, Nitish Ranjan Sarkar, a district vice-president of Trinamul Youth Congress, said he was an Adhikari loyalist and flayed the party’s election strategist Prashant Kishor. “It is because of Prashant Kishor and his team that leaders are feeling sidelined. I want to make it clear that I am a loyalist of Suvendu Adhikari. If required, I am ready to quit the party,” said Sarkar. In the past 24 hours, Sarkar is the second Trinamul leader to fume against the party. On Wednesday, Bhusan Singh, chairperson of the board of administrators of Cooch Behar municipality, alleged that district leaders ignored him at Mamata Banerjee’s rally at Rashmela Ground. “I felt humiliated. If district leaders want, I am ready to quit the party,” Singh had said. The BJP said this was the start of Trinamul’s erosion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Deb urges Mamata for TMC panel in Darjeeling||State tourism minister and Trinamul leader Gautam Deb on Thursday urged chief minister Mamata Banerjee to form a full-fledged district committee of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district unit. Deb, who held a meeting with the chief minister at Uttarkanya before she left for Calcutta, said a comprehensive committee will help speed up organisation work and consolidate support base across the district. Deb is also party’s coordinator in the districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar. As of now, the district committee only has the president, coordinators and spokespersons. After the meeting, Deb said: “We discussed many issues related to the region's development. Apart from that, I also requested our party supremo (Mamata) to form a full-fledged district committee for the smooth functioning of our party.” Party insiders said along with other districts of the region, Trinamul is focusing on Darjeeling district, particularly because both factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are with the party. Electorally, it has not done well in recent years. Trinamul managed to win only one Assembly seat, Siliguri, back in 2011 in Darjeeling district. “As far as winning elections is concerned, Trinamul is yet to stamp its presence in Darjeeling district. Other than winning the Siliguri Assembly seat once, the only other success the party could get in the district is a majority at the Mirik Municipality (in 2017). But this time, the situation has changed as Bimal Gurung is supporting Trinamul and it is obvious that the party will try to perform better in the district,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
