19-12-2020||West Bengal||Shah welcomes Adhikari, others into BJP; says many more will leave TMC||Union home minister Amit Shah said there would be more desertions from the Trinamul Congress and that Bengal chief minister would be left alone in her party, his assertions coming on a day he presided over the induction of TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari and several other MLAs into the BJP. Addressing a party rally at Midnapore, Shah alleged the Mamata Banerjee’s government was steeped in corruption resulting in alienation of the masses. He exuded confidence that the BJP would form the next government in the state (with a 294-membr Assembly) with more than 200 seats. “Why are so many people leaving Trinamool Congress? Because of the misrule, corruption and nepotism of Mamata Banerjee. Didi, this is just the beginning. By the time elections come, you will be left all alone," he said, according to ndtv.com Adhikari, nine MLAs of various parties _ five of them from the TMC _ and a TMC MP joined the BJP on Saturday. "I want to say it clearly that the BJP will form the next government in the state … political violence and intimidation by the TMC won't yield any benefit. BJP president J P Nadda's convoy was attacked, so many our party workers have been killed," Shah said.

"The more violence you (the TMC) perpetrate, the more stronger the BJP will emerge," he asserted.

Taking a swipe at the TMC over a string of desertions ahead of the assembly elections, the BJP leader said, "By the time elections arrive, Mamata Banerjee will be left alone in her party." Addressing the crowd at the rally, Adhikari said that the TMC came into existence because of the saffron party. “I had first met Amit Shah during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls... When I was down with Covid, my former party did not enquire about my health, while Amit Shah twice enquired about how I am, he said. Adhikari, a former close associate of Mamata, alleged that her party wanted to divide the nation on the lines of “insider” and “outsider”, while nationalism and pluralism was the ideal of the BJP. “Shame on the TMC for such narrow politics,” Adhikari said amid a thunderous applause from the crowd.  “I am being called a traitor by those who themselves (TMC) are traitors. Had the BJP not been there, TMC would have never come into existence. In the next Assembly polls, BJP will win Bengal and TMC will be defeated,” the 50-year-old said. In an open letter addressed to the grassroots members of the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC, Suvendu said that Bengal was standing at a critical juncture as the people of the state were destined to make a choice in the 2021 Assembly elections that would impact them forever. “Neither West Bengal nor the Trinamool Congress is anyone's fiefdom,” he said. Asserting that the party was not built in one day with the contribution of one person, he wrote that it was a continuous and contiguous effort on a mammoth scale, the culmination of which was the TMC's coming to power in Bengal in 2011. Adhikari had tendered his resignation from the TMC on Thursday, a day after quitting as a member of Bengal’s Legislative Assembly. He alleged that the TMC, which the ordinary people built brick by brick selflessly without any desires, is now filled with individuals who do not bother about anyone but themselves. According to NDTV, at least 50 TMC, Congress and Left leaders had switched over to the saffron party in Midnapore. On Saturday, TMC MLAs Banasri Maity, Silbhdrada Dutta, Biswajit Kundu, Sukra Munda and Saikat Panja took up the saffron flag at the mammoth rally at the College Grounds in Midnapore. MLA Dipali Biswas, who had won the Gajole seat in 2016 on a CPI(M) ticket but joined the TMC in 2018, was also inducted into the BJP. She has not resigned as a CPI(M) MLA. Haldias CPI(M) MLA Tapasi Mandal, Tamluks CPI MLA Ashok Dinda and Congress MLA from Purulia Sudip Mukherjee also joined the BJP at the rally. Former TMC MP Dasarth Tirkey also joined the BJP. Several district-level leaders of the TMC, Left and Congress, including former minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, also changed sides and joined the BJP. Earlier, garlanding the statue of Khudiram at the freedom fighter's ancestral residence, Shah said that he has inspired the youths of the country with his slogan 'Vande Mataram' while he was hanged by the British in 1908 at the age of 18. “I want to tell those who are doing narrow politics in Bengal that Khudiram Bose is as much a pride of India as he is of Bengal,” he said in his address. In an indirect attack on the TMC, he said that those doing politics over regionalism should overcome it. Mamata and other leaders of the party have often accused the BJP of bringing in “outsiders” just before the Assembly elections. Shah said that those brave sons of the country who fought and made great sacrifices for Independence together “could never have imagined such narrow politics of regionalism”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
19-12-2020||West Bengal||At Shah’s Midnapore rally, Suvendu Adhikari joins saffron party||Former Trinamul Congress heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday switched over to the Bharatiya Janata Party at Union Home Minister’s rally in Bengal’s Midnapore. Addressing the crowd at Midnapore, Adhikari said that the TMC came into existence because of the saffron party. “I had first met Amit Shah during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls... When I was down with Covid, my former party did not enquire about my health, while Amit Shah twice enquired about how I am, he said. The former close associate of Mamata Banerjee alleged that her party wants to divide the nation on the lines of ‘insider’ and ‘outsider’, while nationalism and pluralism was the ideal of the BJP. “Shame on the TMC for such narrow politics,” Adhikari said as the crowd roared. “I am being called a traitor by those who themselves (TMC) are traitors. Had the BJP not been there, TMC would have never come into existence. In the next assembly polls, BJP will win Bengal and TMC will be defeated,” the 50-year-old said. Resulting in a major rift in the state’s ruling party, five other sitting MLAs as well as East Bardhaman MP Sunil Mondal, joined the saffron party, which looks forward to winning the Assembly polls next year, in presence of Shah. In an open letter addressed to the grassroot members of the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC, Suvendu said that Bengal is standing at a critical juncture as the people of the state are destined to make a choice in the 2021 Assembly elections that will impact them forever. “Neither West Bengal nor the Trinamool Congress is anyone's fiefdom,” he said. Asserting that the party was not built in one day with the contribution of one person, he wrote that it was a continuous and contiguous effort on a mammoth scale, the culmination of which was the TMC's coming to power in Bengal in 2011. Adhikari had tendered his resignation from the TMC on Thursday, a day after quitting as a member of Bengla’s Legislative Assembly. He alleged that the TMC, which the ordinary people built brick by brick selflessly without any desires, is now filled with individuals who do not bother about anyone but themselves. A total of nine MLAs joined the BJP on Saturday at Shah’s rally. According to NDTV, nearly 50 TMC, Congress and Left leaders switched to the saffron party in Midnapore. TMC MLAs Banasri Maity, Silbhdrada Dutta, Biswajit Kundu, Sukra Munda and Saikat Panja took up the saffron flags at the mammoth rally at the College Grounds here. MLA Dipali Biswas, who had won the Gajole seat in 2016 on a CPI(M) ticket but joined the TMC in 2018, was also inducted into the BJP. She has not resigned as a CPI(M) MLA. Haldias CPI(M) MLA Tapasi Mandal, Tamluks CPI MLA Ashok Dinda and Congress MLA from Purulia Sudip Mukherjee also joined the BJP at the rally. Former TMC MP Dasarth Tirkey also joined the BJP. Several district-level leaders of the TMC, Left and Congress, including former minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, also changed sides and joined the BJP. “By the time elections arrive, Mamata Banerjee will be left alone in the party,” the Home Minister said as the TMC members deserted the party. Garlanding the statue of Khudiram at the freedom fighter's ancestral residence here, Shah said that he has inspired the youths of the country with his slogan 'Vande Mataram' while he was hanged by the British in 1908 at the age of 18. “I want to tell those who are doing narrow politics in Bengal that Khudiram Bose is as much a pride of India as he is of Bengal,” he said in his address. In an indirect attack on the TMC, he said that those doing politics over regionalism should overcome it. Mamata and other leaders of the party have often accused the BJP of bringing in “outsiders” just before the Assembly elections. Shah said that those brave sons of the country who fought and made great sacrifices for Independence together “could never have imagined such narrow politics of regionalism”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Retired IPS thrashed over ‘land row’ ||Retired IPS officer and chairman of NGO Basantapur Education Society, Nazrul Islam, was allegedly thrashed and dragged out of his office by a Trinamul councillor and his aides in Murshidabad’s Domkal on Friday. Accused councillor Majidul Sheikh, his relative Bhadu Sheikh, and one Jahangir Sheikh allegedly stormed into Nazrul’s second-floor office around 10am when the retired police officer was alone in his room. Nazrul alleged that they beat him up before dragging him down the stairs. The injured Nazrul added that Majidul’s aim was to take control of the 200-odd bigha land belonging to the Basantapur Education Society. “They (Majidul and the two others) let me go only when bystanders rushed to my help,” said Nazrul, who lodged a formal complaint against the alleged attackers with Domkal police in the evening. The retired police officer said there had been a prior land dispute with his assaulters and he had won the legal battle. “I filed criminal cases against these persons in the past as well. Today they attacked me because they wanted the criminal cases I lodged against them over previous intimidations be withdrawn. When they realised they could not wrest the land from us, they attacked me,” he added. Eyewitnesses said the police arrived around 10.30 am after the attackers had fled. They took an injured Nazrul to Domkal subdivisional hospital from where he was discharged in the evening. Contacted over phone by this paper, Majidul did not reply. Chairman of the Trinamul-run Domkal municipality, Zafikul Islam, claimed the incident was “not political” and said “the law will take its course”. Murshidabad SP K. Sabari Rajkumar said the police would take necessary action. The three accused were absconding, the SP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Officials scan north Bengal election preparation||Deputy election commissioner Sudip Jain and the chief electoral officer of Bengal, Aariz Aftab, held separate meetings with administrative officials and representatives of political parties in north Bengal on Friday. In the morning, the duo reached Malda by a chopper. Later, they spoke to administrative and police officials of Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur at a private resort to take stock of the situation. Sources said the administrative and police officials were asked to start making preparations to create additional polling booths to prevent overcrowding during voting, keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation. “As there would be more booths, extra polling personnel would be required. So, district officials have been asked to start preparing lists of government employees who would be deputed to booths and in different other capacities,” said a source. The meeting commenced at around 11.15 am and ended at 2.30 pm. Those present were also told about the special arrangements made for the recent Assembly elections in Bihar. “All such arrangements would be followed here as well. For example, booths with over 1,000 electors would be divided into smaller ones. Social distancing would be maintained among voters and adequate measures have to be made at the booths according to the health safety protocol,” said an officer who was present at the meeting. In Malda, there are around 1,500 polling booths which have over 1,000 voters. Jain and Aftab also asked police officers about the law and order in all the four districts. The issue of trans-border smuggling was also discussed, said sources. From Malda, the team headed for Siliguri. In the evening, Jain and Aftab held a meeting with officials of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. The meeting continued for around two hours at the state guest house. “Some common instructions were also issued to us. They include preparation of error-free electoral rolls, identification of elderly voters and arrangements for them to exercise their franchise without any hassle,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
19-12-2020||West Bengal||75 deer for prey released into Buxa ||A herd of 75 spotted deer was released at the hilly Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Alipurduar district late on Thursday evening. The release of the deer, foresters said, was a part of the programme taken up by the department to augment the prey base at the reserve and make it an ideal habitat for tigers. Subhankar Sengupta, the field director of BTR, said the deer were brought from the Ballavpur Wildlife Sanctuary located in Birbhum district. “As there is a plan to reintroduce tigers in Buxa, it is necessary to augment prey base here at the reserve. Earlier too, we had released around 200 spotted deer in the reserve area. On Thursday evening, another 75 were released. Soon, we will bring in some sambars (another deer species) from Jaldapara National Park. Those would also be released here in the wild,” Sengupta said. Earlier this year, it was decided that six tigers in all would be released at the Buxa reserve in two phases, forest sources said. Though Buxa was notified as a tiger reserve back in 1983, direct sightings of the big cat have not been recorded for three decades now. Some foresters, however, have claimed in the meanwhile that they did find indirect evidence of tigers such as claw marks on trees and carcasses of herbivores. However, as no tigers had been spotted in the BTR area, the same was also said in the tiger census conducted in 2018. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) eventually announced three tigers from Kaziranga in Assam would be reintroduced in Buxa. It allotted a sum of Rs 12 crore to prepare the BTR as a tiger habitat for the process of reintroduction. The figure was later raised to six tigers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Display board with Amit Shah above Tagore draws backlash ||If once is happenstance, twice is coincidence and the third time it’s enemy action, Amit Shah should first rope in Auric Goldfinger before courting Trinamul turncoats so that the mischief-makers can be ferreted out well in advance. Like James Bond’s annoying habit of turning up at unlikely places that prompted Goldfinger to reprise the Chicago saying, a cultural disconnect is doggedly chasing the BJP in Bengal. A display board welcoming Shah to Bolpur and Santiniketan triggered protests on Friday as it had placed a sketch of Rabindranath Tagore below that of the Union home minister. The flex also sports the picture of BJP leader Anupam Hazra. It had been put up by a little-known organisation called the Bolpur-Santiniketan Sanskriti Vikash Samity. Scheduled to visit Santiniketan on Sunday, Shah has lined up a series of programmes to underscore the BJP’s cultural connect with Bengal after a series of missteps, including a gaffe on Tagore’s birthplace last week when the party’s national president J.P. Nadda was in Bengal. On Friday, several flexes featuring Shah above Tagore were put up at multiple places in Bolpur and Santiniketan, drawing widespread condemnation from those associated with Visva-Bharati and the BJP’s political opponents. Such was the backlash that the display boards were withdrawn in a few hours. Angry over the “insult to Tagore”, present and former students of Visva-Bharati organised a rally on Friday evening. Old-timers at Santiniketan too flayed the BJP for the “unpardonable” and “unfortunate” incident. “Very unfortunate that Tagore’s image had been placed below that of a political leader. There was no need to use the image of Tagore,” said Supriya Tagore, a former Patha Bhavana principal and a member of the Tagore family. Trinamul Congress tweeted: “@AmitShah ji & @BJP4Bengal, it’s high time you know your limits! How dare you insult Gurudeb Rabindranath Tagore AGAIN? Extremely shameful to see that you have placed yourself above Gurudeb! People of Bengal will NEVER forgive this.” Hazra, however, saw in the incident a Trinamul attempt to malign the BJP. “We can never think of placing anyone above Tagore. The flexes had been put up by a fictitious organisation to malign our party,” said Hazra, a BJP national secretary, who was earlier with Trinamul. Trinamul’s Birbhum district chief Anubrata Mondal denied Hazra’s allegation and said the flexes had revealed the BJP’s lack of reverence for Tagore and Bengali culture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Seven-hour fire destroys 113 shops in Jalpaiguri||Some 113 shops at the local Kaparpatty market in Dhupguri town of Jalpaiguri district were gutted in a devastating fire in the small hours of Friday. Five fire tenders took over seven hours to arrest the blaze that officials of the fire services department suspect was caused by a short-circuit. Sources said some residents spotted the flames past midnight in the market located on the town’s Thana Road. Soon, racing flames engulfed one shop after another. No one was injured in the blaze because of the timing, but losses are estimated to be close to Rs 100 crores. Two state ministers, Rabbindranath Ghosh and Gautam Deb, visited the site of the blaze and spoke to affected traders. “Preliminary reports suggest that 113 shops in total have been gutted in the fire. There were garment shops, shops selling stationery and grocery items and even some jewellery shops. The total loss appears to be close to 100 crores,” said north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh, who rushed to the spot soon after the incident. The fire services department and police have started separate investigations to ascertain the cause of the blaze. Initially, two fire engines from the local fire station and one from Maynaguri reached the spot of the blaze. While two engines tried to douse the flames, the third engine made arrangements to draw water from Kumlai river that skirts the town. Later, two more engines reached the spot from Baxirhat of Cooch Behar and Falakata of Alipurduar. After seven gruelling hours, the blaze came under control and eventually was completely doused, with charred remains of the shops strewn all around. The owners of the charred shops met minister Ghosh and expressed their distress. Acting quickly, Ghosh called up state municipal affairs and urban development minister Firhad Hakim for a solution. “The municipal affairs and urban development department will build the shops which have been gutted in the fire. Those would be handed over to the affected shop owners. We will talk with local banks so that shop owners can avail of long-term loans at lower interest rates,” the NB development minister said. Some residents requested Ghosh to see to it that infrastructure was better developed at the local fire station. Ghosh promised to look into it. Later, state tourism minister Gautam Deb visited the spot and spoke to shop owners who requested him to ensure that a water reservoir was built in the market and the land upon which shops were located was given to them on lease. “The minister told us to give him our demands in writing and assured us that he would talk to agencies concerned,” said a trader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||‘Marketing agents’ jibe at hill parties||Shanta Chhetri, the Rajya Sabha member of Trinamul from the hills, lambasted the leaders of the hill-based parties other than the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha for acting as “marketing agents” of the saffron brigade ahead of the Bengal elections. In recent months, this is the first time that a Trinamul leader has spoken in such aggressive terms against the hill parties other than the Morcha. Both the factions of the Morcha are allies of Trinamul now. Leaders of BJP’s allies such as the GNLF, CPRM and ABGL, all of which are based in the hills, had been to Delhi along with the BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista to meet BJP leaders and central ministers over two longstanding demands — a permanent political solution for hills and Scheduled Tribe status for 11 hill communities. Chhetri, while speaking here on Friday, said that back in 2014 chief minister Mamata Banerjee had mooted a proposal for the conferment of ST status to the hill communities. “The proposal had been passed in the state cabinet in February 2014, and was sent to the Centre for necessary steps. After I became an MP in the Rajya Sabha in 2017, I had also raised the issue at the House. But the Centre has not done anything on the demand so far,” said the Rajya Sabha MP. Chhetri also pointed out that even though the BJP had won the Darjeeling parliamentary seat for three consecutive terms, none of the MPs had bothered to take any initiative on the demand. “Now that the Assembly elections are ahead, BJP has again started floating promises,” said Chhetri, who is also the district Trinamul chief of Kalimpong. “It is unfortunate that some regional party leaders have become active (in the matter) and are acting like the marketing agents of the BJP to pave way for the party,” she added. Another Trinamul leader in hills, who did not want to be named, said that while on one hand, the state had carried out development work across the hills, the party, on the other hand, had taken up the task to build its base, particularly in the rural areas and in tea plantations of the region. “Even if these (regional) parties stand with the BJP, it would not be an easy contest for the saffron party in the three Assembly seats of the hills. We have the support of both factions of the Morcha which still happens to be the strongest political force in hills,” the leader added. Also, Bimal Gurung, who heads one of the Morcha factions, downplayed Thursday’s meeting between leaders of some hill parties and Union minister of state for home affairs and said nothing would come to their hands. “I had also attended a number of such meetings in Delhi. They are nothing but photo sessions with central ministers and leaders. Nothing will come out of these,” said Gurung, who was in Odlabari of Jalpaiguri to attend a meeting with local residents. When asked about a permanent political solution in the hills, Gurung said he would join hands with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and mount pressure on the state to act on the demand. Gurung has iterated that he and his faction stand firm on the Gorkhaland demand despite teaming up with Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Arrest sparks 6-hour roadblock in the Dooars||In a rare move, the police arrested an assistant manager of a tea estate in the Dooars on Friday for stealing power and putting up illegal electrified fences around the garden area, which they said had led to the death of a wild elephant earlier this month. In recent years, this is the first time that a managerial level employee has been arrested on such charges. The arrest triggered protests as hundreds of workers and their families went up to NH 31C around 11am and blocked it for over six hours, throwing traffic out of gear. Vehicles moving through the stretch had to take detours. Sources said that on December 4, a wild elephant had strayed inside Haldibari Tea Estate, located under Banarhat police station area of Jalpaiguri district. The elephant came in touch with a live wire that was part of the electrified fence and died of electrocution. Following this, Partha Pratim Pal, an official of West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) posted in Malbazar, filed a complaint with the police on December 5, alleging that the electricity illegally drawn from a transformer was used to put illegal fences that led to the elephant’s death. On Friday morning, a joint team of the foresters and police reached the tea estate and arrested Uday Newar, the garden’s assistant manager. “The tea garden authorities are responsible for the elephant’s death. On Friday, the garden’s assistant manager was arrested. The manager fled,” said V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) of the state. However, as the news spread, hundreds of workers came out of their quarters to side with Newar and protest against his “unjustified” arrest. Around 11am, they blocked NH 31C at Haldibari More, which is a prominent crossing near the garden, demanding his release. Vehicles moving through the highway had to change their routes and move via Binnaguri and Telepara. “We want the assistant manager to be released immediately or else we will continue our movement. He has been arrested without any reason,” said Jyoti Munda, a worker and one of the protesters. John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar who stays at a tea estate near Banarhat, also reached the spot and joined the protesters. “Wild elephants roam throughout the Dooars and often stray inside tea estates and human habitats. It is a major problem in this region. The state forest department has not taken any initiative to address the issue but instead has arrested an assistant manager,” said Barla. While the protests continued in Haldibari More, Newar was produced at the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Jalpaiguri. Mrinmoy Banerjee, a government lawyer, said the court heard the case and sent Newar to the forest department’s custody for five days. The workers continued their protest against the arrest till around 5pm. A worker said they withdrew for the time being but if the assistant manager did not return to the garden by the night, they would launch fresh protests at the offices of the forest department and block rail tracks and roads on Saturday. Senior police officers said they are keeping a watch over the situation. “Our men are on alert to ensure that there is no breach of peace,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Supreme Court restrains Bengal BJP leaders’ arrest||The Supreme Court on Friday directed that Bengal government shall not take “any coercive steps” until further orders against BJP leaders like Mukul Roy and Kailash Vijayvargiya after the party’s top brass had approached the judiciary complaining of witch hunting of political opponents by the Mamata Banerjee government. In other words, the BJP leaders can’t be arrested till the court withdraws Friday’s order. The court also directed the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to file a report in sealed cover on the alleged assault of Kabir Shankar Bose, a BJP spokesman protected by the CISF-SPG, allegedly by Trinamul leaders and activists. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Mukherjee passed the direction after BJP leaders, Mukul Roy, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arjun Singh, Pawan Singh, Sourav Singh and Kabir Sankar Bose, had filed separate petitions seeking quashing of multiple criminal cases registered by Bengal police or transfer of the same to some other independent investigating agency like the CBI. While restraining the Bengal government from any coercive action, the court issued notice to the state government for its response and posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for Arjun Singh told the bench that in all, 64 cases had been registered against his client after he had switched over to the BJP from the Trinamool Congress. “What are you saying?” Justice Kaul asked in surprise. In response to a query from the bench, Rohatgi said the cases had been registered between March 2020 and November 2020 although the said offences, mostly related to rioting under IPC sections 147, 148,149, had occurred in 2019. Advocate Prashant Kumar, who argued on behalf of Vijayvargiya, said all the cases against him were also false and an attempt to deter his client, who is the all India general secretary of the BJP and an MP from Madhya Pradesh, from entering Bengal. Mukul Roy’s counsel said he had resigned from Trinamul in 2017 and since then, as many as 19 cases had been filed against him. Rohtagi intervened and told the court that most of the cases against different leaders of the BJP were identical. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani said his client Kabir Shankar Bose was a Supreme Court lawyer who happened to be the former son-in-law of a powerful Trinamul leader. “They have filed several cases against me. I’m under threat. I’m now the spokesperson for the BJP. On December 6, I was attacked by TMC activists, including by my ex-father-in-law Kalyan Banerjee. Instead of taking action against them, an FIR has been filed against me (Bose),” he complained. Then, Justice Kaul asked Jethmalani: “So your case is not exactly similar to the rest?” The senior counsel said: “I’m a CISF-SPG protectee. The Special Protection Group has also filed its own incident report.” After hearing the arguments, the court then passed the order restraining the state from taking any coercive steps against the BJP leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt 'reaffirms' stance on three IPS officers ||The Mamata Banerjee government on Friday “reaffirmed” its stance that three IPS officers who were put on central deputation by the ministry of home affairs wouldn’t be released. The state iterated its stand during a video conference held between Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla and senior Bengal government officials on Friday evening. “The state government has made it clear that the three IPS officers would not be released as they are working well in the state. The state reaffirmed its stance when the Union home secretary raised the issue during the video conference,” said a senior state government official present at the meeting. On Thursday, the Union home ministry had sent a letter to the chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, to release the officers immediately informing that the trio had been assigned new responsibilities at the Centre. The Centre told the state that Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour police district) would be posted as SP, Bureau of Police Research and Development, Rajeev Mishra (ADG, south Bengal) as IG, ITBP, and Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) as DIG of the Sashastra Seema Bal as soon as the state released them. “As it was clear that they were being punished for the attack on BJP national president J. P. Nadda’s convoy to put pressure on the All India service officers working in Bengal, the state made it clear that the officers would not be released. The situation did not change overnight. So, the MHA was once again made aware of the state’s decision,” said another official. Senior government officials also pointed out that the state would now wait for the Centre’s response as the provision of the Indian Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 — based on which the MHA issued the posting orders of the officers — did not spell clearly whether the Centre could go ahead with the positing of the officers even if the state refuses to give clearance. Sources said that the provision was added in the cadre rules in 1986 and it was never implemented in the country since then. So, it is still not clear how far the Centre would go without the state’s NoC. “If the MHA seeks NoC from the state repeatedly, that means the state has a role to play. In such a situation, the state would wait for the next move of the Centre,” said a source. “If the Centre moves court alleging state was not releasing the officers despite the provision in the cadre rules, the state would fight the legal battle.” During the video conference, the MHA has laid stress on better cooperation between the central agencies and the state police in arranging security for protectees visiting the state. The video conference was held after the chief secretary and the director general of police had requested the MHA to dispense with the state officials to be present at a meeting in the North Block, New Delhi. Sources in the Union home ministry said areas of cooperation between central agencies and state government administration during VIPs visit were discussed during the meeting between Union home secretary and Bengal chief secretary. “Besides, home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla took note of the political violence in Bengal from the state government officials over video conferencing this evening. He also asked the state government officials about the steps taken to control the situation, " said a ministry official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Folk singer to sing a song of 'harmony and tolerance' for Shah||Basudeb Das Baul, the folk singer from Santiniketan who will host Sunday lunch for Union home minister Amit Shah during the latter’s visit here, has a unique item on the menu. Basudeb, 62, plans to sing a song of “harmony and tolerance” for his guest. The song that Basudeb is most likely to perform in front of his guest — he has been asked to prepare a couple of numbers — is a popular Baul ditty “Orey manus dekhbi jodi bhogoban (O human, if you want to see god)”. It is one of the songs of Bhoba Pagla, who is considered an icon of the Baul community. The song, which reflects “humanity beyond caste creed and religion”, strikes an uncommon note in the run-up to the 2021 state polls, widely seen as one of the most polarising in recent times. “Its message is clear, that we can see god by accepting human beings from all castes, creeds and religions. I want to give my guest this message, which is the ideology of the Baul community. I think it will please him,” Basudeb said. Sources said Shah is scheduled to visit Santiniketan on Sunday to attend events on Visva-Bharati campus, as well as a road show in Bolpur town. These events are a part of his two-day long outreach drive to “establish the saffron camp’s connect” with Bengali culture and traditions at a time when Trinamul has dubbed the BJP as a party of outsiders. The first two lines of the song extol the virtues of peace over violence, saying, “Chhere de tor hingsabritti, ei to bighno, oti prodhan (Leave the violence inside you, because it is the one and only danger) The song then goes on to extol the virtues of all religions. “Chhere de tor bhinno bhed, dekhna shastro dekhna Ved/ Bible Koran noire probhed, shon re Hindu shon Mussalman (Shun your habit of discriminating among people, look into religious books or in the Veda/ There is no difference between Bible and Koran, Hindu and Muslims).” “Through the entire song, you will find this message of humanity. As a Baul, I believe in humanity and communal harmony,” said the folk singer. BJP leaders in the district said that Shah would have lunch at Basudeb’s house at Subhas Pally near Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan. The singer said he had been asked to prepare one or two songs to sing before Shah but there had been no directive from party leaders on the lyrics or the song. “We will not dictate which song the Baul will sing. It depends on the artiste,” said Shyamapada Mondal, Birbhum’s BJP president. The folk singer, who has been living in Santiniketan for years with his family, said he would also share with Shah the sufferings Baul singers faced during the lockdown. “I want to share our experiences of how the lockdown led to great suffering for us, and of how we survived with the help of people. I will demand the central government do something for Baul singers,” said Basudeb, who gets a monthly  dole of Rs 1,000 from the state government. Shah’s menu for Sunday’s lunch would be prepared on Saturday, sources said. All items would be decided by Basudeb’s family members and neighbours. “We eat rice bought from ration shops and simple Bengali fare. We would like to offer our guest our daily fare,” said Basudeb’s Urmila.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Clear air on citizenship before Bengal elections: Forum ||The Centre should come clean on where it stands on the NRC, CAA and NPR before Bengal elections, a platform of organisations opposed to the new citizenship matrix said on Friday while fielding questions for Union home minister Amit Shah, who reached Calcutta late in the night. The Joint Forum Against NRC stressed this was more important for Bengal’s people than talks on Trinamul turncoats joining the BJP. “We would like to talk on issues that impact people much more than a few leaders switching parties...The Centre has to spell out clearly if it wants a nationwide National Register for Citizens (NRC) or not. They have to come clear on this before Bengal elections. If they do not, we will start a movement that forces them to clear their stand,” Bose said. Bengal being a bordering state and home to hundreds of thousands of immigrants from Bangladesh, clarity on the Centre’s views on the citizenship matrix assumes urgency. Shah was supposed to visit Thakurnagar, home to many from the Matua community — lower-caste Hindus from Bangladesh, many of whom want the new citizenship laws here. But Thakurnagar was dropped from Shah’s itinerary. Instead, he will now head to Midnapore, Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari’s turf. Bose said they had all heard BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya say that citizenship will be given to all refugees by February. “But Vijayvargiya is not a minister...Shah must clarify whether the home ministry intends to do the same or whether Vijayvargiya is bluffing,” Bose said. Forum members cited examples of different voices from the BJP on the citizenship matrix to stress why clear answers from Shah were vital. For instance, in December 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had stated there had been no discussion on “the word NRC” during his five-year-old tenure, ignoring home minister Amit Shah’s repeated claims that the citizenship amendment would be followed by a countrywide NRC update to identify and expel “ghuspetiyas (infiltrators)”. Bose said Shah must spell out the Centre’s stand on the BJP-led Assam government about a fresh NRC. “After inconveniencing so many people for so many years, the Assam BJP is now saying that if they come to power again they will prepare a fresh NRC. Shah should make it clear whether the home ministry shares the same view,” he added. Pratip Nag, another member, said the forum wanted all amendments to the citizenship act passed in 1955 to be repealed. “We want all amendments to be repealed. The 1955 Act was the most inclusive and most secular. It said whoever was born in India would become a citizen, irrespective of whether a person’s parents were born in India or not,” said Nag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Newcomers trigger dissent  in Bengal BJP||Bengal BJP’s plan to accommodate Trinamul Congress defectors has sparked off an internal feud with senior leaders and workers in the saffron camp raising objections to the possible inductions. While BJP’s Asansol MP and Union minister Babul Supriyo and state general-secretary Sayantan Basu have publicly expressed their discontent regarding the possible induction of Trinamul MLA and former mayor of Asansol Municipal Corporation Jitendra Tiwari into the BJP, party workers in Bankura hit the streets on Friday to protest against the possibility of former state minister and Trinamul leader Shyamaprasad Mukherjee joining the saffron fold. “Personally, I don’t want Jitendra Tiwari in our party. Babul has also voiced his objection,” Basu said on Friday. “I’ve informed our central leaders that our workers in Asansol are against Tiwari’s induction as he had tormented them. Tiwari has also insulted Babul multiple times,” he added. Later in the day, Tiwari admitted publicly that it was his mistake to leave Trinamul and he returned to the party. Supriyo made a Facebook post on Thursday night saying that rumours were being spread that he had made an “under the table deal” to ensure Tiwari’s defection. He said the rumours were untrue and he wouldn’t be able to approve if Tiwari joined the BJP. BJP leaders opposed to such random inductions have said that defectors from other parties should be accommodated only if they could win polls. Mukherjee, who was Trinamul’s deputy chief for Bankura, resigned from the party on Thursday evening and declared that he would join the BJP. Mukherjee had been questioned by multiple investigating agencies over his alleged involvement in the multi-crore Saradha scam and this prompted BJP supporters in Bankura to protest against his possible induction. Questioned about the protests by BJP supporters against him, Mukherjee refused to comment. “I will join the BJP and work as the party instructs me to,” he said. The feud over the possible inductions has once again revealed that the central leadership’s repeated effort to make the state BJP work as a single unit with an eye on the 2021 Assembly polls has not worked. The open opposition to the possible inductions shows that the new entrants were unlikely to receive a warm welcome from BJP old guards. However, another set of BJP leaders is unwilling to pay heed to the opposition from the likes of Basu and Supriyo. A senior BJP leader, who approved of accommodating defectors to the saffron camp, told this correspondent that the party’s ultimate goal was to wrest power in Bengal “by any means possible”. “If the leaders who join us can win seats for the party, what is the problem? Moreover, with more such leaders defecting from Trinamul and joining us, a perception has been created that Mamata Banerjee’s party is crumbling like a house of cards. This will help consolidate people’s support in our favour,” the leader said. Echoing the BJP leader, party MP Locket Chatterjee said from the kind of defections happening, it seemed the BJP would have to fight the 2021 polls without any opposition. Several Trinamul defectors, including former minister Suvendu Adhikari, are expected to join the BJP at a public meeting in Midnapore in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday. A political analyst pointed out that after coming to power, Trinamul had strengthened its position by inducting defectors from the Congress and the CPM. “If you notice, this trend of horse-trading was started by Trinamul. Today as many leaders are quitting the party, Trinamul leaders are realising the futility of such a show of strength,” the analyst added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||19,065 active Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Friday reported 2,729 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,239 new infections and 42 deaths, as the recovery rate rose to yet another new high of 94.68 per cent. The state logged a drop in total active cases for the 53rd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total fell by over 18,000 to 19,065 active cases currently, back almost to where it was on July 23, 148 days ago. “We could well end the year with less than 17,000 active cases,” said a minister. The recovery rate, rising for 57 consecutive days, has shown an improvement of over seven per cent. The national rate now is 95.42 per cent. “Getting past the national rate will be in a matter of days now,” said the minister. In these 53 days since the end of Durga Puja, the state has recorded over 1.94 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.78 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of 5.32 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.04 lakh recoveries and 9,277 deaths. Of Friday’s 42 deaths, 10 were from the city. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. With 42,355 tests on Friday, the state’s test count rose to 66.23 lakh, at 73,598 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.04 now, better than 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 18.25 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.37 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul sees no threat from defections to BJP||Trinamul Congress’s internal assessment on the actual extent of damage in the wake of Suvendu Adhikari’s departure and the consequent bandwagon effect is veering towards the view that there is no need for pessimism yet. Sources in the ruling party said the BJP had, with considerable success, gone about peddling the perception that Trinamul was all but gone with the desertions, but other than Adhikari himself, the party was yet to lose notable key leaders with mass connect or organisational abilities. There are rumours in the power corridors that with Adhikari, “three-five MPs and 20-odd MLAs” are likely to join the BJP, either this weekend, or over the next few weeks. Hundreds of elected representatives at local bodies and organisational office-bearers of Trinamul are also rumoured to embrace the BJP. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sat with senior Trinamul leaders at her residence in the evening to analyse the situation. Sources said she seemed certain that the desertions would not cause significant damage to the party’s electoral chances. “She is planning her own programmes and is confident of being able to compensate whatever losses these desertions cause,” said a source. The source said Pandaveswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari was already back in Trinamul as the BJP had refused to accommodate him. Tiwari issued a statement, saying it was his mistake to leave Trinamul and he reaffirmed his faith in Mamata. The former Asansol mayor’s turnaround came after a meeting with minister Aroop Biswas and poll consultant Prashant Kishor in Calcutta. Trinamul, said a party MP, will not be heavily dented by the possible exodus Adhikari was tasked with generating. “From what we know, as of this evening, Suvendu is the only proper leader with real mass connect who is going. Those leaving for the BJP now with him are mostly those who fear defeat or denial of candidature by Trinamul,” he added. A senior member of the Mamata cabinet pointed out that displeasure with poll consultant Prashant and his role in Trinamul was common to most of those who had left or were likely to desert. Prashant, brought on board by the chief minister after the party’s unimpressive performance in the general election last year, is seen as close to her heir-apparent, nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “Other than Suvendu, whoever scored low in the winnability assessment of PK, is looking to leave,” he said, adding that the likes of “turncoats” Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami, Contai North MLA Banasri Maity and Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Datta, all had an unfavourable winnability assessment. Maity and Datta stepped down from the party on Friday. Former minister Adhikari — who resigned from the state cabinet on November 27 and the party on Thursday — was asked to make an appearance before Speaker Biman Banerjee on Monday to satisfy him on certain technical shortfalls of his resignation as the Nandigram MLA. From Friday, Adhikari got allotted Z cover security from the Centre, comprising 20 personnel from the central forces. A Trinamul Rajya Sabha member said he was more worried about the perception at play that a man like Adhikari must have taken such a big decision, after over two decades in the party, on the basis of his understanding — deemed fool-proof by many — that the BJP’s victory was a foregone conclusion. “Many of those going are doing this on a herd impulse, assuming Suvendu’s understanding is infallible. But, as of now, this is far from over and we still have a clear path to victory,” he said. Barasat Trinamul MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said: “These departures are cleansing, purifying our party. We will emerge better and stronger for them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
