20-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah blasts Mamata govt over attack on Nadda's convoy||Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday slammed the Mamata Banerjee government over the recent attack on BJP chief J P Nadda's convoy, and asserted the Centre had the right to summon state IPS officers responsible for providing him security for central deputation. He alleged Banerjee had failed to control the law and order situation in the state, which was rapidly falling on all development indices. Shah, while addressing a press conference here, said Banerjee and the ruling TMC were raking up the "outsider- insider" issue to divert public attention from the failures of the state government. "The Centre is well within its rights to send a letter (summoning IPS officers for central deputation) to state government...if they have any doubt they can go through the rule book," Shah said. On the "insider-outsider debate", Shah said a son of the soil will become the chief minister in West Bengal if BJP is voted to power. "I think Mamata di has forgotten a few things. When Mamata di was in Congress did she call Indira Gandhi an outsider? Did she use to term for Prime Minister P V Narashima Rao? Is she trying to create a country where people of one state are not allowed in other states?" he said. He also attacked the Mamata Banerjee government over Bangladeshi infiltration. "The TMC can never stop infiltration as it believes in appeasement politics. Only BJP can stop it... Mamata Banerjee supports farmers protest but doesn't allow cultivators of Bengal to get the benefits of central schemes. Is this the way to honour the federal structure?" he said. Responding to a question, the home minister said the rules for implementation of the Citizenship (amendment) Act will be formulated after the Covid-19 pandemic is brought under control. "Because of the corona, such a massive process can't be carried out. As soon as Covid vaccination starts we will discuss it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
20-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC minister downplays departures to BJP||The TMC on Sunday said there was no need to raise a hue and cry over the recent defections from the party, as "traitors and backstabbers have existed since time immemorial." Addressing a press meet in Calcutta, state panchayat minister and TMC MLA Subrata Mukherjee said his party is neither shocked nor crestfallen, as such desertions "wouldn't have any impact" on assembly polls, likely to be held in April-May. The TMC does not attach much importance to such developments, he said, and pooh-poohed BJP's "absurd claims" of winning 250 of 294 assembly seats. Political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, along with one MP and five MLAs of the TMC, joined the BJP on Saturday, during Home Minister Amit Shah's rally in Midnapore. Hinting that Adhikari had been in touch with the saffron party for quite some time, the minister said, "We did have some information, and therefore we were not stunned or crestfallen. There is no reason to raise a hue and cry over the desertion of Mir Jafars. Such betrayals have been taking place for centuries." History suggests that Mir Jafar, a military commander, aided the British and betrayed Nawab of Bengal Siraj Ud-Daulah during the Battle of Plassey. His name had since been synonymous with treachery. "Just with one Suvendu in its fold, the BJP hopes to win 250 seats... Thank God they are not saying they will win all the seats," Mukherjee stated. He further accused the saffron party of "belittling" Bengal's icons, as outrage over flex hoardings with Shah's image on top of that of Rabindranath Tagore continued in Santiniketan, the bard's abode. The party's student wing is staging a daylong sit-in at Jorasanko, the birthplace of the bard in the city, to protest "this insult meted out to Tagore", the minister said. Among others, TMC MP Sudip Bandopadhyay and state minister Shashi Panja have joined the sit-in. "People coming from outside cannot insult Tagore, who is the pride of our nation. They cannot belittle our luminaries. The poster (flex) has insulted Tagore and scores of people in the country. It shows that the BJP has no respect for our icons," Mukherjee said. Flex hoardings, with a photo of Shah on top, the image of Tagore in the middle and that of BJP leader Anupam Hazra underneath appeared in parts of Shantiniketan ahead of Shah's visit to Visva-Bharati and a roadshow in Bolpur. The posters have also drawn the ire of Left parties and Tagore's family members. Amid the outrage, the BJP claimed that the posters, which bore the name of a cultural organisation, were put up by the TMC to "defame the saffron camp". Taking a jibe at BJP national president J P Nadda over the attack on his cavalcade earlier in December, Mukherjee said, "A person of his stature should not spread false information. He has been given Z-category security but still broke protocols. Many unauthorised cars were seen joining his convoy during his visit to Diamond Harbour." The senior TMC leader alleged that Shah was dishing out misinformation about the construction of a farmer's house in Paschim Medinipur district. "After having lunch at a farmer's residence, Shah said that the house was built entirely from the prime minister's housing project for the poor. The fact remains that the state and the Centre share the burden of this project. "A total of 33.87 lakh housing units were built in the state since 2011 at a cost of Rs 39.993 crore, a large portion of which was borne by the state. Figures speak for themselves. It is shameful to dish out facts suiting one's own interest," he said. Claiming that the TMC government, with its 'Duare Sarkar' initiative, has already reached out to over 1.9 crore people, he said "it is a historic development." "This move by our government should not be ridiculed by opposition parties. Similar measures should, in fact, be adopted by the Centre and other states," he added. Reacting to TMC's assertions, BJP state vice president Jaiprakash Majumder said his party has great respect for Bengal's cultural icons. "The BJP has great respect for our icons like Tagore, we invoke their words, their views, their writings in our actions. It is the TMC which is falsely implicating our party to give it a bad name," Majumder said. Referring to the outsider tag given to the BJP's top leadership by the state's ruling party, he said, "This is a divisive ploy by the Trinamool for cheap political dividends, aimed at dividing the pluralistic society. The TMC won't be able to mislead people."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Shah promises Bengal a BJP chief minister 'from the soil'||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday promised Bengal a BJP chief minister “from the soil” to counter Mamata Banerjee’s relentless attacks against them for allegedly being the bohiragawto (outsider) trying to deprive the bhumiputro (son of the soil). “I am telling Mamata Banerjee directly. The task of defeating you (Mamata) will be undertaken by Bengali workers of the BJP… and after defeating you, the BJP’s chief minister will also be someone from this soil,” said Shah in television interviews on the sidelines of his Midnapore events. Through the day, Shah and others in his entourage — including latest Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari — kept trying to portray Mamata as a “narrow-minded regionalist” to offset her offensive of how the bohiragawto from Gujarat would rule Bengal if the BJP  came to power . Shah’s visit, in the wake of a few gaffes amid the party’s desperate bid to establish its connect with Bengali culture and tradition, began with a visit to Swami Vivekananda’s north Calcutta residence, and included prayers at the Siddheshwari and Mahamaya Devi temples and floral tributes to a Khudiram Bose statue in Midnapore. At every stop, he addressed the bohiragawto issue. “I want to say this to those practising narrow politics in the state… Khudiram Bose as much the nation’s pride as he is of Bengal,” said Shah at Midnapore, garlanding the freedom fighter’s statue at his ancestral home. “At the age of just 18, the immensely valiant youth fought the British empire and showed exemplary courage in kissing the noose, holding the (Bhagvad) Gita.” A Trinamul MP pointed out Shah could not refrain from bringing up the Hindu scriptural element. “I have never heard them say how, till his execution, Bhagat Singh had been reading Reminiscences of Lenin, authored by German Marxist Clara Zetkin…,” the MP said. Shah also brought up the martyrdom of Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaqulla Khan and Roshan Singh, three other icons of the freedom struggle, who were hanged on this day in 1927. “The immortal heroes who fought for our Independence could not even imagine such petty politics of regionalism,” he said. The itinerary of the Union home minister’s Bengal tour this time was carefully drawn up to include visits to places associated with three of the state’s leading icons. On Sunday, he is scheduled to spend a lot of time at Visva-Bharati set up by Rabindranath Tagore. “Earlier this month, our social media cell committed a regrettable faux pas when they tweeted that Tagore was born at Visva-Bharati and had wrongly attributed it to our national president J.P. Nadda. Mamata made a major issue of it. We believe Amitji’s Visva-Bharati trip will undo the damage,” said a state BJP leader. He admitted the party was yet to recover from the damage from incidents such as the demolition of Bengal Renaissance stalwart Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust last year or the incorrect identification of an anonymous statue as that of tribal icon Birsa Munda last month. On Friday, a display board welcoming Shah to Bolpur and Santiniketan had triggered protests as it had placed a sketch of Tagore below that of the Union home minister. Sources in the BJP hoped the increasing inclusion of prominent Bengali faces in the state leadership, such as Suvendu Adhikari, will help the party in neutralising the outsider perception. In his debut address after joining the BJP, Adhikari also took the bohiragawto bull by the horns for his new political bosses. “The BJP, the largest political party in the world, talks of nationalism and pluralism… Trinamul talks of outsiders to divide the people. How dare they call the likes of Amit Shah and Kailash Vijayvargiya outsiders?” asked the Trinamul turncoat. “All of us are Indians first, then Bengalis,” he added. Sources in his party said that unsure of how the “outsider” label would impact the BJP electorally in the state polls, the likes of Shah, Nadda and Modi will leave “no stone unturned” to try and convince the people of the state that the party does not exclusively represent the Sangh parivar’s Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision now. For instance, every social media post from or regarding Shah was put out in Bengali first. “In a state where religion-based minority appeasement has been key to ascending to power, we are trying to appease the language-based majority — the Bengalis,” said a state unit functionary. “We do not expect minority votes (from a third of the state’s electorate) to come to us. If a chunk of Hindu votes are denied to us over this Bengali sentiment, our chances (of winning the Assembly polls) could be seriously dented.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
20-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC seeks quick-fix Didi rally in Nandigram||Trinamul’s East Midnapore leaders urged the party’s state leadership to request chief minister Mamata Banerjee to hold a massive rally in the district, preferably in Nandigram, by early January to rally forces and glue the fissures caused by the region’s tallest party leader Suvendu Adhikari defecting to the BJP. Adhikari accepted the BJP colours from Union home minister Amit Shah in Midnapore on Saturday. “We saw this coming, but we need to meet the challenge triggered by Suvenduda’s defection. Suvenduda has not roped in other big leaders from the district yet, but he can, so we need to act in advance,” said district zilla parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian. The district Trinamul leadership is eager to hold the rally at Nandigram because it is Adhikari’s political turf and key to his “son of the soil” persona for his role during the land movement that helped propel Mamata’s party to power in 2011. “There’s no shortage of massive tracts of land in Nandigram for a mega rally that is Didi’s signature. We need to do this immediately. People are still with Didi and it doesn’t matter that Suvenduda has switched sides,” Sufian added. In the evening, Trinamul took out huge rallies in Haldia and Nandigram and burnt Adhikari’s effigies dubbing him a traitor. Sources said Adhikari left home around 11.50am on Saturday for the Midnapore rally, where Trinamul Contai MLA Banasree Maity and district leader Sukumar Das also accepted saffron party colours from Shah. Adhikari, who was reportedly dismissive of reporters on Saturday in contrast to his former rapport with the media, was not accompanied by his father or brothers. Sources close to the Adhikaris said Suvendu’s father and younger brother Dibyendu, both Trinamul MPs, did not switch sides to avoid falling foul of the anti-defection law. The lack of adequate numbers in forging a split in the party or switch sides, as laid down in the law, could also lead to disqualification, a situation the Adhikaris want to avoid, a source close to the family said. Turncoat Das said Shah’s Midnapore rally marked the beginning of a turn in fortunes for East Midnapore. “Suvenduda will hold massive rallies soon and you will see even more people coming over to the BJP. Just listen to their cheers,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Santiniketan seethes on Amit Shah visit eve||Students at Rabindranath Tagore’s university town on Saturday protested against Amit Shah’s proposed Sunday trip to Bolpur and Santiniketan, denouncing the BJP’s alleged attempt to use Tagore as a political tool. “The BJP is trying to saffronise the campus. There was no reason for Shah’s visit to Santiniketan at a time farmers are protesting against farm laws on Delhi borders,” said SFI leader of Visva-Bharati Somnath Sow. Around 100 Visva-Bharati students took out a rally on Saturday evening from Upasana Griha to protest Shah’s visit to the campus and the BJP’s “insult” to Tagore on Friday with flex banners welcoming Shah with a sketch of Tagore below Shah’s picture. Though the BJP took down the banners within hours, protesters did not let the matter die down. Varsity students burnt effigies of Shah, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty near the varsity central office. Cultural outfit Bolpur-Santiniketan Sanskritik Mancha also marched against this purported “insult” to Tagore. The CPM and Congress took out a rally condemning Shah’s visit to Santiniketan at a time farmer protests were on. “This shows the party top brass’s insensitivity towards farmers,” said a CPM leader. “We had urged the VC not to allow Shah on the campus as he and his party represents an ideology that Tagore was opposed to. The VC has ignored our appeal and we have no option but to protest,” said Falguni Pan, a student leader. Sources said varsity authorities wanted to ensure Shah’s visit was “apolitical”  and requested BJP leaders not to accompany the Union home minister on campus on Sunday. Varsity authorities had a bitter experience when Modi visited the campus to inaugurate Bangladesh Bhavana on May 24, 2018. “Many BJP workers entered the campus and chanted Jai Shri Ram slogans. The incident had drawn flak. So, we don’t want any BJP leader during Amit Shah’s visit to the campus,” said a varsity official. A senior varsity official claimed Sunday’s event was “a completely apolitical programme”. “We did not invite anyone other than Union home minister Amit Shah. But we will not be able to restrict entry if he (Shah) brings them along,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Two Trinamul tribal leaders join BJP, finger at Gurung ||Two prominent tribal faces of Trinamul in the Dooars, Nagrakata MLA Sukra Munda of Jalpaiguri and former Alipurduar MP Dasrath Tirkey, joined the BJP in Midnapore on Saturday in the mass exodus led by Mamata Banerjee’s former minister and colleague Suvendu Adhikari. Trinamul insiders said that for the past few weeks, Munda and Tirkey were discontented over the party’s decision to approve Gorkha Janmukti Morcha Bimal Gurung’s support of Mamata Banerjee, especially as Gurung stands firm on his separate statehood demand. In the Dooars and Terai, a strong sentiment against Gorkhaland prevails among the tribal population. “I decided to quit Trinamul as many of us could no longer work because of the series of changes in the style of functioning of the party. Earlier, Didi ran the party in a different manner. These days, it seems some others are making decisions,” said Tirkey. Munda said over the phone that he faced neglect from party leaders for years. “People voted for me but whenever I approached state ministers, I was made to wait for hours. Nothing was done for my constituency. The party went on ignoring me and never gave me a chance to share my opinion on various issues,” said the Nagrakata MLA. Gurung, who resurfaced in Calcutta in October after three years, and reached Siliguri early this month, spoke on separate statehood while supporting Mamata at public rallies in Siliguri and Birpara. On Friday, at an event in Odlabari in the Dooars, Gurung even proposed a Trinamul candidate for the Malbazar Assembly seat. Mamata, speaking at a public meeting in Jalpaiguri earlier this week, had also said it was only her party that could come up with a “permanent political solution” for the hills, borrowing the term coined by the BJP. “Gurung’s remarks and endorsement of his support from Trinamul’s highest levels put these tribal leaders under pressure. They had to answer to their supporters who are vehemently against separate statehood,” said an observer. Trinamul district president K.K. Kalyani tried to scotch Gurung’s remarks on the Malbazar candidacy. “Whatever he said is his personal opinion. We are sending a letter to the state leadership saying that a Scheduled Tribe candidate will be fielded from Malbazar.” Among others who joined BJP from north Bengal include Dipali Biswas, Trinamul MLA of Gazole in Malda. In the 2016 state elections, Biswas had been elected on a CPM ticket but she defected to join Trinamul. On Saturday, she left Trinamul for BJP. Satyendranath Roy, the former Trinamul MLA of Gangarampur (in South Dinajpur), Kartick Pal and Ashish Dutta (former civic heads in North Dinajpur and Alipurduar) and some other district leaders also joined the BJP. Prafulla Burman, a district vice-president of Trinamul and the husband of zilla parishad sabhadhipati Kabita Burman, denied joining the BJP. “BJP leaders announced my name at the public rally in Midnapore. This is nothing but a political ploy to try and malign my image. I have asked my party leaders to take legal steps against BJP,” Burman told journalists. In the evening, some BJP supporters protested in some areas of Kumargram block of Alipurduar against the inclusion of Dasrath Tirkey. The former MP, who had also been an MLA, had not done anything for the region during his tenure, they alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Dhankhar defies state preferences on new VCs||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday tweeted that Rajendra Prasad Dhakal and Shanti Chhetry were appointed founding vice-chancellors of the new Darjeeling Hills University and Alipurduar University, respectively, defying the “order of preference” of a search committee appointed by the state government. With Dhankhar’s tweet, this is the first time two Gorkhas are appointed founding vice-chancellors in Bengal. These past couple of days, education minister Partha Chatterjee had tweeted names of three candidates each for both varsities recommended by the state search committee. For Darjeeling Hills University the names in order of preference were: “1. Dr. Dilip Kumar Sarkar, Registrar, North Bengal University: 2: Dr Pujan Sarkar, Principal, Polytechnic Inst, Jalpaiguri; 3. Dr Rajendra Prasad Dhakal, Principal, Kalimpong College.” The tweet for Alipurduar, similar in wording, had these names in order of preference: “Prof. Mahendra Nath Ray, Professor of Chemistry, North Bengal University: 2. Prof. Sanchari Roy Mukherjee, Professor of Economics, North Bengal University; 3. Dr. Shanti Chhetry, Principal, P.D. Women College, Jalpaiguri.” In both tweets Chatterjee stated “sent to the Chancellor for formal nod”. Dhankhar, however, chose to make his own decision. The Bengal governor adhered neither to the ‘order of preference’ nor ‘formal nod’, an observer said. “It seems there is a lot more than meets the eye in the charged political atmosphere of north Bengal,” said the observer. Bimal Gurung will climb the hills for the first time after three-and-half years on Sunday. He will be addressing a public meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand. Anit Thapa of the rival Binay Tamang faction on Saturday said he would take part in a padyatra (march) from Sonada to Darjeeling next Saturday. “During this march I want to gauge the number of people who want change in the hills,” Thapa, addressing an ex-servicemen’s meeting at Kurseong on Saturday, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Water usage award for Malda school||A state-aided school in Englishbazar has received an excellence award for utilisation and preservation of water in larger interest by the Union water resources ministry. Using water conservation and harvesting techniques, the Sovanagar High School, located some 15km from Malda district headquarters, farms vegetables and fish on its rooftop, the produce meant for students’ midday meals. In view of the pandemic, the award was conferred virtually on the school. Rattanlal Kataria, Union minister of state for water resources, was present at the virtual awards ceremony on Thursday. A couple of months back, a team of Unesco visited the school and appreciated its projects to preserve and utilise water in socio-ecological interest under the “Jol dhoro, jol bhoro” scheme of the state government. Unesco’s recommendation helped the school bag the central award. “Cabbage, cauliflower, pumpkin and bottle gourd are grown on the roof and are used in midday meals. The 3,500sqft roof is spacious enough to produce vegetables for our 2,800 students,” said headmaster Hariswami Das. He said another 1,000sqft area on the roof was developed into a pond for farming fish such as rohu and catla. “We hope these fish will be ready to be served to students when they start coming to school again,” Das said. The school also has a rooftop nursery for flowering and medicinal plants. Another attraction is a globe shaped water tank with prominently marked countries, major cities and capitals. “The tank helps students quench their thirst and strengthen their geography,” a teacher said. On the premises, an underground reservoir stores water. The school offers students pure drinking water filtered through reverse osmosis and ultra-violet purification processes. 
In 2019, the school had also been chosen for the Jamini Roy award oby the Bengal government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid active cases under 18,500 in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged 2,717 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,155 new infections and 43 deaths, of which nine were reported from Calcutta. Active cases, 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami 54 days ago, have dropped to 18,460, undoing the damage of five months, said a minister. The state’s recovery rate, rising for 58 consecutive days, is now 94.81, a little behind the national rate of 95.48. The mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national 1.45 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 8.02, better than 8.27 on November 20. “We are taking the same number of tests but getting fewer infections,” said the minister. With 42,257 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count rose to 66.66 lakh, at 74,608 tests per million people. In these 54 days since the end of Puja, the state has recorded nearly 1.97 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.81 lakh cases found. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. The state now has a total of 5.34 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.07 lakh recoveries and 9,320 deaths. Of the total deaths, 7,825, or 84 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. Bengal reported 17.56 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.38 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
