21-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP trying to destabilise WB govt, Pawar will unite Oppn: NCP||The BJP is "using" the Centre to "destabilise" the West Bengal government, the NCP alleged on Monday and added that its chief Sharad Pawar and other leaders will unite the Opposition in future. Speaking to reporters, Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP) national spokesperson Nawab Malik said that West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC president Mamata Banerjee called up Pawar on Sunday and discussed the issue. Malik said the issue will be discussed by leaders of Opposition parties in Delhi. "Sharad Pawar will himself visit Kolkata, if need be," he added. The West Bengal government has locked horns with the Centre over the latter directing three IPS officers from the state to join in Central deputation for their alleged dereliction of duties following the recent attack on the convoy of BJP president J P Nadda. "The way the BJP is using the Central government to destabilise the West Bengal government, it is very serious. The IPS officers have been withdrawn without the consent of the West Bengal government, which is very dangerous. West Bengal Chief Minister has discussed the issue with Pawar saheb," Malik said. He said the BJP's "programme to destabilise" elected governments in states "is not right and not in line with democracy". "Somewhere, Pawar saheb and other leaders will unite all opposition leaders in the future," Malik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Prashant Kishor, BJP in Twitter war over Shah's Bengal poll claim||The BJP will not cross double digits in the West Bengal assembly polls, election strategist Prashant Kishor claimed on Monday, making light of the coup Home Minister Amit Shah pulled off with a parade of TMC leaders into the saffron party. Kishor, who managed Narendra Modi's sucessful campaign for prime ministership in 2014, has been roped in by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee to boost her party's prospects in the West Bengal assembly polls likely in April-May next year. Kishor said he will quit Twitter if the saffron party does any better than what he has predicted, setting off a war of words with BJP leaders on the microblogging website. "For all the hype amplified by a section of supportive media, in reality BJP will struggle to cross double digits in West Bengal," he tweeted. "Please save this tweet and if BJP does any better I must quit this space!" Kishore added. The BJP had got a huge a shot in the arm on Saturday when political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, nine MLAs and a TMC MP joined the party in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Shah, considered the architect of the BJP's resurgence in West Bengal, had asserted that his party will win over 200 seats in the upcoming polls. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party's pointsman in the state, took a swipe at Kishor, saying the country will end up losing a poll strategist after the West Bengal elections. "Given the ongoing BJP tsunami in Bengal, once the new government is formed, the country will have to lose an election strategist," Vijayvargiya quipped in Hindi on Twitter. "Very happy that an 'Expert' who can make such a 'Statement', is leading the Poll Campaign of @AITCofficial & @MamataOfficial?? Which world does he stay, what diet has #TMchhi put him ONGreat thing is, come 2021, na rahega Saanp (TMchhi) na bhajegi (PK ki) Bansuri @BJP4India," Union minister from Bengal Babul Supriyo said in a snappy wisecrack. Assembly elections are likely in West Bengal in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Prashant Kishor makes bold claim on Bengal election next year||A day after Home Minister Amit Shah left Bengal, following his two-day high-voltage campaign in the state, election strategist Prashant Kishor on Monday claimed on Twitter that the BJP will struggle to cross the double-digit mark in assembly polls. Kishor, who has been roped in by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee to strengthen her party's poll prospects, said that he would quit the microblogging site if the saffron party does any better than what he predicted. "For all the hype amplified by a section of supportive media, in reality, BJP will struggle to cross double digits in West Bengal," he tweeted. "Please save this tweet and if BJP does any better I must quit this space!" Kishore added. The saffron party, which recently received a shot in the arm after political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, a TMC MP and nine MLAs joined its camp, has asserted that it would win over 200 seats in the upcoming polls. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, in response to Kishor's tweet, said the country would end up losing a poll strategist after Bengal elections. "Given the ongoing BJP tsunami in Bengal; once the new government is formed, the country will have to lose an election strategist," Vijayvargiya quipped on Twitter. Assembly elections are likely to be held in Bengal in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP's wife joins TMC in Bengal||Sujata Mondal Khan, the wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, switched over to the TMC from the saffron camp on Monday, claiming that she did not get her due recognition even after taking several risks to get her husband elected during 2019 Lok Sabha elections. She alleged that "newly inducted, misfit and corrupt leaders" are getting more importance in the saffron camp than the loyal ones. "Despite enduring physical attacks, sacrificing so much to get my husband elected to Parliament, I got nothing in return... I want to work under our beloved leader Mamata Banerjee and our dada Abhisek Banerjee," Mondal Khan said, after joining the party in the presence of TMC MP Saugata Roy and its spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. Asked about the reaction of her husband, who is also the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) state unit chief, she said it was up to him to decide his future course of action. "I hope he would realise one day... Who knows he might be back in the TMC one day," the newly inducted leader of the Bengal's ruling party said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Strike to hit Petrapole operations||Export and import operations with Bangladesh are likely to take a hit at the Petrapole land port starting Monday following an announcement of strikes by three truck drivers’ unions to protest against the “non-cooperation of immigration, BSF authorities”. Sources said the strike was announced out of “desperation” by drivers who alleged they had been stranded in Bangladesh’s Benapole port “for days on end” owing to “administrative incompetence and neglect”. “We are being forced to stay here for the entire unloading period of two-three weeks in precarious condition with no facilities. Even our attempts to return leaving the vehicle being was prohibited by the BSF,” said one driver. The 11 striking organisations have termed the delays a violation of protocol set up by the Bengal government, and have formed the Petrapole Sthal Bandar Jeevan o Jeevika Committee. They marched outside Petrapole and in Bongaon town on Sunday. “The troubles are also extending to porters since they are not being allowed to enter there,” said a source. S.S. Guleria, DIG (G), BSF’s south Bengal frontier, said: “We are just following the guidelines by higher authorities. However, we will talk to the people concerned so that border trade is not hampered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Seven injured in clash over land dispute||At least seven persons were injured in a clash between two groups over possession of a tea plantation in North Dinajpur on Sunday. Sources said two families, residing in neighbouring villages, had a dispute over the possession of a tea plantation spread over an area of seven cottah located in Balabari village under Daspara panchayat of Chopra block. On Sunday, Haripada Mondal, representing one of the families, went to the plantation and tried to put boundary pillars on the plot. Jatin Roy, who represents the other family, objected and soon both the families and their associates attacked each other with daggers, iron rods and sticks. The sources said five persons from Roy’s family and two from Mondal’s family had sustained injuries. They had been admitted to the NBMCH. A police team is deployed in the area to monitor the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||As BJP andh bhakt, got nothing: Bimal||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung received a rousing welcome on his arrival at Darjeeling after more than three-and-half years where he confessed that he had been an “andh bhakt (blind supporter)” of the BJP for the past 12 years before starting his tirade against the saffron party. Gurung said he only recently realised that the BJP was only “using” him, obliquely citing the innumerable cases slapped against him by the state government. Gurung has over 100 cases slapped against him and his supporters, which he claimed were now in the process of being withdrawn by the state government. “We had been an andh bhakt of the BJP, supporter without any condition….this belief was for our people, community, permanent political solution, tribal status but in 12 years they (BJP) gave us nothing,” said Gurung. The last straw, according to Gurung, was the Centre’s decision to change the tripartite talks agenda from Gorkhaland to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) on October 7, allegedly because of pressure from state BJP leaders. In his speech, the hill leader talked extensively of his conversations with BJP leaders. “They said they were providing me with security when they had not even deployed a constable for me. They did not even enquire about our well-being,” said Gurung. The security issue was highlighted as Gurung was on the run from the state government for the past three-and-half years because of various cases following the Gorkhaland violent agitation of 2017. “The BJP has not just betrayed Bimal Gurung but the entire Gorkha community...the BJP took 12 years of our age,” said Gurung and promised his support to Mamata Banerjee’s party in the 2021 Bengal elections. Gurung and other speakers of his faction, however, also repeatedly highlighted that they would support any party that takes forward their Gorkhaland demand in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. In the same breath Gurung also expressed confidence that Mamata would find “a permanent political solution” for the region and at one point of his speech, Gurung talked about a development council for Terai and the Dooars without going into the specifics. Apart from BJP, the rest of the tirade was reserved for his rivals, Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, leaders of the Morcha’s breakaway faction and also Trinamul allies. From levying allegations of corruption in utilising “Rs 1,700 crore” that the state government gave the GTA last three years to the flawed process of recruiting school teachers, Gurung said hill people did not back Tamang and Thapa as they had “betrayed” them during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation. Tamang and Thapa had joined hands with Trinamul in 2017. So did Gurung in October 2000. Gurung, however, said that he would not blame Mamata for joining hands with Tamang and Thapa as she is running a government. “I am very happy today on seeing your love and support,” said Gurung and added he had come to “keep the heads (of Gorkhas) high.” A cavalcade of motorbikes and cars, which was stopped by supporters on various points, escorted Gurung to the hills on Sunday. Many people danced to popular party songs. Some supporters had arranged musicians with traditional instruments to welcome him. Gurung said that he would be staying in Darjeeling for “10 to 15 days” before starting his focus on Terai and the Dooars. The party has decided to organise another public meeting in Kalimpong on January 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Drama festival in the lap of nature||A two-day drama festival organised at Salbagan near here on the bank of the Mara river concluded on Sunday. The event was inaugurated by north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh on Saturday. “It was one of the finest events that I attended in recent months. The organisers held a nice festival at a place that is surrounded by greenery and avian population,” said the minister. The festival, which was organised by theatre group “Cooch Behar Anasristi” in association with the Paschim Banga Natya Akademi, was christened as “Anu Natok ebong Antoranga Natyotsav 2020”. The show commenced at 10am and continued till 3pm. During the fest, performers staged a total of 10 short plays in an open arena amid nature. The organisers pointed out that Salbagan, a plantation of trees that exists since the days of the Cooch Behar royals, was one of the prominent locations which was getting defamed because of some anti-social activities. Salbagan is around 5km from here. In a bid to re-popularise the location, they felt it pertinent to host the event here. Theatre groups from South 24-Parganas, Malda, Nadia and neighbouring state of Assam, performed at the fest. “We did not build a formal dais and the usual wooden plank was missing. Instead, we attempted to create an ambience, with the natural surroundings forming both the dais and the backdrop. We offered a sapling to each spectator who came here and enjoyed the dramas. During the play, a group of painters exhibited their talents on the canvas,” said Ruma Saha Dey, the president of the local theatre group. “We also planned to disseminate a message among people about the need to conserve nature,” she added. Sanjit Saha, the divisional forest officer of Cooch Behar, said: “It was really a good show. Participants have sent a nice message for conserving nature and its resources through the drama festival.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Crowd-puller leopard no more||Sachin, a male leopard at Bengal Safari Park on the outskirts of Siliguri, who had shot to fame in January 2019 for escaping from his enclosure and coming back on his own, died on Saturday. He was 12. Officials of the state forest department confirmed that the adult leopard was ill and undergoing treatment. “The 12-year-old animal died of cardiac arrest on Saturday,” said V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) of the state. The male leopard was brought to the park in 2017 and hit the headlines immediately for his name. Foresters named him Sachin after Tendulkar, one of the greatest batsmen the country has produced. Next, on January 1, 2019, the leopard hit the headlines again as he escaped from his enclosure. Foresters started a massive search operation and around 100 forest guards combed different areas of Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary adjacent to the park. Even pet elephants of the department were deployed to find the leopard. But Sachin surprised everybody — and gained cult status in the process — as he returned to the enclosure after three days on his own. “We have tried to provide the leopard the necessary treatment at the park. But the animal could not survive,” Badal Debnath, the director of the wild animal park, said. Nick Doley, the vet of the park, along with Joy Dey, his counterpart from the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park of Darjeeling, conducted the post-mortem of Sachin’s carcass. According to the vets, the death appears to be natural. Doley, when asked about the animal’s death, said, the leopard died around noon on Saturday. “We did the post-mortem and found that it had died because of cardiac arrest. Nonetheless, the samples of the carcass have been sent to the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biological in Calcutta,” the vet said. “Normally, a leopard can survive about nine to 10 years in the wild. But in captivity, it can survive a couple of more years,” said a wildlife expert. With Sachin gone into the blue yonder, the Bengal Safari Park has four leopards remaining, Sourav, Sheetal, Kajol and Simba. While Simba is only two years old, and the rest are fully grown. The Bengal Safari Park had introduced the leopard safari on July 1, 2017. One of the most popular tourist destinations of the region, it is spread over 290 hectares and the leopard’s enclosure is located over an area of around 20 hectares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah pledges to transform Bengal into 'Sonar Bangla'||Union home minister Amit Shah wrapped up his two-day Bengal visit on Sunday evening after launching the party’s campaign for next year’s Assembly polls. A pledge to transform the state into “Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal)”, if voted to power, was the recurring theme of his visit. Shah spared no effort in attacking the Mamata Banerjee government. Accusing the government of many ills, from encouraging illegal infiltration from Bangladesh to pushing the Bengal economy into dire straits, he rolled out a long chargesheet during his two public speeches — one in Midnapore on Saturday and the other in Bolpur on Sunday — and a news conference before leaving. Here are the highlights of what he said and the questions that were left unanswered: Infiltration What Shah said: On all the three occasions that he spoke during his 44-hour Bengal visit, Shah referred to illegal infiltration from Bangladesh and accused the Mamata Banerjee government of encouraging it as part of her “appeasement politics”. Shah asked: “Do you think that the Trinamul government can bring an end to illegal infiltration from Bangladesh?” Questions: The surprise was not in Shah broaching this issue — a divisive weapon in the saffron camp’s armoury. But there was a striking divergence from his pre-2019 speeches as he was silent on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) this time. At the news conference, this correspondent asked him what had happened to the “chronology” he would often mention, saying the CAA would be implemented first and the NRC later rolled out across the country. Shah said the CAA rules were yet to be framed because of the pandemic and that the process would start once vaccinations for Covid-19 began. On a nationwide NRC, he said, “Let the first step happen.” Bengal economy What Shah said: The biochemist who was called an alchemist after scripting the Uttar Pradesh success story of 2014 donned the hat of an economist at the news conference on Sunday. He reeled off a wide variety of economic data — from Bengal’s slide on indicators such as per capita income to the lack of employment opportunities in the state — to buttress his claim that Bengal was on the path of decline. He said he was referring to the numbers as he wanted a discussion on the real issues before the Bengal polls. Questions: The concerns Shah raised about the Bengal economy or the human development indices cannot be brushed under the carpet and there is little doubt that there is indeed scope for improvement. However, Shah was silent on the magic wand the BJP would use to turn Bengal’s economy around. The Narendra Modi government also owes answers to questions such as why India’s per capita income is projected, according to the IMF, to slide below that of Bangladesh in 2020. Posers on why India recorded its highest unemployment rate — 6.1 per cent — in fiscal 2017-18 still remain unanswered by a government that came to power with the promise of “achchhe din”. State farmers What Shah said: He took care to explain that Bengal’s farmers were losing the benefit of the PM Kisan scheme — under which they get Rs 6,000 a year — because of the state government’s decision to stay out of the central scheme for political considerations. He said the decision flouted the principles of federalism. Questions: There cannot be any argument that farmers in Bengal as well as the rest of the country deserve a better deal from the state and central governments. Shah, however, was evasive on questions about the farmers protesting outside Delhi seeking the repeal of three contentious laws that they believe will rob them of their land and livelihood. ‘Outsider’ tag What Shah said: Shah was bitterly critical of the Trinamul for labelling the BJP “outsiders”. He reminded Mamata, who was in the Congress before floating Trinamul, that Indira Gandhi and other senior national Congress leaders used to come regularly to Bengal. Throwing the gauntlet at Mamata, he said the BJP leaders in Bengal did not need anyone from Delhi to obtain the seat of power in Bengal. Questions: Most BJP leaders in Bengal concede in private that central leaders micromanage the affairs of the party. The Bengal BJP’s Delhi dependence has also grown exponentially in recent months, with a clutch of leaders from other parts of the country having been dispatched to the state for the upcoming poll battle. Nor can Shah deny that a series of gaffes — such as mentioning Visva-Bharati as Tagore’s birthplace — have offered Trinamul an opportunity to attach this tag. Besides, the overzealous effort by the BJP’s central leaders —Shah said in Santiniketan on Monday that he would have been happy to spend seven days in Tagore’s abode — to prove their Bengali credentials have helped Trinamul keep the debate alive. Dynasty and graft What Shah said: One of the central themes of Shah’s attack on Mamata has been that her primary objective is to keep the chief minister’s chair warm for her nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “She doesn’t think about the 10 crore people of Bengal. Her only aim is to make her nephew the chief minister,” Shah said in Midnapore and Bolpur. He accused the Trinamul government of spearheading corruption in Bengal before promising that the BJP, if voted to power, would rid the state of corruption. Questions: The discourse on dynastic politics is an old one in India and Trinamul alone cannot be blamed for this trend. The BJP too has its share of dynasts — Anurag Thakur, Dushyant Singh, Poonam Mahajan, Pritam Munde, Pravesh Sahib Singh Verma and B.Y. Raghavendra all sit in the lower House of Parliament. Besides, the latest addition to the saffron camp in Bengal, Suvendu Adhikari, hails from a political family that has four lawmakers. The pledge of ridding Bengal of corruption sounds a little rich, considering that some of the BJP's converts from Trrinamul face multiple corruption charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah offer to calm poll aspirants||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday tried to pre-empt any rebellion within the BJP by assuring poll aspirants, who fear losing out to new entrants during distribution of tickets, that such leaders would be accommodated in “various government posts” if the BJP came to power in Bengal. Shah made this assurance to party colleagues at a closed-door meeting, which was held in the backdrop of growing discontent in the Bengal BJP over “random inductions” of leaders from rival parties into the saffron camp. BJP insiders said Shah’s remark was an attempt to quell any possible coup that would happen in the aftermath of distribution of tickets for the Bengal polls. “Yeh larai sabko milkar larna hai (this fight has to be fought together),” Shah is said to have exhorted colleagues at Saturday’s meeting. “We will have many posts when we come to power,” he added in his bid to assure party old-timers who are worried that their chances of getting tickets to fight the Assembly polls might become less with the influx of leaders from the Trinamul Congress, CPM or the Congress. A senior state BJP leader told The Telegraph that Shah made it clear that the primary goal for the party was to win the Bengal election and, though he didn’t mention it, he hinted that winnability would be the sole criterion while distributing tickets. “There is a possibility of rebellion from those who might lose their potential seats to someone new. Hence, Amitji assured the leaders that even if someone didn’t get a ticket, there was always a chance of him getting a government post later,” the leader said. However, the leader added that for Shah to take so much pain to assure party colleagues of accommodation in the power structure went to show that the Bengal BJP was still a divided house. “Someone of Amitji’s stature had to intervene today so that there isn’t any internal feud later. Why wouldn’t the leaders listen to the state president?” a source asked. The other area of concern of Bengal leaders — security during polls — was addressed by Shah at the meeting. State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said Shah had assured them that “enough security forces will be deployed” for a free and fair election. “Amitji knows how lawless Bengal is right now. He assured us that there would be such heavy deployment of central security forces that not even a bird would be able to fly away,” Basu said. Basu added Shah had reiterated his claim that the BJP would rule Bengal “with no less than 200 seats”. To accomplish the mission of 200 seats, the BJP has decided to unleash a battery of ministers — from the Centre and other states — who will be visiting the state to hold public meetings across Bengal till the election gets over. BJP’s national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash and Shah formally introduced five Union ministers — Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Mansukh L. Mandaviya, Sanjeev Balyan, Arjun Munda, Nityanand Rai — and three ministers from other states — Keshav Prasad Maurya, Narottam Mishra and Prahlad Singh Patel — to the Bengal leaders at the Saturday meeting. These leaders will generally come during the weekends and hold public meetings at places that the BJP feels are “terror-prone”. “Since these are central ministers or cabinet ministers from other states, the state police will be bound to provide adequate protection to them. This will give us a chance to hold public meetings peacefully,” a leader of the party’s youth wing said. Shah has told the Bengal leadership that there should be at least five wall graffiti in each booth across the state by January 15. He asked the leaders to ensure that booth level workers visited every single household to scrutinise electoral rolls by January 15. Suvendu Adhikari, former Trinamul minister who joined the BJP on Saturday, was present at the meeting. Sources said Adhikari told Shah at the end of the meeting that he was “a kid in the party right now” and expressed his desire “to learn from Shah and others in the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||State government blamed for convoy attack ||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday held the Trinamul government and its party apparatus responsible for the attack on the convoy of BJP national president Jagat Prasad Nadda while it was on its way to Diamond Harbour on December 10. The attack on Nadda’s convoy, which triggered a fierce sate-Centre confrontation, was the first issue that he broached in his opening remarks at a news conference here on Sunday evening before leaving for Delhi. “The BJP condemns the attack on the convoy of BJP’s national president... The state government and the Trinamul supporters were responsible for it. I think the attack was not only on the national president of the largest political party in the country, but the attack was on the democracy of Bengal,” he said. Shah said the Union government had attached three Bengal IPS officers for central deputation “as per the rule”. “The step of the central government is constitutional and as per the rule. It was done following the federal structure,” Shah said. Unlike Nadda, Shah’s Bengal visit, which included a road show along a narrow road in Bolpur, passed off without any trouble. The mega road show in Bolpur was “unprecedented” and posed a serious challenge to the force because of the turnout along the road through which Shah’s convoy passed, said a senior police officer. Police sources said over 1,100 cops, including 50 senior officers, were brought from different districts over and above Birbhum’s force and deployed at every strategic point. Around 1,000 civic volunteers were also deployed across Bolpur. The sources said the police took the unprecedented decision of stopping traffic in the small varsity town as a precautionary measure. “We can’t assess the footfall today in the roadshow of our home minister Amit Ji. I can only say that there were around a lakh people in town and more than a few thousand could not enter Bolpur,” said Shyamapada Mondal, Birbhum BJP president. Trinamul, however, countered that BJP claim and said thousands of people were brought from neighbouring Jharkhand, West Burdwan and East Burdwan. “I am showing you the photos of buses and cars that came from Jharkhand, West Burdwan and other places,” said Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul president in Birbhum who showed several photographs from his mobile phone of buses registered in Jharkhand and other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata thanks CMs, talks to Pawar for supporting her on BJP stand-off||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday issued a statement to attack the BJP-led Centre over its allegedly brazen interference with the state government’s functioning and thank several key non-BJP leaders for their show of support. The Bengal chief minister, according to sources close to her, also spoke to NCP chief Sharad Pawar in the morning on the need for non-BJP forces across the country to stick together amid the saffron camp’s “marauding onslaught”. “Centre is brazenly interfering with State Govt functioning by transferring police officers,” Mamata tweeted, referring to the unilateral transfer of IPS officers from Bengal by the Centre in the wake of the attack on BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s convoy in South 24-Parganas earlier this month. “My gratitude to @bhupeshbaghel @ArvindKejriwal @capt_amarinder @ashokgehlot51 & @mkstalin for showing solidarity to people of Bengal & reaffirming their commitment to federalism. Thank you!” she added. Former BJP stalwart Yashwant Sinha has also supported Mamata in this stand-off. On her talks with Pawar, sources close to her said the NCP leader assured her of not only his party’s support but also that of many key regional players. “They discussed the possibility of a major rally of non-BJP forces in Calcutta next month, like the United India rally at Brigade (Brigade Parade Ground in Calcutta) in January this year…. Pawar has taken up the responsibility...to make it happen,” said a source in Trinamul. “The discussion took place in the wake of increasing aggression from the BJP and its government at the Centre towards Bengal, amid attempts to engineer defections from our party,” he added. According to the source, Pawar had told Mamata that the others were in the know and all the non-BJP-ruled states had been facing similar problems. “They are aware of the sort of things that have been happening during such visits by Amit Shah or J.P. Nadda,” he added. A senior Trinamul MP said besides Mamata herself, poll consultant Prashant Kishor – handling her party’s assignment in Bengal – has also been actively trying to forge a pan-India alliance between his current and former clients in multiple states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||17,771 active Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday reported 55 consecutive days of decline in total active Covid-19 cases since Vijaya Dashami, which dragged it to 17,771, back almost to where the number of infections was on July 20 exactly five months ago. On Sunday, the state logged 2,627 recoveries, 1,978 new infections and 40 deaths, of which five were from Calcutta. Total active cases, which stood at 37,190 on Dashami, October 26, have fallen by 19,419 in these 55 days. “Over the past week or so, there has been yet another acceleration in the drop in active cases, with the gap widening between daily recoveries and new cases. At this rate, we could well end the year with less than 15,000 active cases when our target was to keep it below 23,000,” said a minister. The recovery rate, rising unhindered for 59 consecutive days, is now 94.95 per cent, improving by 8 per cent during this period. The national rate now is 95.49 per cent. “On Monday, we expect to cross 95 per cent in recovery rate,” the minister added. In 55 days since Dashami, the state reported over 1.99 lakh recoveries, outweighing 1.83 lakh infections. Bengal now has 5.36 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.09 lakh recoveries and 9,360 deaths. With 40,243 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count rose to 67.06 lakh, at 74,515 tests per million people. Positive confirmation rate is 8 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is still 1.74 compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Of total deaths, 7,854, or 83.9 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. Bengal reported 16.69 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.4 lakh telemedicine consultations. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over the festive October-November months for Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers indicate the court’s instructions had been effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Visva Bharati students allege house arrest ahead of Amit Shah visit||Four Visva Bharati students were reportedly put under house arrest by district police starting Sunday morning to stem what police sources termed “potential security breaches” by student leaders aimed at Union home minister Amit Shah’s road show, though the Birbhum police chief denied having issued such orders. Undergraduate economics students Falguni Pan and Somenath Sow, the latter of whom is also an SFI leader, and research scholars and All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) leaders Amit Mondal and Beauty Saha were all identified and rounded up by police personnel between Saturday night and Sunday morning, and reportedly confined to their homes and student accommodations, with the police even providing them breakfast and lunch in order to keep them indoors. The move came on the day Shah held a massive rally in the varsity town, traditionally known as a bastion of Bengali culture related to Rabindranath Tagore, a day after same student unions held vociferous protests in and around the town condemning Shah’s imminent visit and burnt his effigies. “We received inputs that these student leaders might gather people to create unsavoury incidents around Shah’s motorcade, so we acted in advance,” said a police officer. Sources said Mondal and Saha were apprehended early on Sunday on their way back from Khowai where they had organised a smaller rally to condemn Shah’s visit. Both were reportedly escorted home and monitored, whereas Pan and Sow were identified at their respective paid accommodations and ordered indoors till “Shah left Birbhum”. Birbhum district SP Shyam Singh denied orders for house arrest but said that routine police surveillance might have been mistaken for it. “We did not confine anyone to house arrest,” he said. Student leader Pan refuted police claims and said students’ “right to non-violent protest” had been stifled by “an abuse of power”. Sources said students were also irate at the fact that BJP leaders such as Dilip Ghosh, Mukul Roy and Kailash Vijayvargiya were allowed on campus grounds with Shah. “We had been told no one other than the home minister would be allowed on campus,” said Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||No amity song, but extra roti for Shah at baul home lunch||Folk singer Basudeb Das Baul may have wanted to regale Union home minister Amit Shah with a song on “amity and peace” before the lunch he hosted at home on Sunday, but could not. There seemed to be just no time for the song Basudeb had planned, Orey manus dekhbi jodi bhogoban (o human, if you want to see god), which talks of religious tolerance. Basudeb could just sing a welcome song in front of the home minister before being “prodded” for lunch. Shah, who lunched on rice, dal, roti, potato and pointed gourd fritters, alu-posto, among other simple vegetarian Bengal dishes, however, asked for a third roti after the first two. Basudeb, however, said later in the day that he was “grateful” that the home minister of the country had dined at his modest home. He added that he was unable to sing his chosen repertoire after the welcome song Tomay hridoy mahje rakhbo (I will keep you in my heart) in front of Shah or discuss the plight of Baul singers during the lockdown months with him. The Telegraph had reported on Friday that the Baul singer had planned to do both on Sunday. “Unfortunately, I did not get to sing the songs of peace and amity that I had chosen. I was ushered away for lunch just as my welcome song ended, and that particular song (that was sung) did not have much to do with amity but rather with affection,” Basudeb said later at his Subhas Pally home near Visva-Bharati campus. Sources said it was unclear what stopped the song on religious tolerance from being sung in Shah’s presence, given that local BJP leaders had reportedly cleared it. “It seems that Amit Shahji wanted to move on to lunch sooner than was expected,” said a source. Shah and his entourage had landed in Santiniketan 40 minutes late on Sunday. Shah was accompanied by senior BJP leaders such as Swapan Dasgupta, Mukul Roy, Dilip Ghosh, Kailash Vigayvargiya, Rahul Sinha, Anupam Hazra, among a host of others. However, the tenor of the Union home minister’s hurried lunch at Basudeb’s home in Santiniketan echoed the reports of his visit to Bankura district last month. There, Shah again had lunch at a tribal leader’s home but left reportedly without listening to his host who wanted to talk about his diabetic teenage daughter. “I had really wanted to discuss the plight of the Bauls and their sufferings during this (pandemic-induced) lockdown (with the home minister). But I was unable to. Perhaps I should be satisfied that someone of his stature (Shah) even stepped inside my home,” Basudeb added. The song that went unsung is among those that are also well-known as “Bhoba Paglar gaan” (the songs of Bhoba Pagla, who is considered an icon of the Baul community). Some of its lines are “Chhere de tor bhinno bhed, dekhna shastro dekhna Ved/ Bible Koran noire probhed, shon re Hindu shon Mussalman (Leave your habit of discriminating against people, look into the Shastras or in the Veda/ There is no difference between Bible and Koran, the Hindus and the Muslims)”. “The lyrics of the song give out a message of communal harmony, secularism and tolerance and requests people not to discriminate against human beings on the basis of their religions,” the folk singer had told The Telegraph on Friday. “Throughout this song, you will find this message of humanity. As a Baul, I believe in humanity and communal harmony,” Basudeb had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
