22-12-2020||West Bengal||Shah deliberately projecting dismal picture of Bengal: Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday slammed Union Home Minister for “deliberately trying to project a dismal and gloomy picture” of her state during his two-day visit. She claimed that Bengal has been faring well in all development indices, as opposed to the comments made by Shah at his tour. Issuing a point-by-point rebuttal to assertions made by Shah against her dispensation, during his visit to Bengal last week, Mamata cited National Crimes Record Bureau data to state that political killings and other crimes have decreased in the last ten years under the Trinamul Congress rule. “When the home minister of the country says something, it should be backed by data, facts and figures. Bengal is ahead of other states on all development indices. But Amit Shah ji deliberately tried to depict a gloomy and dismal picture of the state. I was challenged... here is my reply,” the chief minister said at a press briefing in Calcutta. Calcutta has been twice accredited with the ‘safest city’ in India honour, she said. “According to NCRB data, political killings, other incidents of crime and rape cases have decreased during the TMC rule. BJP leaders, while pointing fingers at others, should also speak up against the Hathras rape-murder incident in Uttar Pradesh,” Mamata added. Ruling out the charges levelled by the Union minister on development indices, senior TMC leader Saugata Roy earlier mentioned the state's impressive performance in GDP, industrial output, per capita income, construction of rural roads among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Attempt on to create false narrative about Bengal, alleges TMC||Rejecting Union Home Minister Amit Shah's accusation that West Bengal had fared abysmally on development indices under the present dispensation, the ruling Trinamool Congress said on Tuesday that attempts are being made to create a false narrative about the state. Ruling out the charges levelled by the Union minister, senior TMC leader Saugata Roy mentioned the state's impressive performance in GDP, industrial output, per capita income, construction of rural roads among others. At a press conference in Bolpur on Sunday, Shah had accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the state of failing to deliver, claiming that West Bengal lags behind most states in the country on various parameters, except on corruption and extortion. Countering the charge levelled by Shah that TMC workers had misused funds meant for Amphan relief, Roy said, the state was yet to receive Rs 32,310 crore earmarked for the SDRF (State Disaster Relief Force) from the Centre. Claiming that election strategist Prashant Kishor has so far helped politicial parties win polls in five states, Roy said, the TMC believes, the figures predicted by the poll consultant in his tweets on Monday that the BJP will not cross the two-digit figure in the West Bengal assembly elections are correct. Kishor has been roped in by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee to boost her party's prospects in the state assembly polls likely in April-May next year. "We support his tweets, he is the election strategist of our party," Roy told reporters at the TMC headquarters here. Asked whether Kishor was taking crucial decisions about the TMC's affairs, Roy said that he is an advisor and gives his opinions as a consultant, while decisions are taken by the party leadership. "Prashant Kishor had similarly advised Narendra Modi during his campaign in 2014 Lok Sabha polls," the TMC MP quipped. Speaking on the performance of West Bengal, Roy said, the state's GDP has increased by 53 per cent, from Rs 4.51 lakh crore to Rs 6.9 lakh crore in the last 10 years. Contrary to Shah's claim that industrial output in the state has decreased to 3.5 per cent, it has increased by 60 per cent, the TMC leader said. The per capita income in West Bengal which was Rs 51,543 in 2010 has increased to Rs 1.09 lakh in 2019, Roy said, noting that it is higher than Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Roy also rubbished the union minister's claim of the jute industry of the state passing through bad times. "Most of the mills are open and the state government has decided to buy 7 crore gunny bags and use of such sacks have been made mandatory for storing rice," he said. The TMC MP mentioned that industrial development of the state is 3.1 per cent, which he said, is five times that of the national average in 2019-20. "In the service sector, they pointed out that the state's growth stood at 5.8 per cent, while we are saying that it has increased by 62 per cent," Roy said. The TMC MP claimed that since 2011, electricity connection has reached 90 lakh households. "In the last one decade, 1.18 lakh kilometre rural roads have been built," he said, denying Shah's assertion about lack of growth in village road infrastructure in the state. Roy claimed that FDI in the state has increased 24 times between 2016 and 2018. The budgetary expenditure in the health sector has increased three times from Rs 3,442 crore in 2010-11 to Rs Rs 11,280 crore now, denying Shah's assertion that healthcare infrastructure in the state was in poor condition. The health portfolio is held by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. "West Bengal ranks on the top in the country in terms of the number of hospital beds at 85,627, while the number of doctors has increased from 4,800 to 15,338, registering a 219 per cent jump," he said, adding that the number of nurses have also increased by 51 per cent. In the education sector, he said that 30 new universities have been set up during the TMC regime since 2011, taking the total to 42 such institutions, while 50 new colleges have also come up. Roy claimed that more than 1.87 lakh new classrooms have come up in the state since 2011. With regard to the accusation that people of the state are losing health care benefits under the central government's Ayushman Bharat project, he said that under the state's Swasthya Sathi programme, 1.4 crore families in the state get an annual health insurance benefit of Rs 5 lakh. On the allegation that criminal activities have been institutionalised in West Bengal, the TMC MP said that crime against women has decreased by 21 per cent between 2014-2019 in West Bengal. "NCRB (National Crime Records Bureau) has declared Kolkata as the safest city in the country for two consecutive years," Roy said. He claimed that the BJP is speaking about Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Rabindranath Tagore and Swami Viveknananda with an eye on the coming elections in West Bengal. "The RSS or the Hindu Mahasabha did not have any role in the nation's freedom struggle. Even Syamaprasad (Mookerjee) did not go to jail during the freedom movement," the TMC MP said. Documents relating to Netaji, which are in the National Archives, have not yet been released by the central government despite the chief minister's demand, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Modi to address centenary celebrations at Viswa-Bharati||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address the centenary celebrations of the Viswa-Bharati University at Shantiniketan, Bolpur, on Thursday through video conferencing, the PM’s Office said on Tuesday. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will also be present at the event, it said. The announcement comes days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited university as part of his two-day visit to the state. Following Shah’s visit, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a “Tagore cultural pride” rally in Bolpur on December 29. Speaking to the media, the chief minister said she would go to Birbhum for a two-day tour from December 28 and take part in the rally on the second day. “Keshto (Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal) and the others will fix everything,” she said. “It (the rally) will be on how Rabindranath Tagore, his culture is our pride. This will be a movement of the people of the soil,” she added, apparently following up on Mondal’s allegations that most in the home minister’s road show were bohiragawto (outsiders). Founded by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921, Visva-Bharati is the oldest central university in the country. Tagore, a Nobel laureate, is one of the most revered icons from Bengal, a state which will go to the assembly polls in the first half of the next year. In May 1951, Visva-Bharati was declared to be a Central University and an institution of national importance" by an Act of Parliament, the PMO noted. The university followed the pedagogy devised by Tagore, though gradually it evolved in the format in which modern universities developed elsewhere. The prime minister is the chancellor of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
22-12-2020||West Bengal||DM to hold meeting on jumbo intrusion||The district administration of Jalpaiguri has decided to convene a meeting soon to discuss the issue of elephant depredation in tea gardens and discourage the trend of erecting illegal energised fences which sometimes lead to animal deaths. The decision, sources said, comes after representatives of the Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association (DBITA) — the largest association of tea planters in the Dooars — met Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate, here on Monday and sought her intervention in the recent arrest of the assistant manager of an estate. A few days ago, the assistant manager of Haldibari tea estate (located near Banarhat, Jalpaiguri) was arrested after a wild elephant had been electrocuted in the garden. The arrest was made after officials of the WBSEDCL filed a police complaint, alleging that an illegal energised fence had been put in the surroundings of the estate to prevent elephants from entering the plantations. Elephant depredations are common in tea gardens in north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest for self-reliance need skills & loans: specially abled||Some 100 physically challenged persons under the banner of Joint Forum — an apex body of three organisations — held a daylong demonstration at the BDO office in Kalchini of the district on Monday to seek various benefits from the administration and threatened an indefinite hunger strike soon if their demands are not met. The physically challenged demonstrators, including youths, alleged that they were being deprived of education and skill-training opportunities as well as loans and prosthetic aids that would help them become self-reliant. They also added that it was extremely difficult for them to get the disability certificate from the government, as that entails making several rounds in various offices. “We held the demonstration to press for our 14-point charter of demands,” said Labh Kumar Hossain, one of the protesters. “There is no special school for disabled children in Kalchini block and thus they are deprived of education. This greatly reduces their employment opportunities. Also, when most certificates are issued online these days, a disabled person has to make rounds in government offices here and in Alipurduar to get his or her certificate,” Hossain said. In the morning, they assembled at the BDO office premises in ones and twos, carrying posters and placards. After some time, they launched a sit-in demonstration. The protest, they said, had been supported by the Kalchini Disabled Welfare Society, the Dooars Divyang Kalyan Samiti and the Kalchini Khad Divyang Sangh. The demonstrators also said that though the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016 states there should be a vocation training facility for the disabled in each block, there is no such infrastructure in and around Kalchini. “There are different state-sponsored schemes for people like us. Among these include loans for self-employment, free distribution of prosthetic aids as well as scholarships. But in this block, these schemes are not extended to us. Even in case of government recruitment, we are not given any priority,” said Amit Lohara, another protester. During the course of the protests, they also wanted the administration to see to it that there was no delay in issuing the disability certificate or disbursing loans for self-employment. The protest made Prashanta Burman, the block development officer of Kalchini, communicate the information to Alipurduar district magistrate Surendra Kumar Meena. “I do not have any authority to give any assurance to them. That is why I have written to the district magistrate, mentioning their demands,” said Burman. Sources in the administration said there was a proposal to reach out to these people during the ongoing Duare Sarkar or government-on-doorstep campaign floated by the state government. “The idea is to help them get all the benefits that they are entitled to receive from the government at the camps of Duare Sarkar,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Narada cash scandal clip removed from BJP channel shortly after Suvendu Adhikari switch||Three turncoats are a crowd — so much so that they have elbowed out the venerable Narada from a BJP platform. A purported sting video that professes to show Suvendu Adhikari and others in what came to be known as the Narada cash scandal was removed from the BJP’s official YouTube channel on Sunday, a day after the former Trinamul minister switched sides in the presence of Amit Shah. The BJP had used the video, shot by the news portal Narada and titled X Files, to project Trinamul leaders as corrupt in the run-up to the 2016 Assembly polls. Some of the figures on the video are seen accepting wads of currency notes. The video was taken down after some social media influencers began sharing it since Saturday, highlighting the BJP’s double standard. For instance, Dhruv Rathee, a YouTuber with over 4 million subscribers, drew 39,000 likes when he tweeted images of the Narada screenshots from the BJP channel and pointed out that “both Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari have now joined the BJP happily”. Another Trinamul leader who features in the Narada tapes had joined the BJP earlier: former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee. On Monday, phone calls from this newspaper to Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, social media head Ujwal Parekh and national IT cell chief Amit Malviya went unanswered. “I’ve no idea whether the video was ever there. Nor would I be able to say when and why it was taken down,” said Sayantan Basu, a BJP state general secretary. Asked why the party had removed the video now, a senior BJP leader tried to suggest in private that the video had become unnecessary rather than a source of embarrassment. “Isn’t it obvious that the video would no longer be on the channel? Suvenduda has been our biggest catch after Mukulda (Mukul Roy). What purpose does the video have any longer?” he asked. What didn’t appear “obvious” was why it had not been taken down after Mukul and Chatterjee had joined the BJP. Nor is it clear who took the decision to remove the video immediately after Suvendu came on board. “Maybe the party’s central leadership has big plans for Suvenduda. Maybe the video was kept online just to keep reminding Suvenduda of the weapon we had,” the senior BJP leader said. The purported sting, conducted by journalist Mathew Samuels, featured several ministers and MPs. The video could be accessed from the Bengal BJP’s Facebook page on Monday night. But a list of the Narada accused on the FB page omitted the name of one Trinamul MP. A BJP source said at least three Trinamul leaders accused in the Narada controversy were talking to the party. The only Narada-related videos now available on the BJP’s YouTube channel are those of a rally addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a television interview of Union home minister Amit Shah. Both are seen accusing Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee of sheltering corrupt politicians. The Narada video became public on March 14, 2016, when it was screened at the state BJP headquarters in Calcutta. Siddharth Nath Singh, now a minister in Uttar Pradesh and then the party’s minder for Bengal, had held a news conference after the screening of the video.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Gurung support rings alarm bells for TMC||Bimal Gurung’s assertion on his return to Darjeeling that he would win the three hill Assembly seats even if elections were held immediately has come as a fresh poser for new-found ally Trinamul. The Trinamul is in alliance with both rival factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha headed by Gurung and Binay Tamang, and bitterness has escalated with this assertion. Also, within Trinamul, leaders are questioning how the party can accept the support of someone who openly wants a separate state of Gorkhaland to be carved out of Bengal. Gurung, at a public meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand on Sunday, had said: “We will sweep the three hill seats. Let elections be held today, tomorrow or anytime. We are now looking at defeating the BJP in 17 seats in north Bengal.” Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Tamang camp tore into Gurung’s claim: “Let him name the 17 seats that he thinks he can influence in north Bengal. I am sure he will not be able to name them.” Pokhrel’s statement shows these two factions would continue to target each other and any chance of their truce for the Bengal polls appears dim. Sources said the Tamang camp was in no mood to concede all three hill seats to the Gurung camp. “It will be seen as a complete surrender by the Tamang camp to the Gurung camp,” said an observer. A fresh instance of acrimony between the factions came to the fore on Monday with a video clip of a man resembling Kunal Pradhan, a leader of Tamang camp from Kalimpong, threatening Gurung’s life. Gurung supporters hit the streets in Kalimpong in protest. Trinamul seems to have no option but field their candidates and seek support from both factions. But the Trinamul symbol is not popular in the hills. A leader from the Gurung camp at the Sunday public meeting stated she too may not vote for Trinamul and requested the party to leave the hills to them, though the Gurung camp immediately issued a clarification stating it was only her personal opinion. However, grumbles against the Trinamul-Gurung tie-up from within Trinamul are getting louder in the plains. District Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri on Monday distanced themselves from the Gurung camp saying he extended support to them on his own. Khageswar Roy, Trinamul MLA and chairman of the district committee, and Dulal Debnath, a spokesperson of the party in Jalpaiguri, tried to drive home the point that their party did not support Gorkhaland. “We are against Gorkhaland and do not want any division of the state. As far as Bimal Gurung is concerned, we do not have any alliance and it is his own decision to support us,” said Debnath. Party insiders said during the past few weeks, questions were being raised within the party, especially in tribal belts as to how Trinamul could accept support from Gurung who wants Gorkhaland. The recent defection to the BJP of Sukra Munda, Trinamul MLA of Nagrakata, and Dashrath Tirkey, a former Trinamul MP and chairman of Alipurduar district committee of the party, is also over Gurung’s decision to support Mamata Banerjee’s party. Hill team meets Shah A delegation of BJP allies from Darjeeling met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Monday evening. Shah assured them of tribal status for 11 hill communities before Bengal elections, but said a permanent political solution would come after the polls, ABGL leader Pratap Khati said. The other parties in the delegation led by BJP MP Raju Bista included GNLF, CPRM, Sumeti Mukti Morcha and Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Three die in bus-truck crash on NH27||Three persons died and seven others were injured when a bus of North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC) rammed against a parked truck from behind at Bidhannagar, some 30km from here, early on Monday. Residents helped the police and firemen to shift the injured to North Bengal Medical College & Hospital (NBMCH). The bus driver fled, police said. The bus, eyewitnesses said, was heading towards Siliguri from Calcutta. As it reached Bidhannagar along NH27, the driver lost control and hit a truck standing off the highway. “Some passengers said the bus was speeding and the driver was talking on his cell phone,” said a source. The deceased were identified as bus conductor Mridul Das, 48, of Dinhata, Cooch Behar, Santosh Mondal, 38, of Malda and Ibrahim Sheikh, 35 of Dhulian in Murshidabad. Tourism minister Gautam Deb went to NBMCH and handed over cheques of Rs 2 lakh as compensation to each family of the deceased and Rs 25,000 to a seriously injured passenger. “The chief minister instructed me,” Deb said. The rest of the injured have been discharged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Fair to keep Pous Mela tradition alive||The state government has given its nod to a social organisation to hold a three-day cultural event and handicrafts fair from December 23 to keep the tradition of Pous Mela alive in Santiniketan. The Bengal government planned the event after the Visva-Bharati decided not to hold the three-day Pous Mela this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The varsity will, however, perform the rituals associated with Pous Mela. Sources said social organisation Bangla Sanskriti Mancha had applied a few days ago to Birbhum Zilla Parishad  seeking the Dak Bungalow ground to hold cultural programmes where local artisans would sell their produce. “Pous Mela is not held this year. But we will organise the festival of Pous Parvan to keep alive the tradition of Santiniketan. It will be not a big fair but we will organise cultural programmes while local artisans will sell their produce there,” said Samirul Islam, the president of Bangla Sanskriti Mancha. The district officials said the organisation had been asked to maintain Covid protocol while holding the fair. “We had officially given permission for cultural events on our ground for three days. Local artisans will sell their produce on the ground maintaining social distancing,” said Abhijit Sinha, mentor of Birbhum Zilla Parishad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Didi piles CAA heat on ‘cheat’ party||Mamata Banerjee on Monday called the BJP “a cheatingbaaj party (a party of cheats)” over Amit Shah’s apparent shifting of the goalpost on the citizenship matrix and spoke against any of its three components getting implemented in Bengal. On Sunday, the Union home minister had said the rules of the amended Act were yet to be framed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the process would start once vaccinations began. On a nationwide NRC, he said: “Let the first step happen.” A day later on Monday, the Bengal chief minister told the media at the state secretariat that BJP leaders could do or say “anything” for politics. “The BJP is a cheatingbaaj party. In English, we say cheater. The politics of the BJP leaders is that for politics they can do anything, say anything.” “Since they passed the CAA, we have been opposing…. They cannot decide the fate of the citizens. Let them decide their own fate. We are against the CAA, the NPR, the NRC. None of those has been withdrawn yet…. We will keep fighting the battle and not allow anybody to go out of this country,” said the Trinamul chief amid signs of the movement against the citizenship tripod making a resurgence. Before Lok Sabha polls last year, the then proposed CAA was a plank from which the BJP sought votes from many, including the Matuas. The Matuas, lower-caste Hindu refugees from Bangladesh, determine the electoral outcome in at least 30 Assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats of Bengal. Now, with Matuas getting restless over the delay in the CAA’s implementation, BJP national general-secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya had earlier this month promised it would be implemented from January. On Monday, BJP’s Bongaon MP Santanu Thakur said in Raiganj that Shah should clarify to the Matuas what its plans on the CAA were. “It is important that the Act is implemented before state elections. Any delay in the process will have its… bad effect,” said Thakur, reacting to Shah’s remarks that were a departure from Vijayvargiya’s “January” promise. Mamata in her response to the issue iterated on Monday: “The Matuas, for instance… they are already, very much, citizens of this country.” Mocking Shah, she said: “Sonar Bangla (Shah’s promise for the state)… does he know what sona (gold) is, what rupo (silver) is, what tama (copper) is? I hope he knows the meaning of armoury, arms, riots, communal, secular?” “Most of the things he said yesterday, total lies, garbage of lies. I will issue a point-by-point rebuttal tomorrow (Tuesday),” she added. “Speaking for a political party, it does not behove a Union home minister to furnish falsities as facts. I would request Amitji, you are the Union home minister. This does not look nice, if you peddle the lies prepared by the party without fact-checking…” On Shah’s defence of his ministry’s transfer of three IPS officers from Bengal in the wake of an attack on BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s convoy, Mamata said: “...From my limited experience as a seven-term MP and two-term CM... there is a Constitution and there is a convention. Such provisions are applied only in times of Emergency,” she said. “Have they announced such a super Emergency in Bengal?” They want to scare officers and we will not cower before them, she said. Resignation accepted Speaker Biman Banerjee said on Monday that he had accepted Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation as the latter had submitted the letter conforming to rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Tagore pride rally lined up||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a “Tagore cultural pride” rally in Bolpur on December 29, a day after the turnout — around 40,000 — at Amit Shah’s road show there drew attention. Speaking to the media, the chief minister said she would go to Birbhum for a two-day tour from December 28 and take part in the rally on the second day. “Keshto (Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal) and the others will fix everything,” she said. “It (the rally) will be on how Rabindranath Tagore, his culture is our pride. This will be a movement of the people of the soil,” she added, apparently following up on Mondal’s allegations that most in the home minister’s road show were bohiragawto (outsiders). Mondal said Mamata would march with party leaders from Dak Bungalow ground to Bolpur Chowrasta, the route of Shah’s Sunday event. “...We will bring at least two lakh people, all from Bolpur,” he said. “The BJP brought thousands from outside...We will prove we don’t need outsiders.” Mamata did not spare the jibes. “I need to do elaborate research (on what Shah said about her politics)…ekatmobad (unitarianism), bohutwobad (pluralism), jatibad (racism),” she said sarcastically. “All that, coming from a party that said Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati...Rabindranath is Rabindranath. The pride of Bengal, India, the world,” referring to the BJP Bengal unit’s blunder of attributing a quote, on Twitter, to BJP president J.P. Nadda that Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati. She quoted Tagore’s “Where the mind is without fear” and asked the BJP to “do their homework on the inclusive humanism of Tagore, Swamiji, Ambedkar, Birsa”. Bringing up BJP MP Subramanian Swamy’s demand to replace the national anthem penned by Tagore, Mamata said:  “We will not tolerate any contempt of Tagore.” “Those raising questions on even the national anthem now, I am clearly telling them… if they think they will impose their whims on others, we will be prepared to sacrifice our blood. We will not tolerate it,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate past 95%||Bengal on Monday went past 95 per cent in Covid-19 recovery rate, which had been the year-end goal for the state, aided by the 2.01 lakh recoveries logged in 56 days since the end of Durga Puja. The recovery rate, rising for 60 consecutive days, went from 87.44 per cent on October 22 to 95.11 on Monday. The national rate now is 95.57. “By the year-end, we might actually cross (a recovery rate of) 97,” said a minister. “The first goal, of less than 23,000 active cases, was achieved long back. We are now looking at the possibility of less than 15,000,” he added, referring to the 56 consecutive days of drop in total active Covid-19 cases since Dashami. The number of active cases in Bengal is 16,903 now, back almost to where it was on July 19, 155 days ago. On Monday, the state reported 2,342 recoveries, 1,515 new infections and 41 deaths, including nine from Calcutta. In the 56 days since Vijaya Dashami, Bengal logged over 2.01 lakh recoveries, outweighing 1.84 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of 5.38 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.12 lakh recoveries and 9,401 deaths. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the toll, 7,887 or 83.9 per cent deaths  are attributed to comorbidities by the state government. With 29,422 tests on Monday — far less than the 42,000-46,000 tests done daily on an average — the state’s total test count rose to 67.35 lakh, at 74,842 tests per million people. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.99 per cent now, having improved from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 16.32 per cent occupancy in 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 5.42 lakh telemedicine consultations were done so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Rs 8,700cr benefits at door||The Mamata Banerjee government has released Rs 8,700 crore to extend benefits to common people under various schemes after 1.12 crore people visited 20,000-odd camps set up under the Duare Sarkar — a two-month long programme to reach out to people still left out of welfare schemes. “A total of 1.12 crore people visited the camps set up under the Duare Sarkar programme across the state till December 20. Of them, 71 lakh people have applied for benefits under various schemes. We have released Rs 8,700 crore to various departments to deliver services to those who applied for various schemes,” the chief minister said at Nabanna on Monday after holding a review meeting with top government officials. Sources said the release of a handsome amount to deliver services to those who had applied for the schemes at the camps gave a hint that the state government was serious about meeting the expectations of common people. “It is tough for a cash-strapped government to spend a huge amount on welfare schemes as its own revenue generation has been hit badly because of Covid-19 and assistance from the Centre has also been irregular and a large amount is still due. The chief minister wants to ensure that people are not deprived of their rights during the tough time,” said a senior official.Mamata said the state had already spent more than Rs 9,000 crore under the welfare scheme this year compared to the previous year and the additional release of Rs 8,700 crore would ensure more benefits to more people this year. “Last year (2019-20), we had spent Rs 15,000 crore for schemes to give benefits directly to people. This year, we have already spent Rs 24,255 crore under welfare schemes,” said the chief minister. Sources at Nabanna said the additional amount spent under welfare schemes this year was to give free food grains to people during the pandemic and bring more people under social pension schemes during the pandemic. Moreover, financial assistance was provided to migrant workers who had got stranded outside Bengal during the lockdown. Also, trains and buses were hired to bring back migrant workers, students and pilgrims stuck in various states. “It is good that the government released a handsome amount to give benefits to those who have applied for various schemes at the Duare Sarkar camps. If the funds were not allotted, the purpose of the programme would have been hit badly,” said an official. Government documents state 38.88 lakh of the 71 lakh applicants had already availed themselves of the service since the Duare Sarkar camps started. “The target is to deliver service to all eligible applicants by the end of January next year. This is the reason why additional funds were required,” the official added. The government officials said of the 71 lakh applicants, 42.41 lakh applications were filed seeking inclusion in Swasthya Sathi, which is a state government-sponsored health insurance scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Businessman’s BJP entry triggers clash||The induction of a businessman, who is facing charges of coal smuggling, into the BJP triggered a clash with old-timers in the party attacking his followers to prevent their entry into the venue and the saffron camp in Durgapur on Monday. BJP’s Yogdan Mela (induction rally), which was attended by state chief Dilip Ghosh and MP Arjun Singh, in Durgapur was preceded by clashes and vandalism even before the leaders arrived for the event. As supporters of the alleged coal kingpin Rajesh Jha, alias Raju, who took the party flag from Ghosh, arrived at the rally site with placards and raised slogans in the name of their leader, they were attacked by BJP old-timers with chairs hired for the meeting and whatever they could lay their hands on. They refused to allow them to enter the venue and a clash broke out. The BJP supporters also threw away tables and ransacked the dais in an attempt to disrupt the event. The programme was delayed because of the clash and district president of the BJP’s West Burdwan unit, Lakshman Ghorui, had to rush to the spot to pacify angry party workers. Asked about Raju’s induction and charges of coal smuggling against him, Ghorui said: “This is a coal belt and one may have business linked to coal. This does not mean all are smugglers.” A senior police officer of Durgapur said Jha used to run organised coal smuggling during the Left regime. “He had fled to Malaysia and Singapore to evade arrest after the change of power in Bengal in 2011,” the police officer said. Jha was arrested within a month of Mamata Banerjee becoming the chief minister and sent to jail. Later, he was granted bail but was arrested after the 2016 Assembly polls on charges of transporting fake currencies and unauthorised firearms. Jha to declined comment. Saumitra wife in TMC Sujata Mondal, the wife of the chief of the state unit of BJP’s youth wing and MP Saumitra Khan, joined the Trinamul Congress on Monday. Mondal said in spite of “shedding blood for the BJP” she wasn’t getting any respect and hence, decided to switch over to Trinamul. Khan held a press conference to announce that he had sent a legal notice to divorce his wife for switching over to Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||BSF shoots woman during exfiltration||A BSF team guarding Indo-Bangladesh border in Nadia gunned down a Bangladeshi national to prevent “exfiltration” at Pakhiura village in Hanshkhali in the early hours of Monday. Authorities of BSF’s South Bengal Frontier said the Sahrun Halder, 45, a resident of Khulna in Bangladesh, died in the firing when she, along with several others, was being pushed into Bangladesh by touts around 1.30am on Monday. The criminal had cut a portion of barbed fencing between the two countries to push Sahrun and others into the neighbouring nation. The Pakhiura firing is the second such incident after October 19 firing in Nadia’s Maliapota (Bhimpur), where another Bangla national was gunned down by the BSF. The Pakhiura firing comes as a fresh embarrassment for the BSF amid growing demand made by the Bangladeshi authorities that their Indian counterpart should be cautious and use non-lethal weapons while guarding the international border between the two countries. Asked why non-lethal weapons like “pump action guns” were not used, BSF authorities in Calcutta clai­med all the tr­oops didn’t carry non-lethal weapons. Jawans of Battalion 8 that opened fire early on Monday at Pakhiura did not have non-lethal weapons with them. DIG (G), BSF, SBF S.S. Gul­eria told The Telegraph: “Non-lethal weapons are not available with all personnel. Only around 20 per cent of our personnel have non-lethal weapons.” “BSF troops had fired one round from Insas rifle in safe direction in the air as a warning shot. However, the goons did not pay any heed and they aggressively tried to force |the exfiltration attempt that led the personnel to fire two rou­nds below the knee to prevent the incident,” Guleria added. Early this year, Bangladeshi foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen had urged the BSF to be cautious and use non-lethal weapons during border vigilance. After BSF opened fire on Monday, the touts fled and the BSF picked up Sahrun who was lying in a pool of blood. She was taken to Bogula rural ho­spital, but shifted to Nadia district hospital in Krishnag­ar, where she was declared dead. Police said: “The Ban­gladeshi woman was shot dead apparently while trying to return home from India with the help of touts that operate a racket with Bangla counterparts to help people to cross border illegally.” “It is a well-coordinated attempt of a racket that is involved in infiltration and exfiltration. Our troops foiled such an attempt today (Monday),” said a BSF official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Finger at varsity over Shah event attendee list||The Bengal government is set to send a letter to the ministry of home affairs following a police report on alleged noncooperation of Visva-Bharati authorities regarding security arrangements for Union home minister Amit Shah during his visit here on Sunday. Birbhum police accused varsity authorities of not providing the list of participants at Bangladesh Bhavan, where Shah had addressed a small group of Visva-Bharati faculty members and employees. Police officers said despite it being decided at the advanced security liaison (ASL) meeting that the varsity would provide the names of participants at the Bangladesh Bhavan meet, repeated appeals of the police to provide them with a list was ignored. The police have viewed the varsity’s behaviour as breach of security protocol. Birbhum district police chief Shyam Singh said: “It is true that the Visva-Bharati authorities did not provide us with the names of participants who attended the Bangladesh Bhavan meet. We had sent letters and reminders but there was no response. Though there has been no breach of security, we have informed the competent authorities about the incident.” Sources said as Shah was protected under Z-plus category, the police were required to know details of persons who would come in close proximity of the home minister at an event held in a restricted place. In Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and MP Abhishek Banerjee are in the same category of protection. Police officers said the varsity authorities had initially issued a notification asking all faculty members and staff to come at Bangladesh Bhavan for Shah’s event. Sources said the varsity had to change its plan after security officers said only 200 persons could be present at the event. Police sources said after the attack on convoy of BJP’s national president JP Nadda, the state police did not leave any stone unturned for the security of Shah during his visits to Bengal on December 19 and 20. “We were in trouble following the varsity’s role as they did not give us a list. The state government will take up the issue with the MHA,” said apolice source. Visva-Bharati officials, however, refused to comment on the allegations by the police in connection with the Bangladesh Bhavan event of Shah. The officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls and neither did he reply to a WhatsApp message from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
