23-12-2020||West Bengal||Madhyamik, HS to be held in June, says Partha||Bengal Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on Wednesday announced that the board examinations for classes X and XII will be held in June, one after the other. The class X (Madhyamik) exams will be held first, followed by the class XII (Ucchya Madhyamik) exams, Partha said. The board examinations in the state are usually held in February and March every year. “We have accepted the recommendations of the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council of Higher Education Education on holding the exams on later dates in view of the pandemic situation,” the minister said. “If the situation changes, the board and council will take decisions accordingly,” he added. Last month, the state government had pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will write their board exams next year as on-campus classes could not be held because of the Covid pandemic. Wednesday’s decision comes a day after Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ ruled out conducting board examinations for classes 10 and 12 till February next year in view of the Covid-19 situation. He said a decision on when the exams will be conducted will be taken later after due consultations and assessment of the situation. “Keeping the current situation in mind, it has been decided that the board exams for classes 10 and 12 will not be conducted till February 2021. A decision on the exam schedule will be taken later after assessment of the situation and more consultations,” he had said in an online interaction with teachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||PIL filed in SC seeks directions for free, fair polls in Bengal||A PIL in the Supreme Court has sought directions to the Centre, Bengal government and the Election Commission for “free, peaceful, safe and fair” polls in the state. The plea, filed Wednesday, has sought multiple reliefs, including a direction to CBI to probe alleged killings of political activists and adversaries of ruling Trinamul Congress in the state. It has made the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, Bengal government, the Election Commission, the state poll panel, the Director General of Police and CBI parties. “The petitioner is seeking indulgence of this court as the continuous violation of fundamental rights, statutory rights and human rights in the state of West Bengal has reached its zenith and the state government and its police machinery is involved in such violations,” it says. “No steps to prevent such violation of fundamental, statutory and human rights are being taken by the state government rather it is the state government and its machinery which is responsible for such brutal violation of rights in the State of West Bengal,” the plea says. Throwing light on the recent attack on the convoy of J.P. Nadda at Shirakol, the PIL also wanted a direction to the “Union Home Secretary and DGP, West Bengal to take strict action against errant senior officers involved in dereliction of duty in protection of the BJP's National President”. The PIL filed by one Puneet Kaur Dhanda through lawyer Vineet Dhanda alleged the fundamental rights such as right to life and personal liberty and equality and the statutory right to vote under the Representation of the people Act, 1951 of the citizens are being violated in the state. The plea alleged that in the last few years, there have been incidents of "systematic killings of political leaders especially belonging to BJP". Several people were injured in a clash between the TMC and BJP at Ramnagar area in the state, ahead of the ruling party’s rally in Contai-- Suvendu Adhikari’s stronghold. Police said the clash broke out when a procession by BJP activists was passing near a TMC party office on Ramnagar Road in Purba Medinipur district. “Several persons were injured in the clash, which took place when one group attacked another and the subsequent retaliation,” police said. BJP alleged that TMC activists attacked its party workers without any provocation when they were moving in a procession. Countering the charges, TMC claimed that BJP vandalised its party office and beat up its workers present there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata speaks to protesting farmers, offers support||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday spoke to the farmers camping at the national capital's Singhu border protesting the Central farm laws and assured them of her support in their stir, the Trinamool Congress said. This was the second time in a month that the TMC supremo had a telephonic interaction with the agitating farmers. Five Trinamool MPs met the farmers at the Singhu Border on Wednesday to show solidarity with them on Kisan Diwas. "On Mamata Banerjee's direction, a five-member delegation comprising Derek O'Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal and Md Nadimul Haque on behalf of the All India Trinamool Congress, is meeting and interacting with farmers from who are on a relay hunger strike on the highway at the Singhu Border to show solidarity. "Farmers in small groups had a telephonic interaction with Mamata Banerjee who assured them of her full solidarity with their movement. Some farmers also requested her to visit the dharna site," the TMC said. The party also supported the farmers' demand of annulling the contentious farm laws. During the telephonic conversation, Banerjee said it was unfortunate that the farmers, who feed the entire country, were being forced to go hungry. "The Trinamool will stand by the farmers in solidarity in their movement to repeal the anti-farmer bills," she assured the farmers. Trinamul had earlier offered its “moral” support to the nationwide strike on December 8 against the Centre’s farm laws after the party’s senior leaders met the Shiromani Akali Dal Bandyopadhyay, his Rajya Sabha counterpart Derek O’Brien and state labour minister Moloy Ghatak had hosted a six-member Shiromani Akali Dal delegation, led by senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra, at Trinamul Bhavan. Earlier this month, Banerjee had interacted with the agitating farmers over the phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Won't interfere if an adult marries of her own will, convert: Calcutta High Court ||Hearing a petition by a father claiming that his daughter has been unduly influenced to marry a man of a different religion, the Calcutta High Court has observed that there can be no interference if an adult marries as per her choice and decides to convert. After a 19-year old woman married a person of her choice, her father petitioned the high court, complaining that his daughter's statement before a magistrate may not have been recorded in an atmosphere where she felt comfortable. On an FIR filed by the father, the police had produced the woman before a judicial magistrate, before whom she made a statement that she had married of her own will. "If an adult marries as per her choice and decides to convert and not return to her paternal house, there can be no interference in the matter," a division bench comprising justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee observed on Monday. Upon the father's complaint, the high court had directed that the woman would meet the senior-most additional district judge in Tehatta and that sufficient care was to be taken so that she was not under any coercion or undue influence. The bench noted that despite a clear and clean report being furnished by the additional district judge, the father harbours some suspicion. Susmita Saha Dutta, the lawyer representing the father, claimed before the division bench that the husband was present within the court premises at Tehatta in Nadia district when the woman appeared before the judge. The bench directed that to allay the father's suspicion, the woman will meet additional public prosecutor Saibal Bapuli in his chamber in Calcutta on December 23. The bench further directed that at the time the woman meets Bapuli, who is representing the state in the matter, there should be no one else in the room, including her husband. It directed Bapuli to file a short report when the matter appears for hearing again on December 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal’s first wish on VC prevails||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had on Saturday appointed Shanti Chhetry as the founding vice-chancellor of Alipurduar University against the “order of preference” of the search committee of the state government but Chhetry on Tuesday said that being a person of “honesty and integrity”, he could not take the position. Chhetry, principal of P.D. Women College, Jalpaiguri, was the third on the list forwarded by the state government to Dhankhar for the VC’s post. Mahendra Nath Ray, professor of chemistry, North Bengal University (NBU), and Sanchari Roy Mukherjee, professor of economics, NBU, were the first and second choices, respectively. On Monday, the state higher education department appointed Ray as the VC of Alipurduar University through an order that stated Chhetry’s unwillingness to join the post. The government overruled the governor’s decision stating the decision was in contravention to the provisions of rule 9 (d) of the West Bengal State Universities (Terms and Conditions of Service of the Vice Chancellors & the Manner and Procedure of Official Communication) Rules, 2019, while issuing the appointment letter to Ray. The Telegraph had in its Sunday edition reported the governor’s omission of “order of preference for appointment” and his decision to act beyond providing a “formal nod” to the state’s proposal. The decision to change the governor’s choice has stirred a hornet’s nest in the Darjeeling hills with a section of people accusing the government of denying Chhetry the VC post. Pratap Khati, the president of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Pratap group), said: “The decision smells of discrimination and that is why demands for a separate state is legitimate.” Chhetry, however, clarified his stand of not taking up the post. “I felt my name is at number three (in the list). Generally, (the) number one should have got it (the appointment). For me, being a person of honesty and integrity, I did not want to be embroiled in any kind of controversy,” Chhetry told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Chhetry, who has been the principal of the Jalpaiguri college for the past 15 years, had earlier served as viceprincipal of St Joseph’s College (North Point). Chhetry said he didn’t want anyone to raise their fingers at him. “I would have been happy if my name had been at number one. I thought being someone who has been in academics for such a long time, nobody should raise their fingers at me. That’s the only philosophy (behind the decision),” added Chhetry. Along with Chhetry, the governor had also tweeted appointing Rajendra Prasad Dhakal, principal Kalimpong College, as the founding VC of Darjeeling Hills University. Dhakal, too, was named third in the list of the search committee. Till date, there has not been any fresh development regarding Dhakal’s name. Khati, however, said: “The state government should immediately issue an appointment letter to Dhakal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP helped Trinamul, says Suvendu Adhikari ||Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday said the BJP had helped his old party in its journey since its birth in 1998 and credited the saffron party for its role in the Nandigram movement that catapulted Mamata Banerjee to power in 2011. “In past three days, many people are calling me a betrayer, a Mirzafar.  Who were with Trinamul since 1998, in Assembly polls, panchayat polls and the Lok Sabha polls in 1999? If the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and BJP leader L.K. Advani had not helped Trinamul, the party would have wound up before 2001,” Suvendu told around 5,000 BJP workers at a rally in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali. He also reminded Mamata Banerjee that she broke her fast on the Singur issue when BJP leader Rajnath Singh handed her a glass of juice. “I will tell the netri (Mamata), that she could have become chief minister in 2001 if she had the power to achieve it on her own strength,” he said. Trinamul MP Sougata Roy said: “In 1998, Trinamul had an alliance with the BJP but then the Gujarat riot happened. He is attacking Trinamul after being a two term MP and enjoying all the benefits.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP showcause for protest at inductions||The Bengal BJP leadership served a showcause notice on state party general secretary Sayantan Basu on Tuesday for his public statement against Trinamul Congress leader Jitendra Tiwari’s possible induction into the saffron camp. Two district party leaders were also showcaused for commenting on the entry of leaders from other parties into the BJP. The notices bear a proof that the saffron camp is saddled with the problem of inorganic growth pangs. “I’ve received a showcause notice, which I believe was sent to me regarding my comments about Jitendra Tiwari,” Basu told The Telegraph. “I’ve regretted my action and replied to the notice,” he added. Amid speculations that Tiwari and some other Trinamul leaders were supposed to join the BJP during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit, Basu had said that he had personal objection to Tiwari’s inclusion in the party. Basu had accused Tiwari of tormenting BJP workers in Asansol and insulting union minister Babul Supriyo. Such has been the resistance to Tiwari’s impending inclusion that Supriyo himself had made a Facebook post expressing his discontent. “Babul has been asked to be in Shah’s office tomorrow (Wednesday)... It is almost certain that he is bound to get a wrap on his knuckle,” said a source. With eyes firmly set on the seat of power in Bengal, the BJP’s central leaders have made it clear that they would follow the inorganic growth model ahead of the 2021 elections. Sources in the BJP said that during internal meetings, Shah repeatedly made it clear that the newcomers and old-timers would have to work together. However, there were also questions on whether his message would trickle down to the lowest rung, where the conflict between the turncoats and the old-timers is intense. “He can serve showcause notices to top leaders and silence them, but not the ground level workers,” said a source. Over the last week or so, there have been reports of clashes and protests in districts like in Bankura, Midnapore and Burdwan over inductions. Over the past two days, clashes were reported from Durgapur, Narayangarh in West Midnapore and Gaighata in North 24-Parganas. In Narayangarh, clashes broke out between supporters of Suvendu Adhikari, who had joined the saffron party on Saturday, and BJP old guards over hoisting party flags. Adhikari’s posters were torn and damaged and an injured party worker had to be hospitalised “Managing the inorganic growth pang is going to be a big challenge for us,” said a state BJP office-bearer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Homestay affiliation word by Centre||Prahlad Singh Patel, the Union minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and culture, on Tuesday said homestay owners could directly approach the Centre for affiliation of their properties. Patel attended a number of programmes organised by the BJP at Malbazar in Jalpaiguri district, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar on Tuesday. “Tourists are preferring homestays nowadays. We can help them with affiliation and provide them with training and financial benefits. The state government does not have any role in the process and these people can directly approach us. I have talked to our local MPs and soon, we will send experts here for impart training to homestay owners,” the minister said. Patil told newspersons that he would flag the issue of SDF (sustainable development fee) that the neighbouring country of Bhutan had planned to charge from Indian tourists. According to the plan, an Indian tourist visiting Bhutan will have to pay Rs 1,200 per day as the SDF. Such an additional charge would lead to a drop in the number of Indian tourists to Bhutan, which would eventually affect the tourism industry in north Bengal and Sikkim also. Hundreds of homestays have mushroomed in north Bengal, both in the plains and the hills, in the past few years. Most of the owners are first-generation entrepreneurs who could promote new tourist destinations. The state government has already floated a scheme under which homestay owners are entitled to receive a one-time financial assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh each for development of their properties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Shah to attend Vivekananda programme||Union home minister Amit Shah will visit Calcutta on January 12 for the second time in less than a month and take part in an event organised to mark the birth anniversary of one of Bengal’s greatest icons, Swami Vivekananda. “Amitji is coming to Calcutta on January 12 and will be present at a Yuva Morcha event organised to observe the birth anniversary of Swamiji,” said Shankudeb Panda, a vice-president of the youth wing of the party’s state unit. Shah was here on December 19 and 20, when he visited places associated with three foremost Bengali icons, Swami Vivekananda, Khudiram Bose and Rabindranath Tagore. Sources said repeated attempts of senior leaders like Shah to associate the BJP with Bengal’s icons went to show the concern of the leadership over Trinamul’s persistent attack on the BJP as a party of outsiders. “Amitji wants to lead the battle against this outsider tag. It is true that Amitji’s rebuttal of claims made by the Trinamul Congress will have more effect than that of any other state-level functionary,” said a BJP leader. The isolation of the saffron camp amongst Bengal’s political parties became even more telling on Tuesday when junior Left Front partner, Forward Bloc, invited every other party in the state to form a steering committee to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary but left out the BJP. Asked why the BJP was not invited, Chatterjee said: “BJP has violated Netaji’s ideology of secularism. In Azad Hind Fauj and the first free Indian government, Netaji had included people from all communities. The BJP, however, wants an India for Hindus only. They are anti-Netaji.” Folk singer Basudeb Das Baul, who had hosted Amit Shah for lunch in Santiniketan on Sunday, was taken to a Trinamul office in Bolpur on Tuesday and assured of financial help so that his daughter could get a diploma in education. “Amit Shah came and had his lunch at Basudeb’s house but did not hear his problems. When we came to know that his daughter aspired to become a teacher and needed help for a course in education, we have promised all help,” said Anubrata Mondal, Birbhum Trinamul chief. Basudeb’s daughter Sumana Das completed her masters’ in history two years ago but could not study diploma in education as it required the family to pay a course fee of Rs 1.5 lakh. “Kesto da has promised to help my daughter complete her degree. We are hopeful that she will get the job of a school teacher,” Basudeb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||38 more die of Covid in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday reported 2,270 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,653 infections and 38 deaths as the state logged a drop in its total of active cases for the 57th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja. The total of active cases was 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, on October 26. On Tuesday, registering an improvement by over 56 per cent, the total was 16,248, back almost to where it was 157 days ago, on July 18. “Our Covid-19 management has been the best in the country… it has been an exemplary performance,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee at a news conference. A cabinet colleague said the chief minister had been “very pleased” with the progress made over the past couple of months. “She is confident now that Bengal will be in really good shape by the time vaccination properly takes off,” he said. The recovery rate, which has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 61 consecutive days, has risen in this period from the 87.44 per cent of October 22 to 95.24. The national rate now is 95.66 per cent. The positive confirmation rate is 7.97 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. “The steadily reducing positive confirmation rate indicates a contraction of the spread of the outbreak,” said the minister. In the 56 days since Puja, the state has recorded over 2.04 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.86 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of nearly 5.4 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.14 lakh recoveries and 9,439 deaths. With 40,156 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count rose to 67.75 lakh, at 75,288 tests per million people. The 38 deaths reported on Tuesday included 10 in Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 7,916, or 83.9 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. Bengal reported 15.86 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.43 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Tablet cash for pupils in Bengal||Mamata Banerjee has said the administration will transfer Rs 10,000 each to the accounts of 9.5 lakh Class XII students at government or government-aided schools to buy tablets or smart phones for online classes as companies expressed inability to supply such a large number of devices on time. The Bengal chief minister had on December 3 announced tablets for Class XII students studying at 14,000-odd government or government-aided schools and 636 madrasas. “We were informed that we could get supply of a maximum of 1.5 lakh tabs. As the Centre has asked not to go for Chinese products, we have decided to give Rs 10,000 each to Class XII students. Within three weeks, we will start transferring money,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Tuesday. Sources at Nabanna said officials, who had held meetings with companies making tablets before floating tenders, learnt that only three firms would be able to supply them. The company representatives apparently informed them that each one of them could supply only about 15,000 tablets a month. “Two of the major companies informed the officials that they would not be able to supply the device for two reasons. First, enhancement of production was not possible in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Second, as the companies don’t focus on production of tablets on large scale because of lack of demand, it was not possible to meet the huge demand,” said a senior government official. Sources said if the government had accepted the proposal, it could have secured supply of about 1.5 lakh tablets till May next year. “But the target was to supply tablets at least three months before their higher secondary exams, which are likely to be held in June. So, it was decided that students would be given Rs 10,000 each so that they could buy digital devices on their own,” said a senior government official. The officials feel if so many tablets were not available in the markets, the students could buy smartphones, which would also help them attend online classes once the schools started imparting online training. Trinamul insiders said the decision to give Rs 10,000 would help the ruling party ahead of the polls as the students would be able to buy smart phones or tablets much earlier. A section of the officials said the government should develop a mechanism to ensure that the funds transferred for the purpose were not misused. “I don’t know how the government would monitor whether the money is going to be spent for the intended purpose... But a mechanism should be developed before the funds are transferred. Otherwise, public funds would be misused,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata issues rebuttal of Shah’s charges, point by point ||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday issued her rebuttal of Amit Shah’s charges on Bengal’s growth and infrastructure, urging him to do his homework and run a fact-check on things he said in public as he was the Union home minister, before demanding a treat of Gujarati cuisine from him. The Bengal chief minister, with relatively less belligerence, addressed a news conference at Nabanna in the afternoon to counter Shah’s allegations regarding the lack of development in the state. Every answer, I have given. Now Amit Shah owes me a treat,” said Mamata. “I want to have Gujarati food, including dhokla (a vegetarian dish made with a fermented batter derived from rice and split chickpeas)…. Something else too, Dineshda (Trivedi) gets for me, I can’t recall the name… but I love it. He (Shah) has to treat me to good dhokla and that other thing,” she added. Mamata said Shah had said a lot of things at his news conference on Sunday, but the likes of the Union home minister and the Prime Minister should make sure what they were saying was correct. “I make mistakes too…. If I say incorrect things, I rectify them. There is no shame in it…. Bengal means a bad state. Bengal means there has been no development. Bengal means there is no employment…. Now, the shiny, thriving Bengal makes you envious, prompting you to say such things. Speak the truth in your criticism, I have no objection. If you don’t, every statement will be challenged,” she said. Some of the key points raised by the Trinamul Congress chief follow. What Shah said: Bengal is in the 20th place in industrial production. It occupies the 16th place in terms of rate of increase of the state GDP. A child born now will have interest burden of Rs 50,000 on their head, because of the state’s debts Mamata’s response: The Centre’s data, as of July 31, 2020, state in terms of GVA (current prices) of the industry sector, Bengal is fourth in India. The Centre’s data, on the same date, say Bengal is in second place nationally, in terms of growth of the state GDP. Debt as a percentage of the GSDP in 2010-11 was 40.65 per cent, lowered to 33.3 in 2019-20. The Centre says Bengal is the number one state in poverty alleviation, in 100-day employment guarantee, in rural housing, rural roads… development in sectors such as micro, small and medium enterprises, in e-tendering and e-governance. “Our GSDP has increased by over 2.6 times, and over one crore jobs have been created in our tenure.” What Shah said: Bengal is in the 23rd place in terms of beds for every 1,000 patients. Thirty-nine per cent of appointment of doctors remains to be done. Appointment not done for 87 per cent of specialty and surgeons. Mamata’s response: There are 85,642 beds now in state-run hospitals, compared to the 58,647 beds in 2011. The state now has 15,338 doctors, compared to 4,800 in 2011 and the doctor to population ratio in Bengal is 0.59 per thousand, which is the second highest in the country. What Shah said: Ninety per cent primary schools have no desks, 30 per cent do not have adequate classrooms, 10 per cent have no electricity, 56 per cent have no toilets. Mamata’s response: Over 93 per cent schools have furniture, around five per cent do not have adequate classrooms, over 99 per cent have electricity, every school has toilets. What Shah said: Roads are in a bad condition. Mamata’s response: The state government has built 88,846km of rural roads since 2011, the most in the country. Over 13,700km of the 19,689km of state highways are in very good condition. Work is going on for further improvement of 3,865km. What Shah said: The quality of electricity is not up to the mark. Mamata’s response: Cent per cent electrification was achieved in 2018. There is excess capacity and no shortage of supply. Average power availability across the state in 23.7 hours a day. Bengal is one of the eight states in the country, according to the Centre, which supply 24x7 power. Quality power provided to all segments of consumers, low-voltage problems eliminated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Push for teacher recruitment in Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said 16,500 primary school teachers would soon be recruited as interview of the candidates, who had already cleared the written exams, would be conducted between January 10 and 17. Besides, the chief minister also announced that a teachers’ eligibility test (TET) would be conducted on January 31 where a total of 2.5 lakh applicants had already applied. “The third TET would be held on January 31 and the exam would be held offline,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Tuesday after a cabinet meeting. Later, education minister Partha Chatterjee said a notification to this effect would soon be issued. Sources said the recruitment of teachers was held up in the state over the past few months because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the ruling establishment had laid stress on completing the process before the model code of conduct was implemented ahead of the Assembly polls. The sources said once the recruitments was done, it would give a weapon to the chief minister to counter the BJP as it had started campaigning that the ruling establishment has failed to recruit people through the school service commission. “The most vocal on the issue is Suvendu Adhikari, who recently joined the BJP deserting the Trinamul camp. It has an impact in the rural areas where educated youths dream of getting a job through the SSC. The chief minister is trying to counter the BJP on the issue,” said a source. The sources also said the recent high court order to cancel the recruitment process of teachers in upper primary schools had given a weapon to the Opposition parties. “The Opposition parties are claiming that the selection process of teachers in Bengal is nothing but a corruption. It is uncomfortable for any ruling party. The chief minister is desperate to counter the allegation by completing the recruitment process ahead of the polls,” said a source. The cabinet on Tuesday approved recruitment of 9,282 constables and 1,085 sub inspectors in the state police force. The cabinet also decided to set up a new block — Banarhat — by dividing Dhupguri block in Jalpaiguri district. Besides, Telegu was accepted as an official language in Bengal after Telegu speaking people from Kharagpur had requested the chief minister on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
23-12-2020||West Bengal||3 killed as bus turns turtle in race for passengers||Three passengers, including the driver, died and at least 30 others were injured after a private bus overturned and fell into a roadside ditch while trying to overtake another bus at a high speed to get more passengers in Hooghly’s Goghat on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased have been identified as driver Panchanan Dolui, 45, Rehana Khatun, 14 and Anup Roy, 28. They were declared brought dead at Arambagh sub-divisional hospital. Doctors said three persons, including a woman, were shifted to Calcutta as their condition was critical. “The private bus from Burdwan was heading to Panskura in West Midnapore via Arambagh. The bus was chasing another bus of the same route at a high speed to get more passengers. As the driver suddenly spotted a speed break and tried to slow down, he lost control of the vehicle and it overturned,” said a police officer. Sources said when the bus reached Arambagh-Ghatal road, the driver found a bus of the same route ahead of it. “The other bus was picking up passengers and when the driver of our vehicle saw it, he stepped on the accelerator. He tried to overtake the other bus at a high speed and ran into a speed breaker. In his effort to slow down before the bus hit the speed breaker, he slammed the brake and the vehicle overturned. The bus fell into a roadside ditch,” said Rohan Thandar, a student who survived the accident and was rescued by villagers. Police said it had become a practice of most drivers of private buses to chase other vehicles to get more passengers. “We regularly campaign to stop this practice of drivers but it seems the awareness drives hardly impact them,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
