24-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata not invited to Viswa Bharati event, claims TMC||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was not invited to the centenary celebrations at the state’s prestigious Viswa Bharati University, the ruling Trinamul Congress claimed on Thursday. Addressing a press briefing at Calcutta, state minister and party leader Bratya Basu claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who addressed the centenary event of the university via video conference, made “factual errors” during his speech. “Mamata Banerjee did not receive any invitation for the centenary meet of Viswa Bharati,” Basu claimed. The BJP was, however, quick to produce a letter of invitation to the Chief Minister, and instead alleged her of not respecting Targore’s institution by staying away from the event. Responding to a query on these lines, he said, “Even if the invitation, as you suggest, was sent last night, should that be the decorum? After all, she (Mamata) is the chief minister of a state.” According to claims made by the senior TMC member, the Prime Minister “denigrated” the Bengali culture during his speech in more ways than one. "Gujarat cropped up often in the PM's speech. Why is he confining Rabindranath Tagore to Gujarat? He said Satyen Tagore's wife (Rabindranath Tagore's sister-in-law) learnt how to drape sarees in a certain fashion from Gujarati women. The fact is that she learnt it from the Gujaratis as well the Parsis. But the prime minister wouldn't mention Parsis,” Basu said. “The PM also spoke about the universities of Delhi and Lahore during his address, but failed to make a mention of Calcutta University, which played an important part in the country's freedom movement,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Christmas gift offered to Lord Jagannath at Iskcon temple in Mayapur||For the first time, a 50kg cake laced with chocolate, vanilla and other creams was offered to Lord Jagannath at an Iskcon temple in Mayapur, Nadia, on Wednesday to mark the beginning of Christmas celebration. The 6ft-long cake stuffed with dry fruits had been baked in front of the deities of Lord Jagannath, Baladev and Subhadra by four chefs of a Calcutta-based confectioner before it was offered as puja. The cake had a topping of tulasi (basil) leaves since scriptures say offerings to Lord Jagannath should have the holy leaves on them, said a spokesperson for the Iskcon. “After verifying that the cake and pastry were genuinely vegetarian, we allowed them to prepare and offer the cake before the Lord,” director of Iskcon, Mayapur, Madhava Gauranga Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling Himalayan Railway to resume toy train services from Dec 25||The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway has decided to resume toy train services from Christmas. The service had come to a halt around 10 months ago because of Covid-19. “Today, we received permission from the state government for resumption of toy train services. We have decided to begin the services from December 25,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of Northeast Frontier Railway. Initially, there will be three joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom every day. DHR’s toy train service is one of the major attractions for tourists visiting the hills. After the lockdown was eased, stakeholders of the tourism industry have time and again demanded resumption of the service. The demand had made the railway officials approach the state as well as carry out inspection of the tracks, the rolling stock and other equipment. “We are fully prepared to start the toy train service again. Initially, it has been decided to start three joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom every day. Among these, two rides will be conducted by steam loco and another by a diesel loco,” said AK Mishra, the director of DHR, said. The railways however, are yet to decide on resumption of the regular service between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling. According to NFR sources, for the two steam loco rides, the fare per passenger will be Rs 1,500 for the morning ride and Rs 1,600 for the second ride that will be conducted in the afternoon. For the third ride where the coaches would be hauled by a diesel loco, the fare is Rs 1,000. “Earlier, nine such joy rides used to run. We will monitor the response of people and would then decide whether to introduce more rides,” said a railway official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal reports 58th consecutive day of drop in its total active Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Wednesday reported the 58th consecutive day of drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases after Durga Puja, which improved by nearly 58 per cent to 15,689. Bengal fell from the third to the fifth place in the list of states with the most active cases. On Wednesday, the state logged 2,153 recoveries, 1,628 infections and 34 deaths. But chief minister Mamata Banerjee advised caution. “We have to resume going out, gradually, of course. But always while adhering to Covid-19 safety protocol,” she said. “I have heard that Europe is being totally locked down again. Dengue, for instance, changes character. Likewise, Covid-19 is also apparently changing character. As a result, a new kind of the virus, which is very strong, is being seen,” she added. Mamata referred to the suspension of flight operations between India and the UK, and said all such developments have to be factored in. The recovery rate, which has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 62 consecutive days, has risen in this period from the 87.44 per cent of October 22 to 95.35. The national rate now is 95.68 per cent. “Bengal now has over 95 per cent recovery rate… which is very good. But in winters, common cold is a bit more common…. We also tend to bathe less, wash hands less, because of the cold. Winter clothes are not washed as regularly. But what needs to be done, must be done. Sanitise yourselves, your clothes, everything. Masks, remember, absolutely must,” said the chief minister. “If you take care of yourselves and your families, Covid-19 can be defeated. We have been doing exceptionally well so far,” she added. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.95 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. In the 58 days since Puja, the state has recorded over 2.06 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.87 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of over 5.41 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.16 lakh recoveries and 9,473 deaths. With 41,067 tests on Wednesday, the state’s total test count rose to 68.16 lakh, at 75,744 tests per million people. The 34 deaths reported on Wednesday included six from the city. Of the total deaths, 7,944, or 83.9 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown in Bhutan, blow to border trade||Commercial activities in Jaigaon, the town in Alipurduar district that sits on the Bhutan border, came to a grinding halt on Wednesday as a countrywide lockdown was announced in the Himalayan country for seven days following a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. “Trade in Jaigaon and in Alipurduar district as a whole has suffered a major setback because of the pandemic and the consequent lockdown. After the initial lockdown had been eased on either side of the border, things started becoming normal in the past couple of months. The second lockdown from today (Wednesday) would only add to our distress,” said Ramashankar Gupta, the general secretary of the Jaigaon Merchants’ Association. According to the data available with different government agencies in India and Bhutan, goods worth over Rs 9,000 crore are traded between the countries every year and a significant portion of the bilateral business is done through Jaigaon. Some other members of the local business fraternity said thousands of Bhutanese residents visited Jaigaon every day to make purchases. “Even now, almost 60 per cent of the shops in Jaigaon are closed because of paucity of customers. Owners of the remaining 40 per cent are occasionally finding buyers. In such a situation, the new lockdown has come as a fresh setback,” said another trader, adding that there were over 1,500 shops in the town. Administrative sources said only trucks carrying essential items were allowed to enter Bhutan. The traders of Jaigaon pointed out that every day around 4,000 workers entered Bhutan from India. They return in the evening and make purchases in Jaigaon. “These days, we are banking on these people. But for the next seven days, we will lose this business as well,” a retailer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC rally on Suvendu turf||Trinamul Congress leaders, including Bengal minister Firhad Hakim and MP Saugata Roy, led a rally of 20,000 people in East Midnapore’s Contai on Wednesday to assert the party’s influence on the turf of Suvendu Adhikari who had switched over to the BJP last week. The Adhikari trio — MPs Sisir and Dibyendu and Contai municipality administrator Soumendu — have made no public steps to back brother Suvendu, but they were absent from Wednesday’s march. In his address, Hakim made no bones of the fact that the rally had been called to take on Suvendu and showcase the strength of Trinamul. Hakim, making an obvious reference to Suvendu, said: “We are happy that he left. I am ashamed to have ever worked by his side.” Appealing to the agrarian sentiment of the local community, Hakim claimed Suvendu had “betrayed farmers whom he once stood up for and joined the traitors”. Suvendu is slated to hold a rally here on Thursday. Echoing Hakim’s sentiments, Saugata Roy said the people of Nandigram wouldn’t forgive Suvendu. “Suvendu is suddenly coming up with grievances against (MP) Abhishek Banerjee, but he said no such thing in a recent joint meeting with I-PAC chief Prashant Kishor,” added Roy. Local Trinamul leaders present at the rally also affirmed the Nandigram narrative being raised by Trinamul. Party leader and land agitator Sheikh Sufian said: “Mamata Banerjee did all the hard work, and not Suvendu as is popularly believed.” “Even if his relatives leave, it will be like drops being taken out of an ocean,” Sufian added. Sources close to Sisir said the family patriarch had been suffering from a foot injury since December 7 and had been “compelled” to stay home, allaying rumours about the rift with the ruling party. Although Trinamul tried to portray a united front at Wednesday rally, a scuffle erupted at the venue and it left the party leaders worried about the possible impact of factionalism on the upcoming Assembly polls. Supporters of Trinamul leader Tarun Jana and Contai coordinator of the party Akhil Giri quarrelled over the speakers not naming the former in their address. A senior Trinamul leader, however, said the matter had been resolved with the intervention of Giri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC team, farmers strike chord||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday sent a five-member parliamentary delegation of the Trinamul Congress to the protesting farmers on the Delhi borders to express solidarity with them on Kisan Divas and spoke over the phone to several agitating groups. The delegates sent by the chief minister were Rajya Sabha members Derek O’Brien and Nadimul Haque, Satabdi Roy (Birbhum), Prasun Banerjee (Howrah) and Pratima Mondal (Joynagar). Sources in her party said Mamata had handpicked the members of the delegation, ensuring representation of minorities (Derek and Haque), Dalits (Mondal), women (Mondal and Roy) and upper castes (Banerjee). Speaking to the Bengal chief minister over the speakerphone, a young Sikh farmer, identifying himself as Shankar, said her support meant a great deal to the movement against the controversial farm laws by the Centre. “The scale of this farmers’ movement is unprecedented and it is unlikely that it will be matched in future, so it would mean a lot to us if the likes of you keep extending maximum support,” he said, to which Mamata reiterated her unconditional support to the cause. “If you can contribute to our movement, it will infuse it with more power, more life. If you can pay us a visit here… it is our humble request. Right now, you are the most powerful woman in India, so we really need you here,” he added, to cheers from the MPs. Mamata said: “We have been conducting our own movements here in your support.” “Give me seven-eight days to figure out my schedule, as I have many programmes lined up here. But I will let you know,” she added, to applause from the audience. Another elderly Sikh farmer from the movement said to Mamata: “Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Jains, Buddhists, all brothers and sisters of India, we have come together here, we sit here, we protest here, we eat here…. Together, we will make the (Narendra) Modi government bow. Because this Modi government has made our lives miserable,” he said. “The central government works for only two people, (Mukesh) Ambani and (Gautam) Adani. For the common people of India, the Modi government has done nothing,” he added. “We know what you have been doing for the masses in Bengal. Your work is tremendous. We praise you all the time here. You have hit the BJP hard in the past and you will continue to do so. We want our sisters like you to come forward across the country, and work for the masses.” Mamata has thrown her weight firmly behind the cause and her party has already carried out a slew of programmes this month, including a three-day dharna at the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee dances for unity message||Mamata Banerjee was seen shaking a leg for the first time in recent memory as she danced on stage along with tribal musician Basanti Hembram, a recipient of the state government’s Sangeet Samman, at an event on Wednesday evening. If the Santhali welcome dance was not enough for the chief minister to drive home the message that the “holy soil” of Bengal would remain unscathed in divisive politics, she said the state would never be turned into Gujarat. In over four decades of her public life, Mamata has often been seen picking up some instrument or vocalising in contribution to live musical performances. Sometimes, she has even been seen swaying to the music. But at the event organised by the state government at the Uttirna auditorium in Alipore, Calcutta, she broke into a jig – a traditional Santhali welcome dance called Dong — with Hembram and several other artistes at the inauguration of the Bangla Sangeet Mela and the Biswa Bangla Sanskriti Utsav, 2020. Hembram was handed the Sangeet Samman at the event. “From this dais, we tried giving the message to every section of the people that we are for all. Music does not divide, but only unites… Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists, Jains. Our surnames might be different, our appearances might be different, our complexions might be different — just like the countless musical instruments — but we are all part of one big family, across the world. The family of humanity,” Mamata said in her address. “Do not ever, please, let anybody divide that family. Fight the attempts boldly. We will fight this boldly,” she added. The chief minister did not take names, but it was apparent that the target of her attack was the BJP and its allegedly divisive agenda. In a jibe at the aggressively repeated assertions by the likes of BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh that Bengal would be turned into another Gujarat if his party came to power here, Mamata said she would never allow that to happen. She said the Jai Hind slogan by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the Vande Mataram slogan and song by Bankim Chandra Chatterjee and the Jana Gana Mana song by Rabindranath Tagore were all contributed to India by Bengal. “Bengal’s excellence and merit is universally acclaimed and world-class…. This is the holy soil that we must respect day and night…. We will protect it with our lives,” said Mamata. “Nobody can come close to matching Bengal and will never be able to…. No matter how much they try and malign Bengal. I honestly believe that there will be a day again soon when the whole world will salute Bengal,” she added. “We will never allow Bengal be turned into Gujarat.” A senior Trinamul Congress MP said the speech was yet another addition to her attempts to portray the BJP as the marauding bohiragawto (outsider), trying to destroy Bengal and all that it stood for. He said in continuation of that wider exercise, the party decided to involve at least 3,000 people connected with the culture of Bengal, including Baul singers, Kirtan singers and other artistes of tribal culture, in the march she would undertake in Bolpur on December 29. In her counter-rally after a similar programme there by Union home minister Amit Shah — which drew at least 40,000 people and alarmed her party — Trinamul would ensure a turnout of over 2.5 lakh. Trinamul leaders said the core theme of the rally would be Bengal’s culture. “Shah tried to pander to Bengal’s culture and had lunch at a Baul singer’s home…. Our chief minister has already provided a monthly stipend to all artistes connected with folk and tribal culture,” said Abhijit Sinha, senior Trinamul leader in Birbhum. In Birbhum, there are around 12,000 artistes who get the monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 each from the state government. Birbhum district Trinamul president Anubrata Mondal had distributed 4,000 traditional drums and 8,000 traditional percussion instruments to 4,000 teams of Kirtan singers in 2018. All of them have been invited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Hill Assembly seats set for bipolar contest||The contest in the three hill seats of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts is all set to be biploar in the Assembly polls as  most of the hill-based parties have either aligned or are in the process of aligning themselves with the two major political contenders — the Trinamul and the BJP. While both the factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have pledged their support for Mamata Banerjee, five other regional parties — the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), CPRM, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha and SUMETI Mukti Morcha — seem to have joined the saffron camp. “Earlier, the hill based parties, each of which has some support base, used to contest individually at the Assembly elections. But this time, a new polarisation has been witnessed in hills as these parties are either with Trinamul or with BJP,” said a veteran in hill politics. If there is no change in this polarisation till the elections, the contest in the three seats of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong will be between Trinamul and BJP, he pointed out. During the past couple of On one hand, the Trinamul leadership is trying to clear the differences among the two factions of Morcha — both the factions, headed by Gurung and Binay Tamang are still not ready to join hands — to ensure that this difference does not affect the party's poll prospects. On the other hand, BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, have met leaders of the five other parties in Delhi and have assured them that the Centre is all set to meet one of their longstanding demands – conferment of scheduled tribe status to 11 hill communities. As these parties have lined up behind Trinamul and BJP, their leaders are also engaging in a war of words on several issues and trying to counter each other, a move that is being seen as a strategy to strengthen their respective support bases. Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gurung camp of Morcha, was critical of the BJP on Wednesday and sounded an alert for the other parties. “BJP is just interested in spreading their party’s wing. So far our demands are concerned, we have met their party leaders innumerable times in the past but nothing came out of those talks,” said Giri, referring to the recent meeting that these parties had with Amit Shah and some others. Neeraj Zimba, a GNLF leader, said: “It was foolish of them that they joined a sinking ship. We want to make it clear that we had resumed talks with the Centre on our key demands and these talks will be effective.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Accused weds minor rape victim||A minor pregnant girl and 28-year-old truck driver got married on the premises of a court in Birbhum district on Wednesday as their families wanted to “settle the issue”. Sources said the 17-year-old girl had become pregnant seven months ago and lodged a police complaint against the youth under Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences POCSO act after he had refused to marry her. The youth was held and remanded in judicial custody till Thursday morning before their wedding in the presence of lawyers by a marriage registrar under Muslim Marriage Act, the sources said. “There was a marriage proposal from both the families after the youth was held. We convinced the court they could be allowed to get married as early marriage is allowed under the Muslim Marriage Act. As the court granted bail to the accused, we arranged marriage on court premises today,” said an assistant public prosecutor. He said the newly married couple were sent to their village. Asked how a girl aged below 18 years got married with the court’s intervention, the assistant public prosecutor said: “As the girl is pregnant and it is a serious issue involving the lives of the victim and her baby, we thought of this option. There are similar examples and Muslim Marriage Law allows marriage of underage girls.” The advocate of the accused was also present and echoed the assistant public prosecutor. However, several senior advocates said it was unlawful to arrange marriage of a minor girl who is the victim of rape. “It was wrong to allow marriage of an underage girl… We have a law in the Parliament where marriage of an underage girl is prevented. In a case where a minor was raped, no one has the right to get her married,” said Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, an advocate of Calcutta High Court. The youth who was granted bail is accused under sections 4 and 6 of POCSO, which has a maximum punishment of death penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Hill citizens revamp wall of fame ||The wall of Chowk Bazar, which has stood the test of time as a newscaster and an integral part of Darjeeling, is getting an unusual facelift. A group of citizens from Darjeeling will beautify the over-30-foot-tall wall with a collage and infographics that depict Darjeeling’s rich history and culture. So far, the wall has been used to convey messages of every sort from politics to social issues, by organisations to individuals. The team that prefers to go without a name, but wants to see this Rs 2-lakh-project project as an initiative of every individual, is relying on crowdfunding. The idea, team members say, is to showcase Darjeeling in a positive light, "above" the poster politics of "zindabad and murdabad" plastered on this wall. In this process, Darjeeling has already started showing its true spirit, say the movers of the project. Team member Anjani Sharma Bhujel said people of Darjeeling are coming with offers of help of every kind. “We needed bamboos for scaffolding and one gentleman from Badamtam tea garden Karna Bahadur Pariyar cut bamboos from his backyard and donated us, saving us almost Rs 40,000,” Anjani said. “A priest, Father Alexendar Gurung, volunteered to provide premises of his diocese area for storage of materials. A shoe shop owner from Chowk Bazar, Anant Thatal, did the same,” she added. The wall-revamp team believes that while politics has its own place, the social aspect of Darjeeling is more important. “We look at the wall every day, the writers change but the political content of murdabad and zindabad hardly changes. Yet we look at the wall more than newspapers. So we strongly believe that this wall too should send out a message on the need for the social fabric to be stronger and social inclusiveness,” said Anjani. “The political discourse of the day might be important but other aspects of Darjeeling are more important…” Anjani added that about 10 to 15 feet of the wall space will be left for pasting posters but the rest of the space would showcase the things that made Darjeeling special. “We want to come up with a painting collage depicting aspects of Darjeeling, including its culture, and infographics about things like the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway and Sidrabong hydel project (the first hydro project in India),” said Anjani. Money from crowdfunding is being pooled from website gorkhalines.com and offline donations are accepted at RK Enterprise, a hardware store at Judge Bazar, and Amigos, an eatery at Chowrasta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
