25-12-2020||West Bengal||Half-truths and distorted facts in PM’s speech, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday hit back at Prime Minister Narendra modi, alleging that he was trying to mislead people by telling half-truths and distorted facts over the non-implementation of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme in the state. She said that the Prime Minister was feigning his concerns over the farmers’ issue, and was doing nothing proactive to resolve them. “While he (PM Modi) publicly claimed his intention to help farmers of WB (West Bengal) through his PM Kisan Yojana and alleges non-cooperation of the state government, the fact is that he is trying to mislead the people with half-truth and distorted facts,” Mamata said in a statement. Earlier in the day, Modi had alleged that the Bengal government had destroyed the state and was doing politics by stopping over 70 lakh farmers of the state from getting benefits of the Centre's flagship PM-KISAN scheme under which Rs 6,000 is being provided every year. Mamata countered that her government was always ready to cooperate with farmers. Maintaining that she has written two letters to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and has even spoken to him two days ago, the chief minister said "they are refusing to cooperate and are instead indulging in malicious propaganda for political gains". Maintaining that she has written two letters to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and has even spoken to him two days ago, the chief minister said, “They are refusing to cooperate and are instead indulging in malicious propaganda for political gains”. She said that when the state is implementing so many schemes with the central government, the question of not cooperating on a scheme that is benefiting farmers seems absurd. “Today I regret that more than 70 lakh farmers in West Bengal have not been able to get benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. More than 23 lakh farmers of Bengal have applied online to take advantage of this scheme. But the state government has stopped the verification process for so long,” Modi had said in his address on Friday. Quashing his accusations, Mamata said the BJP-led Union government is used to indulging in politicking even at the cost of violating the established practices and norms regarding the implementation of central schemes by state governments. She also reminded the Centre of the GST dues, saying it is “yet to release even a portion of the Rs 85,000 crores of outstanding dues that includes unpaid GST dues of Rs 8,000 crores”. He asked the prime minister to release the amount or a part of it if he truly cares about Bengal. Stating that lakhs of farmers are protesting on the roads demanding the withdrawal of the new farm laws, the TMC supremo claimed that these enactments are anti-farmer as these “threaten to dilute the MSP, the state procurement system, and take away the basic protective mechanisms of the farmers, hence leaving them at the mercy of big private players”. Mamata claimed that in the interest of the people of Bengal, her government will do everything that is needed on its part. “Even if it means supporting schemes of central government that are purely meant to further their political agenda, are at odds with the spirit of federalism, and are definitely not guided by their desire to help the people at large; so long it ensures even incremental benefit for the people of Bengal,” she said in her statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
25-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC worker found dead in Cooch Behar with injury marks||A Trinamul worker from Rampur-Jaldhowa village in Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district was found dead at field with injury marks on Thursday morning. Trinamul leaders claimed they have found a flag of BJP and a dagger near the body of Khalek Mian, 70, and alleged that goons backed by the BJP killed him. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh who met the party worker’s family also said: “We suspect the BJP is behind the murder.” BJP leaders denied the charges as fabricated. Khalek went missing on Wednesday evening, said his daghter-in-law Hanufa Bibi. “He went to the market but did not come back.” Baxirhat police recovered his body on Thursday and gave it for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
25-12-2020||West Bengal||BDO works after hours to hand health insurance cards||A block development officer went beyond the call of duty to visit a primary health centre late on Wednesday to hand over Swasthya Sathi (free health insurance offered by the state government) cards to patients being treated at the centre. Among those who received the cards include four pregnant women from remote villages nestling in the hilly tracts of Buxa. Prasanta Burman, the block development officer of Kalchini, reached the Latabari health centre of his block around 9pm on Wednesday along with some employees of his office. Burman’s arrival to the centre so late on a chilly night left the doctors and the medical staff surprised. Burman then told them that he was there to find out whether the patients being treated at the centre had the Swasthya Sathi card. “I deemed it necessary to personally find out whether all the patients who are there at the health centre have the card. There is a clear instruction from the administration to reach out to as many people as possible so that they can avail benefits of the card. That is why I went to the centre,” Burman explained to this newspaper on Thursday. Accompanied by the doctors and nurses, he spoke to each patient. Eventually, he found out that 10 patients did not have the health insurance card and had not applied for it as well. “We then distributed them the forms to get the card and helped them fill up the details. Then we distributed the cards among them. It took about an hour but I think it was effective as we could help these people get enrolled under the scheme,” the BDO added. Around 10pm, Burman left the health centre with the staff. This month, the Mamata Banerjee government launched the “Duare Sarkar” campaign to reach welfare schemes to all, even those who have so far not applied for them. Duare Sarkar camps are being opened in rural and urban areas to help people get them registered under welfare schemes provided by the government. Under this outreach project, Swasthya Sathi has turned out to be the top draw with the highest number of applicants. Burman’s initiative to reach the health centre around 9pm can be an extension of this initiative. Patients, doctors and paramedics of the centre appreciated his initiative, more so because it was beyond working hours. “It was nice to see that a BDO at work beyond official hours. He came to the centre and handed over the cards to us. Earlier, he had gone to Buxa hills by foot, visited some villages and enquired about the problems we face,” said Nilmaya Chhetri, one of the pregnant ladies from Buxa who received the card from Burman. The BDO downplayed the plaudits. “As a government official, one should not bother about working hours. I just did my job,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
25-12-2020||West Bengal||4 ill during Raiganj University protest||Four guest faculties of Raiganj University who were into an indefinite sit-in demonstration on the varsity premises fell ill on Thursday and were admitted to the Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital. Their colleagues, however, are still continuing the “dharna,” demanding their inclusion under the category of SACT (state-aided college teachers). Sources said recently, the state education department had announced that part-time and contractual faculties of colleges and universities will be under the SACT category. The decision was welcomed by around 13,500 such teachers as it would mean a higher pay and some additional benefits like gratuity. “However, the guest lecturers were not included under SACT that is why we have launched the demonstration on December 21. We want our inclusion. Unless our demand is met, we will continue the agitation,” said Debopriya Ghosh, a guest lecturer of economics at the Raiganj University. According to Ghosh, 22 guest lecturers have been working at Raiganj College since 2009. In 2015, as the college was upgraded to a university. “There is no reason as to why we should not be provided with equal benefits. Because of cold weather, four of our colleagues have fallen ill and are under treatment. We hope the state higher education department and the varsity authorities will look into our demand.” University authorities said they have contacted the higher education department about the demonstration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Explosives, cough syrup seized from plantations in Malda||Around 250 crude bombs and materials used in making such explosives were seized from two plantations — mango and (an adjoining) bamboo — at Kaliachak in Malda on Wednesday night. Police said also on Tuesday they seized 2,500-odd bottles of cough syrup — often consumed by drug abusers — from another mango plantation in the same area. They suspect that a section of smugglers and miscreants are using the mango plantations as their “stockyard” during winter as these plantations remain deserted during winter months. Horticultural activities at the plantations commence in the spring season, said sources. “Today (Wednesday) we found some suspected explosives, balls and other items used in making bombs. It seems that some people had made the explosives and stored them at the plantations,” said a police officer. “As the plantations are near the India-Bangladesh border, we suspect that the illegal consignment (2,500 bottles of cough syrup) was stored there to be smuggled to the neighbouring country,” the officer added. During the raid on Tuesday, the police arrested Harun Sheikh, a suspected member of a smuggling racket and also seized two stolen two-wheelers from the spot. “We are in search of three suspected smugglers, one from Habibpur and two from Kaliachak,” said a police officer. Alok Rajoria, Malda police chief, said were on alert. “We request those living at the vicinity of these orchards to report if they notice any unusual activities at these orchards,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Narendra Modi links Tagore ideal to atmanirbhar Bharat ||Prime Minister and Chancellor of Visva-Bharati Narendra Modi made a virtual address to mark the start of the varsity’s centenary celebrations on Thursday where he lauded Rabindranath Tagore’s “inclusiveness” and “self-reliance”. “Gurudev was carrying on the ideology of inclusiveness, omniscient co-existence and cooperation for the betterment of human beings. This vision of Gurudev for Visva-Bharati is also the essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India),” Modi said from Delhi via videoconference to address a gathering of university officials, teachers and alumni. Tagore officially founded Visva-Bharati in December 1921. Apart from praising Tagore’s ideology, Modi did not forget to share links of Tagore and his elder brother Satyendranath with Gujarat. However, Modi’s mention of self-reliance has given rise to questions on the lack of central help by way of grants for the varsity during his tenure. Old-timers, especially, pointedly asked whether the advice to be self-reliance was to justify the Centre’s “neglect” by way of slashing grants. In contrast, senior varsity professors recalled how the varsity used to get financial support during the time of earlier prime ministers such as Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and others. These prime ministers used to visit the campus regularly and helped the institute with special grants during their visits, recalled old-timers. “In 1996, during the varsity’s 75th year, the then Prime Minister’s office donated a package of Rs 100 crore. In recent memory, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had announced a special grant of Rs 95 crore from the dais of convocation in 2008. It is interesting that we did not hear any such announcement (of a grant) from our present Chancellor today apart from the advice to being self-reliant,” said a varsity professor. As Chancellor, Modi has attended the varsity’s convocation once since he came to power 2014. Modi came to the varsity town in May 2018 to inaugurate the Bangladesh Bhavana along with his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Apart from the construction of the building, the Bangladesh government had provided Rs 10 crore as a corpus fund to run the institution. Varsity officials said they had requested Centre for a corpus fund but it is yet to come. Several varsity officials said allotment for Visva-Bharati had been unprecedentedly slashed during Modi’s tenure. Varsity officials said the Centre had asked the institute to be “self-dependent” and the fund crunch was such that authorities had requested employees to contribute for repairing the Upasana Griha (prayer hall), which was set up by Tagore’s father Debendranath in 1890. The varsity had to issue a notice alerting employees for a probable delay in payment of salary due to “paucity of funds” in February. However, laer the Centre allotted a special grant of Rs 20 crore to release employees’ salaries on time. On Thursday, a new market Bharat-Tirtha was inaugurated at Ratan Pally for small traders. To raise funds, the varsity has decided to raise monthly rent from the hawkers in lieu of allowing them to set up stalls. Officials said the varsity intends to earn around Rs 3.5 lakh annually from renting the stalls. Even the VC also admitted in writing that the fund from the Centre was being slashed regularly and asked the employees to donate their salaries in one of his missives issued in June this year. “All this has ensured that the university is left with a single source of income: the MHRD. It is a known fact that the government support is routinely slashed and so the university is increasingly burdened with the responsibility of raising funds for its own upkeep,” the missive by the VC had stated. In February, too, the VC claimed the university was in an acute financial crisis and running on ‘life-support’. Modi went on to highlight Tagore’s Gujarat connect. “Tagore’s elder brother Satyendranath Tagore was posted as an ICS officer in Ahmedabad and Rabindranath Tagore used to visit Gujarat frequently and spent a long time there. While residing in Ahmedabad he wrote two poems and a part of the famous Kshudito Pashan,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid: active cases decline in Bengal for 59th day||Bengal on Thursday logged 2,054 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,590 new infections and 32 deaths, including nine from Calcutta, as the recovery rate rose for the 63rd consecutive day to 95.45 per cent. With 15,193 Covid-19 active cases now, the state reported its 59th successive day of decline in the total after Dashami. “We are, almost certainly, going to end the year with less than 14,000 active cases. The turnaround since Puja has surpassed even the most optimistic estimates,” said a minister. In the 59 days since Dashami on October 26, the state recorded over 2.08 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.89 lakh infections found. Bengal has over 5.43 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.18 lakh recoveries and 9,505 deaths. The recovery rate rose over eight per cent from the 87.44 per cent of October 22. The national rate now is 95.74 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.92 per cent now, improving steadily from 8.27 of November 20. “The fall in positive confirmation rate is clearly indicative of a reduced spread in the outbreak,” the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Congress gives 'formal approval' for pact with Left||The Congress central leadership on Thursday gave “formal approval” for an alliance with the Left in Bengal for the Assembly polls, the party’s state unit chief and MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said. Chowdhury, in Delhi, took to Twitter to announce the party’s decision. “Today the Congress High command has formally approved the electoral alliance with the Left parties in the impending election of West Bengal,” he tweeted. The development has been on the cards as leaders of the Bengal Congress unit had held multiple meetings with Left Front representatives in the past few months to clear the decks for an alliance. Chowdhury told the media in Delhi that negotiations for seats would now start. “The people of the state are completely fed up with the ceaseless slanging match between Trinamul and the BJP. The state is yearning for freedom from this ugly political warfare...and the Congress-Left would emerge as the obvious alternative,” he said. Dismissing the BJP’s claim that they would come to power with 200-plus seats, he said: “The BJP has this false perception that they can replicate the performance of the parliamentary election. This is not going to happen.” Some state Congress leaders said while they welcomed the announcement from New Delhi, they were upset that it came a bit late in the day. “It is December-end...The state goes to polls by April. We should have done it before,” a Congress legislator said. A source said Chowdhury spoke about the alleged delay to Rahul Gandhi on Thursday morning while they were on their way to meet President Ram Nath Kovind. “Adhirda said the ground is prepared, but it is important that the high command officially announces the alliance at the earliest,” this person added. Later Chowdhury received a call from the Congress leadership to make an immediate announcement. The central committee of the CPM — the largest partner of the Left Front in Bengal — had approved the alliance in October. CPM legislator Sujan Chakraborty acknowledged the Congress’s official announcement should’ve come earlier but added that with the formal nod from AICC, the alliance will be stronger. The Left and Congress had fought the polls together in the 2016 Assembly polls but managed to win only 76 out of 294 seats. Back then, leaders from both parties alleged a lack of clarity over the alliance and that it didn’t trickle down to grassroots workers. “We don’t want any confusion this time. Everyone in the party, from top to bottom, will fight hand in hand with the Left this time,” a state Congress general secretary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP's new-convert Suvendu Adhikari Contai road show ||BJP neo-convert Suvendu Adhikari’s popularity on home turf was on display on Thursday with supporters taking over the 5km stretch of Contai’s Mechheda bypass. While nearly 20,000 showed up for the Trinamul rally on Wednesday, sources said a far greater number — some said a lakh — marched in Adhikari’s road show on Thursday that ended with a meeting at the Contai bus stand where he announced a rally on January 8 in Nandigram to counter Mamata’s meeting the day before. On an open jeep, Adhikari was accompanied by BJP MP Saumitra Khan and state party vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. Speaking to reporters, Adhikari dismissed Trinamul’s election prospects in 2021. While Adhikari did not specifically cite where the allegiances of his father Sisir and brothers Soumendu and Dibyendu lay at the moment — the whole clan has been associated with Trinamul — he said: “The Adhikaris would stand first over here (read Contai), and the rest second.” “Thursday’s huge turnout proved that Suvenduda has passed the people’s test with flying colours,” said a BJP supporter. Speaking at the meeting, Adhikari allied himself to his new party’s ideological line, saying: “Bengal may be my home but India is my land... The common man is with us. They have given the TMC a befitting reply.” The former transport minister claimed that the blessings that people showered on him on Thursday showed that he did the right thing by joining the BJP. Adhikari specifically chose to hit out at Firhad Hakim and Saugata Roy — who publicly denounced him on Wednesday —  and questioned their political ethics. “They are trying to ensure that I languish in my home district, but that will not be the case. They cannot rein me in,” Adhikari said. He added that while he had never needed any help to win elections, he reminded Roy that he, Adhikari, had to campaign for the Trinamul leader for the Bongaon North bypoll. Without naming Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek, he said the Trinamul MP’s effort to stifle him by using state force would prove futile. Before ending his speech with cries of “Jai Shri Ram” and “Bharat Mata ki Jai”, Adhikari said he would only rest after ensuring the BJP’s victory in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata fury at ‘land encroach insult’ to Amartya Sen||A furious Mamata Banerjee on Thursday lambasted the BJP for their alleged disrespect to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, adding the economist to the list of Bengal icons that she accused the saffron ecosystem of insulting, and sought his forgiveness on their behalf. In a news meet at state secretariat in the evening, the chief minister was asked if Sen had illegally occupied land in Santiniketan. The question was in the context of a purported list prepared by Visva-Bharati — a central varsity, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as its chancellor — of alleged illegal occupants of its land, including Sen. “I respect Amartyada immensely. The whole world does. Every home in Bengal is proud of him. He is a Nobel laureate...Rabindranath Tagore, Amartya Sen, Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, Mother Teresa…. Do you really believe that there would come a day when Amartya Sen would have to encroach in Santiniketan?” asked a visibly outraged Mamata. Visva-Bharati sources said they have listed around 78 plots either illegally occupied or wrongly registered in land records, and sent the list to the state government. According to a senior varsity official, Sen’s house, Pratichi, is on a property leased out to his deceased father, of around 125 decimals of land, but Sen’s family allegedly occupies around 138 decimals. “As far as I know, their family has been there for eight decades or so. Those saying these things, where are they from? How much do they know Bengal? They have no right at all to insult the likes of Amartya Sen,” said the chief minister, who has been at loggerheads with the varsity since vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, allegedly favourably disposed towards the saffron ecosystem, took charge. “All because of what? Because Amartya Sen, personally, is a little against the BJP, ideologically…. That is why, (there are) all sorts of things (being said) against him,” she added. Sen has been publicly critical of the Modi government at the Centre and some of the core philosophies of the RSS. “This will not be tolerated by the people of Bengal. This is not only his insult; this is an insult of all of us. With folded hands… please forgive them Amartyada, they do not know how to show respect to even someone like you, I am sorry,” Mamata said. She went on to ask Bengal’s chief-secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, deemed an expert on Bengal and its culture for his erudition, to explain the association between Sen’s family and Tagore. Mamata also reacted to the recent controversy wherein an outfit of the varsity’s teachers claimed that vice-chancellor Chakrabarty in a faculty meeting on December 9 said that Sen had called him up identifying himself as “Bharat Ratna Amartya Sen” and requested Chakrabarty not to evict hawkers from the varsity land near his home as it would inconvenience his daughter who buys vegetables from there. Sen had denied the alleged conversation. “He has illegally occupied (land), he has allowed hawkers to illegally occupy (land)…. They will say anything they like against his home, Pratichi…. Those who insulted (him) will have to seek forgiveness. If they don’t, I will appeal to the entire civil society of Bengal, stand by Amartyada. Even at this age, he was not spared this insult. Everybody rise in protest,” added Mamata, promising to demand answers on the alleged insults to Sen, Tagore, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar and other icons of Bengal, from her Bolpur rally next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata denies being invited by Visva-Bharati event||Mamata Banerjee squarely denied being invited by Visva-Bharati to Thursday’s event where Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the chancellor made a virtual address to mark the varsity’s centenary celebrations. The chief minister attributed it to the BJP’s “hatred” for her to counter the saffron ecosystem’s claim that she insulted Rabindranath Tagore by giving the event a miss. In a news meet on Thursday, Mamata was asked if she was invited and yet she chose not to attend it, which the BJP accused her of. “When did they call? Whatever the BJP says, I have to pay heed to? I have an office. I do not know anything. Yesterday (Wednesday), he (vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty) sent an intimation, that when I go for a couple of days to Bolpur-Santiniketan next week, if I give him some time to meet. To that, I apologised and said I am unable to give him time...because there are many programmes lined up already,” she said. “This programme today (Thursday), they never invited me. No invite, no phone, none,” she added, hours after the BJP and its various affiliates circulated a purported letter of invite by Chakrabarty to her dated December 4. “They don’t like me. Instead, they hate me,” she said. The Trinamul chief has been at loggerheads with the current dispensation at the central varsity since Chakrabarty — allegedly with pro-saffron leanings — took charge. “When they need my presence, they invite me. Like when Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikha Hasina Madam came, they invited me. This time, it was only the BJP’s event...it was a political event, clearly,” she said. Mamata asserted that she tweeted her statement to mark the occasion in the morning. She wrote: “Visva-Bharati University turns 100. This temple of learning was Rabindranath Tagore’s greatest experiment on creating the ideal human being...” She said her congratulations were for those who “actually contributed” to the varsity and Tagore’s vision. “Today, one or two have suddenly come, brimming with religious fundamentalism. They cannot ruin Visva-Bharati in a day. Those who contributed over a century, them we respect…. Those here now, they are temporary. Their days are numbered,” she said. She flayed the BJP over its alleged attempts to undermine Bengal and its icons. “The semi-human language they use…. They think they got hold of a Mamata Banerjee… a simple, straightforward, girl next door. She is abused everyday. She doesn’t protest...But from attacking me they have started attacking Bengal’s icons. Vidyasagar, Tagore… what do they want, to make people forget history, geography of Bengal?” she asked. “Without Bengal, the world cannot run.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata announces Tajpur port plan with query for Centre||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced that the state government would float an expression of interest (EoI) seeking applications from global agencies to set up a deep-sea port in East Midnapore’s Tajpur, which, according to her, would boost the economy of the region and generate about 25,000 jobs. “The state government would float an EoI on Monday seeking applications from agencies across the globe to set up the deep-sea port in Tajpur. This will be the state’s own project and a sum of Rs 4,200 crore would be invested to develop the deep-sea port,” said the chief minister at Nabanna. However, a key question stayed unanswered. Though Mamata announced the government’s decision of going it alone in developing the port, senior government officials did not make it clear whether the state has come out of the MoU signed between the Centre and the state, where the Centre holds 74 per cent stake, to develop the port. A senior official said the state government repeatedly expressed displeasure over the pace the Centre was carrying out pre-feasibility study before floating the tenders to develop the port. “But I am not aware if the state has officially communicated to the Centre of its decision to set up the port on its own,” the official said. Mamata said that a total of Rs 15,000 crore would be invested in the entire project altogether once the deep-sea port comes up. “A total of Rs 15,000 crore would be invested in the entire project which would generate 25,000 jobs. No land acquisition would be needed for the project,” she said. The chief minister said that if the project comes up, it would change the economic landscape of the entire region. “The state’s contribution to export of iron and steel would increase from existing 13 per cent. The deep-sea port would increase investment in the steel manufacturing sector in West Midnapore-East Midnapore districts. Moreover, export of seafood from East Midnapore to Japan and Southeast Asia would also increase,” she said. Singur plan Mamata also said her government would set up an industrial park in Singur over an 11-acre plot where agro-related industry units could come up. “The West Bengal Small Industrial Development Corporation has the plot located near the railway station and trauma care centre. Investors would get plots ideal for agro-related industries,” she said. Mamata said 38 acres would be allotted for a unit that manufactures films needed for food packaging at the Panagarh industrial park. She said land was available with Hidco for IT units at the Silicon Valley in New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
