26-12-2020||West Bengal||Madhyamik starts from June 1, HS from June 15||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education announced on Saturday that the Class X and Class XII board examinations will start from June 1, with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. The Madhyamik (Clas X) examinations will continue till June 10, an official said. “We have uploaded the details of the schedule for the 2021 Madhyamik (secondary) exams on our website. The examinations will be held with strict adherence to Covid protocols,” he said. The board exams, Madhyamik and Ucchyamadhyamik, are usually held between February and March every year, but the pandemic has deferred the schedule in 2021. The Ucchyamadhyamik exams will begin from June 15. The state government had on Wednesday announced that the secondary and higher secondary (class XII) exams would be held one after another in June next year. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ had earlier ruled out conducting board examinations for class 10 and 12 till February next year in view of the Covid- 19 situation. State Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on Saturday said that though the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education has already announced the dates of the board exams, authorities have been asked not to hold any test on June 30 on the occasion of ‘Hul Diwas’. Hul Diwas is observed annually on June 30 in memory of tribals - Sidho and Kanhu Murmu -who led the Santhal hul (rebellion) on June 30, 1855. Asked about the possibility of reopening schools and colleges, Chatterjee said, “The Covid-19 situation in the state is under control now. We will take an appropriate decision at the right time.” The educational institutes in the state have been closed since mid-March due to the coronavirus pandemic and the authorities of schools, colleges and universities have made arrangements for online classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC doesn't align with Santiniketan culture: Amartya Sen||A big gap exists between the Santiniketan culture and that of the Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor, “empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi, with its growing control over Bengal”, economist Amartya Sen has suggested in response to a question from The Telegraph on a land controversy kicked up by the varsity establishment. “Having been born and brought up in Santiniketan, I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the VC, empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi, with its growing control over Bengal. I would prefer to use Indian laws as they exist,” said Sen, whose family has been an integral part of the Visva-Bharati community since the days of Rabindranath Tagore. According to the Visva-Bharati estate office, it had recently prepared a list of “illegal occupants” that includes the name of Sen as his house, Pratichi, occupies around 138 decimals while the original lease was given on 125 decimals. The way a section of the varsity has gone about making public the information through innuendoes has fuelled suspicion that an attempt is being made to malign Sen, whose indefatigable pursuit of scholarship and stellar accomplishments in academia reflect the highest ideals that prompted Tagore to set up what eventually became a central varsity. Ever since vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty assumed office two years ago, the varsity has taken some controversial steps that have given the impression that efforts are on to try out the Sangh parivar agenda. Sen, Nobel laureate and the Thomas W. Lamont University Professor at Harvard University, has been a vocal critic of some of the policies of the Modi government. On Friday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee also wrote a letter to Sen to express solidarity with him and say that she would always be by his side as his sister. Earlier in the day, in response to a series of questions from this newspaper, Sen said: “We are being told by Visva-Bharati university that its vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty is busy arranging the ‘eviction of unauthorised occupation’ of leased land on the campus and that I have also been named in the ‘list of occupants’, even though Visva-Bharati has never complained about any irregularity of landholding to us.” “The Visva-Bharati land on which our house is situated is entirely on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry. Some additional land was bought by my father as free hold and registered in land records under mouja Surul,” Sen added. Tagore had invited Kshitimohan Sen, the maternal grandfather of the economist and Sanskrit scholar of repute, in 1908 and he played a key role in building the university along with the Bard. It is well-known that Sen, born in 1933, was named Amartya by Tagore. It’s also common knowledge on the campus that several plots were given to many eminent persons on 99-year lease since the time of Tagore. On Friday, Sen said: “For mental strength, I may clutch the beautiful old picture of our home by Abanindranath Tagore, among others.” In his inimitable style, Sen also responded to an account attributed to the vice-chancellor at a faculty meeting on December 9 that the Nobel laureate had called him up, identifying himself as “Bharat Ratna Amartya Sen”, and requested him not to evict hawkers from the varsity land near his home as it would inconvenience his daughter who buys vegetables from them. In response to a related question on the matter, Sen said on Friday: “The vice-chancellor would be spared the necessity of inventing completely imagined conversations with me, beginning impossibly with my introducing myself as Bharat Ratna — something that no one has ever heard me do. The VC, of course, is an inventive artist as well.” A few hours later, Mamata wrote to Sen: “Kindly count me as your sister and friend in your just war against intolerance and totalitarianism. Let us not be daunted by their untrue accusations, and unfair attacks. We shall overcome.” Addressing Sen as “Respected Amartya da”, Mamata said in the letter: “We are all aware about your family’s deep and organic linkages with Santiniketan. Your maternal grandfather, the revered scholar Kshitimohan Sen, was one of the early leading settlers in Santiniketan, while your father Ashutosh Sen, a noted educationist and public administrator, had his famed house Pratichi built up in Santiniketan about eight decades back. Yours have been a family weaved in the culture and fabric of Santiniketan, inalienably. “Some nouveau invaders in Visva-Bharati have now started raising surprising and completely baseless allegations about your familial properties, etc. This pains me, and I want to express my solidarity with you in your battles against the bigotry of the majoritarians in this country, the battles that have made you an enemy of these forces of untruth.” Several old-timers in Santiniketan and some of Sen’s relatives said VC Chakrabarty’s purported claim that Sen introduced himself as Bharat Ratna, an honour conferred on him in 1999 after he received the Nobel Prize in economics in 1998, sounded preposterous. “He never speaks like that. It is sad for us, the descendents of Kshitimohan Sen, that such false allegations and humiliation are coming from the varsity and its present VC,” said Shanta Bhanu Sen, a cousin of the Nobel laureate. Many felt that Chakrabarty is deliberately trying to malign Sen. “I am ashamed that such allegations are being hurled at the eminent Sen family. I can only say it is unfortunate, very unfortunate,” said Supriya Tagore, a descendent of the Tagore family and former Patha-Bhavana principal. Some veterans lamented that under Chakrabarty, Tagore’s abode is losing its legacy. “The culture of Santiniketan has changed so much that even Amartya Sen is not spared from humiliation. It is nothing but a degeneration of culture and tradition under this vice-chancellor,” said Swapan Kumar Ghosh, a writer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Government schemes that deserve eyeballs||The Bengal government has about 25 social welfare schemes for the benefit of people of various categories. The launch of the Duare Sarkar programme has brought into focus a slew of welfare schemes that largely stay unknown to people. These schemes below are not part of the 11 programmes that the government has included in Duare Sarkar. These include: Muktir Alo Department: Women and child development, social welfare Aim: Launched in 2015, it is a rehabilitation scheme for trafficked women after their rescue and for sex workers to bring them back to the mainstream. Women are imparted training for self-development, stipend, food, accommodation during the six-month-long training and offered one-time financial assistance on its completion Compensation: Rs 25,000 (one-time grant) Where to apply: Gram panchayat/ municipality/ district social welfare officer Manabik (Pension for people with disabilities) Department: Women, child development & social welfare Aim: Launched in 2018, monthly financial aid is given for treatment of people with more than 40 per cent disability, having an annual income of less than Rs 1 lakh per annum. The person should not have availed of any other financial assistance either from the central or state governments Compensation: Rs 1,000 per month Where to apply: District portals/ BDO/ municipality Ex-gratia scheme for victims of natural calamities, snakebite, accidental death Department: Women, child development & social welfare Aim: Launched in 2009, it aims to compensate families of those killed in natural calamities like flood, cyclones, earthquake, lightning or snakebite. The amount of compensation is directly disbursed by the district magistrate within 24 hours of the incident. Compensation: Maximum compensation for death in natural calamities is Rs 5 lakh and severe injuries Rs 1 lakh. The amount of compensation for snakebite death is Rs 2 lakh and injury is Rs 1 lakh Where to apply: BDO office/ municipality Swabalamban (special) Department: Women and child development, social welfare Aim: Launched in 2006 to make sex workers and their children self-sufficient by imparting acting lessons for jobs in the entertainment industry Compensation: Entire training cost, food and syau Where to apply: District portals/ BDO/ municipality/ West Bengal Women Development Undertaking. Swami Vivekananda Swanirbhar Karma Sansthan Prakalpa (Atmamaryada) Department: West Bengal Swarojgar Corporation Limited Aim: Launched in 2015, the scheme is aimed to develop entrepreneurship among unemployed youths in the age group of 18-45. Any unemployed youth individually or a by forming a self-help group with a minimum of five persons can avail of subsidised loan for entrepreneurship Compensation: For an individual initiative, the maximum loan offered is Rs 10 lakh and for a group initiative the maximum eligible amount of loan is Rs 25 lakh Where to apply: West Bengal Swarojgar Corporation Limited through BDO/ municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
26-12-2020||West Bengal||New start in the new normal||Cynthya Limbu Subba, 27, had to sail from the United States for one-and-half-months to reach Darjeeling in June amid the Covid-19 pandemic that handed her a furlough. Mandip Subba, 29, a sailor, was also forced to anchor at Tianjin, China, because of the lockdown and finally reached hometown Darjeeling in July. “I had to do something back at home,” said Cynthya. Six months back she experimented by selling her branded clothes. “The initiative started doing well,” said Cynthya and she is now running her own start-up Sister’s Wardrobe, Darjeeling. Mandip is also on his way to fulfil his dream project TIB-SIB (Tibetan-Siberian) food outlet. “I wanted to experiment with American, South African and Cantonese food but Covid played spoilsport,” said Mandip. The pandemic forced many young professionals to “think different” and the new dreams were given wings by Decibel, an organiser of events, and Vik-Run Foundation, through the Gundri Bazaar. Gundri Bazaar is the name of Darjeeling’s old market which no longer exists now. Decibel and Vik-Run Foundation, however, decided to set up a swanky Gundri Bazaar at Chowrasta — a three-day starting Thursday. “Many livelihoods were affected in bigger cities forcing young people to return home. We thought of providing a platform for them through Gundri Bazaar,” said Manish Lama, founder of Decibel. Nearly 40 stalls have been put up at Chowrasta and the event was jointly inaugurated by Darjeeling SP Santosh Nimbalkar and Bishop Stephen Lepcha on Thursday. “Most stalls have been put up by people who returned home to begin their own start-ups. We plan to take this Gundri Bazaar platform to different places in the region,” said Vikram Rai, founder Vik-Run Foundation. So Kabya Lama, 25, a photo-journalist in Mumbai is now the owner of Kurseong Fresh and is selling mushrooms with much success. “For Gundri Bazaar we have also introduced packed organic products like turmeric from the famous Bungkulung area of Mirik,” said Kabya. Aaron Edwards, a graphic designer working from home, is helping his wife Manisha Rai, 25, set up The Localists that sells organic aroma discs (room fresheners), body butter and lip balm online. Siddharth Bhitrikoty, 36, could also muster courage to quit his job as a bank manager in Bangalore and focus on his NGO, Manusatva, which initially started as a virtual community helping people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad to start Kanchenjunga Stadium upgrade||The newly formed Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad (SMKP) has decided to prioritise upgradation of Kanchenjunga Stadium, a football arena that was considered one of the finest in Bengal after Calcutta’s Yuva Bharati Kriragan. The stadium, built in 1988, has in the past hosted several national and international football tournaments. A source said: “However, in the past there have been instances where we lost opportunities to host matches for prestigious Durand Cup and other premier tournaments because of poor infrastructure.” All sporting activities stopped in the stadium since March because of Covid-19 induced lockdown. This has further put pressure on the maintenance of the stadium which has a seating capacity of 27,000. Sources said urgent repair work right from the spectator’s gallery to players changing rooms to drainage system was required. “Unless immediate repair work is undertaken the infrastructure will crumble further,” said the source. On Thursday, a new committee of the SKMP, the apex sport’s body of Siliguri, was formed. “We have one of the best sporting infrastructures of the state at Kanchenjunga stadium. However, it is now lying in a dilapidated state and we will work hard in the coming days to change its face,” said Kuntal Goswami, the newly elected general secretary of the SKMP who replaced Arupratan Ghosh. There have been major changes in the sport’s body structure following the election. “We will go to the grass root to hunt more talents so that we can fully utilise the infrastructure available here,” said Goswami. The newly elected committee has decided to approach the state government to seek help for upgrading the stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||HC pay relief for Visva-Bharati professor||Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed Visva-Bharati to pay a varsity professor her pending salary, which authorities stopped since June on the plea of excess payment made to her from the time of her joining in 2014, by the end of 2020. Sources said the varsity administration had in June this year told Shruti Bandopadhyay, a professor of Manipuri dance at Sangit Bhavana, that she had been paid an excess in increment since she joined Visva-Bharati in April 2014 and the extra amount paid over six years would be deducted in instalments starting with her June salary. Varsity sources claimed that Bandopadhyay had been paid an excess of Rs 21,060 every month since 2014 and she was told that the extra amount would be deducted in tranches from her monthly salary. The professor objected to the deduction and moved high court against the decision. The varsity instead of deducting the excess amount stopped giving her salary. Hearing Bandopadhyay’s plea, a single judge bench of the high court in August restrained the varsity from deducting any amount from the teacher’s salary till the disposal of the case. The varsity in December moved the high court division bench to challenge the single bench’s order and the matter was heard by Justice Saugata Bhattacharyya and Justice Soumen Sen. Bandopadhyay’s counsel Puspal Chakraborty said the division bench on December 24 ordered the varsity to disburse the salary of the professor pending since June by December 31. “The honourable division bench directed the varsity to pay Rs 2,30,258 as salary without prejudice to the petitioner. It has also directed the varsity authorities to open a bank account and deposit the excess amount worth Rs 21,060 in it every month till the disposal of the writ petition in accordance with law,” Chakraborty said. In the order, the division bench observed that they hoped and trusted that the Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor would look into the matter and resolve the issue keeping in mind the academic excellence that Tagore aspired to. “There cannot be any denial of fact that Manipuri dance is the integral part of the dance drama conceived by Tagore and it is in the interest of the university that a Professor of Manipuri Dance is not shabbily treated,” the order reads. “It would not be in the best interest of the university, we hope and trust that the vice-chancellor of the university shall look into the matter and resolve the issue… we expect that this institution ensures preservation of the “Philosophy of Tagore” in all fields and excel in all directions. It is a pride not only of West Bengal but India,” the order added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP, TMC battle for Malda’s tribal belt||The BJP has started eyeing the tribal belt in Malda district, but Trinamul for now has managed to convince five disgruntled tribal leaders to stay with the party. On Friday, BJP’s national secretary Arvind Menon spent the day at Habibpur town of Malda trying to woo tribal farmers by promising “golden days” if the BJP was voted in. Trinamul managed to retain five presidents of area committees of Bamangola block, which falls under Habibpur Assembly seat after a closed-door meeting with district party president Mausam Noor. All had recently resigned from party posts after criticising the party leadership. Tribal voters form the bulk in three out of 12 Assembly segments in Malda district. In 2016, the CPM managed to win two and the third had gone to Congress. The two CPM MLAs, however, defected to the BJP. An observer said that the minority community is the deciding factor in the rest nine of the 12 Malda Assembly seats. “So the BJP seems to be concentrating on tribal belts.” BJP MP from Malda North Khagen Murmu claimed the tribal areas of Malda were “always supportive of the BJP”. Trinamul had more reasons to cheer with five leaders staying back. “ We had resigned (from party posts) after being fed up with the party block leadership. Joining the BJP was never on our mind,” said Sakeb Hansda, one of the five.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC leader shot at, BJP claims gun attack||A Trinamul leader from Alipurduar was shot on his leg in the small hours of Friday while on his way to Siliguri while another BJP leader said he missed bullets fired at him in Cooch Behar on Thursday. The Cooch Behar incident trigged violence in the districts’s Mathabhanga subdivision on Friday evening. Manoranjan Dey, the sahokari sabhadhipati of Alipurduar Zilla Parishad and the president of Trinamul’s Alipurduar-1 block committee had got of his car to answer nature’s call near College More at Malbazar in Jalpaiguri on NH31 around 2am. “As soon as he off the car, some people arrived in another car and fired three rounds at Dey. Though Dey tried to flee, he was hit on his leg by a bullet,” said a source. Dey’s security guard and another passenger in the car rushed the profusely bleeding leader to a private nursing home in Siliguri. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her party’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor spoke to Dey on Friday. His condition is reportedly stable. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, and one of the party’s tallest leaders in north Bengal, blamed the BJP for the attack. “We had suspected that the BJP will attack our prominent leaders from the region as they do not want a peaceful election. Dey is one of the pillars of our party in Alipurduar. BJP is bringing in culture of violence in our region,” said Deb. The Alipurduar Trinamul  town block committee also organised a rally in town today to protest the decision. Wangden Bhutia, ASP, Jalpaiguri (rural) said that they had sent a team to Siliguri to take Dey’s statement. Ganga Prasad Sharma, the BJP district president from Alipurduar, denied all allegations. “None of us are involved in this incident, which may actually be a fallout of either business rivalry or an internal party conflict.” The BJP claimed the general secretary of Cooch Behar district committee, Avijit Barman, was fired at on Thursday, but had a narrow escape. “TMC attacked BJP supporters in parts of Mathabhanga area and hurled bombs at us. I had gone to the police station yesterday (Thursday) to file that complaint. On my way back some people shot at me near Sutunga bridge. The bullets missed me and hit my vehicle,” alleged Barman. On Friday afternoon BJP supporters held protests at Mathabanga after which violence erupted in the subdivision town. “When our party supporters went to demonstrate in front of Mathabhanga police station, Trinamul supporters attacked our people, hurled bombs and fired at us. The police did not intervene,” Malati Rava Roy, the president of BJP’s Cooch Behar district committee, alleged. Binay Krishna Barman, the state minister for backward class welfare department, denied Roy’s charges. “BJP supporters vandalised properties in Mathabhanga and ransacked three of our Trinamul party offices. They attacked our workers and hurled bombs. Such hooliganism of BJP workers will not be tolerated,” Barman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Christmas cakes run out, people party hard||Father Christmas brought a record number of travellers to Darjeeling this Yuletide, a gift that surprised even the biggest optimist in the pandemic year. Ajoy Edwards, owner of the iconic century- old Glenary’s in Darjeeling said that the rush was so great that they ran out of Christmas cakes two days ago. “This has never happened before in our history,” he said. Given the curbs on movement because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Glenary’s family had baked fewer cakes. “We had prepared 3,000-odd X’mas cakes unlike the usual 5,000-odd cakes in normal years,” said Edwards. By December 23, all 3,000 Christmas cakes were sold out. Pastries and other items can be seen on the counters but not the cakes. And there won’t be any for New Year too, as “the entire process of preparing a Christmas cake takes almost a month”, Edwards said. Seasoned businessman Edwards was way off the mark in his predictions for cakes. The statistics from another iconic eatery in Darjeeling, Keventer’s, tells a similar tale. “Going by our sales figures this Christmas, I can safely say that there have been an increase of more than 50 percent in tourist footfall compared to December last year,” said Rahul Jha, owner of Keventer’s. The pandemic had not hit India last December and thus this figure has surprised everyone. “There is a huge queue to enter Keventer’s throughout the day,” said Jha. The scene before Glenary’s was no different on Friday. Glenary’s might have run out cakes but not on the fun spirit of the festival week. A piped band from Kalimpong played on the Glenary’s selfie stand with their music synchronising with the huge signage that read: HOPE. “We all are looking ahead to the new year 2021 with a lot of hope,” said Edwards. Apart from the band, musical shows have been lined up at Buzz, the resto-bar of the eatery throughout the week. A few hundred metres uphill, Chowrasta, too, bustled with people on Christmas, having undergone a sea change from the recent near-empty scenes. Tourists are being spoilt for choice at “Gundri Bazaar”, an event organised by Decibel and Vik-Run Foundation that is providing a platform for new start-ups. From local handicrafts and food to organic products, the buyer is inundated with goodies. The festive spirit on full display in Darjeeling might entice more tourists. But rooms are in short supply. “I was looking for five rooms and I could not find one. Most places are fully booked through this week,” said Samir Singhal, treasurer of the Darjeeling Hotel Owners’s Assocation. “All categories of hotels are doing well,” said Singhal. A member of the hotel association — around 300 odd hotels are affiliated to his group — said not enough rooms speaks volumes of the tourist flow in Darjeeling. Travellers are mostly from Bengal. “More than 90 per cent of the tourists are from Bengal. Darjeeling has always been a quick getaway. Many are reaching here on their own vehicles and also on bikes,” said Rajesh Rajak, general manager, Pine Tree Resorts. The urge to travel seems to be pushed by a number of factors, the dominating factor being the “stifling feeling” brought about by Covid-19 restrictions. “I do visit Darjeeling frequently but after lockdown I had this very strong urge to get out of Calcutta as there was this stifling feeling within the family,” said Sudipto Ghosh, a businessman from Taratala, Calcutta. Many holidaymakers said it was easy to plan holidays as most educational institutions are closed. “Also the hotel prices are very competitive. I had booked my rooms almost a month back,” said Kingshuk Shah from Behala, Calcutta. Hotelier Rajak said most bookings came through online platforms. On a normal year, Darjeeling receives almost 4 lakh domestic tourists on an average. This year, Darjeeling has been without tourists for most part of the year, until now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Government eases austerity measures||The Mamata Banerjee government has relaxed its austerity measures that were initiated in the backdrop of pandemic in April to the extent of allowing some departments to start new schemes. The move, sources said, meant that the chief minister is likely to announce some new schemes ahead of the state polls in 2021 summer. According to a notification issued by the finance department recently, departments such as PWD, irrigation, PHE, urban development and municipal affairs were allowed to initiate new schemes worth up to Rs 3 crore. All other departments were allowed to start new schemes up to Rs 50 lakh. “This gives us a hint that the chief minister wants to go ahead with new and pending projects before elections. Pending road, water supply and urban services projects have direct link with the day to day lives of people,” said a senior government official. The state government had issued a blanket ban on all new projects since April this year citing Covid. The state government’s revenue generation had also dried up significantly in the lockdown. Now, the state’s own revenue generation has improved and Covid costs have reduced too. “We are generating nearly Rs 3,000 crore a month, almost double of what we did in July-August,” said a senior official. Initially, the state was spending nearly Rs 1,000 crore a month on Covid-related costs for patients and safety gear for health workers. “In addition, the state was also spending a huge amount to beef up Covid-related infrastructure in hospitals. Now, once infrastructure is ready and the number of active patients fewer, we are spending about Rs 80 crore that includes running safe homes,” said a bureaucrat. So projects such as restoration and renovation of state highways, repairing of damaged embankments, renovation of Durgapur Barrage, household connections of pipeline-based water supply and solid waste management projects in urban areas are some that the state government has decided to focus on. “It will be a tough election and we cannot just sit back and let people accuse us for their plights,” a minister said, adding that many projects could not be complete because the Centre did not give funds. “The Centre has not given us Rs 54,000 crore,” he said. He added they would try to make people understand that the Trinamul-led state government was doing its best despite being “deprived by the Centre”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Modi uttering half-truths: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee hit out at Narendra Modi on Friday evening, reacting sternly to his allegations on her government’s approach towards farmers in Bengal, and accused him of misleading the people with “half-truths” and “distorted facts” for political gains instead of addressing the real concerns of protesting farmers. The Bengal chief minister posted a tweet, in which she included the statement attacking Modi on his priorities. “Our farmer brothers & sisters have been on streets protesting against new farm laws. Instead of addressing them, PM today chose to mislead the people with half-truth & distorted facts. BJP-led Centre is not cooperating & only indulging in propaganda for petty political gains,” she posted on the microblogging site. In the two-page statement that she included, Mamata pointed out that lakhs of farmers were protesting on the streets and demanding the withdrawal of the controversial farm laws, which she said are “anti-farmer” as they threaten to dilute the minimum support price, the state procurement system, and take away their basic protective mechanisms. “While he publicly claimed his intention to help farmers of WB through his PM-Kisan and alleged non-cooperation of the (Bengal) state government….Let me set the record straight – we have always been ready to cooperate in the interest of the farmers,” she added. The Trinamul chief has been a thorn in the flesh for Modi and his party amid their discomfort at the groundswell of opposition from farmers, especially from states like Punjab and Haryana, where the minimum support price is a key issue. While the saffron camp could have chosen to disregard her “unconditional support” to the farmers’ movement, as they had during her resistance to demonetisation, or played down her opinion, as they had during her anti-citizenship tripod movement, they cannot afford to do either now, with the timing being so close the crucial Bengal polls. Mamata brought up two letters she had written both in the public domain to Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, stating Bengal’s conditions for inclusion in the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi. The chief minister had made it clear in the letters that the state government already had schemes of its own to cater to the needs of the potential beneficiaries under the central scheme. At the same time, the state government was open to allowing the central scheme additionally, if the Centre was willing to fully fund them and route the disbursement of funds through the state machinery. “When we are implementing so many schemes with the central government, the question of not cooperating on a scheme that is benefiting farmers seems absurd,” she wrote on Friday. “The fact is that this BJP-led central government is used to indulging in politicking even at the cost of violating the established practices and norms regarding the implementation of central schemes by state governments.” She added that she was willing to do anything in the interest of the people of Bengal, even if it meant supporting such schemes, “purely meant to further their political agenda, are at odds with the spirit of federalism, and are definitely not guided by their desire to help the people at large”. Modi’s attack against Mamata possibly came in the wake of two delegations sent by the Bengal chief minister to express solidarity with the protesting farmers at the Delhi borders. While she lauded their movement with her “full support”, the farmers also hailed her gesture and urged her to visit them. Mamata has thrown her weight firmly behind the cause and her party has already carried out a slew of programmes this month, including a three-day dharna at the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road. “… let me remind you that my ideology is consistent with the vision of founding fathers of this country, and I have wholeheartedly served the people of WB with the right intent, efforts, and with everything I have,” she wrote. “For me, the people of the state are my family. I have full faith that they will not only see through these malicious allegations but will also recognise what we have done for the state and give a befitting reply to those who are trying malign us and our state,” she added, after reiterating her demand for the Centre to clear Rs 85,000 crore in outstanding dues to the state. “For all the posturing of the central government, the fact is that the Modi government has done nothing to help the state of West Bengal,” she added. A Rajya Sabha member from Trinamul said her “farmer-friendly image”, from the Singur-Nandigram days, has been a crucial part of her political capital. “Others might relent on such issues, but she certainly won’t…. She is unwilling to miss opportunities now to make the right noises that are likely to be echoed in the pan-India space,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Modi targets present and past Bengal governments||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lashed out at the Mamata Banerjee government, accusing it of depriving his “kisan bhai bahen (farmer brothers and sisters)” from Bengal of central assistance under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme because of “political reasons”. In a public address, Modi singled out the farmers of Bengal for being deprived. “I feel sad for this... that farmers of the entire country are getting benefited, governments of all ideologies are linked with this (the welfare scheme), but only the West Bengal government (is depriving) more than 70 lakh farmers, my farmer brothers and sisters from Bengal,” he said. The Prime Minister was addressing the farmers virtually from Delhi after releasing money to farmers under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. Modi went on: “They (Bengal’s farmers) are not able to take the benefit of this scheme. They are not able to get this money because the Bengal government, because of its political reasons, (is depriving) farmers of their state of this central government scheme.” The central government and the BJP had turned this routine government welfare exercise into a big event this time in a bid to counter the ongoing farmers’ protests against the new farm laws which they feel would benefit big corporate houses and deny them of the minimum support price buffer, among others. As the heat of the upcoming electoral battle warmed up Bengal’s December, Modi also used this opportunity to pursue his party’s Mission Bengal. He launched a scathing attack at the Bengal government in an attempt to reach out to the farmers of the state in view of the upcoming polls. Modi said that several farmers from Bengal had directly written to the central government and applied for money under the PM-Kisan scheme but the state government was not allowing the Centre to transfer money. “Can you imagine, lakhs of farmers have applied online to take the benefit of the scheme but the state government has blocked that too,” he said. He wondered aloud why there were no protests in the state to ensure that farmers got the benefits of the PM-Kisan scheme. Under the Centre’s flagship PM-Kisan scheme under which Rs 6,000 per year is given to each eligible small and marginal farmer. The money is given to each farmer thrice a year in three equal installments. Modi used this opportunity to slam the Left too, but without taking names. He addressed the Left as “jo log, jo tees saal tak Bangal me raaj karte thhey (those people who had ruled Bengal for 30 years)”. He claimed that they not even once had raised their voice against this deprivation of farmers by the ruling party in Bengal. He said that though they (Left) were in the Opposition and had their party cadres, they didn't hold any protest in this matter. “What kind of people are they? In Bengal they have their party, their organisation....not once did they, for this scheme under which farmers get Rs 2,000, run any protest.” he said. “If they (indicating the Left) have so much love for farmers then why didn’t you protest for justice for the farmers so that they get their money under the (PM-Kisan) scheme,” Modi added and then went to question their participation in the farmers’ protest in Punjab. “And from there (Bengal) you reach Punjab, then questions arise,” Modi said, seeking to accuse the Left of opposing the farm laws over politics. The Prime Minister also took a swipe at the Left-ruled Kerala government, pointing out that these people never agitated there. The Left and the Congress have decided to fight the upcoming 2021 Bengal state polls together. They had fought the 2016 Assembly elections together too, but won only 76 out of the 294 seats in Bengal. Modi levelled the same charge against Bengal’s ruling party Trinamul, again without taking names. He said that while depriving the farmers in Bengal, those associated with the Bengal government had gone to Punjab. He also accused the Trinamul of secretly joining hands with the Left to mislead the farmers of Punjab. Against the backdrop of the release of the PM-Kisan instalment on Friday, Modi also posted a series of tweets in Hindi about the dole to farmers, which he termed good governance, hit out at the “politics of selfishness in Bengal” as well as defended the new farm laws. He said that earlier the entire risk was borne by the farmers and others took away the return. But the new farm laws and reforms had changed the scenario, he added. He also said that countless canards were being spread regarding the new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Active cases drop below 15,000 in Bengal ||Bengal on Friday achieved the target of taking its total of Covid-19 cases to below 15,000, with 14,749, back almost to where it was 161 days ago on July 17. The state on Christmas reported 1,954 recoveries, 1,541 new infections and 31 deaths, including seven from Calcutta, which resulted in the drop in total active cases for 60th consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. “We have achieved even our revised, audaciously optimistic targets for the year end. From wanting to end the year with 23,000 active cases (when the total had been 37,190 on October 26), we are now below 15,000,” said a minister. The total of active cases fell over the 60-day period by over 22,000, improving by 60.34 per cent. In these 60 days, the state recorded over 2.1 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.9 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of over 5.44 lakh Covid-19 cases, including the 5.2 lakh recoveries and 9,536 deaths. The recovery rate rose for 64 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.54. The national rate now is 95.77 per cent. “Our year-end target for the recovery rate was 93, revised later to 95. Having achieved both, we will almost certainly get past the national recovery rate by the year-end,” said the minister. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.9 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. With 40,089 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count rose to 68.96 lakh, at 76,633 tests per million people. Of the total novel coronavirus toll in Bengal so far, the state government attributed 7,992 deaths or 83.8 per cent to comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75 per cent, compared to the national rate of 1.44. Bengal reported 14.32 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.48 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
