27-12-2020||West Bengal||Dhankar says he will ensure peaceful polls in state||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Sunday said he will do everything in his capability to ensure that the Assembly elections in the state are conducted peacefully. The Bengal elections are scheduled to be held next year, around April or May. “In a democracy, people must have the right to vote without fear,” he told reporters at Joka, where he had gone to pray at the Swaminarayan temple. “I will do whatever is needed to facilitate peaceful and fair polls in the state. I am giving my word as the governor,” he said. “Bengal should be able to set an example before the entire world by conducting free and fair polls, and the administration should work without bias to make that happen,” Dhankar asserted. “It’s high time that the image the state has projected, with violence and clashes breaking out during polls, should be changed. The police and the administration should work towards that objective in a neutral manner,” the governor said. Dhankhar had on several occasions voiced concern over the “growing violence” in the state and urged the state administration to act above political considerations. Later in the day, Dhankar tweeted, “Prayed for peace, harmony and love for people of the State at Shri Swaminarayan Mandir Joka at 11.30 am.” Reacting to his statements, state education minister Partha Chatterjee said polls had been mostly peaceful in the state. “The governor, by saying all that he did, is acting in a partisan manner,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
27-12-2020||West Bengal||'Gorkhaland no poll plank'||Anit Thapa led an impressive 16km-plus parivartan (change) rally on Saturday from Sonada to Darjeeling and announced that he would not seek votes on the Gorkhaland issue ahead of Bengal polls. At a public meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang faction leader said: “It needs courage to say this, but I will not seek votes on the Gorkhaland slogan.” However, Gorkhaland has been the most important slogan in hill politics for not just Lok Sabha and Assembly elections but also civic polls. Bimal Gurung, who heads the rival and older Morcha faction, has been rallying for Gorkhaland ever since he started making public appearances recently. Both Morcha factions, however, are now alliances of ruling party Trinamul that is opposed to Gorkhaland. Thapa stressed the need for “politics of reality” and said hill leaders should stop seeking votes in the name of Gorkhaland. “If elections are to be won for Gorkhaland we should by now have had 10 Gorkhalands,” said Thapa stressing that elections won on Gorkhaland promises had yielded nothing since late 1980s. The Morcha leader, however, did a balancing act to say that the “demand (for Gorkhaland) is dear to the hill people” but should be pursued by apolitical and intellectuals. “Gorkhaland is our mother and we should not allow leaders to auction this demand during elections...apolitical people and intellectuals must pursue this demand with the state and Centre,” Thapa asserted. Thapa, who has been creating an image of an upfront leader in recent years, said his slogan for elections would be “hamro ghar, hamro matt” (our vote for our houses) which was an attempt to indicate that their election issue would centre around granting land rights for tea garden and cinchona plantation workers. More than 70 percent of the hill population do not have land rights. “I was, am, and will be working closely with the state government,” added Thapa. The Tamang-Thapa faction of the Morcha made “naya soch, naya bichar” (new thoughts, new ideas) their theme. Thapa in particular has refrained from attacking rivals in his speeches. But on Saturday, Thapa launched a vitriolic attack against Gurung. “He (Gurung) can do nothing to me in Kurseong. From today, I will be staying in Darjeeling, I will be a guardian of Darjeeling and I dare Gurung to chase me out of Darjeeling,” said Thapa. Many believe Thapa’s rally was to counter Gurung’s public meeting in Darjeeling last Sunday. Both drew large crowds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul rally in fissure belt||Trinamul on Saturday held a mega rally at Agarpara in North 24-Parganas, a faction-ridden district for the party, in a bid to show its strength after Trinamul’s Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta joined the BJP with former minister Suvendu Adhikari at Amit Shah’s rally in Midnapore on December 19. Some 15,000 people turned up for the rally where leaders like MP Saugata Roy, district president Jyotipriya Mallick and former minister Madan Mitra tried to boost the morale of party workers in the wake of Adhikari’s defection. Sources said the rally was organised to send a message to Trinamul workers on the party’s strength and stem future defections to the BJP. “I will request Mamata Banerjee to allow me to contest in Nandigram against Suvendu,” said Mitra at the rally. Kajal Sinha, a Trinamul general secretary in North 24-Parganas and one of the rally organisers, said after MLA Dutta joined the BJP recently, the rally was important to boost the morale of local party leaders. “This rally told workers about our strength to make them believe in the ability to win the elections under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee,” Sinha said. A senior leader said mega Trinamul rallies would be held in all districts where Adhikari has a base to try and stop more defections. “We need to tell party workers that Trinamul will be back in power in 2021.” Rallies are likely to be held within a month in East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Murshidabad, Malda, North Dinajpur and Cooch Behar. Insiders said after it had become evident that Adhikari would join the BJP, Trinamul had started to map his followers across Bengal. “Already we have lists of those leaders contacting Adhikari to switch sides. We have got in touch with them and told them why it would be a wrong move. The efforts will continue,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Nandigram leaders vow to back Trinamul||Trinamul in East Midnapore’s Nandigram received a shot in the arm on Saturday when most land agitation leaders, who have stood by Mamata Banerjee since 2007, publicly pledged their allegiance to the ruling party at a “preparation meeting” ahead of the chief minister’s January 7 rally. The rally, which is held annually to coincide with the date of the first three deaths in the Nandigram land agitation on January 7, 2007, is more significant this time after the party’s regional stalwart Suvendu Adhikari defected to the BJP. Trinamul leaders are planning to mobilise over two lakh supporters at Mamata’s rally, which is likely to see all district leaders by her side with the exception of former block president Meghnad Pal. Last week district Trinamul leaders appealed to Mamata to rally ground support in Nandigram following Adhikari’s defection. Saturday’s preparation meeting comes two days after Adhikari’s road show in Contai outshone that of Trinamul’s Firhad Hakim and Saugata Roy at the same place in terms of turnout. Trinamul leaders believe that the January 7 rally would be different. “Suvenduda’s stand is clear. But what is important is that many leaders who stood by him a month ago have publicly pledged allegiance to Trinamul,” a source added, referring to leaders, including panchayat samiti deputy chief Abu Taher, panchayat samiti executives Sheikh Khusnabi and Swades Das and block-level leader Sudip Khara. Thirty of 35 leaders, who attended Saturday’s meeting, had skipped Hakim’s rally on November 10. Taher had been spotted with Adhikari at a public meeting that same day. Asked on his stand now, Taher said: “I have still not resigned from the party and am the panchayat samiti deputy chief. I will work my best to ensure the success of the January 7 rally.” Leaders at Saturday’s meeting affirmed Mamata’s role in the 2007 agitations and said that Nandigram’s sentiments were with her and no one else. “Our land was saved thanks to her. We can never forget that. It will become clear on January 7,” said zilla parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian. In all these years as Trinamul leader, Adhikari had lit candles at 4am every January 7 in memory of Biswajit Maity, Bharat Mondal and Sheikh Selim gunned down that day in 2007, a source said. “This year Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi would light the candles,” the source added. Mamata’s rally will be held at a nearby paddy field at 1pm. Adhikari will hold a rally to “counter Mamata” on January 8 at the same venue. “People are with us. You will see on January 8,” said a source close to Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Mann Ki Baat to focus on Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio address Mann Ki Baat on Sunday will focus on Bengal while the BJP will air it across all its 78,800 booths across the state. “The PM will speak to people of Bengal on issues related to the state in his radio address,” party MP and state general-secretary Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato told this paper on Saturday. It could be the first of many such addresses by Modi to focus on Bengal’s socio-political issues, he added. Multiple sources said while BJP national president J.P. Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah have made several visits to Bengal to kick-start the party’s election campaign, Modi will get involved in the process virtually first. On Friday, during his virtual speech to defend the three farm laws, Modi targeted the ruling dispensation in Bengal for its alleged failure to upgrade farmers’ lives. Similarly, to counter Trinamul’s narrative that the BJP is a party of outsiders, Modi tried to appropriate Rabindranath Tagore in his virtual speech to start Viswa-Bharati centenary celebrations on December 24. “Modiji is our most credible face. We will go to polls with him as mascot. It is natural that he will focus on Bengal in his radio address,” a source said. “He will come to Bengal every month from January,” the source added. “But, his first visit will be after January 12.” Shah is supposed to visit Bengal on January 12 to join an event of the BJP’s youth wing marking Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary. BJP joint national general-secretary Shivprakash tried to quell feuds between the old guard and newcomers at a closed-door meeting on Saturday in Calcutta. Quoting Shivprakash, a source said: “No one is old or new in the BJP. Everyone is a party worker and will have to work for the party.” The meeting formally introduced 110 new entrants, including former Trinamul minister Suvendu Adhikari, to the BJP. Former Trinamul MP Sunil Mondal, who joined the BJP with Adhikari, was attacked by alleged Trinamul workers in front of the BJP’s Hastings office in Calcutta. BJP minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya spoke to Shah about it and the Centre would provide security to Mondal, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Haldia-Varanasi cruise link soon: Minister||Union minister for port, shipping and waterways (independent charge) Mansukh L. Mandaviya, here on Saturday, said his ministry was trying to start cargo and cruise operations through the Ganga between Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh and Haldia in Bengal on a war footing. Mandaviya was in Malda to attend a slew of outreach programmes arranged by the district BJP. He claimed the waterways link from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to Haldia in Bengal through Sahebganj in Jharkhand would start on priority basis. “The Prime Minister wants the Ganga to be used for generating money for the citizens. We want to utilise our rivers in the interest of the citizens. The commencement of waterways journey between Varanasi and Haldia would ensure employment of youths too,” he said. He added that the central government planned to expedite herbal tourism in Bengal through cruises. “Like in Kerala, herbal treatment would be offered at various villages where enthusiasts can go through riverways,” the minister said. Asked about his ministry’s stand on the deep sea port at Tajpur in Bengal, the minister said: “We are ready to help the state government in all possible ways. We may have political differences but there should be no discrimination when it comes to development.” He said movement of cargo and passenger ships along the 4,000-km-long waterways across India had partially started and aid to the tune of Rs 4,500 crore had come from the World Bank. We are trying to connect waterways through the Padma rivers and this will help us export stone chips to Bangladesh which the neighbouring country imports from Bhutan,” he said. Mandaviya also added that Tripura, Assam and other Northeast states would be connected through waterways. “We are emphasising journeys through waterways because they are eco-friendly and cost-effective. Pollution would be significantly reduced if goods are carried through waterways,” he said. Comparing the cost of carrying goods via road, rail and water, the minister said, “While the minimum cost of carrying a kilo of goods through roadways is Rs 4 and Rs 2.50 through rail, it is merely 95 paisa through waterways.” Mandaviya spoke about the achievements of the central government and visited the house of one Rajani Hembram in Old Malda for lunch. He also met representatives of different communities, including teachers, painters, chartered accountants and businessmen at the Malda College auditorium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
27-12-2020||West Bengal||CBI reloads Saradha gun with old ammo||The CBI has filed an interim application before the Supreme Court in the Saradha case saying “the chief minister, West Bengal” and jailed prime accused Sudipta Sen had close links and seeking custodial interrogation of former Calcutta police commissioner Rajeev Kumar. The application, which comes in the run-up to next summer’s Assembly polls, claims the “highest state authorities” had colluded with Saradha and other companies accused of running deposit-mobilisation scams, and “deliberately scuttled” the CBI’s investigation. “It is submitted that examination of (Trinamul spokesperson, former MP and Saradha accused) Kunal Kumar Ghosh by the Enforcement Directorate during October 2013 revealed that the chief minister, West Bengal, and promoter of M/s Saradha Group Sudipta Sen, had very good relationship. It is submitted that the same establishes that the CM, Bengal used to talk to Sudipta Sen using phone of Kunal Kumar Ghosh,” the application says. A section of CBI officials said in private the application was nothing but a predictable political “ploy” ahead of the Assembly elections, and sounded more like “a BJP press release”. “This was in the pipeline. The political bosses were waiting for an opportune time,” a CBI official said, requesting anonymity. He said the affidavit did not mean anything legally since no evidence had been furnished but was intended at giving the BJP ammunition to attack chief minister Mamata Banerjee directly ahead of the elections. “If the agency has new evidence, it should have presented it before the trial court and filed a fresh chargesheet,” he said. Instead, he said, it has used an application for Rajeev’s custodial interrogation as an excuse to repeat mostly old allegations against Mamata, without naming her directly but referring to her post, and try to make them appear more credible by taking them to the Supreme Court. Several Trinamul politicians have been accused in the 2013 scam. The BJP has used it as a political weapon to target Mamata and her party but she had returned to power with a bigger majority in the 2016 Assembly elections. Opposition parties have long been accusing the Narendra Modi government of using central agencies to target political opponents. The CBI said it was filing the application to bring on record certain new facts and seek custody of Rajeev, now state principal secretary (IT and electronics), who it claimed had shielded several VIP accused when he headed the probe into the scam. Its application alleges that Saradha had “funded Bengal Assembly elections 2011 to the tune of crores of rupees” and that Trinamul leader turned BJP politician Mukul Roy was one of the “key players” in the transaction. “It is submitted that the examination of Kunal Kumar Ghosh by ED during October 2013 further reveals that Sudipta Sen and K.D. Singh, promoter of Alchemist group, had funded Bengal Assembly elections 2011 to the tune of crores of rupees,” it says. “Kunal Ghosh had further stated that (former Bengal armed police DGP) Rajat Majumdar and Mukul Roy were the key players in this election funded by Saradha group ponzi companies.” 
The application repeats the allegations that the accused companies were made to buy Mamata’s paintings at exorbitant prices as a way of boosting Trinamul’s coffers and donate to Puja committees whom the party wanted to keep happy. It says that Saradha employee Safiqur Rehman had during his examination by the ED in September-October 2013 revealed that Ghosh used to direct Sen to pay money to various Durga Puja committees. “It is submitted that as per the said statement when the chief minister, West Bengal, contested for MLA seat, Sudipta Sen was forced to sponsor all the Pujas of Bhawanipur,” the application says. It adds that Jago Bangla, a Trinamul mouthpiece, “sold a number of paintings, purportedly drawn by the hon’ble chief minister of West Bengal to promoters of ponzi companies during the year 2011-2013”. “It has come on record that not only M/s Saradha paid funds to the said mouthpiece but other ponzi companies like M/s Rose Valley Group, M/s Tower Group, M/s Pailan Group, Ms Angel Agro Group have also bought paintings worth lakh of rupees steered by certain persons linked to the highest state authorities,” it adds. “The following facts clearly show a larger conspiracy between highly placed state authorities and the companies under investigation which requires full and through investigation by the CBI which is being deliberately scuttled by the concrete efforts of the state authorities. “Further investigation has revealed that (Rajeev) Kumar was acting with a deliberate motive by concealing evidence and facts emerged during the course of investigation by the SIT (special investigation team) to shield influential persons associated with the larger conspiracy involved in the scam. “Further investigation has also revealed that evidence, which connected the ruling dispensation of Bengal at that point of time financially was concealed by Bidhannagar police under the stewardship of Kumar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Asok on doorstep, Trinamul cries ‘copycat’||CPM veteran Asok Bhattacharya, the Siliguri MLA who chairs the board of administrators of the municipal corporation, has started a door-to-door campaign to listen to people’s problems, prompting Trinamul to claim that the state government’s ongoing outreach event Duare Sarkar forced Bhattacharya to try out a similar approach. Bhattacharya, a five-time MLA from Siliguri who is likely to seek re-election in the 2021 Bengal polls, denied being aware of Duare Sarkar. “My ward visits and interactions with residents are to understand their problems and seek suggestions to improve civic services. I am unaware of any such programme like Duare Sarkar,” he said while visiting Natunpara in ward 5 of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Saturday. Trinamul leaders pounced on this statement. “Duare Sarkar is drawing huge response from citizens and is being widely appreciated. It forced even Bhattacharya to come out to interact with the public,” said Ranjan Sarkar, president, Trinamul’s Darjeeling district committee (plains). “The SMC has little to show in terms of concrete development,” he added. Duare Sarkar, aimed at people left out of welfare schemes, has already reached more than 1.12 crore people through 20,000-odd camps. Bhattacharya claimed he did not need such initiatives for “political dividends ahead of an election”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Two-month drop in active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday completed two months since Dashami on October 26 of a continuous drop in its total active Covid-19 cases, which fell from 37,190 to 14,108, improving by over 62 per cent. The total number of active cases now is back to almost where it used to be on July 16, 163 days ago. On Saturday, the state logged 1,861 recoveries, 1,253 new cases and 33 deaths, including a dozen from the city. “In these two months, there have been over 2.12 lakh recoveries, compared to 1.92 lakh new cases detected. This long spell that nobody had seen coming has been a total game-changer in our Covid-19 war effort,” said a minister. In these two months, there were 3,023 Covid-19 deaths. “This (two-month) spell helped us undo nearly six months of damage,” he added. The state now has over 5.46 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.22 lakh recoveries and 9,569 deaths. The recovery rate has risen for 65 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.66. The national rate now is 95.79 per cent. “We will surpass the national rate in a couple of days. Ending the year with around 97 per cent would be truly remarkable,” said the minister, adding that the two-month spell helped the state achieve – even better – all the year end goals in the fight against the pandemic. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.88 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.75 per cent, lagging behind the national rate of 1.44 per cent. Of the toll, 8,023 deaths or 83.8 per cent were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. With 30,641 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count rose to 69.27 lakh, at 76,973 tests per million people. Bengal reported 13.31 per cent occupancy in 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic and over 5.49 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
