28-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s Nandigram meeting on Jan 7 deferred||Trinamool Congress leader Subrata Mukherjee said Monday that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's public meeting in Nandigram on January 7, 2021 has been deferred due to indisposition of party MLA Akhil Giri. Banerjee was scheduled to visit Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district, former TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari's home turf, on January 7, 2021 to hold the public meeting. Mukherjee, also the state Rural Development minister, told reporters here, the meeting has not been cancelled. "Since the TMC MLA who represents Ramnagar in Purba Medinipur is in the hospital now, the meeting is being deferred. It will be held on a later date", he added. January 7 is observed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) as 'sahid divas' in the honour of those who lost their lives during the fierce anti-land acquisition movement in 2007. Reacting to the development, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that the meeting has been cancelled due to the proposed meeting of the saffron party there on January 8. After joining the BJP, Adhikari had announced that he would address a rally in Nandigram on January 8, a day after the chief minister's meeting. Suvendu Adhikari who was a part of the Nandigram agitation in 2007 protesting against the erstwhile Left Front government's move to acquire land for an SEZ, has recently severed ties with the TMC and joined the BJP. "From now on, all TMC meetings will be confined to Kalighat," Ghosh said. The chief minister's home is in south Calcutta's Kalighat area. Regarding 'Duare Sarkar' (government at doorsteps) outreach campaign of the state government, Mukherjee said, it is a novel initiative which other states might be "tempted to imitate". So far, the government has released Rs 7,800 crore for the purpose, he said. The campaign was launched with an eye on the 2021 assembly elections to ensure that people avail the benefits of 11 state-run welfare schemes and also to hear out their grievances related to the programmes. Speaking on the state's performance in 100-days work, he said, West Bengal has ranked number one in the country in terms of cash payment and quality of work. The minister said, the state panchayat and rural development had allocated nearly Rs 21,000 crore for strengthening the rural economy. Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), which offers 100 days of work in a year to rural households who seek employment had helped those who had come to the state during the lockdown as a result of reverse migration, Mukherjee said. The TMC leader said the state has been able to increase man-days by 27 per cent in West Bengal. Replying to the criticism levelled by opposition parties about Mamata Banerjee's announcement to industrially develop Singur, he said, "the chief minister was not against industrialisation per se. She only said a part of the large tract of land taken by the acquirer (West Bengal government for the Tatas) be kept for small and marginal farmers. "If she was against industrialisation, she would not have gone overseas so many times and also held business meets here. The business proposals are being implemented in the state."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Gautam Deb to meet Mamata with new civic body plea||State tourism minister Gautam Deb on Sunday said he would meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta on January 3 for her approval of a new civic body for Dabgram-Fulbari area in Jalpaiguri district. Deb is the MLA from Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat. “I will meet the chief minister at Calcutta on January 3 and appeal to her for administrative approval for a new civic body for Dabgram-Fulbari. I believe she will never refuse my sincere request,” said Deb. “Rapid urbanisation is taking place...there are a number of private institutions and hospitals here…on December 15, our chief minister declared Mainaguri (Jalpaiguri) would soon get a civic body and we are hopeful of a positive decision for our area too.” Deb said this at a Trinamul protest event against the recent farm laws. Rural areas of Dabgram-Fulbari are spread over Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district but 14 wards from this constituency come under Siliguri Municipal Corporation. Deb said a slew of development projects and steady urbanisation led to clamour for a new municipality. Uttarkanya, the state’s branch secretariat, and Bengal Safari Park come under this Assembly seat. The area’s infrastructure has improved with two fire stations and an electronic crematorium. Construction of a 100-bed ESI hospital is on. Many observers believe Deb is looking for a poll edge. Dabgram-Fulbari comes under Jalpaiguri Lok Sabha seat, where during the 2019 parliamentary election, BJP had a lead of 80,000 votes. “Deb wants something new before the 2021 state polls,” said an observer. Ranjan Sarkar, Trinamul Darjeeling district committee chief (plains), on Sunday visited the home of CPM’s Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya in ward 20 of the SMC to hand over the state government’s 10-year report card. Sarkar was handing out report cards as part of Duare Sarkar outreach. The MLA’s wife Ratna  received the card from Sarkar. Bhattacharya called it a “gimmick”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest against alleged attempt by Visva-Bharati authorities to defame Amartya Sen||Several academics, students and public figures came together in the city on Sunday to protest an alleged attempt by Visva-Bharati authorities to defame economist Amartya Sen by engineering a land controversy. Many felt that the real motive was to silence Sen because of his arguments against certain policies the Narendra Modi government. Some saw in the controversy an attempt at cultural hegemony over Bengal. “How can I, being a Bengali, tolerate the insult to Amartya Sen? I have taken a stand on my own. The actions of the university have hurt my sentiments,” said Rimona Das, a third-year student of the Sarojini Naidu College for Women in Dum Dum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
28-12-2020||West Bengal||6,000 farmers from Jhargram submit compensation claims||The ongoing yearly elephant scare in forested parts of West Midnapore, including Jhargram, has prompted over 6,000 farmers from the area to submit compensation claims to the forest department claiming damage by rampaging herds. Forest department officials confirmed the development on Friday, less than a week after the district superintendent of police issued job letters to 46 bereaved kin of victims of elephant attacks since 2011. Sources in Jhargram last week said that the development came amid sightings of a herd of 16 elephants who were trampling crop fields in the area as recently as last week, prompting villagers to demand action to safeguard their farmlands. “Roughly 3,500 hectares across West Midnapore and Jhargram have been destroyed by elephant rampages this year alone. These occurrences usually peak around winter,” said a forest department official, confirming they received the compensation claims and were reviewing them in detail. “We view these claims on a per decimal or per hectare basis, which is why verification can take time,” he added. The forest official explained that the compensation rates ranged between Rs 1,000 and Rs 3,000 a hectare depending on damage, and was usually calculated at Rs 60 per decimal. Asked, district additional divisional officer of forests Bijoy Chakrabarti admitted that herd rampages were a longstanding problem in the area without any permanent solution as of now. “Elephant herds roam around and destroy paddy fields in this area routinely," he said. “We have processed a third of the compensation claims and will verify rest very soon,” Chakrabarti added. Farmer Samar Kisku, 48, a resident of Salboni, said that he lost a bigha of produce to elephant trampling less than a week ago. “More than eating crops, elephants cause damage by ravaging the paths they take through fields,” Kisku said, adding that he had submitted his compensation claim and was “hopeful” of being remunerated. The elephant herd rampage problem reportedly posed greater damages this year as compared to last, when 2,000 hectares had been reported damaged. Forest department officials had back then issued Rs 1.35 crore in compensation to farmers and Rs 18 lakh in compensation to 342 homeowners. This year, more than 350 homes have been reported damaged. “When they don’t find food in fields, they storm residential areas,” said one villager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal changes tack, wants Mamata’s win||Bimal Gurung on Sunday said he had changed his politics and in the new scheme of things his priority was to help Mamata Banerjee win the Bengal Assembly elections and then work out a permanent political solution for the region. “I have changed my politics as we have to defeat the BJP,” Gurung said at a public meeting at Selphu in Kurseong. “My priority now is to ensure Mamata Banerjee’s win after which we will work out a permanent political solution for the place.” He added that “he would not put his feet on two boats” as the BJP had betrayed him despite him supporting the saffron camp for 12 years. Gurung’s assertion comes a day after Anit Thapa of the GJM’s rival Binay Tamang faction, said he would not seek votes based on the Gorkhaland issue. The Tamang faction is allied to Trinamul, which has been opposed to Gorkhaland. This October, Gurung parted ways with the BJP over “unfulfilled promises” and decided to back Mamata and Trinamul for Bengal elections, though his and Tamang's factions continue to be bitter rivals. Against this background, Gurung’s statement of changed politics assumes significance. Gurung had been supporting the BJP in Lok Sabha elections since 2009 when his party helped elect BJP’s Jaswant Singh as Darjeeling MP. Since then, Gurung supported BJP candidates at the parliamentary elections thrice. Gurung’s relationship with Mamata could best be described as blow hot, blow cold for the past seven years, hill observers said. Gurung’s faction of the GJM had vouched its support to Trinamul during the 2011 Bengal elections though the party had not actively campaigned for Trinamul then. Since Mamata came to power in 2011, Gurung launched two phases of the Gorkhaland agitation, the latest being in 2017. Even last Sunday, in his Darjeeling public rally, Gurung was loud and clear on Gorkhaland, an emotive issue on the hills. But on Monday evening, a delegation of smaller hill parties, all BJP allies, who went to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, reported that Shah would confer the Scheduled Tribe tag to 11 hill communities soon but settle the permanent political solution after state elections. On Saturday, Thapa said he wasn’t making Gorkhaland a poll plank for the state elections. Gurung’s changed poll priorities seems to reflect the fast-changing scenario of hill politics. What was unchanged was the animosity between the Morcha factions. On Sunday, Gurung launched a vitriolic attack at the Tamang-Thapa camp. “I have defeated you people (Tamang-Thapa) despite staying in Delhi. You could not win elections despite the state government spending Rs 1,700 crore in GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, which the Tamang-Thapa camp heads). You people don’t matter and one day you will have to come to my feet,” said Gurung. Gurung in alliance with BJP and other hill parties had defeated Trinamul-Tamang alliance both in Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly bypolls last year. “These people (Tamang-Thapa) might be telling the state government that they might switch to BJP if not kept in power in the GTA. Let them go, I will ensure Mamata Banerjee’s victory alone. I will not keep my feet in two boats,” said Gurung. Thapa on Saturday had said that he was and would always stay with the state government. On Sunday, Gurung also pointedly indicated Mamata when he said: “You have to choose the one that can win you (Assembly) seats. We will win all the three hill seats and help win 17 seats in north Bengal. They (Tamang camp) will win nothing."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Low turnout at poet anniversary upsets Thapa||The birth celebration of Agam Singh Giri, considered as one of the tallest poets among Indian Gorkhas, failed to attract enough people in Darjeeling on Sunday, prompting GTA chief Anit Thapa to wonder why “thousands” thronged his public meetings but few attended such important programmes. Giri, who died at a relatively young age of 43 in 1971, was a prolific poet and lyricist whose writings many believe are in tune with the current topics of political debates like identity, self-determination and homeland and best reflect the tribulations of Indian Gorkhas. His birth anniversary is marked as Giri Jayanti. A statue of the leader had been erected before Lewis Jubilee Complex — an administrative wing of the GTA in Darjeeling — and Giri Puraskar is also awarded, earlier by the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council and now by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, on Giri Jayanti. “Agam Singh Giri united our community, evoked community feeling amongst us. We take pride in saying that he is an icon of our community, an asset but today, even this small hall is not filled to its capacity,” Thapa said at the programme organised by the GTA at Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan here. Thapa heads the GTA. The hall has a seating capacity of 700 but less than 100 people were present at the event. The GTA chairman, who is also the general secretary of the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, made a reference of the gathering at his political rally in Darjeeling on Saturday. “Yesterday, when I held a public meeting, there were thousands. We have not done anything great for our community. However, at the programme to remember an icon, why is there such a thin presence?” asked Thapa. GTA officials said they had sent out 500-odd invitation cards for the event. “The common excuse by invitees not turning up is that it is very cold,” said an organiser who said there was a proposal to organise the event at Sukna near Siliguri but had to be shifted to Darjeeling at the last moment. In his speech, Thapa, however, said: “Darjeeling is our capital, we all have grown up at this place, grown with the cold. From next year, the event must be organised as a festival spreading over three days.” On Sunday, the GTA conferred Giri Puraskars on Matilda Rai (literature) and Madhusudhan Lama (music), which carry a cash award of Rs 1 lakh each. Thapa also announced that Basant Kumar Rai had been selected for the Shiv Kumar Rai Smriti Puraskar (literature) and T.B. Joshi for Aruna Lama Smriti Puraskar (music) which would be conferred on them on April 14, 2021. “From next year, we will also institute the Gorkha Ratna award to be conferred on Indian Gorkhas who have excelled in their profession,” said Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Abhishek, Suvendu fire barbs||Trinamul heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee and party defector Suvendu Adhikari indulged in slanging matches on Sunday without naming each other. Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek, at a rally in Diamond Harbour, indicated that Adhikari, who defected to the BJP recently, was  an “asymptomatic Covid-19 patient” who tried to sabotage Trinamul from within. Adhikari in Danton deplored his former party’s alleged south Calcutta centrism. “Just like the novel coronavirus is the hidden enemy, he (Adhikari) too lay hidden in Trinamul for so many years, sabotaging it from within,” Abhishek said, referring to the former minister’s admission that he had been in touch with Amit Shah since 2014. “If he is ashamed of having been associated with the Trinamul for 21 years (Adhikari has been saying since his desertion), then why is he still living in the same household as his father and brother?” asked Abhishek, referring to Adhikari’s father Sisir, who remains Trinamul’s Contai MP, the East Midnapore party chief and a party vice-president; brother Dibyendu who is Trinamul’s Tamluk MP; and brother Soumyendu who was until recently Trinamul’s Contai civic chairman. “The man who can’t ensure the lotus (the BJP symbol) blooms in his own home is going about thumping his chest and claiming he will make the lotus bloom across Bengal,” mocked Abhishek. “If they have the courage, let them set up their own parties like Mamata Banerjee did. Let us see where they stand then…. He has sold his spine to the BJP.” Lashing out at Adhikari’s repeated allegations of extortion, Abhishek said it was not his name that cropped up in the list of those accused in alleged scams. “I am not involved in either the Narada sting operation or the Saradha scam (indicating Adhikari). Your political somersault was to save yourself from central agencies,” thundered Abhishek. “If any of you can prove that I have ever been involved in any activity related to extortion, I am willing to be hanged,” he added. At a Danton rally, Adhikari took the dais hours later to fire a counter-offensive. “Someone (Abhishek) who cropped up in the party after it came to power in 2011 has said in Diamond Harbour that I have been in touch with the BJP since 2014. In parliamentary culture, people from various parties interact freely. The culture of not interacting with anybody else was the CPM’s. This attack comes from a party (Trinamul) that ran the state wearing the slippers left behind by the CPM,” he said. The East Midnapore stalwart tried playing the victim card and accusing Trinamul of favoring people from Calcutta over those from the districts. “This is a fight to the finish, between the districts and the hegemony of Calcutta, which they have tried to establish. This fight is the fight for the villages, for districts,” said Adhikari, referring to the south Calcutta centrism that Trinamul has been known for. “Have the rest of us come floating in the floodwaters?” Adhikari again stressed the “need” for handing Bengal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and rooted for a single party rule in both the Centre and the state for the sake of development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Verbal land lease a hurdle to Bengal govt goal||The Banerjee government may find it difficult to reach out to all 72 lakh farmers in Bengal with one of its flagship schemes — Krishak Bandhu — as it has received a lukewarm response in terms of enrolment despite the chief minister’s announcement on relaxing eligibility criteria for potential beneficiaries. Sources dealing with the issue said the practice of leasing out farmland on verbal agreement by nearly 30 per cent landowners was one of the reasons behind the farmers’ reluctance to enrol in the scheme. The state government received only about 1.9 lakh applications seeking inclusion in the scheme till December 21 through the camps set up under Duare Sarkar programme. Before the Duare Sarkar programme was launched, 47 lakh farmers had signed up for the scheme, under which farmers get annual financial assistance of Rs 5,000 for an acre. “If less than 2 lakh out of 25 lakh left out farmers apply for the scheme in the first two phases of Duare Sarkar, it can be said that the response from the farmers is lukewarm,” said a senior state government official. The sources said initially it was felt that lack of land-related documents could be the sole reason behind the poor response from the farmers. The chief minister then asked the officials to ease the norms and made it clear that only an undertaking from the farmers — who don’t have land-related documents to claim themselves as farmers — would make them eligible for the scheme. “But it now appears that the problem is something else because the response from the farmers is still poor despite the norms being relaxed,” said an official. The field officials of agriculture and land and land reforms departments recently found that nearly 30 per cent of the landowners — majority of whom own a relatively larger size of farmland — had given “verbal lease” to some landless farmers who cultivate the land and enjoy the majority share of the produce. “As they are not registered as sharecroppers they cannot apply for the financial assistance under the scheme even though the scheme has provisions for providing assistance to the registered sharecroppers. The original landowners are no more interested in farming,” said a senior state government official. The official also said that the original land owners perhaps didn’t want to come forward to apply for the scheme as they apprehended that they would get exposed as leasing out farmland verbally was not allowed in Bengal. The sources have said the oral lease system has become a practice in large parts of the state over the past few years after either the landowners moved out of the villages or the next generation of the landowners settled outside the village after losing interest in cultivating the farmland. “They want to retain the land and at the same time they don’t want that sharecroppers are registered on the land. That’s why they settle on a verbal agreement that those who cultivate their plots would enjoy a majority share of the produce. The landless farmers who cultivate such land don’t show interest in getting their names registered as they enjoy the majority share of the produce, sometimes up to 90 percent,” said a source. In case of a registered sharecropper, the owner gets 25 percent of the produce. In case, the landowner gives the input cost, the produce is shared on a 50:50 basis. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said that the ruling establishment was eager to reach out to all the farmers with the scheme ahead of the Assembly polls as the BJP was continuously campaigning that the state government had prevented farmers from getting benefits under the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme that secures a maximum of Rs 6,000 to a farmer annually. “The chief minister is eager to establish that Bengal has given assistance to all its farmers and it is a better scheme than the central scheme. The government is trying to reach out to all 72 lakh farmers and we will find out after January 25, when the Duare Sarkar programme will conclude, how many farmers did not come forward,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Lowest  24-hour Covid toll  in months||Bengal on Sunday reported 1,740 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,435 new infections and 29 deaths, the lowest 24-hour toll in months, but 13 of those were reported from Calcutta. The state also saw a drop in total active cases for the 62nd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. In these 62 days, total active cases fell from 37,190 to 13,774, improving by nearly 63 per cent. Bengal has, in this spell of turnaround, reported nearly 2.14 lakh recoveries and 1.93 lakh new cases. The state’s Covid-19 caseload is over 5.47 lakh but includes 5.24 lakh recoveries and 9,598 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 66 consecutive days, from 87.44 per cent of October 22 to 95.73 now, behind the national rate by 0.08 per cent. “We will get past the national rate on Monday and stretch the lead over the next few days of the year,” said a minister. “This 62-day spell has given us everything we could possibly have asked for in our fight against the pandemic, given the stage of the outbreak,” he added, calling the state’s Covid-19 management “exemplary”. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.86 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 of November 20. “A declining positive confirmation rate is another key indicator of reducing spread,” said the minister. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.75, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Of the total deaths, 8,044 or 83.8 per cent were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. With 38,118 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count rose to 69.65 lakh, at 77,397 tests per million people. Bengal reported 13.05 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid in 102 dedicated hospitals. Over 5.5 lakh telemedicine consultations have been done so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to walk two 'extra' kilometres in culture gesture||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will walk two “extra” kilometres beyond her planned road show route on Tuesday to pay her “tribute” to a statue of Rabindranath Tagore here, sources close to the ruling party said. Despite her original plan to march on the stretch covered by Union home minister Amit Shah last Sunday — from Dak Bungalow ground to Chowrasta crossing in Bolpur town —  Mamata reportedly made a change in the eleventh hour to include a “traditional Bengali flourish”, sources said. “She was to cover around 1.4km initially but after this rescheduling, it will be around 3.4 km,” said a police source. Now, Mamata will start her march from Tourist Lodge crossing some 500 metres off Dak Bungalow grounds and end at Tagore’s statue at Jambuni via Chowrasta. The Trinamul chief will also address a gathering from a dais behind the statue of Tagore at Jambuni. “The route was changed after a meeting with top Trinamul leaders on Saturday evening. The chief minister wanted to garland a Tagore statue after finishing her march. As there is no statue of Tagore at Chowrasta, she would walk 2km more for her tribute,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Mamata will reach Bolpur on Monday afternoon and attend a news meet followed by an administrative review meeting. The mega march starts on Tuesday afternoon. The BJP claimed Shah’s road show was a “big success”. Shah visited sites associated with some of Bengal’s foremost icons including Tagore, Swami Vivekananda and Khudiram Bose during his two-day visit to the state last weekend to try and establish the saffron camp’s connect with Bengali culture and counter the Trinamul’s bohiragawto (outsider) allegations. Abhijit Sinha, a senior Trinamul leader in Birbhum, said “There is no need (for Trinamul) to learn how to respect Tagore from the BJP.” Mamata in her speech is  also likely to address the “attack” by Visva-Bharati and its vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, who allegedly has saffron leanings, on Nobel laureate Amartya Sen over a land controversy. “She is very angry with the varsity’s attack on Sen,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
