29-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu dares TMC to hold a big rally in Nandigram||In his first public meeting at Nandigram since joining BJP, Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday dared the ruling TMC, to which he formerly belonged, to organise a big public meeting in Purbo Medinipur area. He said BJP will hold a public meeting at Nandigram on January 8 which will see the gathering of one lakh people and dared Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee to hold a rally as big as it. "We don't back out after announcing a programme like some others," he said at an apolitical meeting after a road show at Nandigram, the epicentre of the anti-farmland acquisition movement in West Bengal in 2007. Adhikari was alluding to the proposed January 7 meeting in the area by Banerjee which got postponed on Monday as a top district TMC leader tested coronavirus positive. "They (TMC) are saying it (meeting) will take place later on. If they organise the meeting later, we will again hold another meeting in the same area afterwards," he said. Slamming TMC, he said "The office of the bhaipo (nephew) is prodding some people to tear posters and attack our men here. He will get a befitting reply." Adhikari, who did not take any name, was apparently referring to TMC youth wing president and party MP Abhishek Banerjee, who is a nephew of Mamata Banerjee. He alleged that some people who were coming to his road show were attacked on the way by a party. "We will not take such attacks silently though we believe in the philosophy of peace", he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Rejecting communalism should be priority for people of Bengal, says Amartya ||Political parties sure have good reasons to pursue individual goals, but rejection of communalism ought to be a shared value without which "we shall not be worthy heirs of Tagore and Netaji", Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has said. He said the Left and other secular parties in West Bengal have no less commitment than the ruling TMC to ensuring that communalism does not rear its ugly head in the state. "Secular parties can differ in their detailed programmes, but the importance of rejecting communalism must surely be a strong shared value. The Left parties should have no less a commitment to that than the TMC (in keeping the state secular)," Sen told news agency PTI in an email interview. The BJP, which has often been subjected to strong criticism by the celebrated economist over its policies, meanwhile, claimed the TMC's communal side has long been exposed. Exuding confidence that the people of the state will reject non-secular forces, the 87-year-old Harvard professor said, "Bengal had in the past greatly suffered due to communalism." "Each party may have a good reason to pursue its own goals without harming the overarching objective of keeping Bengal secular and non-communal. First things should surely come first. Otherwise, we shall not be worthy heirs of Tagore and Netaji," he said. With Bengal's icons occupying centre stage in political discourse in the run-up to the assembly elections, Sen said one must remember that all luminaries "have wanted and argued" for unity. "Rabindranath Tagore, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Swami Vivekananda, all wanted and argued for a united Bengali culture, and there is no room in their social objective for trying to excite one community against another. "That is the Bengali culture that we have come to admire and support. Kazi Nazrul Islam is as big a Bengali leader as the others. Bengal has greatly suffered from communalism in the past and has learned to reject it firmly," the Nobel winner, a known critic of the BJP, said. Asked about the recent row over his family allegedly being in "illegal" possession of land at Visva Bharati, the noted economist rejected the charge and said the vice chancellor of the hallowed institution has issued "false statements" to the media. "I am baffled by the way the Visva-Bharati VC is doing these very odd things, such as making false statements to the media about me allegedly occupying their land but never writing to me about returning any land to them. I am not sure if the VC is what can I say? - (is) intellectually well- coordinated," he said. Asked if he feels that it was an attempt to malign him, the professor said, "Maybe, as you say, he (VC) is trying to malign me, but it would be hard to be sure given the lack of cogency in his actions." Sen, however, declined to hold the BJP responsible for the row, as was suggested by many quarters. "Certainly I am critical of any political party that inflames communal and divisive sentiments, particularly between Hindus and Muslims. Certainly, Bidyut Chakravarty, the Visva- Bharati VC, gives evidence of following the commands of the BJP. But it is a big jump from there to conclude firmly that the BJP is responsible for these false accusations," he said. A controversy erupted last week when media reported that the central university has written to the West Bengal government alleging dozens of land parcels owned by it were wrongfully recorded in the name of private parties, including Sen. The Nobel laureate had said that the university land on which his house stands is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had offered an apology to Sen on behalf of the state and also wrote to him, asking him to consider her a "sister and friend" in his war against "intolerance and totalitarianism". Reacting sharply to Sen's assertions apparently targeting the saffron camp, BJP's national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said his claims were bereft of truth as the "the communal side of the TMC government was exposed when immersion of Durga idols was stopped due to Muharram". "People in Bengal have already voted in favour of the BJP in the last Lok Sabha polls. They will vote for us again in the upcoming assembly polls," he asserted. Elections to the 294-member Bengal assembly are due in April-May next year. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Amartya Sen thanks Mamata Banerjee for support||Economist Amartya Sen has thanked Mamata Banerjee for her support in the controversy over his ancestral property on the Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan, the communication coming as a shot in the arm for the chief minister at a time she has trained her guns on the Narendra Modi government for attacking its critics. “I am not only most touched, but also very reassured that despite the busy life you have to lead, you can find time for reassuring people under attack. Your strong voice, along with your full understanding of what is going on, is, for me, a tremendous source of strength,” the Nobel laureate wrote in his letter to Mamata that she received on Monday. Some Visva-Bharati officials have suggested that Sen is among the “illegal occupants” on the campus. Asked, Sen had told this newspaper that the family home, Pratichi, stood on land given on a long-term lease that was nowhere near expiry. “Some additional land was bought by my father as free hold and registered in land records…,” he had said. Sen had also suggested that there was a gulf between the culture of Santiniketan and that of the vice-chancellor, whom he described as “empowered” by the central government in Delhi. Mamata echoed Sen by saying the authorities of the central university were trying to end some of the old traditions of Santiniketan by stopping festivals like the Basanta Utsav and Pous Mela. The chief minister, who had written to Sen expressing surprise at the “baseless allegations” by “nouveau invaders” and urging him to count her as a “sister”, reached Bolpur on Monday afternoon to attend administrative and political programmes. “Amartya Sen is being attacked for his views against the Union government. This is completely unacceptable. Just like I am being attacked for my political views,” Mamata told reporters, asked why the varsity authorities had targeted Sen. The Nobel laureate had been openly critical of economic measures like the demonetisation and the growing intolerance in the country under Modi’s rule. “You all know what’s happening…. Even people like Amartya Sen are not spared,” Mamata said. “Amartya Sen is the pride of Bengal…. The entire world knows him. He is free to have his views and freedom of choice.” Mamata added that the BJP-led central government had launched a systematic effort to attack the culture of Bengal by trying to take control of Visva-Bharati, a university set up by Rabindranath Tagore. “There are so many such examples across the country…. Look at what happened to JNU or Nalanda University or Pondicherry University,” she said. Her support for Sen, undoubtedly one of the most celebrated contemporary icons of Bengal, has drawn huge applause in Santiniketan, where discontent with the varsity authorities has been brewing for the past year and a half. At an administrative meeting that she chaired in Bolpur, Mamata gave Santiniketan residents another reason to cheer. She announced she had signed an order to take back control of a road on the campus that the state government had handed over to Visva-Bharati in 2017. Mamata said she had received a letter from some ashramites on Monday morning which requested her to take control of the road as the Visva-Bharati authorities were restricting vehicle movement by putting up barricades. “I read the letter while I was on the chopper to Bolpur…. Just before that I had signed on the PWD file to take back control of the road,” she said. Old-timers welcomed the move and said it would at least stop the harassment of residents by the varsity. “It’s really very good news. We welcome the chief minister’s step,” said Supriya Tagore, a member of the Tagore family and former Patha Bhavana principal. After the meeting, Birbhum police chief Shyam Singh reached out to the residents and informed them of the chief minister’s decision. “I came here at the direction of the chief minister to inform them of her decision and to order the road’s return. It was a longstanding demand from the old-timers,” Singh said. The Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a social organisation, had lodged at least 15 complaints with various police stations in Birbhum after an ABVP worker posted derogatory comments on Sen on social media. “After Visva-Bharati, the saffron camp now attacks and insults our pride of Bengal, economist Amartya Sen,” said Samirul Islam, the president of the outfit. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Diamond Harbour cop on ‘central deputation’ shifted||Diamond Harbour SP, Bholanath Pandey, who was one of the three IPS officers roped in by the Union government for central deputation after BJP president J.P. Nadda’s convoy had been attacked during his recent Bengal visit, was on Monday posted as SP Homeguard — a post considered to be of relatively lesser importance. Sources in the state home department said although the state government had ruled out the possibility of giving concurrence to the three IPS officers’ central deputation, the transfer of was an indication of admitting the security lapse during Nadda’s visit. The two other IPS officers, Rajeev Mishra and Praveen Tripathi — who were also asked to serve on central deputation — have, however, been spared the rod. On the contrary, inspector general, south Bengal, Rajeev Mishra — a 1996 batch officer — was elevated to the rank of additional director general of police, along with the rest of his batchmates on Monday as a part of the annual promotion protocol. There was no change in the post of Tripathi, DIG, Presidency range. “This is a clear indication that only the SP has been found to have been at fault. This also means the state is still holding its ground of not allowing any of the three officers to serve on central deputation,” said a senior bureaucrat. Traditionally and ethically, IPS officers are called on central deputation by the Centre only after consulting the state. That’s the ground on which the Bengal government objected to the Centre’s unilateral attachment of the IPS trio. Pandey, a 2011-batch officer, has been posted as senior staff officer, Homeguard organisation — a post equivalent to SP homeguard. Avijit Banerjee, who was posted as SP of the Barasat police district, has replaced Pandey in Diamond Harbour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Accidental firing in Ranaghat SDO office||Two persons were injured in an accidental firing at the Ranaghat sub-divisional office on Monday when the owner of a revolver inadvertently pulled the trigger as he was unloading the cartridges before its submission for renewal of arms licence. While the bullet injured the index finger of revolver owner Anil Halder, a resident of Phulia in Nadia, it hit Harinarayan Halder, 73, a retired headmaster of Dhantala-Aranghata who had come to renew the licence of his double-barrel gun, in the buttock and came out through the thigh. Both were rushed to Ranaghat sub-divisional hospital in the town. While Anil was released after primary treatment, the elderly victim was admitted to the hospital. A doctor attending to Harinarayan said he was out of danger. “Since the bullet went out through a point over the thigh after entering through the buttock, it can be said that the elderly patient is out of danger.” Sources said the incident occurred about 10.15am when the renewal process of arms licence had begun at the SDO office in Ranaghat. Anil, who had accidentally fired his revolver, said: “It was an unintended mistake on my part. I forgot to unload the cartridges. While unloading the revolver, I had inadvertently pulled the trigger and it led to the accident.” Lying on the bed at the Ranaghat subdivisional hospital Harinarayan said: “I was standing near the counter for renewal of my double-barrel gun when I heard a sound. Within a few seconds, I felt pain in the buttock and someone pointed out that I was bleeding. They then took me to the hospital.” SDO, Ranaghat, Rana Karmakar, said: “It appears to be a case of accidental firing. The police have begun an inquiry. However, no complaint has been lodged in connection with the incident. If required, we will take action accordingly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Bankura picnickers die in trailer truck collision||Four persons, including three of a family, were killed and five injured when the car they were travelling in collided with a trailer truck on Bankura-Purulia road in Bankura’s Chhatna around 10pm on Sunday. Police said all those killed and injured were residents of Belia village on the outskirts of Bankura town. They were returning from Purulia’s Ayodhya Hills, where they had gone for a picnic on Sunday morning. The police said severe fog had covered the area on Sunday night and they suspected the vehicles were coming from opposite directions and collided because of low visibility. “There was a dense fog cover on the stretch and drivers of both the vehicles must have missed seeing each other because of poor visibility, which led to the crash,” said a police officer in Chhatna. All the injured were rushed to Bankura Sammilani Medical College and Hospital where doctors declared the four brought-dead. The injured persons had initially been taken to the Bankura hospital nut were later transferred to a private hospital in Durgapur. The deceased were identified as Santosh Kumar Mukherjee, 70, his wife Belarani Mukherjee, 64, and their daughter Uma Mukherjee, 42. The driver of the Maruti Omni Sumanta Baske, 22, was also killed. Sources said the Omni fell into a roadside ditch at Bhagwanpur village in Chhatna police station limit after the collision. Local people called the police and joined hands in rescuing the injured. The truck driver, however, managed to escape. The police have seized both the vehicles. Residents of Belia said the two families had hired the Omni to go on a picnic to Ayodhya Hills on Sunday. “We never thought that such a tragedy would strike them at the end of the trip. They were returning home when the accident took place,” said an elderly villager. The police said the bodies were handed over to the kin of those killed after post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Plea to change father’s name in TET exam form ||Former Bangladeshi citizens, whose enclaves were incorporated in India in 2015 and who became Indians, have written to the Bengal government to allow them to change the name of their father in the teacher eligibility test (TET) application forms. These citizens maintain that the residents of former Bangladeshi enclaves were forced to adopt “academic fathers” because of geographic hindrances and now want to enlist their “natural” father in the application forms. Rahman Ali was born and brought up at Poaturkuthi village, which was a Bangladesh enclave till five years ago. Since the place was surrounded by Indian territory, Ali claimed that he had no options but to attend a primary school in India. “There were no schools within walking distance (in Bangladesh then) and hence, I had to enrol myself at a nearby school at Khatmari (in India). For this, I had registered the name of my maternal uncle, Sabar Ali, as my father,” said Rahman. Sabar is a resident of Khatmari village in India. Rahman has had his uncle registered as his father in all academic documents right up to his post-graduate certificates instead of his natural father Naskar Ali. “This is the harsh reality of all residents of former Bangladesh enclaves that have been incorporated in India. We have two fathers, one an academic father and the other our natural father,” said Rahman. Following the Land Boundary Agreement (LBA) 1974 and Protocol of 2011, 51 erstwhile Bangladeshi enclaves in India and 111 erstwhile Indian enclaves in Bangladesh were transferred to the other country with effect from the midnight of July 31, 2015. All 14,863 residents of the Bangladesh enclaves in India opted for Indian nationality. Over the years, the former Bangladesh citizens have corrected anomalies in various government documents, including education certificates. The problem with Rahman and 10 other TET applications — they are all applying for a government examination for the first time — stems from the fact that the TET exam applications were filled up in 2017. “All my educational credentials right from secondary to post-graduation were corrected by May 5, 2018, but the problem is that I had applied for the primary TET examination on November 25, 2017, and hence, the name of the father registered in TET application form is wrong,” explained Rahman. The Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) for primary school is scheduled for January 31, 2021. Rahman and other youths from the erstwhile Bangladesh enclaves are worried that such a mismatch would pose problems for them in future. On Monday, Rahman wrote to the secretary, West Bengal Board of Primary Education, seeking to change his father’s name in the TET application form and also the name of his village from Khatmari to his original village Poaturkuthi. Rahman has also apprised Kanailal Dey, the district inspector of schools (secondary), Cooch Behar, of the matter. “I have received an application. I will check the details of the document after which it will be sent to higher authorities for their decision,” said Dey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Sign of Congress revival bid in Malda celebration||The Congress in Malda observed the party’s foundation day with much spectacle after more than a decade, which many believe is an attempt to enthuse its workers in a region which was once considered the party’s bastion in Bengal. Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury a.k.a Dalu, the South Malda MP and the district president of the party who had skipped public meetings in the past three months after being infected with the novel coronavirus, led the 136th foundation day celebrations at Hayat Bhavan, the district headquarters of the Congress. Few recollect Congress leaders celebrating the foundation day with such fervour this decade. “We wanted to mark the foundation day in a more organised way as we wanted to convey a message to our workers that we should not give up our fight against the ruling parties in the state and at the Centre,” said Isha Khan Choudhury, a Congress MLA. Members of the Congress’s different wings attended the celebration where sweets were distributed. There was a huge gathering at the event. The Congress has six MLAs and an MP in the district. In the past elections, the Congress used to sweep Malda which accounts for 12 MLAs and two MPs. During the time of A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury, a seven-time MP from Malda and former railway minister, the Congress had a strong grip in the region. However, over the last couple of years, even family members of Ghani Khan, including his brother Abu Naser and nieces Mausam Noor and Shehnaz Quadery, left the Congress for Trinamul. Political observers believe with the rise of the BJP in Malda and the inroads being made by Trinamul into the district, the Congress is facing the heat from two ends. “They are trying all means to connect with the people and hold on to their constituency. Today’s event is a pointer,” said an observer. “We have voters and supporters. The only factor is they have to be organised again. The Congress has been doing that relentlessly,” said Kalisadhan Roy, district working president of the party. In the first week of December, the Congress had organised a mega rally as well in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Matuas up the ante on citizenship rights||Former MP and president of the Trinamul-backed Sarbabharatiya Matua Mahasangha, Mamatabala Thakur, on Monday launched a movement at Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas, demanding unconditional citizenship rights for the Matuas, categorically rejecting the Citizenship Amendment Act that they felt would rob them of the rights to stay in India. Mamatabala’s movement comes in the backdrop of BJP MP and chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha, Santanu Thakur, voicing discontent over the Centre’s delay in implementing the CAA and his claim that rules under the new act did not go down well with the Matuas. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh met Santanu here on Monday and ruled out the latter leaving the party. Matuas are a group of Hindu refugees from Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal drive to fix gaps in infrastructure and services||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a 45-day initiative called Paray Paray Samadhan (Solution at neighbourhood) to address problems in infrastructure and services at local levels. The new initiative is a follow up to the Duare Sarkar programme, which was launched to reach out to people left out of government schemes. “We have taken a new initiative Paray Paray Samadhan — to address local issues and to keep it at par with the Duare Sarkar programme — in a mission mode. The initiative would meet the local demands which don’t require large scale infrastructure projects,” the chief minister said during an administrative review meeting in Bolpur’s Gitanjali auditorium on Monday. Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the drive would start on January 2 and continue till February 15. “The state has already received 10,000 requests from various corners of the state to address local problems. The requests include a small infrastructure gap, lack of personnel at important institutes like health centres or some service gap in the locality like lack of pipe-line based drinking water supply. The new initiative would address the issues,” said Bandyopadhyay. Sources at Nabanna said the programme had been planned after it was found that community-based problems were not being addressed through Duare Sarkar camps as people were visiting the camps to get to know about schemes that benefit individuals like pension schemes or Swasthya Sathi scheme. The sources also said majority of the requests already submitted to the government were related to missing road links, lack of drinking water facilities, lack of paramedical staff or doctors at the local health centres. The missing road links could be completed by erecting a culvert or by laying 2 to 3 km of rural roads, said an officer. Similarly, installation of a deep tubewell would solve the drinking water problems of a community, said an official. “So, these are not costly for the government, but it needs an organised effort to solve the problems. The new programme would be initiated to address the issues in a coordinated manner,” the official added. Officials said during the tenure of the Trinamul-led government in the past 10 years, major large scale infrastructure-related issues like development highways, setting up of Krishak Bazars 
and Karmatirthas were taken up. “It is the time to look into the small infrastructure gaps,” said a source. A section of the officials, however, pointed out that during the Left Front, departments like Western Region Development and Sunderban development used to look after the infrastructure gaps at the grass roots level. “Now, it seems that the departments have done nothing in the past 10 years and that’s why the state government was forced to launch a new scheme centrally ahead of the polls to address the local infrastructure gaps even after spending 10 years in power,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Daily Covid toll below 30 in Bengal||Bengal on Monday reported a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 63rd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, improving by nearly 65 per cent, from 37,190 to 13,161. The state on Monday logged 1,614 recoveries, 1,028 new infections — on a day tests were 28,095, considerably less than the 42,000-45,000 conducted usually — and 27 deaths. For the first time in months, the state recorded less than 30 deaths for two days on the trot. “We expect the total of active cases to fall below 13,000 on Tuesday. If we can end the year with less than 12,000 active cases, that would be a splendid achievement. More so, considering even 23,000 would have been a decent show, given the stage of the pandemic,” said a minister. The total of active cases is now back almost to where it was on July 15, 166 days ago. In this spell of turnaround, Bengal recorded over 2.15 lakh recoveries, compared to 1.94 lakh new cases detected. The state now has a total of over 5.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.25 lakh recoveries and 9,625 deaths. The recovery rate has risen for 67 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.85, short of the national rate by just 0.04 per cent now. “We are confident of ending the year with over 96 in our recovery rate. That is better than our target of 93, revised to 95,” said the minister. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.84 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. The state’s total test count is now 69.93 lakh, at 77,709 tests per million people. The 27 deaths reported included four from the city. Of the total deaths, 8,064, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Bengal reported 12.87 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.51 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata cancels Nandigram visit on January 7||Chief minister and Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee has cancelled her scheduled visit to Nandigram in East Midnapore on January 7 after a senior district leader tested positive for Covid19 and was rushed to a hospital in Calcutta on Monday. “Didi will not visit Nandigram on January 7,” Trinamul leader Seikh Sufian and deputy chief of the East Midnapore zilla parishad said. “Our Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri has tested positive for coronavirus and hence, the programme, which would have led to a large gathering, has been cancelled,” Sufian said and added that Mamata would visit Nandigram as soon as Giri recovered from the illness. Although Mamata’s rally will not be held, a meeting of Trinamul workers will be organised. The party’s state president Subrata Bakshi will attend the meeting. Trinamul observes Saheed Divas or Martyrs’ Day on January 7 in Nandigram every year in memory of the three villagers killed in a shootout during the antiland acquisition agitation on the same date in 2007. The change in Mamata’s plan has dashed the hopes of the family members of the martyrs who had hoped to meet the chief minister on January 7. Pabitra Maiti, 50, a resident of Sonachura and father of Biswajit Maiti, one of those killed on January 7, 2007, said though Mamata had visited Nandigram several times in the past 13 years, the now cancelled tour would’ve been her first on Saheed Divas. “I was overjoyed when I heard that Didi would address us on Saheed Divas. But now I’m told that the programme has been cancelled. I’m disappointed,” Maiti said. Local Trinamul leader Abu Taher, who had been a part of the Nandigram movement, said the change of plans had upset local people. “Saheed Divas is an emotion for the people here. Didi had said she would come and now that the plan has been cancelled, people are upset,” Taher, who is the vicepresident of Nandigram panchayat samiti, said. The change in plans has also hit the BJP as former Trinamul minister and turncoat Suvendu Adhikari had announced that he would hold a rally to counter Mamata on January 8. With Mamata not coming to Nandigram on January 7, the BJP is unsure about its January 8 plans. “Since Mamata Banerjee has cancelled the programme, Suvendu doesn’t need to hold a counterrally,” said Kanishka Panda, a leader close to Adhikari. “She has never come to Nandigram on this day. Suvendu’s popularity has scared her and she decided to be here,” Panda said. “Mamata’s programme has been cancelled because Trinamul is afraid of the counterrally Suvendu had announced to hold on January 8,” he added and almost echoed what BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said in Calcutta when asked for his reaction to the chief minister’s change in plan. Panda asked why Trinamul could not hold a programme in Nandigram if Akhil Giri was unwell. “Giri is not the legislator from Nandigram, nor is he the party’s district chief,” Panda said. The district Trinamul committee will meet over the cancellation of CM’s programme on Tuesday morning. However, the party’s chief for the district and Contai MP Sisir Adhikari and Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari, the father and brother of Suvendu Adhikari, respectively, were not invited to the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
