30-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC moves President to remove Dhankhar from Governor's post||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday said it has moved President Ramnath Kovind to remove Jagdeep Dhankhar from the post of the West Bengal governor, accusing him of "transgressing constitutional limits" by regularly commenting against the state administration and government in the public. The BJP, however, said the governor is acting within his constitutional parameters while the "TMC is scared". A team of TMC MPs has sent a letter to the President on Tuesday listing "all such transgressions" by Dhankhar in recent times and urged him to take action as per Article 156, Clause 1 of the Constitution, the party's Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told reporters here. "The governor holds office during the pleasure of the President as per Article 156, Clause 1. We have urged the President to withdraw the pleasure, which translates into removing this governor," Roy said. "We have noticed that since he arrived in the state in July last year, he has been regularly tweeting, holding press meets and participating in TV discussions, where he is regularly passing comments on the functioning of the state government, our officers, ministers, the chief minister, even once on the conduct of the speaker of the assembly. Every such action is violative of his constitutional rights," Roy said. Alleging that Dhankhar has been making such statements in the public at the behest of the BJP-led government at the Centre to embarrass the TMC government in the state, Roy said, "This had never happened earlier in the 75-year-long history of West Bengal. If he has to say anything, he can communicate that in the way as provided to him by the Constitution, not by tweeting or holding press meets." Roy cited Dhankhar's statement seeking expense details of the Bengal Business Summit, his demand for an apology from the chief minister over some of her recent comments and his "threat to 25 IPS officers" as instances of the governor "violating his rights and limitations". "He has also said it is his duty to ensure free and fair polls. Who is he? It is the domain of the Election Commission. Similarly, only the CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) has the authority to seek details of the expenses of state-organised events like the Bengal Business Summit," Roy said. "A constitutional head chosen by the Centre cannot interfere in the functioning of the state in this way. It is akin to interference in the parliamentary system. He is intentionally doing these things. He is not fit to occupy the seat of the governor which had been occupied by many illustrious personalities since Independence," Roy said. He said such actions by the governor goes against the orders given by the Supreme Court in the past. The letter to the President was signed by five senior party MPs in both the Houses, including Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Derek O'Brien and Roy himself. Dhankhar, who has had frequent run-ins with the TMC government in the last one-and-half years, has regularly flagged concern about the alleged politicisation of the state administration and police, the functioning of the state-run universities and the law and order situation among other issues. To a question, Roy said this was the party's initial step with regard to the governor. "Depending on the situation and seeing the response, we will take steps in the future," he added. Reacting to the development, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said the governor is performing his constitutional duty as he finds that the state government is not performing its duty properly on certain parameters. "I don't think the TMC's action of moving the President for the removal of the governor will have any impact. The President will go by his own understanding of the governor's role," he told reporters. "The governor is acting within his constitutional parameters as the head of the state. The TMC is doing this as it is scared," the senior BJP leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal reports first case of mutant Covid strain||Bengal has reported its first case of the mutant coronavirus that has been detected in the United Kingdom, a senior health official said on Wednesday. The patient, the son of a senior official of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, tested positive for the mutant strain VUI-202012/01 following his return from London, the official added. “The youth is undergoing treatment at the state-run hospital's super-specialty section. He is under observation. We have advised all those who have come in contact with him to isolate themselves,” he told PTI, adding that the mutant strain is believed to be more contagious than the existing one. The youth had tested positive for Covid-19 10 days ago at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport, upon his return to Calcutta, the official said. “Six others who had come in contact with the youth at the airport tested negative for the infection. As he had returned from the UK, we had sent his samples for genetic analysis as per the protocol set by the Centre,” he added. “The new strain of the coronavirus was detected during his genetic analysis. We have sent the report to Delhi-based National Centre for Disease Control,” the official said. Twenty cases of the mutant coronavirus strain have so far been reported across the country, of which eight were detected in Delhi and seven in Bengaluru. The mutant strain VUI-202012/01 (the first Variant Under Investigation in December 2020) is defined by a set of 17 changes or mutations. More than 40 countries including India have banned travel to and from the UK, a move several scientists said was necessary in view of the rapid spread of the VUI-202012/0, which was first detected on September 21. Bengal on Tuesday logged 1,587 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,244 new cases and 30 deaths, including four from Calcutta, as the state recorded a drop in total active cases for the 64th successive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Active cases fell in these 64 days from 37,190 to 12,788, improving by nearly 66 per cent. In this period, Bengal recorded over 2.17 lakh recoveries and 1.95 lakh new cases. The state now has a total of over 5.49 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.27 lakh recoveries and 9,655 deaths. The recovery rate has risen for 68 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.92, short of the national rate by just 0.01 per cent now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul forms district-level minority panels||The Trinamul leadership in Jalpaiguri formed full-fledged committees of party’s minority cell at the district level and in 15 organisational blocks on Tuesday, prompted by a sudden surge in activities of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in parts of the district. Mosharraf Hossain, nominated as the new district president of Trinamul’s minority cell, said that the AIMIM was active in some areas was trying to erode Trinamul's support base. “In Nagrakata, the AIMIM had planned to get some of our local leaders and active workers on board a few days back. We could thwart them. Also, there is information that the party (AIMIM) is active in places like Malbazar, Kranti and parts of Rajganj. We are collecting information on a regular basis from all seven Assembly seats of the district and will take initiatives to stop the AIMIM from consolidating support base in minority areas,” said Hossain. In Jalpaiguri, around 30 per cent of the voters are from minority community in Rajganj constituency while in Malbazar, the percentage is 27. According to sources, AIMIM workers are also taking up political activities in places like Binnaguri and Banarhat quietly. On Tuesday, district Trinamul leaders announced a 50-member district committee of the cell. Along with Hossain, the district committee has three working presidents, two coordinators, four vice-presidents, a secretary-general, six general secretaries, six assistant general secretaries, 12 executive members and 15 block presidents. The minority cell president, when asked how they intend to impede the AIMIM from gathering support, was brief in his comments. “We won’t divulge our plans but we will surely stress the initiatives taken up by our chief minister and state government for the minority community,” he said. Some party insiders pointed out that unlike yesteryears, no one from other minority communities such as Buddhists, Christians and Sikhs were included in these panels. “Their votes also matter to the party. We hope representatives from these communities would be inducted in other (party) committees in due course,” said a party leader. District Trinamul chief K.K. Kalyani said the AIMIM would fail to make any impact in poll results. “The party failed in Bihar Assembly elections…they have drawn up a similar strategy for Bengal. We are confident that people will stand with us.” However, ever since AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi announced he would field candidates in some districts of Bengal for the 2021 state elections, Trinamul is worried about a dent in minority votes. Recently, chief minister Mamata Banerjee at a public meeting here accused the BJP of spending crores to try to import Owaisi's AIMIM in Bengal and divide Muslim votes. The AIMIM chief had reacted to the accusation in a tweet: “Never was a man born who can buy Asaduddin Owaisi with money.” Political observers are watching the unfolding events with interest. “Trinamul is apprehensive that AIMIM’s entry would dent their support base and affect poll results, particularly when the BJP is desperate. That is why Trinamul seems to have taken up the task to engage its minority cell to prevent withering of its support base,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Forest office ransacked over detention of village youth ||A forest range office was allegedly ransacked by villagers in the presence of local Trinamul leaders at the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Alipurduar on Tuesday during a demonstration to protest the detention of a local youth found in the reserve area on Monday evening. Trinamul leaders called it a “spontaneous outburst” of villagers. Sources said on Monday evening, some daily-wage workers engaged by the state forest department were patrolling the fringes of the East Rajabhatkhawa range office under BTR west division when they spotted Upen Rava of Gadadhar forest village. Upen was brought to the range office and asked what he was doing in the reserve area in the evening. As news spread, some villagers reached the range office at 9.30pm and resorted to protests. They got Upen out of the range office and took him home. On Tuesday morning, some villagers and local Trinamul leaders reached the range office to meet foresters on the issue. Around 7am, some turned violent and damaged office furniture, CCTV cameras and window panes. Some 100 villagers kept forest staff confined, demanding the transfer of those who had caught Upen. “Upen had gone for fishing and yet was taken to the range office and accused of smuggling timber,” said Amir Rava, a Trinamul leader. On the ransacking of the office, Manoj Agarwal, another Trinamul leader, said it was a “spontaneous reaction of people” as an innocent youth was harassed. Ranjan Talukdar, a forest official of BTR, spoke with Trinamul leaders and persuaded them to withdraw the protests. Subhankar Sengupta, BTR field director, did not comment on the violence. “All we want to say is that in the evening no one goes to the forest to catch fish,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan lockdown extended||The Bhutan government on Tuesday extended the nationwide lockdown “until the festivities of New Year and Nyilo are over”. Nyilo is considered as an auspicious day in Bhutan and celebrated as New Year in the country. Earlier, Bhutan had announced a lockdown in August that was relaxed in September. However, after some fresh Covid-19 cases had been recently reported, the government announced a seven-day lockdown on December 23 that ended on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Malda police office shifted||The headquarters of Malda district police was shifted to a new building on Tuesday after a gap of nearly 150 years, keeping in view the requirement of a larger space and to eradicate several other problems which were causing inconvenience for regular activities of the district police administration. Vishal Garg, the inspector general of police, north Bengal, in presence of other senior police and administrative officials, inaugurated the new police office near the food park on Tuesday. According to senior researchers of the district, the office of the superintendent of police in Malda that used to function from the first floor of a building on the district court premises, was opened in 1859. “The building was constructed during the British regime. We have heard since our childhood that the British government had constructed the building when the police and judiciary wings were inseparable. The building is at the centre of Malda town and it has a heritage value,” said Radhagobinda Ghosh, a researcher based in Malda and a Bangaratna awardee. The headquarter, where the district police chief used to attend his office, was at a stone’s throw away from the district magistrate’s office and the Zilla Parishad. “The building has an area of approximately 7,500 square feet. But with the growing requirement of more space, it was essential to shift the office. A major problem was the paucity of parking space,” said sources. The new building, sources said, is nearly 5km from the former building and near the Gour Banga University. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, said after he had taken charge, he felt the need to shift the office to a larger space. “Appropriate initiatives were taken and a proposal was sent to the state government. We checked out some locations and this venue was finalized. The building has been constructed on war footing, keeping in view all possible requirements to run the district police administration smoothly,” said Rajoria. Garg appreciated the shift and directed district police officials to appraise the common people of the change so that they did not find any difficulty in locating the new office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Protesters lock office in Alipurduar, BDO works from road||Residents of Kalchini block in Alipurduar district were in for a surprise on Tuesday to see block development officer Prashanta Burman on the road outside his office on Tuesday afternoon to do his official work. The reason: some members of the Trinamul-run panchayat samiti of Kalchini had locked the BDO office, alleging Burman was impeding development work at the block. The drama unfolded at around 2pm, as panchayat samiti members locked the gate and resorted to a demonstration against the BDO. “We have been asking BDO to invite tenders for road development and construction of embankments. The state has allotted around Rs 3 crore for such projects to be carried out in the block. He has not listened to us. We are worried because if dates of Assembly polls are announced, tenders can no longer be invited (as the model code of conduct will be enforced). That is why we demonstrated in front of his office,” said Rajkumkar Bhujel, a member of the samiti. When the protest started, Burman was at the district magistrate’s office in Alipurduar. As he got the news, he immediately came back but found his office locked. So he sat outside the office, and met people who approached him. “I know my responsibilities. As I could not enter office, I did my official work sitting on the road. We are carrying out the Duare Sarkar campaign these days. I don’t know what made them close down my office,” said Burman. Seeing him squatting on the road, protesters eventually opened the gates. Burman then entered office. Some residents and Trinamul insiders, however, said the BDO was doing his best and even going beyond the call of duty. “It seems his proactive approach is affecting the interest of some people. Otherwise, there is no reason for such protests,” said a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Kidnap victim found in 24 hours||A 34-year-old poultry farm owner abducted in Malda for money was rescued within 24 hours by the police on Tuesday early morning. The police have also detained 10 persons allegedly involved in the crime. Sources said Farooq Momin, who owns a poultry farm at Chowki-Mirdadpur under Manikchak police station of the district, was kidnapped on December 26 night. “He was sleeping at a room in his farm when the gang broke into his property and before he could react, they held him at gunpoint and took him away,” said Kunal Das, the officer-in-charge of Manikchak police station. On Monday, Ekramul, Farooq’s elder brother, filed a police complaint. By then, Farooq’s family members started receiving calls from various phone numbers demanding cash for his release. Police formed a special team to investigate the kidnap. The cell phone numbers, from which abductors had called, were put under tracking. After some hours, the team could intercept three persons from Amriti, a locality under Englishbazar police station. “During interrogation, they admitted the victim has been taken to Alipur, a locality in Kaliachak police station. We contacted police officials of Mothabati and Kaliachak police stations and a joint rescue operation was planned. Eventually, the poultry farm owner was rescued at a hideout in Alipur,” added Das. During the raid, seven others were detained. Sources said that the police team was in plainclothes. The ransom money was kept ready to allure kidnappers. “However, the operation was successful without firing or bloodshed,” said a senior police officer. Alok Rajoria, the SP of Malda, appreciated the team. “They (the team) have performed a commendable rescue operation. The victim has been freed and the suspected kidnappers have been detained within 24 hours. It is the smooth coordination among different police stations that helped us,” Rajoria said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Truck holds up train services in Nadia||Train services in Sealdah north section were hit for 90 minutes when a truck rammed into the level-crossing gate near Kalyani station in Nadia on Tuesday. An eyewitness said the truck speeding on NH12 connector in Kalyani hit the drop gates at 9.24am. The drop gate got damaged and overhead electric cable pole took a hit. As cables snapped, train services were suspended for almost an hour. A tower van was later pressed into action to repair the gate and the route was cleared for movement of vehicles around 11.05am. However, it took about two hours for train services to resume on stretches including Sealdah-Lalgola, Sealdah-Ranaghat, Sealdah-Gede, and Sealdah-Santipur, a spokesperson for the Eastern Railway said. Police have started a case against the errant truck driver, who drove away the vehicle that remained untraced till evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Tea unions demand daily wage of Rs 250||Trade unions on Tuesday demanded a daily wage of at least Rs 250 for tea estate workers and revision of the salaries of the staff and sub-staff in gardens with effect from April 1, 2020. The demands were put forward at a meeting between senior officials of the state labour department and leaders of the unions in Siliguri. There are around three lakh workers and about 10,000 staff and sub-staff members in the tea gardens of north Bengal. As of now, a worker receives Rs 176 per day. Md. Rizwan, the additional labour commissioner in Siliguri, said: “We will soon hold a meeting with tea planters’ associations in Calcutta on the unions’ demands. Thereafter, necessary steps would be taken up for a consensus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Aishe flags digital divide worry||SFI leader and Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president Aishe Ghosh, here on Tuesday, underscored the “digital divide” that has cropped up in the education sector amid the pandemic and demanded that the central and state governments take initiatives to reopen education institutions immediately while adhering to health safety protocols needed to keep Covid-19 at bay. Durgapur girl Aishe, who hit the national headlines in January 2020 for receiving severe head injuries allegedly by the ABVP on JNU campus while she was leading a protest against fee hike, was here to attend the 50th anniversary of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), the CPM students’ front. “It is necessary that educational institutions reopen immediately to bridge the digital divide that has been witnessed in education across the country because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Around 70 per cent students are bereft of the online education system (as they lack Internet access). In the past few months, it has been found that the number of dropouts is on the rise. This is alarming,” Aishe said, urging schools, colleges and universities to open up “so that the inclusive system of education can resume”. “We will carry out a series of programmes (under the banner of the SFI) so that the governments make appropriate moves in this regard,” the student leader added. On Tuesday, Aishe walked in a rally organised by the SFI that started from Bagha Jatin Park, moved through Kutcheri Road and Hill Cart Road, and ended at Mahatma Gandhi Chowk. Hundreds of SFI supporters and senior CPM leaders including Asok Bhattacharya and Jibesh Sarkar attended the rally. Speaking to newspersons, Aishe lashed out at the Narendra Modi government over the recent controversy over the ancestral home of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen in Santiniketan. Authorities of the varsity, perceived to have Rightwing leanings, have accused Sen of encroaching on varsity land. Aishe pointed out that the Nobel Laureate had been outspoken and had said that democratic rights of people were violated. She hit out at the saffron brigade and alleged an “undeclared Emergency” in the country. The BJP government, Aishe said, had promised two crore jobs ahead of the 2014 polls but never met it. “These days, whether it is students or farmers, no one can speak up on their demands,” she said. “As far as employment in concerned, situation has worsened as 15 crore people have lost their jobs in past six months but the RSS and the BJP are least bothered about it,” Aishe said. “These days, people are deprived of their rights, farmers have launched a movement and as a whole key problems remain unaddressed,” said the JNU students’ union leader. Aishe accused both the BJP and Trinamul of indulging in election-centric politics. “Whether it is in the state (Bengal) or in the Centre, situation is same. Instead of trying to address the issues of the common people, both the governments are indulging in election-centric politics. We are against such political practices,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh hits Amartya Sen below the belt ||The BJP’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, having developed a reputation for shooting from the hip and embarrassing his party, on Tuesday lambasted Nobel laureate Amartya Sen in what is being viewed by some in the party as “unnecessary invitation to avoidable trouble”. Reacting to questions on Sen’s stand against the legislation against “love jihad” being enacted by many BJP-ruled states, Ghosh said the economist should not speak of ideals. “I don’t want to attack someone personally. But he has no moral right to speak since he himself has married thrice, into three different religions,” he said on Tuesday. “He (Sen) fled the country and has never been seen in times of crises, such as Cyclone Amphan or the pandemic. We will not take moral lessons from such a person,” said Ghosh, despite his party steering clear of criticising the 87-year-old, conferred the Bharat Ratna — India’s highest civilian honour — by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government at the Centre in 1999. The Midnapore MP issued the public statement at a time his party has been treading with caution on not only Sen but on all matters pertaining to Bengal, its culture and icons. Many sources in the BJP admitted to displeasure with Ghosh over the remarks. “Yes, of course, we do have our differences with Sen. But it is difficult to justify such an uncouth personal attack on him while we are trying our best to connect with the people,” said a state BJP leader. “Mamata (Banerjee) and her party (Trinamul) have been going out of their way to stand by Sen at this hour, and this support has brought them close. At this time, Dilipda’s remarks would give her the edge. Dilipda, yet again, handed live ammo to her,” he added. Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, a BJP ideologue, and the party’s national-secretary Anupam Hazra, a Visva-Bharati alumnus, distanced themselves from Ghosh’s remarks. Both claimed they were unaware of the remarks by Ghosh. “Professor Sen is a person who is respected all over Bengal as well as all across the globe,” said Dasgupta. Hazra added: “Though many a time Sen has been rigidly against the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he is an esteemed son of Bengal’s soil. One should avoid making personal attacks at him.” State minister and Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu said: “Such foul-mouthed insults are the first instinct for the BJP when it comes to Bengal, its ethos and its essence. Since the BJP has realised that no Nobel laureate or any civil society member worth his salt is with them, their masks often fall off in reacting to them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata's Bolpur rally picks up gauntlet thrown down by Shah ||Rabindranath Tagore and the other cultural symbols inextricably associated with Bengal set the ambience as Mamata Banerjee set out on foot and picked up the gauntlet thrown down by Amit Shah from a truck nine days ago on the same soil. Didi’s time was over, Shah had declared at the end of a 1-km-long roadshow in the same Birbhum town that Sunday, drawing an impressive crowd that set the tone by chanting “Jai Shri Ram” and “Bharat Mata ki jai”. On Tuesday, Mamata answered Shah with her feet firmly planted on Bengal’s soil, walking 4km to the strains of folk music, Tagore’s songs and drumbeats. The battle is far from over was the message Mamata sought to convey in a perception race that the BJP has attempted to dominate by parading Trinamul turncoats. “The game is not that easy…. You first get 30 seats, then talk about 294 seats,” Mamata said at the end of the roadshow, countering claims by the BJP that its tally in the Assembly polls in a few months would cross 200. Trinamul saw in the estimated 1.6-lakh turnout at the roadshow an energiser to prepare the rank and file for the impending battle. As Mamata hit the streets to offer her rebuttal to Shah’s war cry, she armed herself with Bengal’s culture and Bengali sentiments. “Jana Gana Mana Adhinayaka Jaya He…. Aajke bolchhe otao poriborton korbe. Ami bolchhi, ek bar touch kore dekho (You will change the national anthem? Touch it once and see),” Mamata said, drawing a huge round of applause from the tens of thousands who had gathered at Jambuni Bottola Crossing, where the roadshow ended. BJP parliamentarian Subramanian Swamy had earlier this month sought the replacement of some words in the national anthem in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose Covid season beard has been a subject of social media speculation on whether he is modelling himself on Tagore in preparation for the Bengal campaign. On Tuesday, Tagore was the theme of the roadshow as the entire stretch through which Mamata led the walk with hundreds of folk singers, drummers and young singers was lined with posters and banners of the Bard. Standing along the road and on balconies, thousands waved at her, clicked photographs and shouted slogans. Standing barely a couple of kilometres from Santiniketan, where Tagore had set up Visva-Bharati, Mamata took a dig at Shah for his pledge that the BJP would turn the state into “Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal)” if voted to power. “Tagore had written long back what is Sonar Bangla…. No one needs to spin a new dream about Sonar Bangla,” said the Bengal chief minister. “They don’t know Tagore or Netaji or Gandhi…. They have come here armed with fake and hate politics,” she added, before asking whether the people were ready to reject the saffron camp. An affirmative answer rend the air and a visibly pleased Mamata rolled out a list of welfare schemes — woven around the story of a family in which everyone was a beneficiary — her government had launched since coming to power. Officially, the roadshow was organised as part of the Banga-Dhwani programme through which the ruling party is rolling out its report card across Bengal. While welfare schemes launched by Mamata is billed as the main poll plank of Trinamul, party insiders said the results of the Lok Sabha polls, in which the BJP bagged 18 out of the 42 seats in Bengal and garnered around 40 per cent of the total votes, had taught them that a poll battle also requires a counter-narrative. On Tuesday, Mamata accused the BJP of using Tagore’s Visva-Bharati to peddle hate politics in Bengal by attacking stalwarts like Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen. The Bengal chief minister liberally used Tagore’s poems and songs before slapping the “invader” label on the BJP, which has pressed leaders from across the county to look after the party’s organisation in the state. “They don’t know about Bengal’s culture…. They don’t know that Tagore had set up Visva-Bharati 60 years after he was born at Jorasanko in Calcutta. But they say that he was born in Visva-Bharati,” Mamata said, alluding to a faux pas by the BJP social media team during party president J.P. Nadda’s visit to Bengal. Over the next few months, Nadda and Shah will be visiting Bengal at least twice a month — besides occasional trips by Modi — and the BJP state leaders are confident that the high-profile visits would swing the tide further in their favour. Besides, state BJP leaders are also banking on Suvendu Adhikari to engineer more defections from the ruling party, which, they think would further weaken Trinamul. “They will be spending money…. They can buy off a few MLAs but that will not be enough,” said Mamata. Sources close to Mamata said she had decided to hold similar programmes across Bengal as part of her strategy to project Trinamul as the saviour of Bengal’s culture in the battle against “invaders”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||CM arranges treatment for child with hearing impairment ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee arranged treatment for Isfatara Mondal (centre), an eight-year-old from Bolpur’s Jambuni who has a hearing disorder since infancy. Mamata spotted the child standing with her mother Samapti Khatun (right) and grandmother near a Duare Sarkar camp in Bolpur on Monday afternoon. “Didi walked up to us and heard out my daughter’s plight,” said Samapti, wife of a small-time trader. “We are poor and the doctor said her treatment would cost lakhs. I got a call from the chief minister’s office on Monday evening that my daughter will be taken to Calcutta.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||CPI MP Binoy Viswam writes to PM on ‘abuse’ of power by VC ||CPI Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention to stop the “abuse” of power by Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty to describe economist Amartya Sen as an “illegal occupant” on the land of the central university in Santiniketan. The varsity included the Nobel laureate on a list of “illegal occupants” on the campus, saying Sen had under his possession more land than what had originally been leased out to his maternal grandfather for 99 years. Sen’s grandfather Kshitimohan Sen, a Sanskrit scholar, had played a key role in building Visva-Bharati, along with Rabindranath Tagore. The economist was born and brought up at the house “Pratichi” built by his father in Santiniketan. In his letter, Viswam said: “For him (Sen) to be included as an ‘illegal occupant’ of Santiniketan, a place which his family has helped build and sustain for generations, is absolutely unacceptable and an abuse of the powers vested in the Vice-Chancellor of the University, who is appointed and answerable to the Central Government.’’ Further, according to Viswam, the actions of the VC clearly indicate an abuse of power as no intimation of such illegal occupation has ever been made to Sen. The MP said the long term lease granted to Sen’s family by the university was far from expiration. “It appears that this action is a direct response to Dr. Sen’s critique of the Central Government and its policies on certain issues. This sort of abuse of power and legal process has become symbolic of the way people supporting your party conduct themselves in public life. The actions of the VC can only be looked at in the context of the politics that is currently playing out in the state of West Bengal and your party’s role in the same.’’ Urging the Prime Minister to stop the abuse of power by an official under the central government’s control, the CPI MP said for Sen to be treated in such a manner was a “matter of national shame and belittles India’s reputation as the world’s largest democracy”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Baul who fed Amit Shah hosts Didi in heart||Basudeb Das Baul, who had hosted lunch for Union home minister Amit Shah on December 20, went on the dais with Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday and sang that Didi was “in his heart”. “Basudebda, please come on the dais,” Mamata invited him before her speech and the man smiled his way to the dais. At the end of her 30-minute speech, Mamata said: “May I request Basudeb babu to sing two lines to bless us? Bolpur is the soil of the Bauls and here is a master performer like him.” During Shah’s visit in Bolpur, he had a Bengali lunch at the folk singer’s modest home. For the Union home minister, Basudeb had sung “Tomai hrid majhare rakhbo, chhere debo na (I will keep you in my heart and will not leave you)”. On Tuesday, as he picked his dotara, he sang the same lines, but customised the song using “Didi” many times. Bausdeb’s presence at Mamata’s event nine days after hosting Shah became a talking point in Bolpur on Tuesday afternoon. Sources said within 24 hours of Shah’s visit, a group of around five local Trinamul leaders reached out to him to win him over. He was invited to Trinamul’s district party office in Bolpur town where party’s district chief Anubrata Mondal assured him help for his daughter’s education that had stopped midway over money problems. As soon as Mamata’s visit was confirmed, he was invited to lead the team of Baul singers on Tuesday’s march and he readily accepted it. “I love Didi and so I came here as soon as I was invited. I am very happy that she felicitated me with her own shawl. I will come again when she calls me,” said Basudeb, overwhelmed by the warm reception. If getting the folk singer was a cultural coup of a kind, the other big achievement of Birbhim district Trinamul was ensuring a turnout far bigger than the one at Shah’s road show. The Shah event, according to police, drew a footfall of 40,000 while Mamata’s one had a turnout of more than 1.6 lakh on Tuesday. Even if one discounts the police estimate, there was little doubt among eyewitnesses that the crowd was bigger in Mamata’s road show. “It was a gigantic show and we had to divert the crowd in lanes to avoid a stampede-like situation,” said a senior police officer. “When Mamata finished her march at Jambuni the tail of the rally was at least 2.3km away,” he added. Trinamul’s Anubrata Mondal who accused the BJP of bringing people from outside Bolpur for Shah’s road show, said “more than two lakh” came from four blocks of Bolpur subdivision alone for Mamata. “Several leaders in charge of managing the crowd requested me to stop vehicles approaching the town. I think the BJP will understand the strength of Trinamul and Mamata Banerjee as well,” said Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Active cases dip, government pins hope on HC order||Bengal on Tuesday logged 1,587 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,244 new cases and 30 deaths, including four from Calcutta, as the state recorded a drop in total active cases for the 64th successive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Active cases fell in these 64 days from 37,190 to 12,788, improving by nearly 66 per cent. In this period, Bengal recorded over 2.17 lakh recoveries and 1.95 lakh new cases. On Tuesday, Calcutta High Court issued a set of instructions to the state government to prevent crowding and ensuring the outbreak does not worsen over New Year celebrations. The intervention came in the wake of some alarming scenes of Christmas revelry disregarding Covid-19 safety protocols. The high court had intervened with similar instructions to prevent crowding over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. “This is good news. We were hoping for such instructions from the court again. It would empower us to act in the name of the judiciary to make sure that the progress made since Durga Puja is not wasted over the New Year,” said a minister. The state now has a total of over 5.49 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.27 lakh recoveries and 9,655 deaths. The recovery rate has risen for 68 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.92, short of the national rate by just 0.01 per cent now. “We will get past the national rate on Wednesday. By mid-January, we should be past 98,” said the minister. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.82 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. The state’s total test count, including Wednesday’s 37,235, is now 70.31 lakh, at 78,123 tests per million people. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Of the total deaths, 8,090 or 83.8 per cent, have been attributed to comorbidities by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari’s supporters attacked in Nandigram||Alleged Trinamul Congress activists attacked at least 10 buses and small vehicles carrying BJP supporters to a “religious” procession led by former minister Suvendu Adhikari at Nandigram in East Midnapore on Tuesday. Over 25 BJP members, including women, suffered injuries in the attack at Garchakraberia’s Bhutamore. The rally was Suvendu’s first foray into Nandigram after joining the BJP on December 19. A local source said Tuesday’s road show was in connection with a religious programme and several BJP supporters had joined the rally that started from Tengua to conclude at a Hanuman temple in Nandigram. “Armed Trinamul goons beat up innocent people and did not even spare women. Police remained mute spectators,” said a BJP leader. Trinamul leader Seikh Sufian, however, rejected the allegations. “The attack was the fallout of the BJP’s internal bickering,” he said. Soumendu removed Suvendu’s brother Soumendu Adhikari has been removed from the post of administrator of the Contai municipality.  Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati being used to peddle hate: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday launched an unprecedented attack on Visva-Bharati vice chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his administration for allegedly allowing the BJP to use the varsity to peddle “hate politics” and insult Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen who is known for his reservations about the saffron regime. “I don’t feel good when I see Visva-Bharati is used to peddle hate politics... Don’t forget that dirty politics has been imported to the campus and the entire Bengal,” said Mamata while addressing a gathering at Jambuni Battala crossing in Bolpur town at the end of her road show. “Tagore had set up Visva-Bharati with the theme of promoting education in nature... You have turned Visva-Bharati into a place of riots. It hurts my heart and I feel sorry,” she said after garlanding Tagore's statue at the end of the mega road show. It was clear that Chakrabarty — blamed by the many in the varsity community for promoting the saffron agenda on campus — was the target of her blistering attack. Mamata added that she was observing with dismay that several old-timers, including Sen, were attacked in filthy language by some in Visva-Bharati. “These attacks are launched on ashramik brothers and sisters from Visva-Bharati. They did not even spare Amartya Sen. I came here in Bolpur to raise a voice of protest against this,” said Mamata. Recently, Sen’s name featured on a list drawn up the estate department of the varsity of illegal occupants on the campus. The allegation came close on the heels of the vice-chancellor saying that he received a phone call from Sen, during which the latter introduced himself as “Bharat Ratna”, and asked him not to evict hawkers from near his house because his daughter buys vegetables from them, a claim the economist has since described a “completely imagined conversation”. “Having been born and brought up in Santiniketan, I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the VC, empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi...,” said Sen after the controversy over land encroachment to The Telegraph. Mamata on Tuesday also attacked Chakrabarty for his alleged direct connection with the BJP. “I don't have any individual grudge or grievances against the VC. Didn’t they find anyone else for the post of the VC? They had to get someone who has a stamp of BJP. What do BJP leaders do inside the chamber of the VC every day? What do they do inside Visva-Bharati?” she asked. Varsity insiders said that in the last two years of Chakrabarty’s appointment, Visva-Bharati had become a free space for people associated with the BJP or the Rightwing ideology. Allegations of saffronisation emerged strongly when ABVP national secretary Sunil Ambekar was invited for the Halakarshana (traditional ploughing ceremony) in 2019. Both Briksharopan (tree plantation) and Halakarshana were started by Rabindranath Tagore to promote a healthy respect for ecology and cultivation. A lecture supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act by Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta was organised by the VC on January 8 which prompted students to protest. Chakrabarty told ABP Ananda in the evening: “If anyone can produce proof that the university has turned into a party office, I can clarify.” To him, the BJP, Congress, CPM and TMC “are all immaterial”, he claimed. “My aim is to do whatever possible for the development of Visva-Bharati, even at the cost of my life.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
