31-12-2020||West Bengal||No night curfew in Bengal on New Year's eve, confirms state official||Night curfew will not be imposed in Bengal on New Year's eve as the situation is not that adverse, a senior official has said. The state government, however, will take all precautionary measures to prevent gatherings on the occasion, he said. The current situation is not conducive to imposing a night curfew, Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said. "New Year celebrations are organised at a few places in West Bengal. If people abide by the COVID-19 safety protocols and cooperate with the police and administration, gatherings can be avoided," he said on Wednesday. The Ministry of Home Affairs has permitted states and union territories to impose local restrictions such as night curfew, if necessary, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. With a UK returnee testing positive for the mutant coronavirus strain in Kolkata, the chief secretary cautioned people and urged them to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. "People must cooperate with the administration and the police. There will be special assistance booths at places like Park Street and Victoria Memorial where a large turnout is expected," he said. The Kolkata Police has taken measures to ensure that all COVID-19 safety protocols are adhered to and large gatherings on New Year's eve are prevented, as per the Calcutta High Court's order to check a spike in infections. Security has been beefed up in and around the metropolis to avoid any untoward incident. The high court had on Tuesday asked the state government to ensure that effective Covid-19 safety protocols are maintained during the year-end festivities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah to talk to Matuas on CAA: Bongaon MP||Shantanu Thakur, BJP’s Bongaon MP and chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha, on Wednesday told the media that Union home minister Amit Shah would visit Thakurnagar on January 19 or 20 to address the people of the community on the Citizenship Amendment Act. Many Matuas are reportedly restless over the delay in the act’s implementation. “If the government can pass an act in Parliament, it can also implement it...The home minister will be here in Thakurnagar on January 19 or 20 and make announcements on the citizenship act,” said Thakur. BJP state leadership has reportedly pulled up the MP over his frequent comments about “discontented Matuas”. Sources in the party said that the news meet was organised to contain the damage done by the young MP’s previous comments. He had been apparently summoned by the party’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh and the two met in Calcutta on Monday evening, where he was told that he must refrain from making public statements on CAA. “Dilipda was rigid on his point that apart from being a representative of the Matuas, Shantanu was also a BJP MP...and that his comments were showing the party in bad light,” a state BJP office bearer said. Sitting beside Shantanu, Trinamul turncoat and BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy, tried to turn tables on Trinamul by accusing the party of misleading the Matua community. He said that in the past, governments used the Matuas as votebanks and never cared about their development. In a bid to woo the Matuas, the saffron party has approached the central government to set up an All India Matua Development Board. It has also asked the minister of railways for the expansion and development of the Thakurnagar railway station. “We’ve spoken to the government about these and believe that a solution will be offered soon,” Roy told reporters. The CAA is a double-edged sword for the party as some leaders believe that the framing of the CAA rules ahead of the state Assembly polls will create unrest among a large section of the Matuas, who believe that they are Indian citizens and don’t need to go through the cumbersome process of citizenship. Trinamul is trying to woo this section. But a majority of state BJP leaders believe that the party won the Matua-dominated Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha seats riding on their CAA promise in 2019 and the promise has to be made good. “The Matuas are a deciding factor in at least 15 assembly seats and have an influence on around 35 others. So, we have to be very careful about their sentiments,” said a source. Bengal BJP launched a social outreach programme called Sonar Bangla or Golden Bengal campaign on Wednesday. The party prepared a list of 50 speakers who will reach out to people in all 294 Assembly seats and meet the members of civil society to explain the party’s vision for Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate 95.99% in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 65th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, from 37,190 to 12,381. The state on Wednesday logged 1,557 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,178 new infections, and 28 deaths, including eight from Calcutta. The recovery rate is now 95.99, short of the national rate by just 0.01 per cent. The state’s total novel coronavirus cases, since the first was recorded on March 17, went past the 5.5 lakh mark on Wednesday, 288 days later. The latest 50,000, from 5 lakh on December 6, took 24 days, compared to the 15 days it took for the journey from 4.5 lakh (November 21) to 5 lakh. “That itself shows the vast improvement. Slowing down from 15 days to 24 days is a major development. The 50,000 from 4 to 4.5 lakh took 14 days, from 3.5 to 4 lakh took 12 days, from 3 to 3.5 lakh took 13 days…. To go from that to 24 days is an achievement to take note of,” said a minister. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.5 lakh cases includes nearly 5.29 lakh recoveries and 9,683 deaths. On Wednesday, the state administration announced several measures to enforce instructions from the high court to prevent crowding and ensure the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations. The judicial intervention came in the wake of  alarming scenes of Christmas revelry in disregard of Covid-19 safety protocols. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.79 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. The state’s total test count, including Wednesday’s 39,110, is now 70.7 lakh, at 78,558 tests per million people. Of the total deaths, 8,115, or 83.8 per cent, have been attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul plea to Kovind to recall governor||Trinamul on Wednesday said it has written to President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him to remove Jagdeep Dhankhar from the post of Bengal governor, accusing the Raj Bhavan occupant of having “failed” to defend the Constitution” and “breached” Supreme Court laws on account of his alleged saffron bias. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Trinamul’s chief whip in the Rajya Sabha and one of the signatories, said that ever since Dhankhar came to Bengal last year, he took “to social and mainstream media, tweeting, holding news conferences, participating in televised discussions…wherein he has been commenting on the functioning of the state government, its officers, ministers, the chief minister, and even the Speaker...” “Every such action is in violation of his constitutional authority,” Roy said. The party furnished a 20-page document, including a six-page missive to Kovind, signed by five of its senior MPs dated December 29. “The governor holds the office during the pleasure of the President, according to Article 156, Clause 1, of the Constitution. We have asked the President to withdraw the said pleasure, which translates into removing this governor,” Roy said. The Mamata Banerjee government has been at loggerheads with Dhankhar for over “unprecedented provocations” from Raj Bhavan that are virtual echoes of statements from the BJP. Trinamul sources said Mamata had “had enough”. Trinamul on Twitter said the governor’s statements “contain blatant political bias ....such tendencies...on the part of the Constitutional Head of the State to openly support a political party strikes at the very root of federalism”. The BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said Dhankhar was doing his constitutional duties and Trinamul’s action would have no impact. “The President will go by his own understanding,” said Vijayvargiya. “Trinamul is doing this only because it is scared of what is right,” he added. In its letter to the President, Trinamul cited four Supreme Court rulings to substantiate its argument. In a 14-page annexure, the party cited 50-odd instances, 27 of them from December alone, of Dhankhar’s alleged lapses. “A constitutional head chosen by the Centre cannot interfere in the functioning of the state like this...he is not fit to occupy the seat (of governor),” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Farmers protest in Nadia against new farm laws||A group of farmers in Debagram are protesting for the past 16 days against the Centre’s farm laws. Setting aside their political differences, farmers of a few villages formed the Krishak Samhati Dharna Manch to demand the scrapping of farm laws. The relay dharna, which began on December 15 near Debagram’s old bus stand, found supporters from many, including homemakers and students, they said. “We initially planned to join the agitation in Delhi but because of the lack of money and the raging pandemic, the plan changed. We decided to join the agitation from here itself,” said Mahiuddin Mondal, a convener. Asked what prompted them to form a Manch when a joint forum of farmers was leading the struggle nationally, Mondal said they were in solidarity with the nationwide movement but also wanted to do something on their own. Mondal said people had been coming forward to support their agitation in every way possible. After talks between the farmers’ unions and the Centre remained inconclusive on Wednesday, Mondal said their fight would continue till the new farm laws were scrapped. “These farms laws will leave farmers at the mercy of big corporate houses,” said Kamaluddin Sheikh, a peasant and core committee member of the Manch. “While the Narendra Modi government claims that the minimum support prices (MSP) regime will stay unchanged, the laws do not say it. The Centre has lost its credibility. It is trying to cheat farmers. Though MSP is not even to meet the actual cost of production, farmers do not get the meagre support price they are entitled to,” Sheikh added. A farmer said that the protesters in Delhi were “absolutely right”. “There is no room for any compromise, the laws must be revoked,” said the farmer. The Platform for Education-Theatre-Culture, with Pather Panchali and Sanskriti Samanway, will host a convention at Barrackpore Sukanta Sadan on January 3 to express solidarity with farmers. Theatre activist and playwright Chandan Sen said: “It is an apolitical endeavour...We have requested peasant leader Hannan Mollah to address the convention.” Painter Wasim Kapoor, actors Paran Bandyopadhyay and Kaushik Sen, lawyer Bikash Bhattacharya, litterateur Swapnamoy Chakraborty, singer Subhendu Maity, music composer Kalyan Sen Barat, poet Mandakranta Sen and others would attend the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Day after mega rally, Mamata cooks up a storm ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday helped cook a vegetable curry at a roadside kiosk in Santiniketan’s Sonajhuri, much to the delight of onlookers, a day after her successful roadshow in Bolpur. “What are you cooking? Do you know I can cook too?” she asked the woman at the kiosk, advising her to add a dash of sliced green chillies. Menoka Bagdi, wife of kiosk owner Babu Bagdi, was cooking a mixed vegetable dish of chopped beans, brinjal, potatoes and pumpkin when Mamata arrived at the stall. As Mamata set to work vigorously turning the vegetables in the wok with the ladle, she asked Menoka to “lower the flame” and “pour water” at apt moments. After Mamata left, Babu hit upon a canny idea to boost his sales. “Please come…I will serve you a curry cooked by our chief minister Mamata di,” he shouted, trying to draw more customers. Mamata was in her element a day after her mega roadshow in Bolpur as she embarked on an unplanned outreach trip to Santiniketan’s Ballabhpur Danga village near Sonajhuri to listen to the rural people before boarding the chopper back to Calcutta. Sources close to her said she wanted to send out a message that unlike the curated  “lunch visits” of Union home minister Amit Shah to tribal and farmer homes, Mamata could enter any home. “It was a completely unplanned visit by the chief minister, we were not informed earlier. She suddenly asked her convoy to take a concrete road leading to a tribal village while she was on her way to the helipad from where she was to fly back to Calcutta. She got down from the car and spent 30 minutes with the villagers,” said a police officer. On reaching Ballabhpur Danga village, a tribal hamlet that houses around 130 families in Sonajhuri forest, Mamata entered a thatched home of 40-year-old carpenter Sanjoy Das and started enquiring about his family. Das said: “I couldn’t imagine Didi was standing at my door. This will remain etched in my memory. She asked my name, my profession…I am overwhelmed.” Mamata went to Manjhir Thhan, a place for worship of tribal people, and paid her respect. She also walked through narrow roads of Ballabhpur Danga village, meeting and talking to villagers. Tulsi Soren, a final-year Bengali honours student of Bolpur Purnidevi College, and her mother Sanmani, a 42-year-old widow, spoke to Mamata. Mamata praised Tulsi for studying and told her about the Kanyashree scheme. Mamata assured villagers of a school for learning the tribal Ol-Chiki script in the area and did not forget to mention the government’s free Swasthya Sathi and rations. “This is why she is Didi. She is not like (Amit) Shah who sends party leaders to decorate the home of a Baul singer before having lunch there,” said Anubrata Mondal, Birbhum Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Booths on priority at BJP north Bengal meeting||A number of state and central BJP leaders congregated here on Wednesday to address party leaders and workers who have been entrusted with the responsibility of “booth management” in north Bengal. As the Assembly polls are drawing near, the saffron brigade has planned to focus at the micro level — the booths — to retain the support that the party had earned in the region in Lok Sabha elections in 2019. In north Bengal, the BJP has set a target to win 50 (of 54) Assembly seats. “It was an organisational workshop to discuss booth management. A number of senior leaders assigned by the party were present at the event. They elaborated on certain issues which can help our workers to strengthen the support base at the booth level,” said Raju Bista, the local MP and a national spokesperson of the party. According to party sources, Shiv Prakash, national joint general secretary (organisation), Ratnakar Mishra, who has been made an in-charge of north Bengal, Arvind Menon, a co-observer of the party in Bengal, along with a number of state leaders and two party MPs of the region attended meeting. “Our party leaders have laid emphasis on the need to constitute a team of 10 youths for each booth in north Bengal. Also, specific instructions have been passed to ensure that party committees are formed at every booth in the region. Not a single booth should be left out,” said a party insider. In the Lok Sabha polls last year, BJP had won in seven of eight seats and was ahead in 38 of 54 Assembly segments. Trinamul on the other hand, was ahead in 12 segments. Trinamul leaders, however, were not ready to give much importance to such moves of the BJP and pointed that they had support of both the factions of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in the hills and in plains and prominent organisations of tribals and Rajbanshis are with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Didir Diary campaign on heels of Duare Sarkar ||Trinamul workers in Alipurduar will visit every home in over 1,200 booths spread across the district to find out whether any prospective beneficiary of the state-run welfare schemes have been left out in any town or village. The decision has been made as a follow-up move to “Duare Sarkar,” an ongoing campaign launched by the Mamata Banerjee government to reach out to people through camps so that they can get benefits of the array of schemes floated by the state government. “We have named the campaign Didir Diary,” said Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul president. “Our workers functioning in booths will move around in teams. They will visit every house and talk to the families to find out whether they have enrolled themselves under schemes according to their eligibility. If it is found that anyone has been left out, they will note down the details,” said Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul president. The visits, he said, have already commenced in Falakata block and will soon start in six other blocks of the district. In all, there are 1,274 booths in Alipurduar district. Once the data is collected, it would be collated and be handed over to the district administration. “We want to ensure that not a single eligible beneficiary is left out of these government schemes. As we will provide the data to the administration, we would at the same time also request the officials to take necessary steps so that these people are brought under the ambit of welfare schemes concerned,” Goswami added. Though the district Trinamul chief claimed that the campaign has been planned to plug in the gaps of Duare Sarkar and help more people get welfare benefits, party insiders said it would also help them to counter BJP. The BJP, which is aggressively campaigning in the district, has drawn up a strategy to engage 10 youths in every booth to nurse support base at the micro level. “Our plan, we believe, can help develop mass contact at the booth level and in countering the BJP. There are reports that the BJP has constituted such 11-member teams in most booths of the district and will engage the teams to maintain regular contact with people,” said a Trinamul leader. District BJP leaders, when contacted about the upcoming Didir Diary campaign, however said such tactics would not work for the ruling party. Ganga Prasad Sharma, the BJP president of Alipurduar, was dismissive of Duare Sarkar and Didir Diary. “Time and again, Trinamul leaders of all tiers have claimed that there have been huge developments since 2011 (when the party came to power) and that the state government has provided several benefits to people. Then why do they have to make such plans now?” he asked. “It is nothing but a last-minute attempt to try and convince people,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP and Trinamul to play growth card||Bengal’s ruling party Trinamul as well as its principal political rival, the BJP, have planned to underscore infrastructure developments that have given a boost in connectivity in north Bengal, as they reach out to the urban lot ahead of the Assembly elections. “Unlike in rural areas where we would emphasise on how the ruling Trinamul has deprived people from central-run social welfare schemes, we will highlight the major infrastructure projects which have been taken up in the region as we approach the urban lot. New four-lane roads and bridges, changes in railway infrastructure and connectivity, would be elaborated during campaigns,” said a senior BJP leader in Siliguri. During the past few years, north Bengal has witnessed some important infrastructure developments which have improved connectivity in the region and is likely to give it a further boost in the coming days. Among these include road and rail bridges, a new rail route to Bangladesh (the first in the region) and two Asian Highways connecting three international borders. Also, a second bridge over the Ganga at Farakka – the entry point to north Bengal – is under construction. During the past few weeks, infrastructure has emerged as one of the key issues which both the camps have been stressing on. It was only last Monday when chief minister Mamata Banerjee had accused the Centre of deliberately delaying road projects and asked her party workers to put up posters, take out rallies and confine officials in protest. BJP leaders, on the other hand, have time and again maintained that it is because of the state that projects have got delayed. “The plan to widen Darjeeling More (the main entry point to Siliguri) and its approaches is delayed because the state has not handed over the project report or the land to the Centre,” said Raju Bista, the Darjeeling MP. Trinamul, on the other hand, is taking a cue from party supremo, to stress the projects and initiatives taken by the state government. “Two major road bridges have come up in north Bengal over the Teesta and the Ganga (in Cooch Behar and Malda districts) during Mamata Banerjee’s tenure. It is because of the chief minister’s initiative that land has been identified and handed over to the Centre for expansion of Bagdogra airport. Also, the road projects which were taken up by the central government could happen because the state provided adequate land,” said Vedabrata Dutta, a district Trinamul leader in Siliguri. Political observers, while commenting on the issue, opined that instead of harping on the doles meted out to people, elaboration of such infrastructural projects can help in drawing support from all sections of an urban society. “That is why it seems, both the parties have planned to speak on these issues and not only on the welfare schemes. In rural areas, however, welfare schemes and development of local infrastructure are likely to be the most-mentioned topics,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Wife awaits body across India-Bangladesh border||Aleknoor Bibi, a homemaker at Chak Milepur village in Kaliachak is waiting to catch a last glimpse of the mortal remains of her septuagenarian husband. Kadir Sheikh, her husband and a peasant by occupation, breathed his last at the Rajshahi Medical College and Hospital in Bangladesh on December 14. But Aleknoor’s troubles started long back. On September 18, 2017, a team of Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) and Rapid Action Battalion (RAB), raided her house close to the India-Bangladesh border. They arrested Sheikh and Aleknoor and took them to Bangladesh, alleging that they have seized four unlicensed pistols, 27 rounds of bullets and eight magazines on them. A case was filed against them at Sibganj police station under Chapai-Nawabganj district of the neighbouring country. The couple sought help from some relatives who stay there. Aleknoor was granted bail after few days. She was sent back to India but Sheikh was kept in prison as the case was under trial. On February 23 this year, the case was dismissed by a court of Chapai-Nawabganj and both she and Sheikh  were acquitted. The judgment, however, did not bring them relief. Sheikh continued to languish behind bars for another 10 months as the formalities to send him back to his homeland could not be carried out. Mritunjoy Das, a lawyer and secretary of Gour Bangla Human Rights Awareness Centre who had been toiling for months to bring the elderly peasant back home, said Sheikh had gradually fallen ill. “It seems that the frustration of not being able to return home after being acquitted had made him fall sick. He was initially admitted to Rajshahi Central Jail Hospital and shifted to Rajshahi Medical College and Hospital, where he died on December 14,” said Das. The lawyer, who is now trying to bring the mortal remains of the peasant at his village, however, is uncertain as to whether he would eventually succeed. The home ministry of Bangladesh issued a no-objection certificate to return the body to Indian authorities on December 27, he added. But Aleknoor is getting angry. “He was as innocent as I am. For no fault of his, he suffered imprisonment. When released by court, he could not return home alive. Now, is it too much to seek his body for burial in his homeland like he wished?” said Aleknoor. Mohabul Mian, Sheikh’s younger son and a migrant labourer, sounded helpless. “We feel the government of India should expedite the process as it is already been a fortnight that his body is lying at the morgue in Rajshahi. I do not know how to get back my innocent father’s body,” he said. Das said he would approach the International Court of Justice if officials of India and Bangladesh do not make arrangements to return the body. “In Bangladesh, some media publications have flagged the issue. It is high time an Indian farmer gets his last respects. Protocol cannot be greater than an innocent citizen’s rights,” the lawyer said. Malda police launched the “Surakkha” app to help people get police services during emergencies. So far, only Dial 100 facility was available in the district. SP Alok Rajoria said that initially the services of the app — launched by Vishal Garg IGP (NB) — would be available in Englishbazar and Old Malda. This service was in addition to Dial 100, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling football tournament with 221 participating teams ||The Darjeeling police football tournament under its brand Khel Utsav has attracted a staggering 221 teams from 11 police stations this time. These many teams participating in a single tournament in the region is unheard of . “We had formally launched the football tournament under Khel Utsav initiative on December 21 and provided a five-day window period for registration of teams. We had 221 teams registering for the tournament,” said Abhishek Gupta, additional superintendent of police in Darjeeling. The tournament — now underway — was launched by Darjeeling superintendent of police Santosh Nimbalkar in the presence of Nadong Bhutia, a Kalimpong boy who is currently a striker with Real Kashmir FC in the I-League and Everester Jamling Tenzing Norgay Sherpa. The tournament is being held for both men and women. Apart from 186 men’s teams, 25 women teams are also competing in the tournament. The tourney which carries a winners’ award of Rs 1 lakh and a runners-up award of Rs 50,000 each in both the men’s and women’s categories. Give the sheer number of participating teams, the tournament is first being played at the police station level. Rangli-Rungeet police station has to cope with 42 teams, which includes four women teams. “The best teams from each of the police stations will match their skills in a knockout competition in Darjeeling and the finals will be held on January 19 in the hill town,” said Gupta. Darjeeling police have made a mark in organising professional tournaments, including the Darjeeling Hill Marathon which attracts international runners. “It is probably because of the professionalism seen in organising various sports events that our tournaments are attracting such a large number of participants,” said Gupta. “Our aim is channelise youth energy in the right direction and what better than sporting events,” added the additional SP. Under the Khel Utsav initiative, Darjeeling Police has set its goal in organising a volleyball tournament next. Over the past 11 days, Kalimpong police has also managed to reach out to the public through its centenary celebrations of the setting up of the Kalimpong police station. Through the week, Kalimpong police organised various events for the community such as sit-and-draw contest, blood donation camp, interactive sessions with the general public and cultural and musical events. Harikrishna Pai, the Kalimpong SP, said: “Apart from traversing the rich history of the place, we wanted to connect with former police personnel and importantly with the general public through our celebrations.” The celebration kicked off from December 21 and concluded on Wednesday with a glittering ceremony at Kalimpong Town Hall. Kalimpong police station — set up in 1920 in the colonial era — always had an important role to play, being the last frontier station for Tibet and Bhutan. The police chief from Kalimpong said that during the interactive sessions many ideas came from the public. “We are looking at making Kalimpong police station friendlier with an emphasis on the differently abled,” said Pai, who said that this was one of the ideas had came during the interactive session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
