01-12-2021||The Supreme Court||No action on pollution||Two weeks ago, the apex court had directed the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) to hold an urgent meeting with the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab to discuss the terrible air quality in the Capital. The meeting was held, ideas were exchanged, directions issued to the governments and departments concerned — and, as the court observed, nothing seems to have been done on the ground. Indeed, the Solicitor General admitted that ‘we have asked them (governments) to comply since several months’. This suggests that the governments and agencies are not really giving due importance to the life-threatening levels of air pollution in Delhi, and that even the directions of the court are being ignored or not followed completely.The Supreme Court has directed the region’s governments to file reports on steps taken by them to comply with the directions of CAQM, and also warned that in case of non-compliance, the court could appoint an independent task-force on the issue. From the observations by the highest court, it would appear that all the meetings held over the last few weeks and the directions by various governments are part of a seasonal charade, during which they wait for the stubble-burning to stop, winds to pick up and the winter to pass and AQI readings to improve on their own. The official flurry merely raises an illusion of activity, achieving practically zero, as the court noted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-action-on-pollution-344877
01-12-2021||The past five years have been very challenging for the Indian industry||Prop up MSMEs||The states that have witnessed the shuttering of the highest number of companies during 2016-21 are Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal. The developments underline the need for a nationwide audit to determine which industries require handholding the most. Union MSME Minister Narayan Rane said last week that the Centre was keen on providing help to units and factories which were closed during the pandemic so as to enable them to get back on their feet. A workable revival plan that facilitates the restoration and creation of jobs must be devised and implemented at the national and state levels.The robustness of post-pandemic economic recovery depends on pulling MSMEs out of dire straits. Though over 7 lakh new firms were incorporated under the Companies Act during the past five years or so, many of these establishments have been hit hard by the pandemic leading to financial distress. Such companies need the government’s support to sustain their operations. The MSME sector, which contributes about 30 per cent to GDP, cannot be left to fend for itself. A country that aspires to be a global leader in startups should go the extra mile to reinvigorate down-and-out entrepreneurs and enterprises with policy interventions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/prop-up-msmes-344878
