02-12-2021||Disruptions||House ruckus||It’s lamentable that the business of the House suffers whenever both sides adopt a maximalist position. Dialogue and debate are the cornerstones of parliamentary democracy. There has to be a constructive give-and-take between the treasury and the Opposition benches to ensure that the proceedings are conducted smoothly. Political parties and members who don’t honour the mandate given to them by the people undermine the august institution of Parliament.The taxpayers’ money spent on running a parliamentary session is humongous — over Rs 2.5 lakh per minute, and that too by a conservative estimate. Every sitting matters. The onus is on the House members to facilitate a meaningful exchange of views. Though the administrative decisions taken in Parliament are those of the Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha Chairman, the overwhelming influence of the Union government is clearly visible. Both senior functionaries need to show magnanimity so as to take everyone along. The ruckus that happened in Parliament four months ago was inexcusable, but it should not be allowed to cast its shadow on the current session. Otherwise, this session too will turn out to be yet another washout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/house-ruckus-345269
02-12-2021||The satellite data from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) claiming this year’s cases of stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana for the period September to November being the highest in five years has only confirmed that the problem not only continues but that efforts to find a solution to it are yet to prove enduring. Despite attempts to create awareness and extend technological assistance to the farmers to check the burning of paddy straw||New NASA data worrisome||Part of the problem lies in the process of transition in agriculture that has seen manual labour being substituted by mechanisation and also lack of action by governments to make agricultural practices sustainable to check adverse environmental effects. It is about finding viable management practices for agricultural waste. MS Swaminathan had suggested the setting up of ‘Rice BioParks’ to generate both income and employment for farmers from paddy crop residue. Punjab had plans for food parks which might need a review. States have been making efforts to promote industry based on crop stubble, with Jind district in Haryana manufacturing briquettes made of crop residue for bio-fuel in power plants, breweries and brick-kilns. The cost of collection, transportation and processing vis-a-vis the revenue earned should be made viable for such units to grow.Punjab and Haryana have formed special task forces and panchayats have taken the pledge to refrain from the practice, yet the realisation has to dawn that smoke and smog caused by farm fires are injurious to health, not just of the general public, but of the farmers themselves, especially amid the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/new-nasa-data-worrisome-345268
