03-12-2021||West Bengal CM and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee’s assertion that the Congress-led UPA||Churning within Oppn||The turf war between the Congress and the TMC is intensifying. Twelve out of 17 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya defected recently to the Trinamool camp. The TMC had made it clear last week that it was ‘uninterested’ in coordinating with the Congress during Parliament’s Winter Session, which began on Monday. It seems that the Congress does not figure as of now in the Trinamool’s plans to forge a credible anti-BJP front. There is speculation that the TMC is playing into the BJP’s hands with its attempts to outsmart the Congress. However, fierce competition within the Opposition is a healthy development that can rouse the beleaguered Congress to finally get its act together. The rumblings may also lead to the emergence of a national leader who can be projected as a viable alternative to Narendra Modi in the 2024 General Election.Mamata Banerjee has announced that the TMC will not allow the BJP to grow in the states where the Congress is not fighting. This won’t be an easy task for the West Bengal-based party, but the BJP can afford to be complacent only at its own peril. The reversals in the recent bypolls have sent the saffron party back to the drawing board ahead of next year’s Assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Though the TMC and the Congress might eventually sink their differences, their current battle of one-upmanship might prove to be a blessing in disguise for the rudderless Opposition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/churning-within-oppn-345714
03-12-2021||Globally||Drug-resistant TB||The spike in the past two years could also be attributed to the extensive periods of Covid-induced lockdowns when the healthcare resources were focused on and diverted to controlling the pandemic. Like most other diseases, TB treatment, too, took a beating. This setback is particularly exacerbating as TB patients are known to develop the debilitating MDR-TB if their cure is left undiagnosed, interrupted or the medicine is discontinued before time. Once the body fails to effectively respond to the drugs vital for healing, it becomes harder and longer to treat and often turns fatal, as per the WHO. At the same time, given the poor airborne infection control protocol in India, including the wearing of masks by the medical fraternity, the chances of the transmission of this disease are high. At this rate, it is estimated that a massive chunk of all TB cases would comprise MDR-TB in a decade because of primary transmission.Crucial to arresting the spread of TB is bringing about more awareness of the government’s programmes to battle it. Incidentally, its treatment and medicines are available free of cost in government facilities, a fact not widely known. Also, the overwhelmed and inadequate public infrastructure pushes patients towards the costlier private sector. More widespread screenings of those exhibiting consistent cough, low-grade fever, weight loss and night sweat are the key to the timely detection of TB and, consequently, its survival. The adage, prevention is better than cure, is most true for TB control.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/drug-resistant-tb-345713
