04-12-2021||For the second time within a year||Cleansing lower judiciary||Subordinate courts account for almost 90 per cent of the pending cases across all courts in the country. In the lower judiciary, nearly one in every four cases has been pending for at least five years. The overall nationwide backlog is reported to be in excess of 4.5 crore cases. While there is no doubt that judicial vacancies contribute to the high pendency of cases, the failure of some judges to perform their duty diligently and satisfactorily is also an aggravating factor.Various high courts have been cracking the whip on the subordinate judiciary from time to time. In 2017, the Delhi High Court had transferred 87 judicial officers and ordered the abolition of a dozen lower courts; a subordinate judge on probation had been dismissed for having allegedly amassed ‘questionable’ financial assets. In 2019, the Madras High Court had sacked three judicial officers and denied extension of service to eight others. Such steps are a wake-up call for the erring judges to get their act together or invite action. Regular monitoring of the judges’ performance can go a long way in weeding out the black sheep as well as the dead wood. A periodic clean-up of the subordinate courts can not only fast-track the delivery of justice but also reduce the number of frustrated litigants who are forced to approach higher courts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cleansing-lower-judiciary-346060
04-12-2021||While the Covid-19 pandemic that broke out two years ago has brought to the fore many moving instances of institutions and individuals helping in various ways those struck by the disease or hit by the lockdown||Covid-orphaned kids||An investigation by a news organisation and subsequent probe by the authorities concerned in J&K have led to the arrest of two accused, who, in the garb of running an NGO for children, were running a racket of adoption by sidestepping the law. The unsuspecting kids — procured through dubious means — were on offer for sale for Rs 75,000-1.75 lakh per child. Another agency in Delhi was also seen to be trading in children without paperwork. Such unscrupulous elements deserve the harshest punishment. After the second Covid wave in May, social media was flooded with details of orphaned kids and requests for adoption even as more than one lakh children had lost a parent to Covid-19 by then. Child rights activists and law enforcers had flagged the posts as illegal and possible cases of child trafficking. While the State is the guardian of the orphaned kids, it gives due weightage to kinship care — where some family members may be keen to keep the child — before rolling out the adoption process under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015.With the pandemic still raging and a third wave looming, it is essential that a proper record of the affected children is kept to prevent them from falling prey to the big bad wolves lurking around. Due diligence and surveillance must be activated at the district level onwards to enable a foolproof intervention for the children in need of care and the adoptive parents eagerly waiting to welcome them into their fold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-orphaned-kids-346058
