06-12-2021||INDIA’S pharmaceutical industry is among the largest providers of generic drugs globally||Illegal drug trade||In 2019, India ranked among the 10 countries reporting the biggest opioid seizures. Kullu has attracted attention since long for the cultivation and processing of cannabis, and some huge drug hauls nationwide have been traced back to the hill state. Cognisant of the seriousness of the problem and demonstrating its intent, Himachal, in the first such action, even confiscated ill-gotten properties of drug smugglers and dealers. If the indiscriminate use of chitta, or fine heroin, was not alarming enough, now prescription drugs and ingredients are being diverted for recreational use in the country. A strong message needs to be sent to every pharma hub, be it in Himachal or Uttarakhand, of zero tolerance for any illegal activity. That requires inter-agency coordination, frequent surprise audits and raids, as also announcements from the political stage that an open-handed policy for the industry does not translate into a licence for misuse.Considered an opium wellspring, Afghanistan saw a seven-fold increase in methamphetamine seizures two years ago. Now, with no foreign troops on its soil, this diversified market in the Taliban-run country can only be expected to exploit the absence of restrictions. This could have serious implications for the flow of drugs into India. In the persistent war against drugs, there is no excuse for a free run for smuggling syndicates, that too through licensed establishments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/illegal-drug-trade-346734
06-12-2021||THE rapid developments around the Omicron variant as it pans out globally call for an urgent activation of the booster dose. There is a spike in the spread and number of people infected with this latest highly mutated strain. The WHO has declared it a variant of concern (VoC) and as one posing a very high risk. South Africa||Boost immunity||An ICMR study on the Delta variant has found reduced efficacy of the shots and, so, pushed for booster doses of Covishield to help people fight potential variants in future. Given how the health infrastructure was overwhelmed by the devastating second wave, India cannot afford to be lackadaisical in taking preventive measures. The worrisome scenario should spur the vaccine sceptics to shed hesitancy and take the jabs. Those who have not turned up for the second dose should do so at the earliest. There should be no laxity in contact-tracing and testing in the battle against Omicron.The emergence of more potent variants shows that the virus is still very much around and thriving. While we have no choice but to learn to live with it, we do have the option of safeguarding ourselves by adhering to mask-wearing, hand-washing and social distancing, besides travelling only if essential. It’s the key to helping ourselves individually and communally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/boost-immunity-346733
