07-12-2021||The Indian team’s campaign at the Junior Hockey World Cup in Bhubaneswar ended the way it had begun||Indian juniors falter||The tournament ended in disappointment for India, but we can take heart from the fact that the team showed glimpses of excellent skills. In defence and especially in penalty-corner execution, it displayed a high level of skill, planning and execution. Players such as Sanjay Kumar, Shardanand Tiwari and Araijeet Singh Hundal seem destined to play for the senior team. It was by blunting India’s penalty-corner prowess that Germany and France beat India. The gameplan of the top European teams can be gauged from the fact that in their last three matches against them, they allowed India only five penalty-corners, of which only one was converted into goal.Fourth place in the tournament is disappointing, but it should not cause despair because the team has a talented core. Poor trapping at crucial junctures and low passing accuracy in the big games showed that the team cracked under pressure. Its inexperience was exposed brutally by Germany and France. There is another factor that must be mentioned: In 2016, the team that won the title included several players who had figured in the competitive Hockey India League (HIL), which has been discontinued. HIL was a finishing school for Indian juniors transiting to the next level, and its revival would benefit Indian hockey a great deal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/indian-juniors-falter-347246
07-12-2021||The death of 14 civilians in firing by security forces in Nagaland has sparked outrage not only in the Northeast but all across the country. Six civilians were killed when Army personnel mistook coal mine workers returning home in a pick-up van for insurgents. It’s obvious that the tip-off about the likely movement of insurgents was half-baked||Nagaland outrage||The civilian deaths have reignited the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958, from the Northeast, a trouble-torn region plagued for decades by insurgency as well as inter-state border disputes. The legislation gives sweeping ‘search and arrest’ powers to the security forces; they also have the licence to open fire, if deemed necessary, to maintain public order in places designated as ‘disturbed areas’. However, a knee-jerk reaction might prove to be counter-productive. Any major decision on this Act should be taken only after thorough deliberations with various stakeholders.Violence and instability in the Northeast have important implications for national security and territorial integrity. That’s why the Centre should go the extra mile to prevent things from spinning out of control. The Union and state governments need to work in tandem to cool frayed tempers and counter misinformation and fake news with a firm hand. In the wake of the Nagaland tragedy, the twin challenges will be to restore the civilians’ faith in the security forces and stop insurgent groups from exploiting the sensitive situation. Various agencies face the onerous task of ensuring that such shocking incidents don’t occur during action against insurgents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/nagaland-outrage-347247
