08-12-2021||THE rising air pollution in Delhi continues to be a matter of concern. After steps were enumerated to check the burning of crop stubble in the adjoining states of Punjab||Dyeing units at Panipat||What the row over the dyeing units points to is the lack of infrastructure like adequate power supply, in a state that intends to extend the electrification plan to all its villages by the end of this year. It is incumbent on both the state government and the dyeing units to provide adequate facilities and abide by the rules. While the dyeing units should not set up base in non-conforming zones, the state should come forward with the required assistance to ensure that they remain an integral part of the textile industry. Diesel generator sets, besides adding to air pollution, also raise the cost for these units. Some of the units have PNG and LPG connections and efforts should be made to provide sources of clean energy to more and more units to cut down on pollution and also to add to the viability of the industry which provides employment to a large number of people.Pollution from the dyeing units in Panipat has been a matter of concern for some time. But taking penal measures alone may not suffice. Helping adopt industrial practices that are environment friendly may also be required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dyeing-units-at-panipat-347670
08-12-2021||OLD allies India and Russia managed to tick all the boxes during an in-person summit meeting between PM Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin||India-Russia bonhomie||The summit optics were good, the admiration was mutual. Putin called India a ‘great power, a friendly nation and a time-tested friend’, while Modi stated that India-Russia friendship had remained a constant amid all the geopolitical changes at the global level in the past decades. More importantly, the two nations’ readiness to go ahead with the S-400 missile deal despite the threat of US sanctions has underscored the durability of their bilateral relationship. Notwithstanding its growing closeness with the US, India has been asserting that it would go by its national interest while dealing with other countries, including Russia.It’s also significant that Russia sees a prominent role for India in the rebuilding of war-torn Afghanistan. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has rightly pitched for inducting India into the extended group on Afghanistan comprising the US, Russia, China and Pakistan. New Delhi has been kept out of meetings of this grouping earlier this year and it remains to be seen how Russia will tackle resistance from China and Pakistan to India’s presence at the high table. In any case, having all-weather friend Russia firmly by its side will give India greater confidence to deal with both hostile neighbours. The fact that this bonhomie is being witnessed in the golden jubilee year of the landmark Indo-Soviet Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation makes it all the more special.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-russia-bonhomie-347669
