10-12-2021||The Ken-Betwa Link Project||Moving rivers||Interlinking rivers has been an old and grand ambition. River interlinking projects in India have a history dating back to the 19th century, but the earliest projects were suggested for the purposes of inland navigation rather than irrigation. The Periyar Project was commissioned in 1895, and under it water is transferred from the Periyar basin (now in the state of Kerala) to the Vaigai basin in Tamil Nadu. Later, due to a rise in population causing scarcity of food and water, irrigation and water storage became the raisons d’etre of such projects. This has appeared to be an obvious solution to the sufferings caused by drought and floods simultaneously ravaging different parts of the country.The idea to interlink rivers has been periodically propped up and then relegated to the background due to cost-benefit analyses and worry over displacement of people. Disagreements among states over their share of water have caused problems, too. For instance, two years ago the Maharashtra Government pulled out of two river interlinking projects with Gujarat due to disagreements over water-sharing — despite the fact that Maharashtra had a BJP government in power, like Gujarat and the Centre. The success of the Ken-Betwa project, involving two states, could provide a working model for other states to follow. A note of caution — the greatest care must be taken to allay concerns over displacement of people and damage to the environment and wildlife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/moving-rivers-348356
10-12-2021||India lost its first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS)||Coonoor crash||The operation was severely hampered by the absence of a road in the rural area. Inaccessibility prevented the fire engine from reaching the spot to douse the flames of the wreckage. Workers had to fetch water in pots from the nearby river and houses in a desperate bid to extinguish the fire. It’s not unreasonable to speculate that some lives, including that of Gen Rawat, could have been saved had the firemen and others managed to extricate the injured passengers quickly and safely. The all-important minutes that were lost restricted the number of survivors to just one.The rescue operation should have been organised and conducted efficiently instead of letting untrained civilians get involved in it. It’s significant that top officers of the defence forces take the aerial route from the Sulur IAF station to reach the Defence Services Staff College at Wellington, which is located in proximity to the crash site. There is a pressing need to cover all the bases on this route in terms of safety to ensure that precious lives are not lost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/coonoor-crash-348357
