13-12-2021||Exactly what defines sub-poverty line levels in India? In the case of Haryana||Strange BPL criterion||Indeed, ownership of an old scooter or a refrigerator — available at throwaway prices in the second-hand market — cannot be a factor in determining a family’s financial position. The same can be said about possessing 2.5-acre irrigated land or a landline. Even a ceiling of a monthly income of Rs 10,000 seems untenable — in fact, early this year, Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar had declared that the BPL threshold would be raised to Rs 15,000 per month from April. Even before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the economy, India had been dealing with an economic slowdown, leading to job losses and reduced incomes. The pandemic has devastated large sections of society, with Pew Research estimating that India’s middle class shrunk by 32 million in 2020 alone. People are in dire need of help, and they must not flounder while the bureaucracy argues over who is eligible for official succour.How many people in India exist below the poverty line? Unfortunately, there’s no clear answer to this question. The Central government has not released data from the Consumption Expenditure Survey done in 2017-18; consequently, it’s difficult to arrive at a conclusive number of India’s poor. The last governmental effort to seriously examine the poverty line was made in 2014, with the Rangarajan Committee, but its report was ignored. The example of Haryana suggests that the government must make more efforts to identify and support people who are in desperate need of help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/strange-bpl-criterion-349626
13-12-2021||The catchy Beti Bachao||Revisiting Beti Bachao||The blame for both the ‘dismal’ utilisation of funds and the allocation imbalance lies with the states, which are meant to implement the scheme, and the Centre, which provides 100 per cent assistance and is expected to monitor and give direction to the countrywide project. Of the Rs 446.72 crore given to the states between 2016 and 2019, a whopping 78.91 per cent was spent only on media advocacy, the panel notes, while questioning the release of additional money despite funds pending with the states. The nodal ministry, Women and Child Development, has also been faulted for ‘no disaggregated information on the spending by the states/UTs on education, health and other interventions’.As recommended, course correction is urgently required, and the strategy has to be revisited. The scheme may have succeeded in its task of awakening national consciousness towards valuing the girl child, but loses meaning in the absence of any life-altering transformation for the intended beneficiaries. Hoardings and jingles play a role, without a doubt, but the focus has to shift. Other verticals have to be provided adequate financial provisions for measurable outcomes related to education and health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/revisiting-beti-bachao-349622
