14-12-2021||India’s cooperative banks have become synonymous with financial irregularities. Urban cooperative banks reported 323 cases of frauds in the financial year 2020-21||Safe deposits||The government is hopeful that deposit insurance reforms will spur account holders to trust the banking system. The enactment of the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2021, which ensures that depositors get up to Rs 5 lakh within 90 days of the RBI imposing a moratorium on a bank, is a major step in this direction. Earlier, account holders had to wait for years for the payments. It was only last year that the government had raised the deposit insurance cover to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 1 lakh — the increase had been effected after a gap of 27 long years.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has linked the prosperity of banks with the safety of the depositors’ money, while RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has cautioned people about parking their savings in banks offering temptingly high returns. The onus is on the RBI to generate awareness among depositors and keep tabs on banks involved in shady practices. Tighter regulation is the key to minimising the possibility of fraud in 1,500-odd urban cooperative banks across the country. Once the depositors are confident that their money won’t be siphoned off, they can contribute more towards improving the financial health of the banks concerned. This will, in turn, make the banks less prone to going bust, reducing the desperate dependence on the ‘last resort’ of payment of deposit insurance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/safe-deposits-350047
14-12-2021||The hacking of Prime Minister Modi’s Twitter account||PM's account hacked||A prompt ‘full-scale’ inquiry by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology notwithstanding, initial investigations sound a warning for the cyber security grid. The one-off targeted attack followed a different pattern as compared to last year’s global hack of accounts of world leaders. Twitter has ruled out any breach at its end and how it has ‘24x7 open lines of communication with the PM’s Office’, but questions will be asked on how the account was not flagged for breach by its automated systems when someone else tried to log in.In July last year, the Twitter accounts of Barack Obama, Joe Biden, Bill Gates and Elon Musk, among others, sent out identical messages that if people sent Bitcoins on a certain link, they would double the money. The tweets were removed, but some of the accounts sent out these tweets again just hours later in the mass breach. It was termed a ‘coordinated social engineering attack’. Infringements with global ramifications require coordinated counter-efforts, with tech giants mandated to be at the forefront.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pms-account-hacked-350040
