15-12-2021||The terror attack on a police bus on the outskirts of Srinagar took place on the 20th anniversary of the Parliament attack||J&K terror attack||Monday’s attack, which comes days after two cops were gunned down by terrorists in Bandipora district, has underlined that normalcy remains elusive in Jammu and Kashmir even more than two years after the abrogation of Article 370. The state-turned-UT witnessed a spate of targeted killings of civilians, including local residents and migrant workers, in October. The incidents prompted the security forces to launch several operations to eliminate terrorists. According to data compiled by the South Asia Terrorism Portal, the annual number of civilian deaths in J&K has hovered around the 40 mark in the past three years (2019-21), while the death toll of security personnel has been witnessing a decline. However, the firing on the police bus makes it clear that the security forces cannot afford to lower their guard.The BJP-led Union government is hinting at holding the Assembly elections in J&K next year in a bid to resume the long-delayed democratic process. Pak-backed disruptive elements might go all out to prevent the creation of an atmosphere conducive to the polls. The twin challenges for the Centre would be to curb infiltrations and deprive the terrorists of local support by initiating confidence-building measures. At the same time, New Delhi, which has been seeking greater cooperation among nations to tackle cross-border terrorism, should not miss any opportunity to call out Pakistan on international platforms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/jk-terror-attack-350491
15-12-2021||It’s a video clip lasting only a few seconds||Caste-based violence||The incident represents the worst of Indian culture and democracy — horrible discrimination based on caste, and buying votes to get elected to a public office. These distortions in society and the democratic system are intertwined since caste is deeply linked with economic status and opportunity. It’s a matter of concern that caste-based discrimination and violence are increasing, as data from the National Crime Records Bureau show: In 2020, a total of 50,291 cases of crime against scheduled caste (SC) persons were registered.Even as most kinds of crimes saw a decline in 2020 due to the Covid-19 lockdown, crime against SCs rose by 9.4% over the previous year. Some activists ascribe this rise to migrant labourers — many of whom belonged to the suppressed castes and tribes — returning to their villages, leading to a rise in social tensions. Also, as individuals from the suppressed sections of society assert their rights, the privileged classes are resorting to criminal acts. Rights activists allege that the system colludes with and shields the perpetrators of such crimes. This is a blot on Indian polity. The solution lies in empowering the suppressed people and punishing the criminals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/caste-based-violence-350490
