16-12-2021||Over two months after four farmers and a journalist were mowed down during a peaceful protest in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district||Minister must go||The clamour for Ajay Mishra’s ouster has grown even louder after the SIT report, though the BJP-led government at the Centre has been stubbornly resisting the Opposition’s demand. What has struck a discordant note is the ruling dispensation’s reluctance to condemn the abominable killings or mourn the loss of lives. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman did term the violence ‘absolutely condemnable’ during her US visit in October, but she hastened to add that this case was being singled out because the BJP was in power in UP — she even claimed that such incidents were happening in other parts of India also but were not being highlighted. Days after the Lakhimpur Kheri outrage, PM Modi had chosen to bemoan ‘selective interpretation’ of human rights by vested interests.With the Supreme Court keeping a watchful eye on the investigation, the SIT has managed to get to the bottom of the matter. The onus is now on the Centre to remove Ajay Mishra for the sake of probity and justice, notwithstanding political considerations in the poll-bound state. The longer he continues in office, the more it will be apparent that the government is shielding him and condoning the cold-blooded murders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/minister-must-go-350878
16-12-2021||Noting that it ‘cannot second-guess the infrastructural needs of the Armed Forces’||Wider roads for Char Dham||The court was presented with a very difficult choice — India’s territorial integrity vis-a-vis environmental fragility in the Himalayas, the most volatile mountain range in the world. The court reached the most pragmatic verdict, putting national security on a higher pedestal, even as it noted that the ‘project is riddled with environmental issues’ and set up an Oversight Committee to ensure that concerns over environmental degradation are addressed. An NGO, Citizens for Green Doon, had argued that disaster-resistant roads of smaller dimension would serve the armed forces better. There is no question that the mountains of Uttarakhand are vulnerable to landslides and floods, and the government must spare no expense to ensure that the most advanced construction techniques are used to implement the project so that the roads remain operational throughout the year: Whether single-lane or double-lane, a road loses its value if it is blocked by landslides every few weeks or during long periods in the rainy season.There has to be a balance between public good and the environment: Hearing another case, the court gave clearance to 53 projects on forest land in Himachal Pradesh. This will involve felling of 262 trees — this has to be juxtaposed with countless people benefiting from connectivity provided to them by 47 new roads. The valid concerns of the environmentalists must be addressed, too, through fortification of the mountains and reforestation projects on a war footing. Progress and ecological care must go hand in hand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/wider-roads-for-char-dham-350877
