17-12-2021||The Centre’s Rs 76||Red carpet for chipmakers||The backbone for any electronic device to operate, semiconductors are among the top traded products globally. Making chips, however, is a complicated and arduous process. It takes a lot of time and effort, along with huge investment, to build fabrication facilities. Even then, success is not guaranteed in the face of intense competition. China has called chip independence a top national priority, but for India, self-sufficiency can only be a long-term target. Sustained support and prioritisation among the several chip-making processes would be vital as it embarks on a much-delayed endeavour.The Modi government’s welcome initiative is bound to help cut expensive imports and introduce advanced technology in the long run, hopefully triggering the much-needed impetus for consolidation of big tech in the country. The ambitious roadmap though must factor in a pragmatic assessment of the capabilities and possibilities. The proposal to support 100 local firms working on integrated circuit and chipset designs could well be the beginning that can lead to setting sights on loftier goals, amid a race among countries to become self-reliant in making chips and reshaping supply chains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/red-carpet-for-chipmakers-351122
17-12-2021||Bringing the girls on a par with the boys||Raising girls' age to marry||At 18, a girl generally just about clears her Class XII exams and is barely equipped with skillsets that can bring in meaningful employment and financial independence. The three more years thus gained would enable her to acquire better academic or vocational expertise and broaden her mental horizon to encompass the harsh practicalities of life. Consequently, with a career goal in mind, she is more likely to make a better informed decision on the all-important and life-altering matter of marriage. A bride entering the marital home armed with a professional skillset and empowered with knowledge has a direct bearing on child-bearing and long-term family health and, in turn, of society. It fosters a financial and health consciousness that is much needed to achieve the goals of reducing maternal and child mortality rates, as also combating issues of malnutrition and other pesky health indices.However, crucial to attaining these ambitious objectives is the strengthening of the ecosystem of schools, colleges, security and transportation that engenders education at the last mile. A universal legal framework must be considered to cover the varying practices among different religious groups over marriage. Raising the legal age of marriage for women is a step forward, but it will not suffice to address the multi-pronged and complex realities still breeding on the ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/raising-girls-age-to-marry-351121
