18-12-2021||President Biden completes a year in office in a month||Pak's terror havens||Not for the first time, the Pakistan government and military have been put in a corner on several counts, be it acting inconsistently with respect to safe havens throughout the country, or not taking sufficient action to dismantle terrorist groups. Several UN and US-designated terrorist groups that focus on attacks outside the country continue to operate from Pakistani soil, it says, pointing to the Haqqani Network, LeT and JeM. The presence of terror havens may have been presented as a justification for the US government continuing to suspend most of its security assistance to Pakistan, but what would not go unnoticed in New Delhi is the acknowledgement that ‘Pakistan made positive contributions to the Afghanistan peace process’, and its ‘additional progress toward completing the FATF action plan’.The report begins with an admission of the terrorism threat becoming more geographically dispersed, requiring a marshalling of counterterrorism responses. It’s an appeal that India has overstated time and again at every global forum, but the support for any forceful-determined pushback to deal with a rogue neighbour may have fallen short of expectation. A lesson in the bits-and-pieces balancing act of strategic partners has been the importance of fortifying the national counter-terror charter, one that seeks normalisation of ties, but tightens grip on the terror tap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/paks-terror-havens-351543
18-12-2021||When the then PM Indira Gandhi announced in the Lok Sabha on December 16||Forgetting Indira||India pulled out all the stops on the political and diplomatic fronts throughout that year to ensure that democracy prevailed over military dictatorship in the subcontinent. Indira herself spearheaded efforts to draw international attention to the human rights violations in Bangladesh. Close ties with Moscow, cemented by the Indo-Soviet Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation (signed in August 1971), stood New Delhi in good stead in the face of American and Chinese support to Pakistan. With Pakistan making a nefarious bid to nullify the electoral outcome in Bangladesh, India stepped in to safeguard democracy and uphold the Bangladeshi people’s mandate. India also had to tackle a major humanitarian crisis as West Bengal was swamped by millions of refugees, who were fleeing the genocide unleashed by the Pakistan military.Would it have been possible for a nation to rise to the unprecedented challenge without a rock-solid leader at the helm? What’s more, there were several other key players whose interventions complemented the military’s might: Defence Minister Jagjivan Ram, Foreign Minister Swaran Singh, Principal Defence Secretary KB Lall, R&AW chief RN Kao and BSF Director General KF Rustamji, among others. The golden jubilee celebrations must not be allowed to fall prey to divisiveness and discord. The government should have the magnanimity to remember all those who played stellar roles, be it in the forefront or behind the scenes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/forgetting-indira-351542
