20-12-2021||With the memory of past waves of Covid-19 still fresh along with their devastating effect on lives and livelihoods||Omicron threat||With elections to five Assemblies at hand, the observation that there is a need for ‘profound caution’ can hardly be disagreed with. It had taken a lot of effort to hold elections to the Assemblies in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in March-April, with detailed guidelines being issued to hold safe electioneering by the Election Commission of India, which has the responsibility of enforcing regulations. It will require similar coordination on the part of the administrative machinery to ensure that the democratic exercise is carried out smoothly this time too.With Christmas and New Year approaching, concerns are being voiced over the festivities aiding the possible spread of infection. What all this underlines is that prevention remains the best bet even as virus mutations keep rendering us susceptible to the disease. The push to the vaccination drive along with the testing and tracing protocol followed by states and the advocacy of Covid-appropriate behaviour point out the need for adopting strict safeguards to keep the virus at bay amid the celebrations. Omicron is as much about the fatal nature of the disease as about the need to safeguard livelihoods and economic activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/omicron-threat-352259
20-12-2021||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij’s recent statement in the Assembly regarding the arrest of 591 persons on the charges of sending people abroad by dubious means shows that the underlying racket of fraudsters is flourishing||Ticket to nowhere||While the prosecution of the travel and immigration firms accused of fraud is important, it is a long-winding process and provides little relief to the victims, who, sensitively poised on the threshold of their careers, may be pushed to the brink. The authorities must brainstorm and devise ways to creating a foolproof system in which only registered firms run the business and there is no place for fraudsters.The common man is generally unaware of the lists of erring agents and firms prosecuted by the authorities. These should be circulated widely through various media to make people aware of the pitfalls of going to shady and fly-by-night operators. No agent should be allowed to function without displaying prominently his licence, authorising his credentials. It will also deter cheats who do the disappearing act when they feel the law enforcers’ heat. Certain agencies facing FIRs continue to function during the pendency of the long-drawn-out cases, exposing more vulnerable people to the risk of being duped. The interest of protecting the prospective NRIs and ensuring that no one is taken for a ride must override the business concerns of the accused parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ticket-to-nowhere-352260
