23-12-2021||FIVE years after India signed an agreement with France to procure 36 Rafale jets at a cost of Rs 59||Offset obligations||The MoD’s stern action is expected to send out a clear message to foreign firms — fulfil your offset obligations or pay a hefty fine. However, the country needs to firm up its offset policy to make foreign defence entities do the needful in terms of investments and setting up of research and development facilities. It’s a matter of concern that defence ranks a lowly 62nd among 63 sectors receiving FDI, as pointed out by CAG.The offset policy also has a long way to go as far as transparency and ensuring a level playing field are concerned. The Rafale deal has remained mired in controversy over allegations that the Indian Government gave ‘exceptional’ waivers to Dassault Aviation and MBDA in the offset contracts. Questions have also been raised over the alleged payment of kickbacks for the selection of a certain company as an Indian offset partner, even as the government has repeatedly denied any involvement in this regard. A fair and unambiguous policy can help in preventing the recurrence of such unsavoury situations, besides giving Atmanirbharta a fighting chance in the defence sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/offset-obligations-353364
23-12-2021||LESS than a week after an anti-doping Bill||Drug use in Indian sport||India has consistently ranked among the world’s top-10 doping offenders, placed No. 3 three years in a row from 2013. The high number of cases in India — constituting 17% of all the doping violations for 2019 — are interpreted in two ways: One, Indian authorities are failing in their effort to curb the use of performance-enhancing drugs; two, the high numbers, in fact, signify success of the anti-doping programme in the country because more samples are being taken at more sporting events. Some observers argue that the use of performance-enhancing drugs is a global phenomenon and athletes from the developed world manage to evade detection by using advanced technology.In late 2019, India’s National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) introduced the Athlete Biological Passport programme under which certain biological parameters of the country’s top-level athletes are monitored, which could lead to detection of use of performance-enhancing drugs. NADA lauds itself for the success of this programme, and says that after its start the number of dope offenders has fallen. The anti-doping Bill, which proposes greater powers to NADA, is a step in the right direction, but since sporting success can earn life-changing money and fame for an athlete, the race between offenders and dope detectives, sadly, will never end.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/drug-use-in-indian-sport-353363
