25-12-2021||Punjab has been rocked by some disturbing incidents in quick succession. Days after alleged sacrilege attempts took place at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and a gurdwara in Kapurthala||Ludhiana blast||The Ludhiana incident has turned the spotlight on the Maur Mandi blast, which had claimed seven lives barely four days before voting took place in the 2017 Assembly elections. Two SITs have failed to get to the bottom of the matter, amid allegations that the investigation was discontinued abruptly. The demand for handing over the probe to the NIA or the CBI has also remained unaddressed. Lack of political will has kept this ghastly crime shrouded in mystery, while emboldening anti-social and anti-national elements. The inconclusive investigation in cases of sacrilege dating back to 2015 has also been a huge letdown.People of Punjab need to stay vigilant as more disturbances are not ruled out. Political and religious leaders must exercise restraint in word and deed as divisive forces might go all out to pursue their nefarious agenda and exploit the volatile situation. Moreover, political one-upmanship is getting nastier by the day, with the battle lines hardening after the registration of a drugs case against a former minister. It won’t suffice to catch the pawns — the big fish operating behind the scenes must be unmasked and brought to book without delay. Punjab, which regained peace at the cost of thousands of lives and also suffered irreparable economic losses, can’t afford to experience that nightmarish era all over again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ludhiana-blast-354065
25-12-2021||It’s being described as a qualified good-news story||Milder Omicron||As the number of Omicron cases in the country crosses the 350-mark, a poignant reminder of the horrifying scenes of the second wave has come from the Allahabad High Court. The judge has been forthright in pointing to the likely contribution of panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal Assembly polls to a rise in infections that led to many Covid-19 deaths. The certainty of lakhs attending rallies without observing any Covid protocols has prompted the Bench to urge the Centre for putting a stop to political gatherings in election-bound states, and even consider putting off the UP polls.It is a tough call and there will be fierce resistance, but the Election Commission, which faced criticism for inaction earlier this year, needs to mandate lesser crowds and virtual campaigning wherever possible. As the PM has asked officials to remain alert and tasked them with ensuring fully-functional oxygen-supply equipment in states, making an exception for the elections will only encourage non-compliance elsewhere. Already, to overcome the reluctance to take the jab, stringent curbs have been announced for the unvaccinated by several states, including Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/milder-omicron-354066
