27-12-2021||The decline in the area under glaciers in the major river basins of Sutlej||Receding glaciers||Himachal Pradesh has been laying renewed thrust on hydropower generation, tourism and horticulture to attract investment and boost employment opportunities. Last year, the Central Government had sanctioned more than Rs 1,800 crore for the Luhri hydroelectric project on the Sutlej river. Initiating development brings along with it the added responsibility of ensuring that it is sustainable. Locals and environmentalists have already expressed concern over the possible damage, for instance in Kinnaur, where there have been protests over the execution of the Jangi Thopan power project. Also, hydropower projects have their life cycle and may need to be reviewed, as reflected in the decision to hand over the Shanan hydropower project at Jogindernagar to Himachal Pradesh from Punjab after the completion of its lease over maintenance issues.While the problem of glaciers melting may be attributed to factors such as rise in temperature, erratic weather pattern and climate change, care has to be taken to ensure that the disasters are not man-made. Continuous monitoring of the glaciers and the points of origin of rivers is required along with a state of preparedness in downstream areas to avert and minimise damage from possible calamities. The country has been prioritising the use of new and renewable sources of energy. There is already demand to reduce the use of coal for power generation in view of pollution. Proper watch is required to protect and harness the country’s water resources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/receding-glaciers-354907
27-12-2021||Shameful is too mild a word for the call for genocide and the outrageous||The hate propagandists||Every government of the day is cognisant of the capacity of the fringe to manufacture extreme viewpoints, but what any public display or extrapolation of such a rabid thought process would result in is made known to it in no uncertain terms too. For the past several years, however, the patronage to the communal rabble-rousers has not been hidden. A hate propaganda that feeds on imaginary fears has been encouraged to flourish, right under the nose of the law and order machinery. The outcome is the audacious and shocking videos from the controversial event, where the speakers advocated a call to arms against the minorities and outdid each other in spewing venom.Allowing these offenders, with a track record of provocative speeches, to get away with open incitement to violence and hatred would amount to a tacit approval, and only embolden the likes of them. Nothing could be more despicable. Strictest action against those who incite violence is what the law calls for, and what is expected. Hate and sectarian tendencies cannot be allowed to win. For the police, showing more resolve should be a matter of priority, especially when they do not think twice before invoking serious charges against a comedian or a satirist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-hate-propagandists-354906
