28-12-2021||The Prime Minister’s Christmas address to the nation addresses many concerns of the pandemic-weary people as they continue to grapple with situations emerging from the ever-mutating and fast-spreading coronavirus||New Year gift||While the developed world has been getting its third booster shots of the vaccine for a while, the PM’s New Year gift of the go-ahead for the same from January 10 to the most vulnerable category, to begin with, comes a as a huge relief. In due course, the doses should be opened to the other eligible categories, in keeping with the vaccine production and delivery. It is also a call for those not yet vaccinated to shed hesitancy (61% have got double shots and 90% single) as access to some public places, services and government salaries are being linked to the vaccine certificate. Similarly, while the 15-18-year-olds get ready for the jabs from January 3, those younger should be looking forward to the inoculation by and by. They are crucial as schools and colleges increasingly shift to the offline mode.At the same time, as we accept the harsh fact of learning to live with the pandemic for an indefinite period, the PM’s assurances of better healthcare-readiness and the prospect of nasal drops and DNA vaccines hold much hope. After all, cheer is all about celebrating hope.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/new-year-gift-355196
28-12-2021||The Centre’s decision to set up a high-level committee to examine the possibility of lifting the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) in Nagaland signals its intention to do course correction and defuse tension in the northeastern state. Nagaland has been in turmoil after the recent killing of 14 civilians||Reviewing AFSPA||Though the committee’s mandate is restricted to assessing whether it’s time to revoke AFSPA in Nagaland, where it has been in operation for decades, there is an urgent need to review its viability in the entire Northeast. The Act is at present in force in Nagaland, Assam, Manipur (barring Imphal municipal council area) and certain districts of Arunachal Pradesh. It had been removed from Tripura in 2015 and Meghalaya in 2018. Both states have remained by and large peaceful in the past few years. The violence witnessed by Tripura in recent months is attributed to communal and political factors rather than insurgency. How these states have handled the situation on their own after the withdrawal of AFSPA can guide others to come up with a roadmap for long-term peace and stability.Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has called for a wait-and-watch approach, while expressing doubts whether militant outfits would fall in line if the Act is lifted from the state. It is imperative to have the CMs concerned on board during deliberations on AFSPA. The Centre must go all out to address their fears and apprehensions. A periodic and pragmatic assessment of the law and order situation by the Union and state governments can pave the way for the withdrawal of the Act, which has largely proved counterproductive to the extent of widening the trust deficit between the local residents and the security forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/reviewing-afspa-355195
