29-12-2021||For the fourth year running||Unhealthy states||The index softens the blow for UP by placing it on top of the list of states which have made the greatest improvement since the 2018-19 index. But Bihar, again with great room for improvement, is only 11th on this particular list, Madhya Pradesh is sixth and Rajasthan a disappointing 17th with a fall of 0.55 in its score. While experts have picked holes in the criteria of the index, anecdotal evidence of people’s experiences during the Covid-19 pandemic bear out the rankings — patients in the southern states were delivered better services by the public healthcare system.However, it may not be prudent to treat UP — with a population of around 20 crore — and Kerala (3.3 crore) with any degree of equivalence. The lowest-ranked states on the index are also the poorest in the country, with the lowest per capita income, lowest per capita GDP and lowest Human Development Index scores. But the example of Odisha proves that change is possible with political will and a focused approach. The state has shown improvement on all indices in recent decades. The Bimaru states — Bihar, MP, Rajasthan and UP — must study the Odisha model if they are serious about changing the lot of their people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unhealthy-states-355687
29-12-2021||Foreign funding for the Missionaries of Charity (MoC)||Missionaries of Charity||The MHA’s refusal comes weeks after an FIR was registered against the director of an MoC-run children’s home in Gujarat in the wake of allegations of religious conversions, levelled by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights. There is speculation that the case, filed under the Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, might have influenced the government’s latest decision. In any case, the entire community should not be tarred with the same brush over some unsubstantiated accusation.The MoC has performed yeoman service in India and abroad over the decades, helping the poor and the abandoned — be it homeless refugees, persons with special needs, the elderly or victims of floods, epidemics and famines. The healing touch has given millions of destitute people a new lease of life. Such a venerated institution has remained above board while serving humanity with selfless zeal. The MoC should proactively offer all its account books to counter the government’s doubts regarding utilisation of foreign funds. Greater transparency is the only antidote to partisan propaganda. The Centre, on its part, must ensure clarity regarding the legal basis of its actions and dispel apprehensions that it is targeting a minority body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/missionaries-of-charity-355685
