30-12-2021||Thankfully||Striking right note||Music — in all its streams and languages — denotes devotion that runs deep in the country, is much valued, cherished and invested with a passion that transcends every conceivable barrier. ‘Indian music’ is the foundation, and resides in it all. Patronage is a welcome idea, imposing the choice of music is not. The primary focus, at this point in time, should be to go all out in taking care of the numerous artistes who have suffered and the institutions, big and small, which are struggling because of the pandemic. With no shows or musical festivals, no guru-shishya classes and patrons withdrawing funds, the past two years have been terrible. What is also required is state intervention to ensure dignified remuneration to artistes in the sunset years.It’s been 25 years since the music shows on television spawned a new era, recognising and promoting the various traditional forms and the masters, besides providing opportunities like never before to unheralded artistes and fresh talent. An advisory to include ‘Indian music’ in the vast repertoire of the airline playlist would make more sense. A popular or a timeless Hindi film song, an English hit, or the mesmerising shehnai performance by Ustad Bismillah Khan — why leave out any one at the cost of the other? Sing along or don’t, but let the music play.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/striking-right-note-356123
30-12-2021||The Delhi Government has notified a yellow alert in the state following two consecutive days of the Covid-19 positivity rate being over 0.5%. With this||Lockdown no solution||The nation suffered much — the poorest being the worst-hit — when a very strict lockdown was imposed in March last year. The effect on the economy and marginal workers was devastating, and the photographs of migrant workers travelling homeward on foot, in cement-mixers, or being mowed down on rail tracks, shook the soul of the nation. When the 21-day countrywide lockdown began on March 24, 2020, the Prime Minister had said that the ‘only way to break the chain of infection is staying indoors’. Another objective was to set up health infrastructure as fast as possible to deal with the pandemic. However, as we have seen during the last 21 months, these objectives were not realised: the chain of infection wasn’t broken, and the medical infrastructure broke into pieces when the second wave struck — a year after the first lockdown — April onward this year.Cases of the Omicron variant are rising and the authorities must monitor it closely, but as of now it is clear that this variant is less dangerous — if more contagious — than its predecessors. While countries with high vaccination figures, too, are seeing a resurgence of the pandemic, vaccination has clearly led to lesser hospitalisation. Indian authorities must, thus, banish vaccine hesitancy — as Punjab is attempting by disallowing unvaccinated persons from visiting public places. They must, too, prioritise vaccination of young adults and start administrating booster shots to the fully vaccinated. For this, indigenous production must be boosted and vaccines must be imported, irrespective of the cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lockdown-no-solution-356122
