01-04-2021||First Edit||PM Modi’s politics impacts Bangladesh||The India-Bangladesh joint commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the liberation war and of the emergence of Bangladesh as an independent nation is a testimony to the strong friendship between the two countries. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a part of several commemorative events in Dhaka that brought back a flood of emotional memories among Indians and Bangladeshis. Modi unveiled the foundation stone for the first memorial to be built in Bangladesh to honour Indian soldiers who gave up their lives fighting for Bangladesh’s liberation back in 1971. India conferred the Gandhi Peace Prize posthumously on Bangladesh’s founding father and first President, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman with whom India shared a special relationship. Underscoring their continuing co-operation, Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina signed agreements on developing a nuclear power plant, co-operation in space and artificial intelligence, train connectivity etc. This year is also the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Bangladesh. Although relations were warm during the first few years of Bangladesh’s independence, an outcome of the supportive role India played in Bangladesh’s liberation and the fact that both countries were secular at that point, the tide turned with the rise of the military and the return of pro-Pakistan Islamist forces in Bangladesh’s politics. Delhi-Dhaka relations cooled considerably thereafter. It was only with the return of the more secular Awami League to power in Dhaka that a genuine partnership was established. The two countries signed the Farakka Treaty in 1996 over sharing of the waters of the River Farakka. They have settled their land and maritime border disputes amicably as well. Importantly, Sheikh Hasina has shown remarkable sensitivity to India’s security concerns. However, it is hard to dispel the feeling that the India-Bangladesh relationship could have been so much more. Despite their shared history, language and culture, an undercurrent of hostility persists. This hostility stems from recent developments. India’s construction of a border fence to prevent Bangladeshis from entering India, the Modi government’s hostile policies targeting Bengali-speaking Muslims, and its description of Bangladeshi nationals as ‘termites’, have hurt Bangladeshis. Bangladeshis have always looked to India as a friend. While Modi’s anti-secular policies have turned away secular Bangladeshis, radical Islamists are furious with his ill-treatment of Muslims. India is empowering the politics and violence of the latter. Radical Islamists protested his visit violently recently. Modi’s politics is impacting developments beyond our borders and these are not in India’s best interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pm-modi-s-politics-impacts-bangladesh-968870.html
01-04-2021||First Edit||Callous manner of policy-making||There can be few other examples of the cavalier manner in which policy is formulated and decisions are taken by the government than its flip flop on the interest rates for small savings instruments on consecutive days. On Wednesday, the government announced a sharp reduction of interest rates on all small savings instruments including the Public Provident Fund (PPF), term deposits, and a host of welfare schemes for senior citizens, girl children and farmers. The new rates were to come into effect from Thursday. But early morning on Thursday, the previous day’s decisions were nullified and the old rates reinstated. Wednesday’s decisions were consequential, as the cuts ranged from 0.4 to 1.1 percentage points across different savings instruments and schemes. in the case of the PPF, the interest rates touched the lowest level since 1974. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said that the orders on rate cuts were issued by ‘’oversight’’. There cannot be a more egregious comment on the decision-making system in the government. Whose oversight? Didn’t the minister and the senior officials in the ministry know the implications of the decision which would have affected millions of people? Are other decisions made in a similar fashion? For example, was demonetisation the result of an oversight? The truth is that the oversight was only about the impact of the decision on the assembly elections in various states. When the government realised that the decision would do harm to the ruling party, it withdrew the decision in a hurry. In the first place, the interest rates were reduced to make it easier for the government to borrow big from the market. It has plans to make borrowals of over Rs 12 lakh crore this year, and high small savings interest rates would have made that difficult. But the fear of a likely adverse electoral impact resulted in the rethinking.  The government did not think of the adverse impact of its original decision on the lives of very vulnerable sections like the senior citizens. There are large numbers of senior citizens who are dependent on their small savings. Their position has become more precarious in the last one year of the pandemic and the lockdown, and the government callously thought of cutting their income to boost its own borrowal plans. The concern over the future of the girl child and the welfare of the farmers, frequently expressed by the government, also came into question with the decision. The withdrawal of the decision has exposed it as opportunistic and cynical, and no one would be surprised if the rate cuts return after the declaration of election results. Better considerations and reasons should go into the government’s decisions, when they are made and when they are unmade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/callous-manner-of-policy-making-969187.html
01-04-2021||In Perspective||Today, the day of fools and jesters||Someone has rightly remarked that life is nothing but an illusion and a fool’s paradise. Taking this illusion as reality, we all are the denizens of this illusory world, a fool’s paradise. Much to our amazement, like many days of historic import, we have a designated day April 1 as Fools’ day.  There are plenty of people who eagerly wait all the year for April 1. The fake bugs are collected, the keys are swapped, and the tales are carefully cooked to derive fun by playing a variety of pranks on a host of the easy preys. How long have we been celebrating this weird day? And where does its origin lie? To answer these somewhat baffling queries, the intelligent Google Devta offers many explanations, though no such explanation has been corroborated with any plausible evidence.  But with no intention of playing any mischievous prank and in order to celebrate this day in an entirely different manner, I have chosen to dwell upon the significance of fools in the world of drama and literature. In our day-to-day communication, we often use the word ‘fool’ when we are a tad agitated and want to hold someone in derision on account of his sheer lack of common sense in dealing with some ordinary situation. On the contrary, this mildly offensive word has an altogether different standing in the realm of drama. The doyens of theatre like William Shakespeare and many more are still famous for giving us the best and the wisest of fools. What an oxymoron it is! Going against the connotative meaning of the word in our daily communication, fool is the wisest and the wittiest character in the Elizabethan drama. Inarguably, he is endowed with the qualities of deep insight and remarkable intelligence and is thereby assigned many paramount roles to perform in a drama. A Shakespearean fool has an absolute liberty to express his opinions and speak the truth in a context where even the closest of the king choose to stay tongue-tied, for fear of their lives. When the protagonist Lear, in one of great tragic plays by Shakespeare, decides to disown his faithful daughter Cordelia, his Court Fool immediately rises to the occasion and admonishes the royal master fearlessly against his sheer lack of judgement. Not holding his punches back, he also exposes the nefarious design of king’s two older daughters Goneril and Regan. He even goes on to the extent of calling the king a big fool and satirically says,’ All thy other titles thou hast given away; that thou wast born with.” Unfortunately, the real fool Lear brushes aside the clarion of his sane fool for which he has to pay a heavy price in the long run. Fool is also shown acting like the chorus in Greek drama and gives a lucid commentary on the characters and the action in order to help the spectators understand the play in a better manner. While commenting upon ‘fools’ in Bard’s world, celebrated poet-critic Matthew Arnold writers, “Shakespearean fool is different from the fool/s of today. He is a jester, a court-jester to be precise”. It is worthwhile to mention that a fool in Elizabethan Era possesses abundance of wit with which he evokes peels of laughter from the people around. Even Samuel Johnson describes the meaning of a ‘fool’ in his dictionary, which is considered to be the first full-fledged dictionary of English language: According to his description “A fool is a person with humour full to the brim.”Out of 37 plays the Bard of Avon has given to us, the 19 have at least a fleeting reference to fools. Shakespeare himself writes to Boswell, “Methought, I was a fool........” in sooth, Shakespearean fool is basically a metaphor for the playwright’s own ability to laugh at himself and the shoddy conditions prevailing all around. There is no denying the fact that times and circumstances often harden words and twist their pristine connotations. The same fate befalls Shakespeare’s fool. Much to our dismay, its relegation to today’s joker may not have been expected even by the genius of dramatic world himself. But as we say, “Wise turns into a fool and a fool becomes wise in the same breath.” Both are the two sides to the same coin. Every individual has a wise and fool residing in him/her. So next time when someone attempts to scoff at you by addressing you as fool, you should not lose your temper and simply laugh away his comment as an indirect compliment. Fool is none other than but the replica of your existence or your own alter ego. So, let us celebrate this day with gusto. Happy Fools’ Day to all!  (The writer is Head, Department English Language and Linguistics, Dev Samaj PG College For Women, Ferozepur, Punjab)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/today-the-day-of-fools-and-jesters-968872.html
01-04-2021||In Perspective||Tackling the stubble burning problem||Air pollution has hit dangerously high levels in India, with pronounced negative effects. As per the recent findings, an additional 10 μg/m3 of PM2.5 exposure can reduce life expectancy by 1.1 years in India. Also, around 4.8 and 6.7 years of life can be saved in the Indo-Gangetic Plains and Delhi, respectively, if the national standards for PM2.5 are met in these regions. Heavily polluted regions in the world have witnessed a higher incidence of cardiorespiratory diseases as per the WHO. Hence, reducing air pollution is an important policy imperative. Stubble burning has been one of the major sources of air pollution in the country. This year around, the problem has displayed changed dynamics. According to the data released by the Central Pollution Control Board, while Punjab showed an increase in stubble burning incidents in 2020 by 46.5%, Haryana reduced the count by about 29% since 2019. Nonetheless, stubble burning persists and is assuming a greater share in air pollution (according to the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, the average contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5 grew from 10% in 2019 to 15% in 2020.) The problem stems from the thrust on raising the production of paddy in the country whereby farmers in North India, in particular, were encouraged to cultivate it on a massive scale. Paddy is harvested in October–November. Unlike other crop residues, paddy residues are on average harder to chew, have low calorific value and high silica content, all of which make them unsuitable for use as animal fodder. The thrust on mechanised farming also compounded the existing problem, since harvesters leave out 1-2 ft tall stubbles compared to less than six inches in manual harvesting. Paddy residue left by harvesters takes one-and-a-half months to decompose while farmers don't have sufficient time to sow their next crop - wheat. Any delay in sowing of wheat leads to reduced yield to the tune of 1% decrease for each day that wheat sowing was postponed after the optimum sowing date. This fixed upper bound on the wheat sowing date coupled with the lack of alternative avenues for utilisation of paddy residue creates pressures for stubble burning by farmers in winter. An individual farmer is unable to fathom the repercussions of his action of burning stubble on others when the enforcement of legal restrictions on stubble burning is lax. This leads to unabated stubble burning. Given the limitations of mechanised farming, extra labour can be employed for the timely removal of residue from the farms by institutionalising the process through the MGNREGA. This would provide adequate incentives for farmers to not burn the residue since no extra cost will be incurred to them in the process. In the long run, it is desirable for farmers in the region to switch from cultivating wheat and paddy to fruits, vegetables and other crops. This will not only solve the current issue but also avoid an impending water crisis in the region. Shifting focus Further, we need to focus on genetically modified varieties of paddy that offer coveted outcomes such as reduced maturity period (so that harvesting can be completed well in advance, allowing stubble, if any, to assimilate with and enrich the soil), shorter crop height (so that bulk of the stubble currently generated gets reduced), lower cellulose content in the stalk (allowing stubble to be acceptable as fodder), etc. Further, we need a shift of focus towards solution-approaches that emphasise farmers to re-use stubble productively and commercially (making paper and packing materials, generating energy or using in cement plants), thus casting them as problem shooters rather than problem creators. This effectively leverages behavioural aspects to create a feel-good factor. This has two benefits over current remedies: it avoids confining stubble in the land, which has a negative connotation while extolling farms as self-contained ecosystems that confer benefits other than just food security to the nation. In the long-term, petroleum companies can be incentivised to initiate investment plans for churning out 2G ethanol out of crop stubble. Given that many oil majors are within the government fold, they can take this up on a priority basis. Also, 2G ethanol so produced can give a much-needed fillip to the ethanol blending programme of the government, which is currently at lower than laudable levels of achievement. This solution is advocated on two counts — this would be a purely Central government-driven project (ensuring sustained thrust on its implementation over time), and this would transform the image of the crop stubble from being the root of plumes of smoke to the nucleus for clean fuel, egging farmers to wholeheartedly support this. (The writers are IES Officers attached to Department of Economic Affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/tackling-the-stubble-burning-problem-969189.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Poachers held for killing tigers and leopards||Forest department personnel have arrested four persons on charges of poaching tigers and leopards. Officials said the poachers had also consumed leopard meat.  The forest mobile squad took Arun, Nanjunda, Ravi and Ramesh of Ambedkar Nagar in Nellurpala, Hunsur taluk, into custody for allegedly poaching tigers and leopards. The officials seized tiger pelts and leopard skin from them. An officer said Arun had laid a trap six months ago to kill a tiger. Later, the four skinned the animal and disposed of the carcass into the Lakshmanatirtha river. The accused had also consumed the meat of a leopard which was hunted a year ago near Hunasekatte. The poachers were active during the outbreak of Covid-19 as the movement of people was less, said an officer.  According to officials, the accused were poaching animals using various kinds of traps. They used to hunt animals at the Veeranahosahalli forest region, under the Nagarahole tiger reserve.   On a tip-off, Forest officials raided the house of Arun and seized tiger pelts and leopard skin on Tuesday. The officials took all the four accused into custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poachers-held-for-killing-tigers-and-leopards-968844.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Alliance Air resumes flights between Hubballi, Hyderabad||Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, resumed its service between Hubballi and Hyderabad International Airport here on Wednesday. The airlines will operate the flights three days a week (Monday, Wednesday and Friday). Flight 9I 879, a 70-seater ATR 72 600, will take off from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad at 6.25 am and reach Hubballi at 8 am. In the return journey flight, 9I 880 will take off from Hubballi at 8.25 pm and reach Hyderabad at 9.55 am. Alliance Air, which had discontinued the flight service owing to the pandemic, has resumed it owing to the huge demand for air connectivity between the two cities. Based on the demand the Alliance Air is expected to increase the frequency of the flight in future, said Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, who flagged off the service at Hubballi Airport on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/alliance-air-resumes-flights-between-hubballi-hyderabad-968848.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farm laws will bring back ‘company rule’: Rakesh Tikait||Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday called upon farmers from south Indian states to join the ongoing protest to stonewall the farm laws which were aimed at "benefitting the capitalists" and thereby bring back ‘company rule’ in the country. Addressing the farmers’ Mahapanchayat here, Tikait said there was a need to make the farmers campaign against the new agrarian laws an all-India movement “Government is using police force to stifle the movement. Farmers should be prepared to go to jail and face the baton-wielding police to protect their interests,” Tikait said. “The year 2021 belongs to farmers’ struggle. Farmers in Delhi have been protesting for over four months. They braved the winter chill and bearing the brunt of extremely hot weather. Despite hostile weather, the agitating farmers have stood their ground firm. Everyone should join hands and force the Centre to withdraw all three draconian farm laws,” he added. “This (Belagavi) is a land of freedom struggles. Rani Channamma fought against the British. The farmers here need not go to Bengaluru. They can lay siege to Suwarna Vidhana Soudha and there is no need to seek police permission for the same,” he said. Earlier in the day, the leaders of Delhi farm protests were taken to the rally venue in a bullock cart procession from Rani Chennamma Circle. Yudhaveer Singh of Bharatiya Kisan Union, farmer leaders from state Babagouda Patil, K T Gangadhar, Chukki Nanjundaswamy and Kuruburu Shanthakumar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farm-laws-will-bring-back-company-rule-rakesh-tikait-968850.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||SC/ST Act: HC seeks to know decision making for appeal||The High Court on Wednesday directed the Director of Prosecution to explain the process involved in the decision-making to propose the government for filing appeals against the orders of acquittal in cases under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing a PIL. The petition alleged that SC/ ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989, and the corresponding rules are not being properly implemented and a large number of criminal cases are acquitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sc/st-act-hc-seeks-to-know-decision-making-for-appeal-968938.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||BSY's audio tape case: HC vacates stay on probe||In a major setback to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the Karnataka High Court (Kalaburagi bench), on Wednesday, vacated the stay on investigation against him and others for allegedly offering bribe to JD(S) MLA Naganagouda Kandkur’s son Sharanagouda in 2019. Yediyurappa and another accused had moved the court praying for quashing of the complaint and the FIR against them for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and IPC.  Justice John Michael Cunha said that the allegations prima facie disclose the commission of cognizable offences and the FIR cannot be quashed. “Resultantly, petitioners being not entitled for the main relief claimed in the petitions, the question of continuing the interim order may not arise at all,” the court said. The FIR was registered at the Devadurga police station in Raichur district on February 13, 2019. The three other accused in the FIR are: BJP legislators K Shivanagouda Naik (Devadurga), Preetham Gowda (Hassan) and former journalist M B Maramkal. Based on the petitions by Yediyurappa and Maramkal, on February 22, 2019, the High Court had passed an interim order of stay on investigation until disposal of the writ petitions. Since the stay order was ex-parte, Sharanagouda moved an application seeking recall of the order. Senior counsels appearing for Yediyurappa and others contended that an ex-parte order could be vacated only at the instance of “the party against whom an ex-parte order has been passed”. The state government had chosen not to prefer any appeal against the interim order.  The court observed that the government had been tacitly supporting the continuance of the interim order and said the same “speaks in volume about the interestness of respondent No. 1 (the state government),” the court said.   According to the FIR, the incident had happened at the Devadurga circuit house on February 8, 2019. Sharanagouda alleged that Yediyurappa and others offered to meet all the election expenses of his father if he resigns, to join the BJP. It is also alleged that Yediyurappa offered to give him Rs 10 crore as a bribe. A CD containing excerpts of this audio conversation was released. The case was transferred to the special court for elected representatives in Bengaluru recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bsys-audio-tape-case-hc-vacates-stay-on-probe-968940.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccination for 45 years and above from today||As many as 5,500 centres across the state will offer Covid vaccination to citizens aged 45 and above from Thursday, announced Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. It is estimated that Karnataka has around 1.66 crore above 45 years of age. The state has successfully vaccinated more than 39 lakh people since January 16. This number includes healthcare workers, frontline workers, persons above 60 years age and persons aged 45 to 59 with co-morbidities. From April 1 onwards, all people above 45 years irrespective of comorbidities will be eligible for Covid-19 vaccination.  The government has made all preparations to ensure smooth implementation of vaccination drive for this added age group. In addition to existing vaccination centres, the government has planned to provide the service at Health and Wellness Centres (HWC) and subcentres. Karnataka has a stock 13.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine and 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin and these vaccines have been been supplied to all the cold chain points across the districts as per their requirement.  People can get registered on Co-WIN portal https://selfregistration.cowin.gov.in/ or through Arogya Setu app to book their desired vaccination date. Walk-in registration will also be available at all the vaccination centres. "At least 100 people can be vaccinated at each centre. Even if 50 visit a centre, 2.50 lakh people can get easily vaccinated in a single day," Sudhakar said.  Within BBMP limits, vaccination is being offered at 525 centers. "To facilitate vaccination for all people over 45 years of age, private hospitals have been asked to increase session sites by deploying more staff," said outgoing BBMP Commissioner Manjunath Prasad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccination-for-45-years-and-above-from-today-968941.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||NAL’s new generation Hansa trainer aircraft launched||The National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL) in Bengaluru, rolled out the latest version of the Hansa two-seater trainer aircraft in the city on Wednesday.   A top civil aviation official said the aircraft would help India transform from a nation of importers to builders.  The Hansa-NG, or new generation, is the latest iteration of the original Hansa aircraft.  Dr Jitendra Jadhav, director of NAL, a CSIR lab, said Hansa-NG will tap into a requirement for 100-120 aircraft in the civilian aerospace field.  “I am pleased to say that I have 30 letters of intent (LOIs) in hand today,” he said, adding the aircraft was generating interest among flying clubs and manufacturers.  The changes in the new variant, especially the glass cockpit were described by one test pilot, Captain Amit Dahiya of DGCA as “being the need of the hour.” He said the machine could potentially turn India into a hub of pilot training. The aircraft, which is expected to start its flight tests later in 2021, is equipped with IFR-compliant avionics with smart multi-functional displays and a bubble canopy design. It is powered by a digitally controlled Rotax 912 ISC engine offering increased performance, endurance and range. According to NAL, the design and production organization approvals were obtained from DGCA, and manufacturing of the aircraft was initiated in September2020.  The Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi in Amethi proposed to sign an MoU with NAL as a launch customer of the aircraft for pilot training.  NAL has identified Mesco Aerospace Ltd as the production partner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nal-s-new-generation-hansa-trainer-aircraft-launched-968942.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ethical questions over jumbo's 'forcible' capture at Dubare||The forcible capture of elephant Kusha by officials in Dubare camp, Kodagu, while the animal was with its companion, has raised ethical questions. Forest officials acknowledged that they have to take hard decisions to avoid human-animal conflict. It is common for elephants to leave the camp during the time of ‘musth’ and return after a while. However, Kusha left the camp and didn’t return for more than a year. During each attempt to capture him, the jumbo escaped, preferring to stay in the wild. Separated from companion After a struggle of six months, officials at the camp, with the help of four tamed elephants, captured Kusha early morning on Tuesday, separating him from his companion in the process. Brickbats on social media Many on social media questioned the ethics of capturing an animal which repeatedly indicated its preference to stay in natural habitat. Retired principal chief conservator of forests B K Singh said rehabilitating elephants to the forests should be given priority. “The first option in elephant management is to send it to the wild after capture and not to bring it to captivity. Usually, the chief wildlife warden and his officers come under pressure from the public and politicians to bring elephants, straying into human areas and causing damages to lives and properties, to captivity,” he said.  He said that in the past, such elephants were released in the wild, sometimes even more than 200 km away. “Many of these elephants came back to the places where they were captured, but quite a few of them adapted themselves to the new habitat. Kusha has lived for more than a year in the wild. It can manage the situation in ‘musth’ and also during in-fights,” he said. Responding to the suggestion, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Vijaykumar Gogi said the department had considered the option of leaving the elephant in the wild, but decided to capture it to avoid possible man-animal conflicts. “We have to see the issue from several aspects. We give primacy to animal rights. However, one has to consider the problem of elephants raiding crops or harming humans. Any decision to allow Kusha to live in the wild included the risk of recurrence of such incidents. Capturing it seemed to be the safest option,” hesaid. Joseph Hoover, a member of the State Wildlife Board, said capturing an elephant was a hard decision that the department has to make. ‘Shrinking forests’ “Shrinking of forests and largescale damage to animal corridors will mean the department will be pressured by one and all to capture animals eventually. This is the cost of unplanned development projects,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ethical-questions-over-jumbos-forcible-capture-at-dubare-968943.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Despite Covid, HAL earned good revenue last fiscal||Bengaluru, DHNS: Even though the Covid-19 outbreak disrupted economic and industrial operations across the country, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) said that it recorded revenue in excess of Rs 22,700 crore (provisional and unaudited) in the recently concluded fiscal year. The corresponding figure for the previous year stood at Rs 21,438 crore. The company has posted a revenue growth of around 6% in the 2020-21 fiscal year. It cites improved productivity after suspending the operations for one month in the beginning of the year. The year 2020-21 was significant in terms of securing the largest ever defence contract of 83 LCA MK-IA by an Indian company. This helped the company surpass the order book position in excess of Rs 80,000 crore, said R Madhavan, CMD, HAL.   The record revenue achieved with the help of production of 41 new helicopters/aircraft, 102 new engines, overhaul of 198 aircraft/helicopters and 506 engines.  The company said that the cash flow position has improved significantly with improved budget allocation from defence customers and it stands in excess of Rs 34,000 cr, including advance payment of around Rs 5,400 crore for 83 LCA MK1A contract. This helped HAL to liquidate all its borrowings availed from the banks. The company has ended the year with a positive cash balance of around Rs 6,700 crore as against borrowings of Rs 5,775 crore. HAL said it has also taken various cost cutting and austerity measures during the year that include indigenisation of various components, increasing outsourcing efforts and rationalisation of manpower which is expected to facilitate the company to register a double digit growth.  Considering the anticipated growth in profits, HAL paid an interim dividend of Rs 30 per share during the current financial year representing 300% on the face value of Rs 10 per share.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/despite-covid-hal-earned-good-revenue-last-fiscal-968952.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||IMD predicts hotter days, mercury likely to touch 38 degree Celsius in Mysuru next week||Mysuru, the City of Palaces, is experiencing mid-summer with temperature levels rising constantly for 15 days. The maximum temperature on April 1, Thursday, was 37.9 degree Celsius, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The minimum temperature was 20 degree Celsius. It may be mentioned that Mysuru recorded the highest of 37.9 degree Celsius after a gap of 88 years, on March 7, 2019. The same temperature level of 37.9 degree Celsius was recorded on April 1, 2021, according to IMD. The maximum temperature is hovering between 33 degree Celsius and 35.2 degree Celsius from March 16 to March 31. The minimum temperature was between 16.6 degrees and 18.8 degree Celsius in the month of March. However, on April 1, Thursday, the temperature shot up to 37.9 degrees, that is, 2.7 degree Celsius higher than March 31 (35.2). Brace for more sweltering heat in April, as the IMD has predicted that the maximum temperature will be 38 degree Celsius and the minimum temperature hovering between 20 and 21 degree Celsius in the next week, from April 2 to 6. Though the IMD has not predicted any rainfall for the next five days, there may be scattered rains in the region, if the same weather condition prevails, according to scientists. Speaking to DH, N Narendra Babu, Research Associate, Organic Farming Research Station, Naganahalli, said, “There is a constant increase in the temperature levels in March and it may cross 38 degrees in April-May. “The rise in temperature levels is experienced across the country. However, unexpected rains may be received due to rise in temperature, as a result of evaporation, cloud formation and other aspects. Usually, it rains by the end of March. By next week, there are possibilities of pre-monsoon rains. Pre-monsoon rains will be accompanied by thunder and lightning and will be around 10% of the annual rainfall,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/imd-predicts-hotter-days-mercury-likely-to-touch-38-degree-celsius-in-mysuru-next-week-969154.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysureans increasingly consume fresh juice, tender coconut, use clay pots to beat summer||As the mercury level is increasing steadily, people are finding traditional ways to beat the heat. Tender coconut, fresh fruit juices, lime soda as well as instant juice, aerated drinks and mouth-watering lassi top the list of the consumers to quench their thirst. In addition, clay water pots are in great demand, in the city. Despite hot summer in 2020, there was no business for vendors due to lockdown and a majority of them, particularly tender coconut growers had incurred huge loss due to less demand. But this summer, despite the Covid-19 pandemic, fruits as well as fresh juice vendors are making brisk business. The business is 30% high compared to previous years, claim vendors. Tender coconuts are in great demand and the city is facing a shortage. A vendor near Court Complex, Rajanna, said that he has been selling more than 400 coconuts per day and there is shortage from the last one week. Rajanna is in the business from the last eight years and for the first time, he is facing shortage. Savinaya, a teacher, said that she drinks one tender coconut with a piece of lemon per day to beat the heat. “For me, tender coconut is the best solution for excess heat, as it is natural,” she said. The hot summer has come as a blessing for clay pot vendors. The pots, which were known as poor man’s fridge, are sold like hot cakes across the city. Clay pot stalls have come up near Kalamandira, Bamboo Bazar, Aishwarya Petrol bunk circle, Bannur Road and other parts of the city. A fruit juice vendor near Aishwarya Petrol Bunk, Chandru, said that he opened the stall a month back and is doing good business. “I sell a minimum of 100 glasses of juice. Watermelon and muskmelon juice are in great demand,” he said. Several sellers from Rajasthan have arrived in the city with loads of pots. Shyam, a clay pot vendor, who is into business from the last seven years in Mysuru, said, “Almost every house in the city has clay pots. Mysureans store drinking water in pots, as it keeps the water cool and it is also healthy. I am in Mysuru since seven years and the demand for pots is growing with every passing year.” A tea stall vendor, Chandru, said, “Demand for tea and coffee has declined. People are asking for buttermilk and lassi. I store buttermilk in a clay pot to maintain its temperature. It is also good for health.” Chandru sells approximately 150 glasses of butter milk a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysureans-increasingly-consume-fresh-juice-tender-coconut-use-clay-pots-to-beat-summer-969156.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka government keeps on hold labour ordinance, wage code||The B S Yediyurappa administration has stalled the implementation of labour laws that were given effect through an ordinance last year, close on the heels of the Centre deferring four labour codes.  The state government had promulgated the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Ordinance last year. One of the changes it introduced is to make only those establishments, employing 300 or more people, seek the government’s permission for closure, retrenchment or layoff. The Bill to replace the ordinance was defeated in the Legislative Council, after which the government wanted to re-promulgate the ordinance. This has now been put on hold, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar told DH. Also, the government is undecided on implementing new rules to govern minimum wages. On March 2, the government had issued the draft Code on Wages Karnataka Rules, 2021, seeking to redefine the parameters for minimum wages.  A meeting would be held on April 6 to decide on the implementation of the new wage code, Hebbar said. The draft rules state that minimum wages will be fixed based on parameters, such as geographical area, standard working-class family (four people), food consumption (intake of 2,700 calories per day per consumption unit), clothing (66 metres of cloth per year per standard working-class family), housing rent (10% food and clothing expenditure), miscellaneous expenses (25% of the wage) and education, health and recreation constituting 25% of the minimum wage. The All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) has opposed the draft rules. “This is an assault on the rights of the working class and will push lakhs of workers into slavery,” it said. “A comparison of the calculation under the existing law and the proposed rules would show a reduction in the wages of workers from the present Rs 9,935.61 to Rs 5,935.61. It fails to ensure that the increase in the cost of living is met with an increase in the Variable Dearness Allowance, resulting in workers working for the same wages despite the increase in the cost of living,” it argued. AICCTU state committee member Maithreyi Krishnan questioned the transparency of the entire process of drafting the rules. “They did not consult anyone. They have not given any information about the rest of the codes,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-keeps-on-hold-labour-ordinance-wage-code-969165.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Taluk health officer suspended for vaccinating minister at his house||Hirekerur taluk health officer (THO) Dr Z R Makandar has been suspended from service on the charge of violating the Covid-19 guidelines by vaccinating Agriculture Minister B C Patil at his residence.  Despite the stringent norms that the vaccine should be given at the health centres, Dr Makandar had given it to Patil and his family members at their residence on March 2.  Health department commissioner Dr K V Thrilik Chandra has suspended him for dereliction of duty pending disciplinary action. The DHO had issued him a notice in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/taluk-health-officer-suspended-for-vaccinating-minister-at-his-house-969166.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two Central Water Commission directors among four killed in Hosapete accident||Two Central Water Commission directors were among the four persons who were killed after a speeding car in the opposite direction hit the divider before crashing into their car on National Highway 50 near Mariyammanahalli in the taluk on Thursday afternoon. CWC directors Ramaswamy (50) and Jitendra (50), both residents of Bengaluru, died on the spot while Kavya (30), a native of Tiptur and Sharanabasava (10) were declared brought dead by the doctors at Hosapete hospital. All the deceased were travelling in the CWC car (Innova) to Bagalkot from Bengaluru. Seven people travelling in other car have been admitted to Hosapete government hospital with grievous injuries. According to police officials, the accident occurred when the driver of the Bengaluru-bound car lost control as the vehicle spun off the road, crossed the divider and rammed into the CWC officers' car.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-central-water-commission-directors-among-four-killed-in-hosapete-accident-969167.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kasargod border entry: PIL disposed of on state's assurance||The High Court on Thursday disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) on the assurance by the state government that no entry point between Kerala and Dakshina Kannada district will be closed. A division bench headed by Chief Justice  Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing the petition filed by Subbayya Rai, an advocate challenging the order passed by the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada restricting entry from several entry points in view of Covid-19. During the hearing, the government assured the court that clause 3 of the recent order dated March 15 issued by the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district will not be acted upon. The clause authorized local authorities such as gram panchayats to close checkposts which are rarely used. Initially, the petition was filed challenging the February 18, 2021 order passed by the Kasargod Deputy Commissioner, who is also the chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority. By this order, all entry points, except four, were closed for all kinds of traffic. The bench said that as per the orders passed by the National Executive Committee, inter-state and intra-state travel cannot be restricted. Any localised restrictions could be imposed, pertaining to the production of RT-PCR test results while entering the state of Karnataka, the court said. The petition said restrictions imposed by the Dakshina Kannada district administration had affected more than 80,000 people living in the border areas of both states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kasargod-border-entry-pil-disposed-of-on-states-assurance-969168.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Panchayat Award for Hassan district||Hassan district has bagged the national Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Panchayat Award, presented by the Union Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, for the empowerment of local bodies. The ministry has identified Hassan district for the prestigious award as Hassan Zilla Panchayat has achieved excellence in empowering Gram and Taluk Panchayats in all its forms. The award will be presented at a ceremony in New Delhi on April 24. Hassan Zilla Panchayat has been successful in utilising the funds released by the government in an effective manner. Besides, it has maintained cleanliness and hygiene, provided all basic amenities like drinking water and toilets in rural areas, said the officials. Similarly, Pandavapura taluk in Mandya district; Bengaluru East division, Bengaluru Urban district; Thammanakere Grama Panchayat in Haveri district; Yadaganahalli Grama Panchayat in Maddur taluk, Mandya district; Karanakuppe Grama Panchayat in Hunsur taluk, Mysuru district; too have been selected for various awards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/deen-dayal-upadhyaya-panchayat-award-for-hassan-district-969171.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sub-registrars, deed writers convicted for misuse of funds||A local court has convicted four sub-registrars and three deed writers for misuse of funds. The First Additional Civil JMFC Court has sentenced the officials and the deed writers to four years and five years of imprisonment respectively. The court has also imposed a total fine of Rs 1.25 crore fine on them. The convicted are sub-registrars S N Prabha and Cheluvaraju, probationary sub-registrars Leelavathy and Sunanda and deed writers B K Ramarao, Narasimhamurthy and Chandrashekar, who had served at the sub-registrar's office in Mandya in 2006. An officer, Narasimhaiah, had lodged a complaint with the West Police Station in 2006, about the misuse of funds in 154 cases. Based on the complaint, an FIR was filed against them. Judge Ramesh S Ganiger, who heard the case, gave his verdict on March 29. Prabha is currently serving at the Inspector General of Registration (IGR) office in Bengaluru. Cheluvaraju is serving as a sub-registrar at Sringeri in the Chikkamagaluru district. Leelavathy is the first division assistant (FDA) at Maddur Sub-Registrar office and Sunanda is an FDA at the sub-registrar's office in Electronics City, Bengaluru. M G Suresh was the public prosecutor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sub-registrars-deed-writers-convicted-for-misuse-of-funds-969173.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||No differences with BSY, says Eshwarappa||A day after accusing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa of interfering with the affairs of his Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, minister K S Eshwarappa said that there was no discontent between him and the chief minister and that he only highlighted issues pertaining to his department in a letter to Governor. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Eshwarappa clarified that he had not complained against the chief minister to the Governor. "There's no question of discontent or dissatisfaction. I only discussed administrative matters pertaining to my department with the Governor. If need be I will go to Delhi. There is no need to give importance to it," Eshwarappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-differences-with-bsy-says-eshwarappa-969180.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru logs 109 fresh Covid-19 cases||Mysuru on Thursday reported 109 new Covid-19 cases and one death. The total number of positive cases so far is 55,919 and the death toll stands at 1,055. There are 787 active cases in Mysuru district. Among the new cases, 88 are primary contacts of infected persons, while 13 are suffering from Influenza like illness (ILI), and eight are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases. While the Health department authorities have observed a total of 3,35,971 persons till date, 2,75,354 persons have successfully completed quarantine and 4,698 are under quarantine.  A total of 54,077 persons have recovered and are discharged from the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-logs-109-fresh-covid-19-cases-969212.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mangaluru Mayor Shetty rejects Congress candidature for Opposition leader||In an unprecedented move, a proposal to appoint the Leader of Opposition in Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) council was rejected by Mayor Premanand Shetty on Wednesday. Angered by the Mayor's move, Congress corporators walked out of the hall during the first council meeting convened by Premanand. The Mayor rejected the proposal to nominate A C Vinayaraj as opposition leader of the council citing legal hurdles. In fact, DCC President and MLC Harish Kumar had written a letter on March 22 to the MCC commissioner to accept the name of A C Vinayraj as Opposition leader of the council. Accordingly, the commissioner had forwarded the proposal to the Mayor. The council secretary too had made a few observations on the rules related to the KMC Act and nominating of the Opposition leader. The Mayor in turn had sought legal opinion on the issue. According to legal experts, Congress lacks a one-third majority in the council and thus the post of opposition leader cannot be given to the party. The tradition of informing the Mayor of the Opposition leader which was practised since the beginning was also violated by the Congress, said Chief Whip in the Council Sudhir Shetty. Sudhir said that Mayor is supreme in the Council. The Congress can not stake claim to the post of leader of opposition in the council till it has one-third majority. He even accused  Vinayraj of occupying the chair of opposition leader in the chamber allotted, without bringing it to the notice of the Mayor. Earlier, raising the issue of opposition leader in the council, Congress corporator Abdul Rauf who had served as Opposition Leader in the Council, said, "Ruling party and opposition work in coordination by taking the opposition into confidence." Former mayor and senior corporator from Congress Shashidhar Hegde admitted that there was a mistake on the part of Congress. The Mayor should make a decision based on the rules. It is left to the discretion of the Mayor to take a call and appealed to accept the candidature of Vinayraj as opposition leader. Vinayraj clarified that he had informed the commissioner, officials and the Mayor before assuming charge. "The character assassination should be condemned," he said. Quoting Section 65 of the KMC Act, he said all communications should be made to the commissioner. Premanand said that the confusion created by violating the tradition has put the Mayor into dilemma. A suitable decision on the opposition leader will be taken shortly after seeking legal opinion, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mangaluru-mayor-shetty-rejects-congress-candidature-for-opposition-leader-968835.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY's audio tape case: HC vacates stay on investigation||In a major setback to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the Karnataka High Court (Kalaburagi bench), on Wednesday, vacated the stay on the investigation against him and others for allegedly offering bribe to JD(S) MLA Naganagouda Kandkur’s son Sharanagouda in 2019. Yediyurappa and another accused had moved the court praying for quashing of the complaint and the FIR against them for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and IPC.  Justice John Michael Cunha said that the allegations prima facie disclose the commission of cognizable offences and the FIR cannot be quashed. “Resultantly, petitioners being not entitled for the main relief claimed in the petitions, the question of continuing the interim order may not arise at all,” the court said. The FIR was registered at the Devadurga police station in Raichur district on February 13, 2019. The three other accused in the FIR are BJP legislators K Shivanagouda Naik (Devadurga), Preetham Gowda (Hassan) and former journalist M B Maramkal. Based on the petitions by Yediyurappa and Maramkal, on February 22, 2019, the High Court had passed an interim order of stay on the investigation until disposal of the writ petitions. Since the stay order was ex-parte, Sharanagouda moved an application seeking recall of the order. Senior counsels appearing for Yediyurappa and others contended that an ex-parte order could be vacated only at the instance of “the party against whom an ex-parte order has been passed”. The state government had chosen not to prefer any appeal against the interim order.  The court observed that the government had been tacitly supporting the continuance of the interim order and said the same “speaks in volume about the interestness of respondent No. 1 (the state government),” the court said.   According to the FIR, the incident had happened at the Devadurga circuit house on February 8, 2019. Sharanagouda alleged that Yediyurappa and others offered to meet all the election expenses of his father if he resigns, to join the BJP. It is also alleged that Yediyurappa offered to give him Rs 10 crore as a bribe. A CD containing excerpts of this audio conversation was released. The case was transferred to the special court for elected representatives in Bengaluru recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsys-audio-tape-case-hc-vacates-stay-on-investigation-968898.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||CD Scandal: Woman subjected to medical test, questioned by SIT||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) officials have subjected the woman allegedly involved in the CD scandal to a medical test in Bowring hospital on Wednesday morning. The officials also questioned and recorded her statement. The woman has been asked to appear before the officials again on Thursday morning for further investigation.  The SIT officials took her to Bowring and Lady Curzon hospital around 11 am, where she was subjected to the medical test with respect to her sexual abuse complaint. The woman also underwent a Covid-19 test and the result was negative. Since her parents had alleged that she is giving such statements under pressure, the officials had requested the doctors to provide her counselling. The psychiatrists counselled her and she was again taken by the SIT officials around 4 pm. The woman was taken to the Interrogation Cell in Adugodi Technical Cell.  The officials questioned her about how she got in touch with Ramesh Jarkiholi, since how long she was in contact with him. How many times she has met him and when and where. The woman has answered most of the questions asked by the SIT officials. She has also provided her WhatsApp chat details, call recording audio clippings and other details to the police.  She may be taken to mahajar (spot inspection) on Thursday morning, since her medical test took a long time, the procedures were not completed on Tuesday. Around 7 pm, the officials escorted the woman to a place where she was staying and continued protection. She had appeared in the court on Monday and gave her statement before the magistrate. She has also given details of the gifts allegedly brought to her by Ramesh.  Ramesh Jarkiholi too will be subjected to a medical test as he is accused in the rape case filed by the woman. Ramesh Jarkiholi was served notice to appear before SIT officials on April,2. He had requested the officials to give him four days time to answer their questions during his last interrogation.  He will be appearing before the officials for the fourth time. The officials are going to question him based on the statement of the victim and the evidence she provided so far. If he doesn't give proper answers, the officials may take the legal step of taking him into their custody and question him further or the officials may ask him to appear again for interrogation.  The last three times Ramesh has told police that he doesn't know the woman and the video clippings are fake. His mobile phone was seized by the officials and has been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL); the officials may get the data from the FSL and question him based on the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cd-scandal-woman-subjected-to-medical-test-questioned-by-sit-968907.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ministers loyal to BSY slam Eshwarappa over complaint||A group of Karnataka ministers on Thursday strongly backed Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa a day after senior Minister KS Eshwarappa accused him of running an authoritarian administration and interfering with the affairs of his Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department.  Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Health Minister K Sudhakar and Agriculture Minister BC Patil came out in support of Yediyurappa, who is yet to break his silence on the issue.  On Wednesday, RDPR Minister KS Eshwarappa met Governor Vajubhai R Vala with a 5-page complaint against Yediyurappa for “direct interference, serious lapses and authoritarian way of running the administration”, which caused ripples in the ruling BJP.  Apparently, Yediyurappa told Bommai and others that he was disappointed with Eshwarappa for having gone to the Governor.  “If Eshwarappa has objections, he should have discussed them with the CM. The Governor merely works on the advice of the Council of Ministers. What (Eshwarappa) has raised is an administrative matter that should be resolved internally and taking it to the Governor is not appropriate,” Bommai said.  In his complaint, Eshwarappa pointed at at least three instances where Yediyurappa sanctioned funds without taking him into confidence. Bommai defended this and explained, “We’ve had Covid-19 for the past one year and no works happened, especially in rural areas due to the difficult financial situation. Since October-November, the finances have improved and MLAs requested the CM for funds. The CM took a decision and sanctioned funds.” He added that the CM has all the powers as per the Karnataka (Transaction of Business) Rules, which Eshwarappa said was violated.  “While I agree that the minister concerned is also equally responsible, Yediyurappa is also the finance minister and it is he who sanctions funds,” Bommai said.  Urging Eshwarappa to hold talks with the CM soon, Bommai said, “This has created a deadlock. It’s been over a month since the CM sanctioned the funds, but orders have not been issued. MLAs are again mounting pressure on the CM.”  According to Ashoka, Yediyurappa as CM has “supreme power” to make decisions. “When 70-80 MLAs requested him for funds, the CM, who is also the finance minister, exercised his power. It’s not good to find fault with that,” he said.  Sudhakar said the CM can summon any file and take decisions. “Eshwarappa is senior enough. He could have sorted it out in five minutes with talks. But the current situation is certainly an embarrassment to the government, the party and even Eshwarappa. It could’ve been avoided,” he said.  Patil, a cop-turned-actor-turned-politician, said the episode saddened him. “It’s not right to accused Yediyurappa of having done something wrong when he didn’t,” he said.  MLAs loyal to Yediyurappa - Madal Virupakshappa, MP Renukacharya, Mahesh Kumtahalli and others - also hit out at Eshwarappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ministers-loyal-to-bsy-slam-eshwarappa-over-complaint-969077.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Eshwarappa should not have written to the Governor: BJP Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh||Expressing displeasure over senior Minister K S Eshwarappa writing a letter to the Governor against Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, BJP National General Secretary (in-charge Karnataka) Arun Singh on Thursday said the Minister should have raised the issue with the Chief Minister directly and in the party forum instead of writing to the Governor. “Eshwarappa is a senior Minister. Whatever the differences, he should have discussed with the Chief Minister and in the party forum. There is a system in the party to resolve such issues," he told reporters here. When asked about the party decision on the issues raised by Eshwarappa, Singh said, "Now the party leaders are busy in five-state elections. After the polls, we will discuss the letter.” To a question whether the party will take disciplinary action against Eshwarappa for writing a letter to the Governor, Singh said, “everything will be discussed after elections.” Singh was reacting to a letter written by Rural Development Minister Eshwarappa to Governor Vajubhai Vala, in which the Minister accused Yediyurappa of interference in his department, which is in violation of the Karnataka (Transaction of Business) Rules on division of power in the cabinet. Sources in the BJP told DH that soon after Eshwarappa's letter leaked to the media, Singh spoke to BJP state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel and asked him to talk to Eshwarappa and reprimand him Apprehending that the letter controversy would impact the party prospects in the coming bypolls, the party top brass also advised Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Eshwarappa to further not speak on the issue publicly and asked them to put an end to the controversy immediately Sources said the party top brass was upset with Eshwarappa's letter especially at a time when the bypoll was round the corner. “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is a popular leader of the party in the state. The CM has discretionary power in the administration which was known to Eshwarappa also as he is a senior minister,” said a leader in BJP on condition of anonymity. “There are many workers and leaders, who have strived for the party for many years, did not get any post or position. However Eshwarappa got several posts both in the party as well as the government. He should have followed the party discipline and raised the issue in the party forum, said the leader. Jarkiholi sex CD Row On the Congress demand for arrest of Gokak MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi, Singh said “the Congress always lies and continues to do so.” "There are reports that Congress leader D K Shivakumar had a role in entire sex CD episode. Now enquiry is going on. Let us see what is coming out. In the coming bypolls, people the state will teach a lesson to Congress," he said. Singh also expressed confidence that BJP will win in all the three segments bypolls in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/eshwarappa-should-not-have-written-to-the-governor-bjp-karnataka-in-charge-arun-singh-969117.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sack Yediyurappa, probe ‘Operation Kamala’, says Congress||Congress on Thursday demanded the resignation of Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, a day after the Karnataka High Court vacated the stay over investigation against him and others on allegations of bribery in the run-up to the formation of the BJP government in the state in 2019. “A fair and transparent investigation can be possible only if the chief minister tenders his resignation or is sacked from the post by the BJP,” Congress spokesperson and former Union minister Rajeev Shukla told reporters here. He said Yediyurappa should be sacked and the new government should order a transparent investigation into ‘Operation Kamala’ that toppled the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government in the state after engineering defections. Shukla said senior minister K S Eshwarappa’s complaint against the chief minister, accusing him of interfering in his Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Department were also serious in nature. The senior Congress leader said BJP has no right to take high moral ground and target political opponents when it tries to brush aside allegations against the Karnataka chief minister. “They raise a hue and cry when there are wild or even false allegations against opposition leaders. But now, since the Court has ordered a probe against the chief minister of Karnataka, I think BJP should immediately swing into action and seek his resignation,” Shukla said. He said Yediyurappa also faces allegations of irregularities related to allocations of apartments and land in the state. The Karnataka High Court, in an order on Wednesday, said that the alleged role of Yediyurappa and others for allegedly offering a bribe to JD(S) MLA Naganagouda Kandakur’s son Sharanagouda to ensure that his father switches loyalty to the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sack-yediyurappa-probe-operation-kamala-says-congress-969169.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar should resign, says Lakhan Jarkiholi||Lakhan Jarkiholi, who contested the by-election from Gokak Assembly constituency as a Congress candidate against former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, on Thursday demanded that KPCC president D K Shivakumar should quit his post and cooperate for the investigation into the alleged CD scandal as his name has been mentioned by the parents of the woman allegedly involved in the case.  He told reporters at Gokak that the party high command should get the resignation of Jarkiholi. All should know who was the producer and director of the CD case, he said. Lakhan said Jarkiholi was trapped in the case by those who were unable to digest his growth as he was getting fame with his good works as water resources minister. "Ramesh Jarkiholi is innocent and he will come out of the scandal unscathed," he predicted.  Without naming Congress candidate for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency Satish Jarkiholi, Lakhan said the candidate should be cautious before sharing dais with his party leaders as no one knows what could happen and with whom. 'Allow us meet our daughter' Meanwhile, the parents of the woman said in Vijayapura that they should be given an opportunity to speak to their daughter. "If the SIT gives us a chance, we are ready to go to Bengaluru and meet our daughter," they said.  They told media men that they are no one's pressure and added that Shivakumar is responsible for the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-should-resign-says-lakhan-jarkiholi-969170.html
01-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress eyes BSY’s scalp over KSE's letter bomb||The Congress on Thursday upped the ante for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s resignation with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah demanding President's rule in the state over senior minister K S Eshwarappa's complaint to the Governor on the goings-on in the administration. "The allegations made by senior minister Eshwarappa are of serious nature. Governor should intervene, dismiss the government & recommend President's rule," Siddaramaiah said in a series of tweets.  "Eshwarappa has provided evidence for BJP's corruption, nepotism & irregularities. We had been saying this since the first day & their own party ministers are repeating now," the Congress leader said, slyly appreciating Eshwarappa for having "done a good job for the first time in his political career."  2/10 Targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Siddaramaiah asked him to rate his party's government. "You had called our government as 10% sarkar. Now that your own party minister has given the corruption report of your own party to you, give your rating..." You had called our govt as 10% sarkar. Now that your own party minister has given the corruption report of your own party to you, give your rating about the govt so that people can make informed decision in the coming elections. 7/10 Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said Yediyurappa had two options. "Either CM should resign or he should sack Eshwarappa," he said. "Eshwarappa is not just some MLA. He's a senior politician who was deputy CM and party president," he said, adding that Eshwarappa's complaint was "proof to show corruption" in the government.  10/10||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-eyes-bsy-s-scalp-over-kses-letter-bomb-969181.html
01-04-2021||Main Article||The next orbit||Bengaluru ranking first in the 2020 Ease-of-Living index of Indian cities as published by the Central Housing and Urban Ministry seemed surprising to residents who travel in cars at 8 km per hour especially (most people can walk that fast). This reaction is not misplaced; we ranked 12th in Quality of Life and 31st in Municipal Performance but these weaknesses were overwhelmed by ranking first in Economic Ability. I make the case that being a job magnet and great place to live are hardly contradictory objectives and our 18th rank in Citizen Perception can be raised via interventions in education, mobility and sanitation.  New thinking about cities comes in Harvard’s Raj Chetty ‘Opportunity Atlas’ of America’s neighbourhoods as ‘high opportunity’ (ambient effect of high economic development and a dynamic ideas network on youngsters growing up around innovation being extra likely to become inventors themselves) or ‘opportunity bargains’ (places with lower economic opportunity and lower rents that punch above their weight because of good schools and neighbourhoods that increase future social capital and long-term economic outcomes). Borrowing his framework, Bengaluru is ‘high opportunity’ because of its ability to nurture young entrepreneurs and innovators while Jodhpur, Indore and Nagpur are ‘opportunity bargains’. In 2020, despite a 27% Covid shrinkage, Bengaluru absorbed 11.5 million square feet of commercial leases (Hyderabad absorbed 5.5 million and NCR 4.5 million). Bengaluru’s economic vibrancy rides significantly on immigrant expertise but this doesn’t automatically translate to great jobs and learning opportunities for generations raised here; early indicators of a backlash to this are visible in proposals for reservation in private sector jobs in other states — Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. Bengaluru can avoid this destiny by intervening in three ‘opportunity bargain’ areas of improving education (easy), mobility (hard) and water/sanitation (very hard). Improving these three will create significant leverage for the other four parameters — Health, Housing and Shelter, Safety and Security, and Recreation. Mobility needs public transport and pedestrian access. We need to speed up the metro work, learning from Delhi where many times more tracks were completed in much less time. We must study the Ahmedabad BRTS to slow our nearly 2,000 vehicle registrations every day. Covid has also brought more bicyclists and pedestrians to our streets. Completing proposed bike paths could accelerate environment and health-friendly commute systems. The largest difficulties lie in sanitation but an exponentially growing city cannot drown in its own sewage, water tankers cannot be the norm, and sewage cannot be disposed of in living or dead lakes. The lowest hanging fruit is education; we have a roadmap in the National Education Policy (NEP-2020). For an economic heavyweight with rapid growth, Bengaluru’s school education needs to be much stronger and our ratio of only 20% of kids in government schools needs to change (this is shameful compared to 50% India national average, 96% in Japan, 92% in England and 85% in the US). The NEP-2020, 34 years after the last policy, presents a paradigm shift with a pedagogically sound 5+3+3+4 framework that benchmarks globally and recognises the changing world of knowledge and work. Important aspects include transforming teacher training for “skills-based multi-disciplinary learning” and creating shared assessment platforms across 60 boards that shift from knowing to learning. Education policy The NEP-2020 suggests three high leverage pathways for Karnataka to accelerate change. First, free up schools showing excellence — which Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed as ‘balancing mistrust of non-government initiatives... moving from a sense of entitlement for autonomy to autonomy based on excellence’. Bengaluru is unique in the number of schools that are truly independent and essentially run with the vision of creating great education. This strength is not happenstance, but vision meeting aspirations of a potentially global tech hub and must be leveraged. Set norms of governance that allow high-quality schools to function autonomously, liberate them from unfair and unpredictable regulatory distortion, to focus on great pedagogy. These lighthouses of excellence would not just be models for the city but the country. Second, NEP-2020 advises public-private partnership for strengthening schools; allow the lighthouse schools and weaker private, aided or government schools to partner, not just superficially but in governance, teacher performance management and pedagogy. Third, institutionalise a strong reading programme in all schools with skills, assessments and shared resources since reading is a skill that changes every other learning outcome. Our Shiksha Neeti reiterates — learn to read and then read to learn — basis global research on foundational literacy in the early years (Nursery to Grade 2). We don’t have formal reading programmes in India — maybe because of our language diversity but more likely because of our assessment thought worlds — but Bengaluru has many people and institutions with expertise in reading that can share their frameworks, digital resources and events to all schools.  Raj Chetty’s Opportunity Atlas reminds us that equality of opportunity is more important than equality of outcomes and education is an endeavour of profound optimism. We cannot guarantee where everyone finishes the race, but we can make the start point more equal and fair. Michael Sandel’s new book The Tyranny of Merit reminds us that an individual’s status is often determined by their membership in a family, a caste or a class that bestows or denies rights, privileges, prestige, power and status. Abraham Lincoln once filled up an election form describing his education as “defective”; yet his teachers, reading, and lifelong learning made him powerful, innovative and skilled. Former President APJ Abdul Kalam, a great educator leader, mirrored the Katho Upanishad when he said, “Learning gives creativity, creativity leads to thinking, thinking provides knowledge, and knowledge makes you great”. To paraphrase old wisdom, we can’t prepare the future for our children but we can prepare our city and children for the future. Any takers? (The writer is Founder and Head of Neev Academy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-next-orbit-968871.html
01-04-2021||Main Article||Protecting the judiciary||Irrespective of the background of an unprecedented complaint against a judge of the Supreme Court, an in-house inquiry resulting in its rejection, the recommendation of the present Chief Justice India S A Bobde to appoint the next senior judge Justice N V Ramana as the 48th Chief Justice of India should be accepted for the sake of the independence of the judiciary. The unwritten constitutional convention demands the Narendra Modi government accept this formal recommendation of the CJI. The CJI made the recommendation after dismissing a complaint made against Justice Ramana by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy. The fact that an occupant of a constitutional office like that of the chief minister levelled some allegations, makes it significant. The matter of a chief minister facing 31 criminal cases and the Bench headed by Justice Ramana was hearing a PIL for a speedy trial of charges against politicians, including this CM, cannot be used to interfere with the process of Justice Ramana’s appointment. When the chief minister levelled serious allegations against Justice Ramana, there were some apprehensions that the executive was unnecessarily given a chance to interfere with judicial functioning. The complaint of a chief minister necessitated an inquiry as per the rules and regulations of the Supreme Court’s internal administration, which the CJI has meticulously followed. Even the silence of the office of the CJI over that complaint became a subject matter of speculation. As the CJI’s retirement date, April 23, 2021, was nearing, the suspense about the next incumbent increased. The Government of India rightly asked the current CJI to initiate the process of filling the top post of judiciary. That was a required step. Then, there was an obstacle in the form of a complaint of Jagan Reddy. Neither the media nor any other forum has any scope of knowing the details because the CJI classified it as confidential and not disclosable. It is unfortunate that the apex court that directs every other institution to be transparent, believes in secrecy of in-house inquiries in the apex court. If this becomes a precedent, the purport of the law of Right to Information will not be served. There is no scope now for the executive to supersede the senior-most. Indian judicial history recorded two instances of supersession, which impacted the independence of the judiciary. In 1973, Justice Ajit Nath Ray was appointed as the Chief Justice of India superseding three senior judges — Jaishanker Manilal Shelat, A N Grover and K S Hegde. This supersession by Indira Gandhi was a frontal attack on the independence of the judiciary and an unprecedented executive excess. Question is, why was Justice Ray preferred to three seniors by the then prime minister? After decades of struggle for supremacy between the executive and the judiciary, the Supreme Court imposed a strong limitation on the power of the Executive and Parliament to amend the Constitution. While agreeing that Parliament can amend any part of the Constitution, including the fundamental rights chapter, the Supreme Court said it cannot destroy the basic structure. Who will decide what the basic structure is? The Supreme Court. The majority included the three Justices J M Shelat, Grover and Hegde. That judgement was very costly. The three lost not only the position of the CJI but also the remainder term as judges of the Supreme Court. The Fourth junior judge, Justice A N Ray, was preferred because he did not agree with the basic structure doctrine developed by the majority of judges in the Kesavananda Bharti case, and profusely believed in the executive supremacy over judicial independence. He was also the lone dissenter among the 11-judge bench, which held the Bank Nationalisation Act as unconstitutional in 1969. As the Chief Justice of India, Justice Ray made himself, sadly, amenable to be influenced by the prime minister. Another sad day Another landmark order of the SC by the bench headed by Chief Justice Ray was ADM Jabalpur v Shiv Kant Shukla, where the SC reversed several High Court judgements, to uphold the powers of the government to suspend fundamental rights during the Emergency. It was a Constitutionally wrong decision, going against the civil and human rights which have to be supported by the guardian — the Supreme Court. This was recently overruled. The historic dissent of dynamic judge H R Khanna, in this case popularly known as the Habeas Corpus case, is the law today. But Justice Khanna could not become the Chief Justice because of this dissent, as Indira Gandhi again chose to supersede him and appoint the next senior Justice Beg to the top post. Justice Hans Raj Khanna reportedly told his sister on the day of the delivery of the judgement that what he was going to pronounce would cost him the position of the Chief Justice of India. And it happened in 1977. He did not regret dissenting. Significantly, almost all other judges, who said that fundamental rights can be suspended, apologised later. The Constitution does not say anywhere that the senior-most judge shall be appointed as the Chief Justice. But it became an established constitutional convention for protecting the independence of the institution. There are two kinds of threats to judicial independence – one, fear of supersession and the other is the allurement of post-retirement rehabilitation, where the chief justices look forward to becoming MPs, governors or hold some other lucrative offices. When Jagan Reddy complained about Justice Ramana, speculation of possible supersession were rife. As decks are cleared now, the prime minister or the law ministry should accept the recommendation and pave way for Justice Ramana to assume the office of the CJI. Both judiciary and executive should make all efforts to uphold the independence and integrity of judicial offices, especially the highest office — Chief Justice of India — and protect it from all kinds of threats and allurements. (The writer is former Central Information Commissioner and Professor of Law at Bennett University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/protecting-the-judiciary-969188.html
01-04-2021||National||India to counter China's foray in Bay of Bengal with BIMSTEC meet, 5-nation navy drill ||India will join its partners in the ‘Quad’ – Japan, Australia, United States and France – in a naval drill in the Bay of Bengal next week, even as it is set to add momentum to its engagements with the countries in the region to counter China. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is also expected to hold a virtual meeting with his counterparts in Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Thailand on Thursday in order to breathe fresh life into the BIMSTEC – a bloc, comprising seven littoral and landlocked countries dependent on the Bay of Bengal. With New Delhi keen to widen its engagements on Indo-Pacific beyond the ‘Quad’, the warships of the Indian Navy will for the first time participate in the “La Pérouse” drill led by the French Navy. The navies of Japan, Australia and the United States are also sending warships for the exercise, which would be held in the Bay of Bengal from April 5 to 7. “It is no surprise that India and the Indo-Pacific are at the heart of the training for the new generation of French Navy officers,” Emmanuel Lenain, the ambassador of France to India, said on Tuesday. He said that the La Pérouse joint exercise would have two French Navy ships joining the ships from India, Australia, Japan, and the US for “a concrete demonstration of multilateralism at sea” and the “commitment” of the French Government “to a free and open Indo-Pacific”. The five-nation exercise comes just a few months after India, Japan, Australia and the US held the “Malabar 2020” naval drill in the Indian Ocean in November and December last year. The four nations added a military heft to the Quad amid growing belligerence of China, not only along its disputed boundary with India, but elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific region too, like in the South China Sea, the East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. The Quad is a coalition forged by India, Japan, Australia and the US to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter the hegemonic moves by China in the Indo-Pacific. It was elevated to the level of the Heads of Governments with its first ever summit, which was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his counterparts in Japan and Australia – Yoshihide Suga and Scott Morrison – and the US President Joe Biden on March 12 last. France has substantial geopolitical interests in western Indian Ocean and southern Pacific, with a large number of its military personnel deployed in the region. The French Government has territorial control over Réunion and Mayotte islands in the Indian Ocean and New Caledonia and French Polynesia in the Pacific. While over 60% of France’s Exclusive Economic Zone is in the Pacific, over 20% is in the Indian Ocean. Djibouti on the Horn of Africa has a base of French Army. The French Government in the past did not respond positively to the US bid to expand the ‘Quad’, as it was keen to avoid making its strategy for the region look overtly adversarial to China. It, however, of late decided to assert its interests in the region by holding the “La Pérouse” naval drill in the Bay of Bengal jointly with India and other nations in the ‘Quad’. After making a port call in Kochi on the southern coast of India from Tuesday to Thursday, two French Navy ships – Tonnerre and Surcouf – are set to sail to the Bay of Bengal to take part in the La Pérouse exercise. They will continue to sail through the Indo-Pacific region even after the drill, all the way to Japan, before heading back to France to reach home port on July 14, the National Day of France. The ships will sail through the South China Sea twice during their voyage, the Embassy of France in New Delhi stated on Wednesday. Apart from the naval drill with France, Japan, Australia and the US, India is also set to add momentum to its engagement with the BIMSTEC nations to counter China’s foray into the Bay of Bengal region. Riva Ganguly Das, Secretary (East) at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), had a virtual meeting with her counterparts in the six other member nations of the bloc on Wednesday. This will be followed by a virtual meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the seven nations on Thursday. New Delhi has since 2016 focused more on rejuvenating the BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) in order to promote regional connectivity initiatives, as similar moves within the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) were blocked by Islamabad. India is keen to promote connectivity projects in and around its neighbourhood, ostensibly to counter China's bid to spread its geostrategic influence in the region through its ambitious Belt-and-Road initiative. China has already embarked on a series of infrastructure projects in the countries in the Bay of Bengal region||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-counter-chinas-foray-in-bay-of-bengal-with-bimstec-meet-5-nation-navy-drill-968854.html
01-04-2021||National||Sensor-based IoT devices to monitor Jal Jeevan Mission implementation||The Jal Shakti Ministry on Wednesday said it has decided to use sensor-based Internet of Things (IoT) devices to effectively monitor the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in more than six lakh villages. The National Jal Jeevan Mission in collaboration with Tata Community Initiatives Trust (TCIT) and Tata Trusts recently completed pilot projects in several remote villages of Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh, it said in a statement. A key feature of these pilots has been the use of frugal yet sturdy sensors, which makes the solution scalable and sustainable. One of the key challenges posed to the team was to develop a robust solution at a fraction of the water infrastructure costs without compromising on quality or functionality. These costs are expected to reduce further at scale. The IoT-based remote monitoring provides near real-time information without any manual intervention by using sensors. This would not only allow effective monitoring and management on-ground, but also enable real-time visibility to state water supply officials and citizens. Real-time measurement and monitoring is critical for rural drinking water supply schemes, with enormous gains in terms of operational efficiencies, cost reduction, grievance redressal. The data will drive improvement in service delivery and instil transparency for precious natural asset such as water. Thus, making a strong social and economic case for deployment of such a system, it said. The Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), a flagship programme of the Centre, is being implemented in partnership with states and union territories to provide tap water connection to every rural household by 2024. The cloud and analytics powered IoT platform is integrated with a Geographical Information System (GIS) providing a robust decision support system. Several types of sensors have been deployed including flow meters, ground water level sensors, chlorine analysers, pressure sensors, pump controller to measure all the relevant aspects of water service delivery -- quantity, duration, quality, pressure, and sustainability -- in addition to providing operational efficiencies. "The pilots have led to several outcomes as it has helped identify distribution issues such as outages, leakages, low pressure and led to resolution across sites,” it said. It recently alerted both officials and community regarding fast depleting groundwater levels that led the villagers to build a source strengthening structure to recharge their borewell. Other benefits observed include efficient and responsible use of water by community and reduced cost of operations through data-enabled leak detection, predictive maintenance, and automation, the statement said. It added that villages have a small TV screen installed with a visual dashboard in the local regional language that helps the Village Water Sanitation Committee (VWSC)/ Pani Samiti take corrective actions. Earlier, water disinfection process was not carried out regularly in some of these villages. Now, village-level committees see a visual indicator on their village IoT screen telling them when to disinfect water based on residual chlorine levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sensor-based-iot-devices-to-monitor-jal-jeevan-mission-implementation-968881.html
01-04-2021||National||Three more Rafale jets arrive in India from France||The fourth batch of three Rafale fighter jets landed in India on Wednesday evening after flying non-stop from France, in a further boost to the strike capability of the Indian Air Force. The jets were provided mid-air refuelling by air force tankers of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the IAF said. The 4th batch of three IAF #Rafales landed on Indian soil after a direct ferry from #IstresAirBase France," it tweeted. The IAF also thanked the UAE air force for refuelling the Rafale jets, describing it as yet another milestone in the strong relationship between the two air forces. The IAF did not disclose the base where the Rafale jets landed. "Another batch of #Rafale take to the skies on non-stop flight to India with mid-air refuelling by UAE. Indian Air power grows further," the Indian Embassy in France tweeted earlier. With the arrival of the three jets, the size of the Rafale fleet has increased to 14. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. The formal induction ceremony of the fleet had taken place at Ambala on September 10 last. A second batch of three Rafale jets arrived in India on November 3, while a third batch of another three jets joined the IAF on January 27. The first Rafale squadron is based in Ambala air force station. The Indian Air Force is set to raise the second squadron of the Rafale combat jets in mid-April and it will be based in Hasimara airbase in West Bengal, according to military officials. India is expected to get more Rafale jets from France in the next few months. The Rafale jets, manufactured by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 years after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The Rafale jets are capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile, Scalp cruise missile and MICA weapons system will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-more-rafale-jets-arrive-in-india-from-france-968885.html
01-04-2021||National||NIA searches houses of civil liberties activists, advocates with suspected Maoist links||The National Investigation Agency sleuths conducted searches at the residences of several civil liberties activists, advocates and revolutionary writers with suspected links with the outlawed Maoists. The searches took place simultaneously on late Wednesday evening in various cities, towns in Andhra Pradesh and one place in Hyderabad in connection with a case registered in Visakhapatnam about Maoist activities. Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Committee president Chittibabu’s residence in Rajahmundry, Revolutionary Writers Association (Virasam) leaders G Pinakapani’s house in Kurnool, Varalakshmi’s house in Proddutur and houses of advocates K Padma, KS Chalam in Visakhapatnam were reportedly searched by the NIA, with support from the state police. The case, it is understood, dates back to November 23 last year when a person named Pangi Naganna was intercepted by the Visakhapatnam rural police at Munchingput. They found Maoist literature, press notes, medicines, wire bundles and “some other incriminating materials.” Pangi, a journalist, was found to be passing on information about police movements to the Maoists. The AP police booked a case under various sections of the IPC, Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Andhra Pradesh Public Security Act, and the Arms Act. The case was transferred to the NIA, which registered its FIR on March 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-searches-houses-of-civil-liberties-activists-advocates-with-suspected-maoist-links-968909.html
01-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Covid-19 surge: 'Might lose voters'||West Bengal is heading towards a severe outbreak of the second wave of coronavirus as the people are not adhering to the protocol to check its spread and large numbers of them are participating in innumerable rallies and campaigns by political leaders across the poll-bound state almost daily, city doctors fear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-covid-19-surge-might-lose-voters-968910.html
01-04-2021||National||Polling begins in phase 2 of Assam, West Bengal polls||Polling in 30 seats in West Bengal and 39 seats in Assam has begun.  In West Bengal, all eyes will be on the Nandigram Assembly constituency where Suvendu Adhikari is taking on Mamata Banerjee. Thirty seats including Nandigram in four districts will go to the polls in the second phase. The fate of 171 candidates will be decided by about 75 lakh voters in the second phase where 652 companies of the Central force have been deployed to prevent any untoward incident.  In Assam, Bengali-speaking Barak Valley and tribal-dominated three hills districts will be the focus of the second phase elections in Assam when polling will be conducted for 39 of the state's 26 Assembly seats. A total of 346 candidates are in the fray for 39 seats in Barak Valley, Central and parts of Western Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/polling-begins-in-phase-2-of-assam-west-bengal-polls-968924.html
01-04-2021||National||Interest rates on PPF, KVP, NSC, other small saving schemes to remain same as govt withdraws order||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday scrapped the steep cuts in interest rates on small savings schemes within hours claiming that the orders were issued by “oversight”. “Interest rates of small savings schemes of the government of India shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, i.e, rates that prevailed as of March 2021,” Sitharaman said. “Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn,” the finance minister said within hours of the Department of Economic Affairs announcing sharp cuts on interest rates on various small savings schemes by up to 110 basis points. According to the order issued on March 31, the new rates applicable for the first quarter were to come into effect from Thursday, April 1. The interest rate on the public provident fund was slashed to 6.4 per cent, the lowest since 1974; while the national savings certificate scheme would now yield 5.9 per cent annually as against 6.8% earlier.  The government on Wednesday had cut interest rates on small savings schemes, including NSC and PPF, by up to 1.1 per cent for the first quarter of 2021-22 in line with falling fixed deposit rates of banks. Interest rates on Public Provident Fund (PPF) was reduced by 0.7 per cent to 6.4 per cent while National Savings Certificate (NSC) by 0.9 per cent at 5.9 per cent. The new interest rate on PPF will be the lowest since 1974. According to reports, the PPF interest rate was 7 per cent between August 1974 and March 1975. Prior to that, the rate was 5.8 per cent. Interest rates for small savings schemes are notified on a quarterly basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/interest-rates-on-ppf-kvp-nsc-other-small-saving-schemes-to-remain-same-as-govt-withdraws-order-968936.html
01-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination for 45 years and above: Key things to know||Everyone above the age of 45 can now get Covid-19 vaccines. This phase will cover the population highest at risk as over 90 per cent of Covid-19 related deaths in India have been in the category of those above the age of 45. Eligible beneficiaries can get the vaccines either through registration on the Co-WIN platform or walking into a vaccination centre for a spot registration and the shot. But those who would prefer to walk in, have to go after 3 pm, as per the central government policy. So far 91 lakh individuals — mostly healthcare and front line workers — have received two doses of the vaccine whereas more than 6 crore got at least one dose. The Centre on Wednesday asked states and union territories to identify low vaccine-coverage pockets, particularly in districts reporting a surge in new infections, and take corrective action. “All districts with high caseload and fast growth of cases must ensure 100 per cent saturation vaccination of the priority age group of 45 years and above, in the coming two weeks," the Centre told states. States were told to maintain vaccine wastage at less than 1 per cent, compared to the present average of 6 per cent across the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-for-45-years-and-above-key-things-to-know-968951.html
01-04-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee will lose, claims Suvendu Adhikari after casting vote||BJP's heavyweight Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari cast his vote soon after polling began on Thursday morning. Riding a bike, Adhikari went to the Nandanayak Bar Primary School around 7.30 to cast his vote. Speaking to reporters, he said that he was confident that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is contesting the elections against him from the Nandigram seat, will lose the polls. "I have a very old relationship with the people of the area. I have a personal relationship with almost every person in Nandigram. Pretty confident that I will win the election," Adhikari said. "Entire village has come out to vote in favour of the BJP," he added. Adhikari said that he went to the polling booth on a bike as the road was too narrow for a car. "I will urge the people to come out early and cast their votes. There were reports of problems at some booths but those have now been solved. The polling is happening peacefully," he said. He said that he will try to visit all the booths in the constituency. Further, the BJP leader claimed that the TMC has failed to depute agents in all the booths. "It shows that Mamata Banerjee will not be able to win the elections," he said. Adhikari exercised his franchise for the first time in Nandigram after becoming a voter of the constituency ahead of the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-will-lose-claims-suvendu-adhikari-after-casting-vote-968954.html
01-04-2021||National||India reports 72,330 new Covid-19 cases, 459 deaths, highest this year||India saw 72,330 new coronavirus infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,22,21,665, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The single-day rise in cases is the highest recorded since October 11, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,62,927 with 459 daily new fatalities, the highest in around 116 days, the data updated at 8 am showed.  Registering a steady increase for the 22nd day in a row, the active cases have increased to 5,84,055 comprising 4.78 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 93.89 per cent, the data stated.  As many as 74,383 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 11. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections.     The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,14,74,683. The case fatality rate has further has dropped to 1.33 per cent, the data stated.   India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,47,98,621 samples have been tested up to March 31 with 11,25,681 samples being tested on Wednesday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-72330-new-covid-19-cases-459-deaths-highest-this-year-968963.html
01-04-2021||National||India opens up immunisation to more people, vaccine exports to dwindle||India opened up its coronavirus inoculation programme to people above 45 on Thursday as infections surge, which will delay vaccine exports from the world's biggest maker of the drug. The country, with the most number of reported Covid-19 cases after the United States and Brazil, has so far injected 64 million doses and exported nearly as many. This has raised criticism at home as India's per-capita vaccination figure is much lower than many countries. The government has previously said that people over 45 can register for inoculation from April 1. India initially focused on front-like workers, the elderly and those suffering from other health conditions, unlike some richer countries that have made all their adults eligible to get inoculated. New Delhi says it is working towards that goal, and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted that there would be no vaccine shortage in the country as it opens up the vaccination programme. "Centre to continually replenish states' supplies," he said on Twitter. "Avoid overstocking and understocking." India has already decided to delay big vaccine exports for now, including the WHO-backed global vaccine alliance COVAX. It is currently using the AstraZeneca vaccine and a shot developed at home by Bharat Biotech, which is struggling to step up supplies. India's drug regulator is soon expected to approve Russia's Sputnik V vaccine. India has reported more than 12 million infections, including a big surge last month. Deaths stand at more than 162,400.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-opens-up-immunisation-to-more-people-vaccine-exports-to-dwindle-968966.html
01-04-2021||National||India condemns violence in Myanmar, urges maximum restraint||India has condemned the violence in Myanmar and condoled the loss of life, as it urged maximum restraint and called for the release of detained leaders. Myanmar's military toppled the country's government on February 1 and seized power for one year, detaining top political figures, including de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi and President U Win Myint. The coup sparked protests and other acts of civil disobedience, leading to the deaths of hundreds in a military crackdown. The UN Security Council held closed consultations on the situation in Myanmar on Wednesday. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted that in his remarks in the closed meeting, he “made these points: Condemn violence, Condole loss of lives, Urge maximum restraint, Our steadfast commitment to democratic transition, Release of detained leaders and welcome @ASEAN efforts.” He added that during the meeting he emphasised for the “Situation to be resolved peacefully, Need greater engagement, Meet the hopes and aspirations of the people and extend assistance to Rakhine state development programme.” Last week, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned in the “strongest terms” the killing of dozens of civilians, including children and young people, by security forces in Myanmar. “The continuing military crackdown, which today resulted in the highest daily death toll since demonstrations against the coup began last month, is unacceptable and demands a firm, unified and resolute international response. It is critical to find an urgent solution to this crisis,” the UN chief had said on March 27, the bloodiest day since the demonstrations against the February 1 coup began, when security forces killed at least 107 people, including 7 children. Guterres reiterated his urgent appeal to the military to refrain from violence and repression and said those responsible for the serious human rights violations committed in Myanmar must be held accountable. The Secretary-General’s Special Envoy on Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgener also briefed the Council's closed consultations. In her remarks, obtained by PTI, Burgener warned that a “bloodbath is imminent” in the country and added that more than 520 people have been killed since the early February coup attempt. “The urgency for a solution to this crisis could not be clearer,” she said. Burgener said that the most serious international crimes and violations of international law appear to be happening in plain sight. “I fear this trend will become bloodier as the Commander-in-Chief seems determined to solidify his unlawful grip on power by force.” Burgener called on those who have access to the Tatmadaw, the Myanmar armed forces, to let them know how severely its actions have damaged the reputation of the country, has become a threat to the future of its citizens as well as the "security of neighbouring countries.” Emphasising that the military leaders have clearly shown they are not capable of managing the country, Burgener asserted that civilian rule must be restored. “It is our obligation to help restore a return to civilian rule under the elected government headed by President Win Myint and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, whom this Security Council rightfully continues to refer to as 'members of the Government'.” Burgener said she intends to visit the region soon, hopefully, next week, in continuation of her close consultations with members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and other leaders. Warning that crisis is rapidly unravelling the already fragile public health sector against the backdrop of a global pandemic, she appealed to the Security Council to consider all available tools to take collective action and do what is right, what the people of Myanmar deserve and prevent a multi-dimensional catastrophe in the heart of Asia. She sounded an alarm that hard-won gains of the democratic transition and peace process are slipping away. "Mediation requires dialogue but Myanmar’s military has shut its doors to most of the world. It appears the military would only engage when it feels they are able to contain the situation through repression and terror," she said. Urging the Council for a firm, unified and resolute international response, she said the UN body "must consider potentially significant action that can reverse the course of events in Myanmar." UN Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide Alice Wairimu Nderitu and UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet had said in a statement that the “shameful, cowardly, brutal” actions of the military and police – who have been filmed shooting at protesters as they flee, and who have not even spared young children – “must be halted immediately. The international community has a responsibility to protect the people of Myanmar from atrocity crimes." Since the Myanmar military seized power on February 1, thousands of people have been arbitrarily arrested and many subjected to enforced disappearance, the UN said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-condemns-violence-in-myanmar-urges-maximum-restraint-968971.html
01-04-2021||National||India's power consumption grows 24.35% in March||Power consumption in the country grew 24.35 per cent in March at 123.05 billion units (BU) over the corresponding month a year ago, showing a revival in the economic activities, according to power ministry data. Power consumption in March last year was recorded at 98.95 BU. On the other hand, the peak power demand met, which is the highest supply in a day, during March this year remained well above the highest record of 170.16 GW in the entire March 2020 except on one day on March 29, 2021 when it was recorded at 159.81 GW. During March this year, peak power demand touched the highest level of 186.03 GW on March 11, 2021, and recorded a growth of 9.3 per cent over 170.16 GW a year ago. The highest daily peak power demand met of 170.16 GW was recorded on March 3, 2020. Experts are of the view that the power consumption has returned to pre-Covid levels with spurt in commercial and industrial activities and would see robust growth in coming months. However, they cautioned that local lockdowns to curb the surge of Covid-19 positive cases may impact power consumption adversely with slump in commercial and industrial demand of electricity. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25, 2020, to contain the spread of Covid-19. After a gap of six months, power consumption recorded a 4.6 per cent year-on-year growth in September and 11.6 per cent in October. In November 2020, the power consumption growth slowed to 3.12 per cent, mainly due to the early onset of winters. In December, power consumption grew by 4.5 per cent while it was 4.4 per cent in January 2021. Power consumption in February this year recorded higher at 104.11 BU compared to 103.81 BU last year despite the fact that 2020 was a leap year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-power-consumption-grows-2435-in-march-968979.html
01-04-2021||National||Interest rates on small savings schemes remain unchanged: Check here||“Interest rates of small savings schemes of the government of India shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, i.e, rates that prevailed as of March 2021,” Sitharaman said. “Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn,” the finance minister said within hours of the Department of Economic Affairs announcing sharp cuts on interest rates on various small savings schemes by up to 110 basis points. According to the order issued on March 31, the new rates applicable for the first quarter were to come into effect from Thursday, April 1. However, the rates remained unchanged. Here are the existing interest rates: Interest rate for Savings Deposit is 4 per cent. 1-Year Time Deposit: 5.5 per cent. 2-Year Time Deposit: 5.5 per cent. 3-Year Time Deposit: 5.5 per cent. 5-Year Time Deposit: 6.7 per cent. 5-year Recurring Deposit: 5.8 per cent The interest rate for National Savings Certificate is 6.8 per cent. The interest rate for Senior Citizen Savings Schemes is 7.4 per cent. The monthly Income Account's interest rate is 6.6 per cent. The rate of interest for Kisan Vikas Patra is 6.9 per cent. Interest rate for Public Provident Fund Scheme or PPF is 7.1 per cent. Interest rate for Sukanya Samriddhi Account Scheme is 7.6 per cent||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/interest-rates-on-small-savings-schemes-remain-unchanged-check-here-968982.html
01-04-2021||National||Local BJP leader detained in Bengal for coming within 100 metres of pooling booth||Police on Thursday said it has detained a local BJP leader for allegedly coming within 100 metres of a pooling booth here. Mohan Singh, Dakshin Mandal Sabhapati of the BJP, however, claimed that he was called there by saffron party candidate Bharati Ghosh. Ghosh, a former IPS officer, alleged that TMC workers beat up Singh and chased him away. "I have complained to the presiding officer that our party agents are not being allowed to sit at the polling booths. TMC activists are intimidating our agents," she said. Meanwhile, some BJP activists blocked roads when Singh was being taken to the nearest police station, officials said. In the Debra seat, where polling is underway in the second phase, two former IPS officers are crossing swords -- BJP's Bharati Ghosh and ruling TMC's Humayun Kabir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/local-bjp-leader-detained-in-bengal-for-coming-within-100-metres-of-pooling-booth-968992.html
01-04-2021||National||Sporadic clashes reported as West Bengal votes in phase 2||The second phase of polling in West Bengal's eight-phase elections, including in the high-stakes Nandigram seat, recorded a high voter turnout of 37.4 per cent till 11 am. Though the situation was tense in a few areas with a few skirmishes reported, tight security cover in all 30 constituencies which went to polls averted any major incidents. "We have 37.42 per cent voter turnout till 11 am in all seats where polling is underway for the second phase. The polling so far has been peaceful," an Election Commission official said. The constituencies where polls are being conducted include nine seats each in Purba and Paschim Medinipur districts, eight in Bankura and four in South 24 Parganas. Strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols has been ensured in all places, officials said. More than 75 lakh voters will decide the fate of 191 candidates in the 30 constituencies for which voting ends at 6.30 pm. The entire Nandigram constituency where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is locked in a high-stakes electoral battle with her former lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari now with the BJP has been placed under Section 144, to avoid any untoward incident. However, protesters blocked the road in Nandigram's Block 1 alleging Central forces stopped them from going to the polling stations. "The CRPF personnel accompanying Suvendu Adhikari stopped us from casting our votes," a protester said. The BJP however denied the allegations. In another incident, a person was detected with a fake voter ID and was subsequently arrested. Banerjee decided to stay at her `war room' in the Reyapara area in Nandigram during the polls, to monitor the situation, according to party sources. The chief minister is slated to later visit various polling booths. Around 35 per cent of electors exercised their franchise till 11 am in the agrarian constituency in Purba Medinipur district, , an Election Commission official said. Barring an incident in the Bhimkata area in Nandigram where the BJP candidate faced agitation by a group of TMC workers who shouted slogans against him, there were no incidents of face-offs or skirmishes in Nandigram, he added. However, TMC alleged the BJP had threatened its polling agents in various booths in Nandigram Block 2. "Our agents were not allowed to enter several polling booths in Nandigram Block -2. Voters have also been stopped from exercising their franchise in some areas. We will lodge complaints with the EC," a TMC leader said. Adhikari cast his vote soon after polling began on Thursday morning and claimed he would win the seat by a record margin. Meanwhile, the Keshpur area in Bengal's Paschim Medinipur district remained tense after a TMC worker identified as Uttam Dolui was stabbed to death late last night, hours before polling started in the area, police said. Dolui's family alleged that BJP "goons" attacked him to create tension in the area and intimidate voters ahead of the polling. The BJP however denied both the allegations. In Sabang seat in the West Midnapore district, BJP candidate Amulya Maity made a counter allegation that TMC had not allowed his booth agents to enter their designated booths. The TMC too denied the allegations. Meanwhile, in Debra seat, police detained BJP's Mandal president Mohan Singh- for allegedly getting within 100m of a polling booth. In the Mahisadal seat, the TMC also alleged that BJP workers had stopped voters from going to the polling stations. Meanwhile, a BJP worker, identified as Uday Dubey, was found hanging near the Reyapara area in Nandigram Block-1. The BJP alleged that Dubey had ended his life after being threatened by TMC workers. Villagers in the Boyal area in Nandigram also alleged that BJP supporters had stopped them from going to the polling booths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sporadic-clashes-reported-as-west-bengal-votes-in-phase-2-969001.html
01-04-2021||National||BSY, ministers congratulate Rajnikanth for Dada Saheb Phalke Award||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, BJP's Tamil Nadu in charge C T Ravi and state ministers on Thursday joined millions others in greeting Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on being chosen for the prestigious Dada Saheb Phalke award for the year 2019. "Heartfelt congratulations to the globally acclaimed film actor, fondly addressed as Thalaiva by his followers and superstar Rajinikanth, on being honored with the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke Award. On behalf of all the Kannadigas, I wish him all the best," the Chief Minister tweeted. Ravi, the BJP national general secretary and party's Tamil Nadu in charge, tweeted, "Heartiest Congratulations to Thalaiva @rajinikanth on being awarded the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award for 2021." [sic] "One of the greatest actors of His generation, the contribution of Thiru Rajinikanth to Indian cinema is exemplary. I share this happiness with His crores of fans," he added. One of the greatest Actor of His generation, contribution of Thiru Rajinikanth to Indian cinema is exemplary.   Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan and Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar too greeted the actor. The actor's Karnataka connection is well known. Born to a Marathi family in Bengaluru, Rajinikanth's original name is Shivaji Rao Gaekwad. He did his schooling in Bengaluru and spent much of his prime in the Garden City. He had served as a bus conductor in the Bangalore Transport Services (BTS), the previous avatar of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) before trying his luck in tinsel town where he outshone many of his contemporaries. The actor's relatives including his brother live in Bengaluru and the actor often visits them. His stay in Tamil Nadu did not blunt his command over Kannada as he speaks the language eloquently. Celebrations broke out in parts of Bengaluru with a substantial Tamil population as the news came about the Phalke Award to Rajinikanth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsy-ministers-congratulate-rajnikanth-for-dada-saheb-phalke-award-969005.html
01-04-2021||National||What is the definition of Covid-19 reinfection?||Two positive tests at an interval of at least 102 days with one interim negative test have been defined as SARS-CoV-2 re-infection by Indian scientists for establishing surveillance systems, according to an ICMR study.  But a confirmation of the re-infection will require a whole genome sequencing, it stated. While SARS-CoV-2 re-infection is still a rare phenomenon, Indian scientists have developed an easy-to-use epidemiological definition of re-infection for establishing surveillance systems. According to the study SARS-CoV-2 re-infection: development of an epidemiological definition from India which has been published by Cambridge in the Epidemiology and Infection journal, an investigation was conducted with the objective to develop an epidemiological case definition of possible SARS CoV-2 re-infection and assess its magnitude in India.  SARS-CoV-2 re-infection is an emerging concern and there is a need to define it, the scientists highlighted. Therefore, working epidemiological case definition for re-infection was developed and its magnitude was explored via archive-based, telephonic survey.  The epidemiological case definition for SARS-CoV-2 reinfection was developed from literature review of data on viral kinetics.    Re-infection with SARS CoV-2 was defined as two positive tests at an interval of at least 102 days with one interim negative test.  During the archive based, telephonic survey, thirty-eight of the 58 eligible patients could be contacted, with twelve (31.6 per cent) being healthcare workers. Majority of the participants were asymptomatic and had higher Ct value during their first episode.  "To conclude, a working epidemiological case definition of SARS CoV-2 re-infection is important to strengthen surveillance. The present investigation contributes to this goal and records reinfection in 4.5 per cent of SARS CoV-2 infected individuals in India," the study stated.   "Taking available evidence into consideration, re-infection with SARS CoV-2 in our study was defined as any individual who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on two separate occasions by either molecular tests or rapid antigen test at an interval of at least 102 days with one negative molecular test in between," the study stated.   "While SARSCoV-2 re-infection is still a rare phenomenon, there is a need for epidemiological definition of re-infection for establishing surveillance systems and this study contributes to such goal," it said. Some respondents in the study had a symptomatic second episode as opposed to the first one. The rate and duration of hospitalisation was not compared as during the initial phase of the pandemic in India all cases were being hospitalized for at least 14 days, irrespective of symptom severity.   Currently, there is no consensus regarding the working definition of re-infection, based only on epidemiological features; a resource intensive method like whole genome sequencing being the only confirmation. "It is not logistically feasible to store the samples of millions of positive cases for future sequencing to identify an important phenomenon like SARS CoV-2 re-infection," the study said. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has considered the duration of 90 days between two positive SARS-CoV-2 RNA along with genomic evidence of re-infection as an investigative criterion to understand the phenomenon of reinfection. Both CDC and European CDC suggested the use of genomic evidence for confirmation of reinfection, However, an epidemiological working definition will be more pragmatic and helpful to assess the magnitude of re-infection in most population and resource constrained settings. While Covid-19 re-infection is still rarely reported, nonetheless, immunity should not be assumed and public health measures such as physical distancing, hand-hygiene, and use of masks should be followed after recovery from first event of infection, the study stated. Further well-designed cohort studies must be undertaken to understand the natural history of Covid-19, including its immunogenicity, susceptibility to re-infection, antibody dependent enhancement and the severity of re-infections. It may also be suggested that the samples of healthcare workers may be stored for genomic analysis to study suspected Covid-19 reinfections, particularly in resource limited settings as chances of them encountering such events are higher due to potential high-risk occupational exposure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-is-the-definition-of-covid-19-reinfection-969006.html
01-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination for people above 45 years starts||The Covid-19 vaccination for all people aged 45 years and above commenced from Thursday, the Union Health Ministry said. More than 6.5 crore vaccine doses have been administered across the country so far to frontline workers, healthcare workers, those above 60 and for people aged above 45 with specified co-co-morbid conditions. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.  The ministry said so far vaccine doses have been administered to 82,60,293 HCWs (1st dose), 52,50,704 HCWs (2nd dose), 91,74,171 FLWs (1st dose) and 39,45,796 FLWs (2nd Dose), 78,36,667(1st dose) and 17,849 (2nd dose). As on Day-75 of the vaccination drive (31st March), 20,63,543 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 17,94,166 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 39,484 sessions for 1st dose and 2,69,377 beneficiaries received 2nd dose of vaccine. The ministry further said that Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh continue to show a steep rise in the Covid daily new cases accounting for 84.61 per cent of the new cases reported in a span of 24 hours. India saw 72,330 new infections being registered in a span of 24 hours, the highest single day rise recorded so far this year. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 39,544. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 4,563 while Karnataka reported 4,225 new cases.  India's active caseload has reached 5,84,055 and now comprises 4.78 per cent of the country's total infections. A net rise of 31,489 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Punjab cumulatively account for 78.9 per cent  of the total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounts for more than 61 per cent of the active caseload of the country. The Centre has been advising the States and UTs to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests to more than 70 per cent of the total tests. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,14,74,683 with 40,382 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. A total of 459 deaths were reported in a day, the highest so far this year. Six states account for 83.01 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (227). Punjab follows with 55 daily deaths, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-for-people-above-45-years-starts-969007.html
01-04-2021||National||West Bengal Polls: Mamata to stay at war room in Nandigram for whole day, TMC complains agents not allowed in several booths||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee decided to stay at her war room in the Reyapara area during the polls on Thursday in the Nandigram assembly constituency where she is locked in a fierce prestige battle with confidante-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. She is monitoring the situation in the high-profile constituency where polling began at 7 am as local TMC leaders complained of their election agents not being allowed to enter several booths, according to the party sources. There have been no reports of violence or clashes among political activists in the constituency, barring an incident in the Bhimkata area in Nandigram where the BJP candidate faced an agitation by a group of TMC workers who shouted slogans against him, an Election Commission official said. Around 17 per cent of electors exercised their franchise in the first two hours of the polling in the agrarian constituency in Purba Medinipur district, he said. According to the TMC sources, Banerjee, who had earlier decided to leave the area for campaigning in North Bengal after the polling ended at 6:30 PM on Thursday, changed her plans this morning. "She has decided to stay back and leave tomorrow. Banerjee will monitor the situation in the area, and if needed, she will go to spots," a senior TMC leader accompanying her said. Banerjee, who has camped in Nandigram since March 27, had on Wednesday alleged that goons from other states have come to Nandigram to foment trouble and intimidate the voters. Meanwhile, the TMC alleged that its polling agents have been threatened by the BJP in various booths in Nandigram Block 2. "Our agents were not allowed to enter several polling booths in Nandigram Block -2. Voters have also been stopped from exercising their franchise in some areas. We will lodge complaints with the EC," a TMC leader said. The BJP, however, denied these allegations. Adhikari cast his vote soon after polling began on Thursday morning and exuded confidence of winning the seat by a record margin. "I am confident about my victory and not here to make any personal attack like my opponent. You have seen how people were coming out in the area as I went there to cast my vote," he added. Meanwhile, a BJP worker, identified as Uday Dubey, was found hanging near the Reyapara area in Nandigram Block-1. The BJP claimed that Dubey had suspectedly ended his life, as he was being constantly threatened by the TMC goons. The ruling party in West Bengal termed the allegation as "baseless". A team of police personnel has been deployed there to avoid any untoward incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-polls-mamata-to-stay-at-war-room-in-nandigram-for-whole-day-tmc-complains-agents-not-allowed-in-several-booths-969011.html
01-04-2021||National||BJP worker found hanging at his home in Nandigram||A BJP worker was found hanging at his home in Nandigram in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district on Thursday, triggering tension in the area amid the high-profile election here, police said. Uday Dubey was found hanging at his home in the Bhekutia area of Nandigram in the morning, they said. Dubey was under tremendous stress as he was receiving threats from the TMC after he attended a roadshow of superstar Mithun Chakraborty who campaigned in the area in support of BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari on March 30, BJP leaders alleged. He could also have been hanged to death by TMC "goons", they alleged. However, TMC denied the charges and hit out at the BJP for indulging in politics over a death. "Dubey killed himself due to a family problem," a senior TMC leader claimed. Police said a case of unnatural death has been lodged, and the exact cause could be ascertained after receiving the post-mortem report. An investigation into the incident is underway and central forces have been deputed in the area to control the situation, they said. Nandigram is under heavy security cover with prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC being clamped in view of the high-voltage contest between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her former aide, Adhikari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-worker-found-hanging-at-his-home-in-nandigram-969019.html
01-04-2021||National||EC issues show cause notice to Assam BJP leader Sarma for remarks against Mohilary||The Election Commission on Thursday issued a show cause notice to Assam minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma for allegedly making threatening remarks against opposition leader Hagrama Mohilary of the Bodoland People's Front. He has been asked to respond to the notice by 5 pm on April 2. The Congress had approached the EC alleging that Sarma had threatened to send Mohilary to jail by misusing the NIA. The Bodoland People's Front is an ally of the Congress in Assam. Assembly elections in Assam are being held in three phases. While the first phase was on March 27, voting in the second phase is underway on Thursday.The last phase is on April 6. The notice to Sarma cited various provisions of the model code, including the one dealing with refraining from making unverified allegations against political rivals and, avoiding "corrupt practices" and offences under the election law, such as bribing of voters, intimidation of voters, impersonation of voters. "...the Commission is, prima facie, of the view that that Sarma has violated the above said provisions of the Model Code of Conduct," the notice read. It also quoted transcript of the speech provided by the state election machinery. "If Hagrama does extremism with Batha he will go to jail. This is a straight talk. If Hagrama encourages Batha, he will go to jail. Already got lot of evidence. This case is beinq qiven to NIA," according to a portion of Sarma's speech made part of the notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-issues-show-cause-notice-to-assam-bjp-leader-sarma-for-remarks-against-mohilary-969020.html
01-04-2021||National||GST collections at record high of Rs 1.23 lakh crore in March||GST collections in March touched a record high of over Rs 1.23 lakh crore, a 27 per cent growth over the year-ago period, the Finance Ministry said on Thursday. "GST revenues crossed above Rs 1 lakh crore mark at a stretch for the last six months and a steep increasing trend over this period are clear indicators of rapid economic recovery post-pandemic," the ministry said.  Closer monitoring against fake-billing, deep data analytics using data from multiple sources including GST, income tax and customs IT systems and effective tax administration have also contributed to the steady increase in tax revenue over the last few months, it added. The gross GST revenue collected in the month of March 2021 stood at Rs 1,23,902 crore, of which central GST is Rs 22,973 crore, state GST is Rs 29,329 crore, integrated GST is Rs 62,842 crore (including Rs 31,097 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,757 crore (including Rs 935 crore collected on import of goods).  "GST revenues during March 2021 are the highest since the introduction of GST. In line with the trend of recovery in the GST revenues over the past five months, the revenues for the month of March 2021 are 27 per cent higher than the GST revenues in the same month last year," the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-collections-at-record-high-of-rs-123-lakh-crore-in-march-969039.html
01-04-2021||National||Government proposes to establish alternate funding, increase assistance in new Rare Disease Policy Draft||The new Rare Disease Policy Draft Report of the government has proposed establishment of alternate funding through voluntary crowd funding and corporate funding, and increase in assistance for patients needing one time treatment from Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh. The new Rare Disease Policy Draft Report was released on March 31 by the Health Ministry and it earmarked three categories of rare diseases based on nature of treatment. They are disorders amenable to one-time curative treatment, diseases requiring long term or lifelong treatment having relatively lower cost of treatment and diseases for which definitive treatment is available but challenges are to make optimal patient selection for benefit, very high cost and lifelong therapy, like Lysosomal Storage Disorders (LSD) like Gaucher Disease, Hunter Syndrome and Fabry Disease. Noting that India has close to 50-100 million people affected by rare diseases or disorders, the policy report said almost 80 per cent of these rare condition patients are children and a leading cause for most of them not reaching adulthood is due to the high morbidity and mortality rates of these life-threatening diseases. The policy proposes establishment of alternate funding of rare diseases through voluntary crowd funding and corporate funding. It also seeks to provide assistance for patients needing one-time treatment for rare diseases increased to Rs 20 lakh from Rs 15 lakh. "Assistance to be provided under the Rashtriya Arogaya Yojana," the policy said. The policy said the beneficiaries of the assistance are not limited to the BPL families but extended to almost 40 per cent of population eligible under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. The policy also states the formulation of an alternative form of funding to help patients of rare diseases. This includes voluntary crowdfunding treatment by setting up a digital platform for voluntary individual contribution and corporate donors to voluntarily contribute to the treatment cost of patients of rare diseases. The government has identified eight centres of excellence for aid and support to patients of rare diseases. These include All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics, Hyderabad, King Edward Medical Hospital, Mumbai, Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research, Kolkata.   Gopal Agrawal, Head of Market Access and Pricing- Takeda India, said over time, rare diseases have been gaining momentum with constant conversations and discussions and the announcement of the Rare Diseases Policy is a comprehensive step forward by the government that will further add impetus to the rare diseases ecosystem, thus ensuring timely access to therapy and treatment. "With the policy now in place, there is considerable ground work that will be required for successful implementation of the policy. It will be instrumental to build innovative access initiatives and strategic partnerships across the rare disease landscape to bring customized solution for patients with targeted education, awareness, diagnosis and treatment," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-proposes-to-establish-alternate-funding-increase-assistance-in-new-rare-disease-policy-draft-969046.html
01-04-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee's letter to non-BJP leaders symbolises her 'despair': Javadekar||Senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's letter to non-BJP leaders symbolises her "despair" as she knows that not only is she losing from the Nandigram seat but her party is also going to be dislodged from power in West Bengal. In a letter to the non-BJP leaders including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi released by the Trinamool Congress(TMC) on Wednesday, Banerjee said the time has come for a "united and effective" struggle against the BJP's alleged attacks on democracy and the Constitution, and that opposition leaders should try present a "credible alternative" to the people of the country. Asked about the letter at a press conference where he announced the Dadasaheb Phalke award for Rajinikanth, Javadekar said, "Mamata Banerjee's letter symbolises her despair. She has understood that she is losing, not just herself in Nandigram, but the TMC is also going to be dislodged from power, and because of that she is even urging the Congress, which is fighting against her, to unite with her." This letter is about her survival, the Information and Broadcasting Minister added. He refused to answer another question on West Bengal polls, saying the press meet was for the Dadasaheb Phalke award. The letter by Banerjee came on the eve of the second phase of the Assembly polls in West Bengal in which she is locked in a fierce fight in the Nandigram constituency against her protege turned adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. Besides Sonia Gandhi, the letter has been sent to chief ministers Uddhav Thackeray(Maharashtra-Shiv Sena), Hemant Soren(Jharkhand-JMM), Arvind Kejriwal(Delhi-AAP), Naveen Patnaik(Odisha-BJD) and Jagan Reddy(Andhra Pradesh--YSR Congress), NCP's Sharad Pawar, DMK's MK Stalin, Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav, RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, NC’s Farooq Abdullah, PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti and CPI(ML)’s Dipankar Bhattacharya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjees-letter-to-non-bjp-leaders-symbolises-her-despair-javadekar-969058.html
01-04-2021||National||Fire engulfs 40 shops in Delhi's Rani Bagh||A fire broke out at a shop and spread to 39 others in the Sabzi Mandi area of Rani Bagh in northwest Delhi on Thursday, Delhi Fire Service officials said. No injuries have been reported yet, they said. A call about the fire was received around 11 am after which nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot, a senior fire official said. A short circuit is suspected to be the cause behind the blaze, he said, adding that the fire has been doused and the cooling process is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-engulfs-40-shops-in-delhis-rani-bagh-969060.html
01-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination throughout April, including gazetted holidays, at all public, private centres: Centre||The Centre on Thursday asked the states to offer Covid-19 vaccination at government and private centres on all days of April including the gazetted holidays as the number of fresh cases ballooned to 72,330 in the last 24 hours – the highest in six months. Both public and private sector Covid-19 vaccination centres will remain operational on all days in the month of April. This step has been taken after detailed deliberations with the states and union territories on March 31, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. The decision, officials said, would exponentially expand the countrywide vaccination drive as Covid-19 shots are now being offered to anyone above 45 years. Every state has been asked to make necessary arrangements to continue with vaccination in government and private centres on all days of the month including gazetted holidays in April. This, experts say, can turn out to be a challenge for the administration, which would have to ensure that the health workers injecting the vaccine are not overburdened. “Maintaining the morale of the vaccinators over the next several months will present a special challenge,” said a biologist who is tracking the epidemic in India. The daily Covid-19 toll raised sharply on Thursday as 459 individuals died in the last 24 hours of which 227 are from Maharashtra and 55 from Punjab. This is for the first time, the number of deaths crossed 450 in the second surge in India. Earlier this week, the union health ministry asked the states to conduct a death analysis of every Covid-19 fatality to find out whether the deaths have been caused by (a) late detection (poor surveillance) (b) late admission (poor referral system), and (c) inadequate clinical care at the hospitals. The ministry also asked the states to increase their share of RT-PCR tests to 70 per cent in the total mix of diagnostics. But the share of RT-PCR remains low in large states like Telangana (15 per cent), Bihar (16 per cent), Odisha (20 per cent) Gujarat (24 per cent), Chhattisgarh (33 per cent) and Uttar Pradesh (44 per cent). As many as 19 states are not following the central advice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-throughout-april-including-gazetted-holidays-at-all-public-private-centres-centre-969062.html
01-04-2021||National||Yogi Adityanath govt will drag Mukhtar Ansari to Uttar Pradesh: Minister||Accusing the Congress of backing gangster-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari, Uttar Pradesh Minister Anand Swarup Shukla on Thursday said the Yogi Adityanath government will "drag" him to his state from a Punjab jail. Ansari, an MLA from Mau constituency, is allegedly involved in various cases of attempt to murder, cheating and conspiracy apart from offences under the Gangsters Act, lodged in Uttar Pradesh. Talking to reporters here, Swarup, minister of state for Parliamentary affairs, said, "The DNA of Congress is standing with anti-social elements especially Islamic terrorists. As per its character, Congress is standing with Mukhtar Ansari." "Yogi government will drag Ansari back from Punjab jail to Uttar Pradesh," he added. "Ansari is involved in several cases and will get punishment as per court's order," the minister said. He said the state government was taking stern action against those working against culture and traditions. The Supreme Court had ordered on March 26 that Ansari be transferred to Uttar Pradesh's Banda jail in two weeks. Ansari's wife had on Wednesday written to President Ram Nath Kovind, expressing fears that her husband will be killed in a fake encounter while being transferred from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh following the Supreme Court direction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-adityanath-govt-will-drag-mukhtar-ansari-to-uttar-pradesh-minister-969063.html
01-04-2021||National||Three in four students want to return to schools, meet friends: Survey||They have missed the schools for months and at least three out of four among the students are eager to return to classrooms and meet up with friends though a large proportion is either unaware or have incomplete knowledge of guidelines, a new survey has claimed. The survey conducted in February and March this year among 26,860 students in the age group of 8-18 years across 12 states claimed 49% of the respondents opted for a blend of online learning tools and offline education delivery amid concerns about surging Covid-19 cases. An "overwhelming 78% students are happy" about the prospect of reopening of schools "but 22% students are anxious and scared" of meeting their school friends and interacting with them, according to the survey by the Smile Foundation. As many as 39% of students are not aware or have incomplete knowledge of the school reopening guidelines while 41% are not fully comfortable following Covid-19 protocol in schools, it said. "Over the past year, students have been learning through a combination of various online and offline modes. However, there has certainly been a significant gap in learning. Considerable time and effort must be devoted to building students' confidence in returning to schools," Smile Foundation Co-founder and Executive Trustee Santanu Mishra said. At least 83% of the students are happy about meeting with their friends while 52% were found to be concerned about consuming mid-day meals when schools reopen, the survey claimed. When asked about convenient learning platform, the survey said 35% of the students preferred offline while 26% preferred online. Among the students, 39% preferred both online and offline learning. The survey also reached out to 75 teachers in 12 states -- 44% of them feel students will not be able to catch up with learning as per the conventional grades’ standard when they return to schools, while 42% of teachers felt maintaining Covid-19 protocol will be the other major challenge for returning students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-in-four-students-want-to-return-to-schools-meet-friends-survey-969071.html
01-04-2021||National||PIL in SC seeks directions to Centre, states to stop forced conversions, black magic||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre and States to control black magic, superstition and religious conversion undertaken through gifts and monetary benefits to the vulnerable people.  Religious conversion by “carrot and stick” and “by hook or crook” not only offends Articles 14 (equality), 21 (life and liberty), 25 (religious freedom), but also against the principles of secularism, which is an integral part of the basic structure of the Constitution, a plea by Delhi BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay said. The petitioner contended that the cause of action accrued on May 10, 1995, when the top court in the Sarla Mudgal case directed to find out the feasibility of enacting anti-conversion law but the Centre did nothing to stop deceitful religious conversions.  "Incidents are reported every week throughout the country where conversion is done by intimidating, threatening, deceivingly luring through gifts and monetary benefits and by using black magic, superstition, miracles and hypocrisy but the Centre has not taken appropriate steps to stop these menaces of society," the petitioner claimed. He contended due to the inaction of the Centre-States, many individuals, NGOs and institutions were involved in conversion of poor people, particularly from the SC/ST community, to other religions by various means. Upadhyay pointed out that eight states Orissa (1967), Madhya Pradesh (1968), Arunachal Pradesh (1978), Chhattisgarh (2000), Gujrat (2003), Himachal Pradesh (2006), Jharkhand (2017) and Uttarakhand (2018) have enacted the anti-conversion laws, but there was urgent need by the Centre to bring out such a law with a minimum imprisonment of three years with a hefty fine, for implementation across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-seeks-directions-to-centre-states-to-stop-forced-conversions-black-magic-969075.html
01-04-2021||National||India's digital IDs for land could exclude poor, indigenous communities||Plans by the Indian government to assign digital identification numbers to plots of land could exclude rural and indigenous people who do not hold titles, and further marginalise those without internet access, experts said. The 14-digit Unique Land Parcel Identification Number (ULPIN) was launched in 10 states earlier this year and will be rolled out across the country by March 2022, authorities at the Department of Land Resources told parliament this week. The ULPIN will be based on the latitude and longitude of each parcel of land and will rely on surveys and cadastral maps, authorities said. Individual plot numbers will also be linked to bank records and the national ID Aadhaar numbers, they said. Officials have billed the programme as a way to tackle corruption and land disputes, but critics warned of many potential pitfalls - from outdated land registry records to flaws in the Aadhaar database. Linking land records to Aadhaar requires "extreme caution", said Kanchi Kohli, a senior researcher at the Centre for Policy and Research think-tank, citing frequent cases of mismatched IDs, or a lack of registration in the system. "It may further complicate existing tensions in creating and maintaining land records, and gets particularly exclusionary when land is being used seasonally by pastoral communities or common use for forest produce or fishing," she added. The land ID scheme is part of a push to digitalise India's land records that began in 2008 and was scheduled to be completed by the end of March this year. It will now be extended to 2024, authorities said. Land department officials told lawmakers digitalising land records was "a game changer in reducing corruption" as well as land disputes, saying it empowered ordinary people by allowing them to access information online. About 70% of land in developing nations is undocumented, leaving more than a quarter of the world's population vulnerable to disputes, evictions and encroachment, according to the Washington-based land rights nonprofit Cadasta Foundation. While documenting land data can lead to greater efficiency in land administration and increased prosperity, authorities may not be consulting communities, failing to secure data, or using it to evict vulnerable people, human rights groups say. Some Indian states have not surveyed their land in more than a century, and experts have questioned the logic of digitalising existing records, and raised concerns over data access and privacy as records are made accessible online. Pranab Choudhury, convener at the Center for Land Governance think-tank, said the digital ID scheme was potentially beneficial but could become ineffective "and even highly contested" if it was based on outdated records. "Many plots have been subdivided since the last survey, yet remain as one plot in cadastral maps. Subdivisions are often not recorded to avoid transaction cost, so ULPIN should be implemented only after a complete resurvey," he said. In addition, women, Dalits and indigenous people who are often prevented from owning land risk being shut out, he added. "Implementing ULPIN hurriedly, without addressing legacy issues can seriously undermine citizen trust and may lead to more disputes. The poor and other disadvantaged groups may be further alienated and excluded," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-digital-ids-for-land-could-exclude-poor-indigenous-communities-969081.html
01-04-2021||National||BJP's rivals carry 'secular tag on communal bag': Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Thursday campaigned intensively for the BJP in Kerala and hit out at its rivals, saying they carry "secular tag on communal bag" as a new political experiment of the "Modi-bashing brigade". Addressing various public meetings and roadshows at Piravam, Ettumanoor and Vaikom in favour of the BJP-led NDA candidates for the state assembly election, which is scheduled for April 6, he said for the BJP, secularism is a constitutional mission and for "pseudo secularists" it's a "vote grabbing" gimmick. He said the Congress has formed a new "secular syndicate" by allying with All India United Democratic Front in Assam, Indian Secular Front in West Bengal and Indian Union Muslim League in Kerala. The Congress is an expert in exploitation of votes on communal basis and by using cover of pseudo-secularism he alleged. The minority affairs minister said every welfare scheme of the Modi Government has been committed to people's development with dignity and empowerment without appeasement ensuring benefits to all needy. "The Modi government has made every section an equal partner in progress with its commitment to 'reform, perform and transform'. It is is dedicated to the welfare of villages, farmers, youths, poor and downtrodden," he said. Naqvi said that the Modi government has worked effectively to ensure socio-economic empowerment of all needy, including minorities. Before 2014, a total of 3 crore minority students had been given scholarships while over 4.5 crore minority students have been given different scholarships after 2014. Only 20,000 people belonging to minority communities had benefitted through employment oriented skill development before 2014, nearly 6.9 lakh of them benefitted through employment oriented skill development programme after 2014, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-rivals-carry-secular-tag-on-communal-bag-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-969103.html
01-04-2021||National||One dying declaration can't be rejected due to another: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has said that in case of multiple dying declarations of a victim, each has to be assessed independently on its own merit for its evidentiary value and one version cannot be rejected because of the contents in another.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah upheld the life term awarded to Nagabhushan, for burning his wife to death for inadequate dowry, by relying upon the second dying statement of the victim. The Karnataka High Court reversed the order of acquittal against the petitioner and held him guilty under Section 302 of the IPC. In a judgement on his appeal, the court rejected the claim by his counsel Sanjay Nuli that in the first dying declaration, the wife termed the incident as accidental fire.  It said the victim herself explained in the second dying declaration that at the time when she said that it was a case of accident, she was given threats by the husband that he will kill her children also. She also stated in the second dying declaration that after her parents came, she got the courage to tell the truth. Referring to a number of previous decisions, the bench said, when there are multiple dying declarations, each has to be assessed separately and evaluated on its own merits. It has also been held that the court has to consider each of them in its correct perspective and satisfy itself which one of them reflects the true state of affairs. In the instant case, the bench said the defence came out with a false case of accidental fire. They claimed while putting the kerosene into the stove, the kerosene got sprinkled on floor and her clothes, and thereafter when the candle fell down, she caught fire. If that is the case, there would have been injuries to her feet also. However, no burn injuries are found on her feet. No stove was found at the place of occurrence, the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-dying-declaration-cant-be-rejected-due-to-another-supreme-court-969109.html
01-04-2021||National||Central forces helping BJP under instructions from Amit Shah: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the central forces deployed in her Nandigram constituency of helping the BJP under instructions of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. She also alleged Election Commission was following the instructions of Shah and not acting on complaints of alleged irregularities lodged by her party. Despite sporadic violence and accusations of vote fraud in Nandigram, the TMC supremo said she was confident of victory from the constituency where she had a decade-and-half ago led a farmers' movement against a chemical hub planned by the then Left Front government. "The CRPF, BSF are acting under the instructions of Home Minister Amit Shah....they are only helping the BJP," she told reporters outside a polling station in Nandigram constituency. She demanded that Shah, who had earlier campaigned for Suvendu Adhikari, her rival in Nandigram, must "control the BJP goons brought from outside". "This is shameful. The people will give them a befitting reply. The way even women journalists have been heckled is disgraceful," she said. Banerjee also slammed the Election Commission for "inaction" despite her party lodging several complaints and threatened to move the law courts over it. "We have lodged 63 complaints since morning. But no action has been taken. We will move the court over it. This is unacceptable," the chief minister said seated, in a wheelchair outside booth 7 in Boyal in Nandigram. "The EC is working on the instructions of Amit Shah," she alleged. "Goons from other states are creating ruckus here," she added. The chief minister, however, said she is more worried about the fate of democracy given the use of money and muscle power than her personal victory. "I am not worried about Nandigram, I am confident of victory. (But) I am worried about democracy," Banerjee said as she showed the 'V' for victory sign to a gaggle of press photographers. The feisty TMC boss said she would win a majority of the 60 seats that had gone to polls in the first and second phase. Banerjee is battling her former lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari, who has crossed over to the BJP for the prestigious Nandigram constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-forces-helping-bjp-under-instructions-from-amit-shah-mamata-969118.html
01-04-2021||National||Congress questions timing of Dadasaheb Phalke Award to Rajinikanth||The Congress on Thursday questioned the timing of Dadasaheb Phalke Award to superstar Rajinikanth, saying the government should not do anything that unnecessarily drags celebrities in political controversies. Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said the government should not try to take political advantage out of everything and be wary of such actions. "This award should have been given to him long back, why is it being given this year," he said. "The government should not do anything which unnecessarily drags our celebrities in political controversies. Rajinikanth is a respected film personality. The BJP and the government should be wary of this and it should not try to take political advantage out of everything," Shukla told reporters. He alleged that the government doing anything with elections in view is not proper, but noted that people know everything. "The government should not try to take political gains out of everything it does. If the government has done this with the intention of making political gains and with elections in mind, then this is not appropriate in politics," he said. Rajinikanth is a widely respected film personality and we all respect him, as his career has been very successful. Superstar Rajinikanth will be honoured with the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar announced on Thursday. The announcement comes days ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, where the 70-year-old Rajinikanth resides and has a massive following among the people. Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Indian cinema's highest honour for an artiste, for the year 2019, will be presented to Rajinikanth on May 3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Rajinikanth for his contribution to cinema while congratulating him on the honour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-questions-timing-of-dadasaheb-phalke-award-to-rajinikanth-969120.html
01-04-2021||National||India moves to deport Rohingya girl to Myanmar, draws criticism||A 14-year-old Rohingya Muslim girl has been taken to a border town in northeastern India for deportation to Myanmar, police officials said on Thursday, as the UN refugee agency and rights groups pressed New Delhi to halt the process. Tens of thousands of Rohingya, who are denied citizenship in their home country Myanmar, have lived in India for years but Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government regards them as a security threat and has started detaining them. Police have taken the girl to a border crossing in Manipur state, where paperwork was being finalised to send her back to coup-hit Myanmar. She had been sheltered for more than a year in the neighbouring Indian state of Assam, while her family lived as refugees in Bangladesh's Cox's Bazar. "It is under process," Assam police official B.L. Meena told Reuters, referring to her deportation. "This was previously scheduled." Diba Roy, founder of non-profit Nivedita Nari Sangshta in Assam's Silchar town that had cared for the girl, said local authorities had been informed that she did not have family in Myanmar. "But she was sent to Myanmar," Roy said, adding that she had received instructions from federal authorities to hand over the girl to local police this week. "We have only obeyed the order." India's foreign and home ministries did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The UN refugee agency, UNHCR, opposed the deportation. "The situation in Myanmar is not yet conducive for voluntary return in a safe, secure, and sustainable manner, and returning the child to Myanmar may place her at immediate risk of serious harm," a UNHCR spokesperson said. Police in India's northern region of Jammu and Kashmir last month detained more than 150 Rohingya refugees and started a process to deport them back to Myanmar. India is not a signatory to the UN Refugee Convention and rejects a UN position that deporting the Rohingya violates the principle of refoulement – sending refugees back to a place where they face danger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-moves-to-deport-rohingya-girl-to-myanmar-draws-criticism-969134.html
01-04-2021||National||India's expert panel defers decision on Sputnik V vaccine, seeks more data from Dr Reddy's Laboratories||An expert panel of India's central drug authority has sought additional data and information from Dr Reddy's Laboratories, which has sought emergency use authorisation for Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V while deferring its decision on it till the next meeting, sources said. In light of a February 24 meeting of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the firm presented the interim safety and immunogenicity data of the Gam-COVID-Vac combined vector vaccine generated in the country, along with the interim data from the ongoing Russian study. According to the sources, the SEC, which deliberated on the EUA application on Thursday, recommended that the firm should present data pertaining to all immunogenicity parameters, unblinded data of serious adverse events and RT-PCR positive cases, along with causality analysis reported till date for further examination. "It has also asked the Hyderabad-based firm to submit a comparative analysis of the phase 3 immunogenicity data generated on the Indian and Russian studies at various time points. It has also asked the drug-maker to submit the factsheet," a source said. "We have had our meeting with the SEC today and will await the feedback from the CDSCO. We will provide an update once we have the feedback," Dr Reddy's Laboratories said in a statement. On February 19, the firm said it had approached drugs regulator DCGI for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Sputnik V. In September last year, Dr Reddy's partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct the clinical trials of Sputnik V and for its distribution rights in India. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has already given the EUA nod to two Covid-19 vaccines -- Covaxin of Bharat Biotech and Covishield of Oxford-AstraZeneca, being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune. Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 91.6 per cent in the interim analysis of the phase 3 clinical trial, which included data on 19,866 volunteers in Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-expert-panel-defers-decision-on-sputnik-v-vaccine-seeks-more-data-from-dr-reddys-laboratories-969143.html
01-04-2021||National||In a first, private sector specialist Mallika Srinivasan appointed chief of govt headhunter PESB||Mallika Srinivasan, Chairman and Managing Director of Tractors and Farm Equipment (TAFE) Limited has been appointed as the chairperson of the Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB), an order issued by the personnel ministry on Thursday said. This is for the first time that a private sector specialist has been appointed as the head of the PESB, responsible for appointment of top management posts in the Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs), officials said. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the appointment of Srinivasan as the chairperson of PESB for a period of three years from the date of assumption of charge, or until the attainment of the age of 65 years, it said. The appointment assumes significance as a parliamentary panel has in its recent report wondered as to how the PESB was functioning without its chief and a member. “The committee is unable to understand as to how PESB is functioning without the chairperson and a member,” the Department-Related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice had said in its 106th report on Demands for Grants (2021-22) of the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions. The panel has also noted that the percentage of female candidates recommended by PESB to top managerial posts in public sector undertakings (PSUs) is abysmally low. “The committee recommends PESB to carry out an in-depth study and examine whether this gender gap is due to scarcity of competent women aspirants or glass ceiling effect. The committee is of the considered opinion that there is a need to build an equitable work place for women and PESB must make an endeavour in this regard,” said the report, tabled in parliament last month. Sailesh, a 1985-batch IAS officer, has been appointed as member, PESB, according to the personnel ministry order. He is at present secretary, department of public enterprises. Sailesh, who was due to superannuate in September this year, has been appointed PESB member for a period of three years from the date of assumption of charge, or until the attainment of the age of 65 years, the order said. The PESB shall consist of one chairperson and three full-time members. M K Gupta and Rear Admiral Shekhar Mital (retd) are the two serving members of the PESB, according to its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-private-sector-specialist-mallika-srinivasan-appointed-chief-of-govt-headhunter-pesb-969149.html
01-04-2021||National||Gujarat Assembly passes Bill against religious conversion through 'marriage, allurements'||As promised during the recently held local body poll campaigns, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani-led BJP government on Thursday got a Bill passed in the Assembly to amend the Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003 to curb forced religious conversions through "marriage" and other "allurements". The Bill has provision of imprisonment from 3 to 5 years for forcible "conversion by marriage, or by getting a person married, or by aiding a person to get married" , while 4 to 7 years in case the victim is a woman, minor or people from scheduled caste and scheduled tribe. The proposal also targets institutions involved in religious conversion. The draft Bill stated that maximum punishment in such cases will be up to 10 years and fine of Rs 5 lakh on each members of the organisations involved. In the 2003 Act, allurement amounts to "gift or gratification either in cash or kind and a grant of any material benefit, monetary or otherwise." The amendment also defines acts of "impersonating by false name, surname, religious symbol or otherwise" as fraudulent means. Family courts will have power to declare marriages of such nature as void. The Rupani government has added a new section in the Act that gives authority to any aggrieved person related by blood to lodge FIR. Amendment has also been proposed in the Bill "to include certain persons as specified therein, shall be deemed to have taken part in committing the offence in addition to the person who actually does any act which constitutes the offence and shall be charged as if he has actually committed the said offence under the said Act."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-assembly-passes-bill-against-religious-conversion-through-marriage-allurements-969150.html
01-04-2021||National||Congress cautious to Mamata's letter to Opposition leaders||Congress reacted cautiously to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to more than a dozen opposition leaders urging them unite against BJP’s “one-party authoritarian rule”. Congress, the arch-rival of the Trinamool in poll-bound West Bengal, pointed out that it had always spoken in favour of opposition unity on issues of national concern, but refrained from commenting on the Banerjee’s letter which was also addressed to Congress President Sonia Gandhi. “As far as the letter is concerned, it is addressed to the Congress President and she will take a view on it,” Congress spokesperson Rajeev Shukla told reporters when asked about the Trinamool chief’s letter that came on the eve of the second phase of assembly elections in West Bengal. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, a key strategist of the Congress, also pointed out that he had raised the issue of Centre’s “step-motherly approach” towards non-BJP on disbursal of of funds in the state assembly. “On the one hand, the Prime Minister speaks of cooperative federalism and on the other he is trying to weaken states financially,” Gehlot said. Gehlot said the states have not received their full share on GST funds. Political observers feel that Banerjee, through the letter, was jockeying for the leadership role of a united opposition front against the BJP for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Shiv Sena has already put forward the candidature of NCP chief Sharad Pawar as a possible leader of a rejuvenated UPA with active support from the Congress. A section of the opposition parties have been upset at Congress’ failure to settle its leadership issue and play the role of the anchor for an opposition front against the BJP. All eyes are now on the results of the five assembly elections and a Congress win against the BJP in Assam could provide the necessary momentum that is required for unity of opposition forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-cautious-to-mamatas-letter-to-opposition-leaders-969157.html
01-04-2021||National||Tamil Nadu polls: Anti-BJP stance of farmers may further benefit DMK in its bastion||The AIADMK's unstinting support for the controversial farm laws, the “neglect” of farmers by the BJP-led government at the Centre, and a lack of “proper relief” in the aftermath of Cyclone Gaja that ravaged the fertile Cauvery Delta region - these are some of the factors that could further help the DMK in its bastion of Central Tamil Nadu, which constitutes 46 Assembly segments across eight districts. Besides, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) led by T T V Dhinakaran could split the AIADMK votes in several constituencies in the region, especially in the Delta districts, further strengthening the DMK combine.   In districts like Cuddalore, and Ariyalur, the DMK and AIADMK are engaged in an intense neck and neck fight, thanks to the ruling party's alliance with the PMK. In Tiruchirappalli district, the DMK seems ahead of the AIADMK-BJP, while Health Minister C Vijayabaskar is literally walking the extra mile in Viramalali to romp home again. Ministers walking the extra mile While Food Minister R Kamaraj seems to be riding on “sympathy” factor for he was infected with Covid-19, Handlooms Minister O S Manian and AIADMK strongman R Vaithilingam are fighting uphill battle in Vedaranyam, and Orathanadu respectively. In a couple of coastal constituencies, the ruling party seems ahead, while odds are staked against it in many segments. In 2016 elections, the AIADMK won 27 seats, leaving 19 to the DMK alliance, and with Left and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), who contested then as a separate entity, now back with the DMK, it will be an added advantage for the party. While Left has considerable influence in the Delta region, the VCK will strengthen the alliance in Cuddalore, Perambalur, and Ariyalur. Add to these, the DMK's traditional votes in the region, which has been its bastion. It is in the Cauvery Delta region where the AIADMK-BJP has a real problem, where many openly say they will not vote for AIADMK because of its alliance with the BJP. Minorities, especially Muslims, who voted for AIADMK in 2016 when it was helmed by late J Jayalalithaa, are likely to consolidate behind DMK due to a slew of factors, including the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. Dhinakaran's AMMK is also “strong” in many areas with political observers predicting that he would take away a chunk of the AIADMK votes. Farmers upset with BJP Farmers in the Delta region seem unforgiving the BJP and its leadership for not engaging them during their 100-day protest on the streets of Delhi in 2017. They also point out Prime Minister Narendra Modi not visiting the Delta after Cyclone Gaja left a trail of destruction across the region, uprooting lakhs of coconut trees. “We were at the Prime Minister's doorstep in Delhi (in 2017) for 100 days. He (the PM) could have called us and engaged with us. Why? Are we not citizens of India? Not just this, the Centre never bothered to help Delta farmers when they lost everything during Cyclone Gaja. And now, the BJP has come out with three laws just to help corporates,” Veera Rajendran, a farmer in Tiruvaiyaru, told DH. Many farmers whom DH spoke to in the Delta region said the farm laws will affect the community once it is implemented. “While we will not be affected immediately as we directly sell it to the government in Tamil Nadu, but the farmers will certainly get affected in the long run. We will be made to nod our heads to people with whom we sign agreements,” a farmer said. Fully aware that farmers in the region are not happy, the ruling AIADMK took several steps to project itself as a “farmer-friendly” government after the humiliating loss in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The outreach began with announcing the fertile Cauvery Delta region as Protected Special Agriculture Zone to prevent implementation of oil exploration projects, and waiver of farm loans availed by farmers in cooperative banks. Opinion split on farm loan waiver However, the opinion on farm loan waiver is split. “More than 60 per cent of farmers avail loan from nationalised banks and only the remaining go to cooperative banks. And getting a farm loan from cooperative banks is not that easy. So, the loan waiver will not help all farmers,” another farmer explained. P R Pandian, President of All Farmers’ Association, said only Rs 1,300 crore worth of farm loans availed by farmers in the Delta region has come under the scheme, while the western region has covered more than Rs 7,000 crore. “The loan waiver will not benefit the real farmers. The scheme was announced only with an eye on election,” he said. Coconut farmers in Peravurnai and Pattukkottai in Thanjavur district complain that they have not received the Cyclone Gaja relief “in full.” “While 1.25 crore coconut trees were uprooted, farmers have received compensation only for 65 lakh trees after two-and-a-half years. And the compensation was very less,” a coconut farmer said. Pandian was explicit in saying that majority of the votes against BJP and AIADMK will go to the DMK. “Not just ignoring the farm protests, and not visiting during Gaja, the BJP has been acting against the interests of the farmers in the Delta by overtly siding with Karnataka. The AIADMK also sided with the BJP on many occasions, especially in defending the farm laws. Farmers' anti-BJP stance will take away the votes from AIADMK and give it to the DMK alliance,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-polls-anti-bjp-stance-of-farmers-may-further-benefit-dmk-in-its-bastion-969160.html
01-04-2021||National||Govt notifies I-T returns forms for 2020-21||The Income Tax department has notified forms for filing I-T returns for 2020-21 fiscal, the Central Board of Direct Taxes said on Thursday. "Keeping in view the ongoing crisis due to Covid pandemic and to facilitate the taxpayers, no significant change has been made to the ITR Forms in comparison to the last year's ITR Forms. "Only the bare minimum changes necessitated due to amendments in the Income-tax Act, 1961 have been made," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. ITR Form 1 (Sahaj) and ITR Form 4 (Sugam) are simpler Forms that cater to a large number of small and medium taxpayers. Sahaj can be filed by an individual having income up to Rs 50 lakh and who receives income from salary, one house property / other sources (interest etc). Similarly, Sugam can be filed by individuals, Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs) and firms (other than Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs) having total income up to Rs 50 lakh and income from business and profession computed under the presumptive taxation provisions. Individuals and HUFs not having income from business or profession (and not eligible for filing Sahaj) can file ITR-2, while those having income from business or profession can file ITR Form 3. Persons other than individual, HUF and companies i.e. partnership firm, LLP etc can file ITR Form 5. Companies can file ITR Form 6. Trusts, political parties, charitable institutions etc claiming exempt income under the Act can file ITR-7. "There is no change in the manner of filing of ITR Forms as compared to last year," the CBDT said. For 2020-21 fiscal, the government had given taxpayers the option to choose a new tax regime under section 115BAC of the I-T Act. The new I-T slabs would be for individuals not availing or foregoing certain specified deductions or exemptions while computing total income for tax purpose. Under this, annual income up to Rs 2.5 lakh is exempt from tax. Those individuals earning between Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 5 lakh will pay 5 per cent tax. Income between Rs 5 and 7.5 lakh will be taxed at 10 per cent, while those between Rs 7.5 and 10 lakh at 15 per cent. Those earning between Rs 10 and 12.5 lakh will pay tax at the rate of 20 per cent, while those between Rs 12.5 and Rs 15 lakh will pay at the rate of 25 per cent. Income above Rs 15 lakh will be taxed at 30 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-notifies-i-t-returns-forms-for-2020-21-969164.html
01-04-2021||National||Highways construction touches record 36.4 km a day: Nitin Gadkari||The construction of national highways has reached an all-time high of 13,298 km in 2020-21, which translated to around 36.4 km per day. "This is a world record where we achieved to build 36.4 km of the highways per day," Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari told reporters. In the current fiscal, the government aimed to build 40 km national highways per day, he said. The increase in the pace of highway construction is significant given the slump in construction activity during Q1 FY 21, due to the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. In April and May 2020, there was no construction activity due to lockdown. Despite that the National Highway Authority of India able to achieve this, he said. Gadkari also said at present, highway projects worth Rs 7.89 lakh crore are under construction across the country. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the 2021-22 budget provided a capital allocation of Rs 1,08,230 crore to the ministry of road transport and highways against an allocation of Rs 81,975 crore in 2020-2021. Over the last 7 years, the length of National Highways has gone up by 50% from 91,287 km (as of April 2014) to 1,37,625 km (as of 20 March 2021), the Road Transport Ministry said in a statement. Total budgetary outlay increased by 5.5 times, from INR 33,414 crore in fiscal 2015 to Rs 1,83,101 crore in fiscal 2022. The sanctioned amount has increased by 126% in Financial Year 2021 over the Financial Year 2020 despite Covid-19 related impact. Sanctioned length in kilometres has also increased by 9% in the Financial Year 2021 over the Financial Year 2020. Average annual project award (annual average award length) during Financial Year 2015 to Financial Year 2021 has increased by 85% compared to FY10 to FY14 said a statement. Average annual construction (average annual construction length) during FY2015 to FY2021 has increased by 83% compared to FY2010 to FY2014 The cumulative cost of ongoing project works has increased by 54% at the end of the Fiscal Year 2021 compared to the Fiscal Year 2020 (as of March 31st)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highways-construction-touches-record-364-km-a-day-nitin-gadkari-969178.html
01-04-2021||National||DRDO develops light weight bullet-proof jacket||The Defence Materials and Stores Research and Development Establishment (DMSRDE), Kanpur has developed Light Weight Bullet Proof Jacket (BPJ) weighing nine kg, meeting the qualitative requirements of Indian Army, the Defence Research and Development Organisation said (DRDO) on Thursday. The Front Hard Armour Panel (FHAP) jacket was tested at Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL), Chandigarh and met relevant BIS standards, it said in a statement. According to the DRDO, the importance of this vital development lies in the fact that each gram of BPJ weight reduction is crucial in enhancing soldier comfort while ensuring survivability. This technology reduces the weight of the medium sized BPJ from 10.4 kg to nine kg. Very specific materials and processing technologies have been developed in the laboratories for the purpose. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO scientists and the industry for developing the light weight BPJ to make the soldiers more comfortable. The DRDO Chairman, Dr G Satheesh Reddy congratulated the DMSRDE team for the development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-develops-light-weight-bullet-proof-jacket-969210.html
01-04-2021||National Politics||Opposition unity move: Mamata Banerjee writes to leaders of over a dozen parties, but divisions run too deep||Making yet another call for the Opposition unity in the middle of a hard-fought electoral battle in her state, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to over a dozen Opposition leaders flagging the issue of assault on constitutional federalism and appealing for a unity of all Opposition parties to provide a credible alternative to the people against the BJP. The three-page letter by Banerjee addressed to Congress chairperson Sonia Gandhi, NCP boss Sharad Pawar, DMK chief MK Stalin, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal and CPI-ML's Dipankar Bhattacharya talks at length on how BJP is using to "topple duly elected non-BJP governments" and to "engineer defections in non-BJP parties" and how in states governed by non-BJP parties, Centre is creating problems for duly elected governments by misusing the governor's office. "...The BJP wants to make it impossible for non-BJP parties to exercise their Constitutional rights...Time has come for a united and effective struggle against the BJP's attacks on democracy and Constitution," Banerjee said in the letter. BJP has dismissed her outreach as signs of her nervousness. In her epistolary outreach, Banerjee has also written to Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik and Andhra CM  Jagan Mohan Reddy, though BJD and YSR Congress have many time in rescued the central government in the passage of key legislations in the Parliament in the face of Congress-TMC led Opposition in past. She reached out to NCP SP and RJD, parties which were the first to declare support to her in West Bengal polls as the only leader to take over the BJP in the state even as these parties had fought elections in alliance with Congress in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Congress is contesting polls in West Bengal in alliance with the Left against the ruling TMC. Political analyst Rasheed Kidwai says "Congress has to be the anchor whether with a PM face or not if a workable Opposition alliance is to be in place. By ignoring Congress, no feasible anti-BJP alliance is possible. But then Congress has to be much more accommodative " While Banerjee has made a fervent appeal to the parties "chart out a common action plan" after the conclusion of this round of Assembly polls in four states and UT Puducherry,  the track record of Opposition unity in the last few years, raises serious doubts about the feasibility of this ambitious plan. Congress which is fighting in Bengal in alliance with CPI-M has alleged a "secret understanding" between LDF's CM Pinarayi Vijayan and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a case in the heat of campaign in poll-bound Kerala. In West Bengal, Congress in past in alliance with Trinamool Congress, brought down the Left rule in 2011. In UP, Congress aggressively campaigned against the ruling BSP in 2012 and SP came to power. In the 2017 state polls, Congress-SP fought together against NDA and BSP contesting separately. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in UP, BSP-SP fought together against BJP while Congress fought alone. After the polls, BSP severed ties with SP. She has reached out to parties from Shiv Sena in Maharashtra to National Conference and PDP in Jammu and Kashmir even as there is hardly anything common in the ideology of Sena and these two J&K parties.   "As the chairperson of All India Trinamool Congress, I shall work wholeheartedly with you and all other like-minded political parties in this battle. We can win this battle only with unity of hearts and minds, and by presenting a credible alternative to the people of India," she says in the letter. The letter, though, gives an indication of a sense of urgency building in the Opposition camp against a resurgent BJP, which after decimating Congress is now up to grab space of regional parties as well,  practical realities make any such proposition working a central level a much difficult task as Opposition parties are divided among themselves. P  C Chacko, who joined NCP last after serving Congress for decades, called for larger Opposition unity and rued that he did not have an initiative in the party he served earlier to provide an alternative united Opposition to the BJP. Many in the Opposition camp also feel that given his age, experience and good rapport across the political spectrum, Pawar could be the anchor of Opposition unity, an idea to which Congress is not amused. In 2018  when Congress was going ga ga about Rahul Gandhis' leadership post party's improved tally in Gujarat polls, NCP leader Praful Patel had baffled many by proclaiming that Sharad Pawar can be the next Prime Minister in 2019. In 2018 Pawar's party had only four members in Lok Sabha. Congress quickly showed its displeasure. Congress has more than often cold-shouldered the idea of the Third Front. Challenges are galore and possibly the reason why Banerjee in her personal letters to non-BJP leaders, has while highlighting the overarching issue of "assault" by the Modi government on federal structure, has also sought to raise individual issues like the passage of the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill related to Delhi as well as Centre "misusing" CBI and ED in Tamil Nadu to conduct raids on functionaries DMK. She also referred to the moves of the Centre of disbanding the National Development Council, Inter-State Council and the Planning Commission and replacing it with NITI Ayog and said that all this was aimed at deactivating every single platform where state governments used to traditionally place their legitimate demands, needs, concerns and views.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-unity-move-mamata-banerjee-writes-to-leaders-of-over-a-dozen-parties-but-divisions-run-too-deep-968847.html
01-04-2021||National Politics||PDP welcomes resumption of trade between India and Pakistan||The PDP on Wednesday welcomed the "resumption" of trade relations between India and Pakistan, saying broadening the scope of engagement was pivotal for the restoration of durable peace in the subcontinent. The reaction from the party came after Pakistan said it will buy sugar and cotton from India, a decision that will lead to a partial revival of bilateral trade relations which were suspended after the August 5, 2019 decision of India to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcate it into union territories. The PDP also urged the two countries to work out the modalities for the resumption of cross-Line of Control (LoC) trade in Jammu and Kashmir at the earliest. “Party welcomes resumption of Indo-Pak trading relations. Broadening the scope of engagements is pivotal for the restoration of durable peace in the subcontinent. "We urge the govts of both countries to earnestly work out the modalities for resumption of Cross LoC trade at the earliest (sic),” the Peoples Democratic Party said on its official Twitter handle. Party welcomes resumption of Indo-Pak trading relations. Broadening the scope of engagements is pivotal for restoration of durable peace in the subcontinent.We urge the govts of both countries to earnestly work out the modalities for resumption of Cross LoC trade at the earliest||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pdp-welcomes-resumption-of-trade-between-india-and-pakistan-968878.html
01-04-2021||National Politics||Running circus or government? Opposition slams Modi govt over interest rate cut order||Opposition parties on Thursday slammed the Modi government's move to slash interest rates on small savings schemes and its subsequent roll-back and accused Finance Minister Nirmala Sithraraman of giving a “lame excuse” of “inadvertent error” after being caught in the act. The Modi government had announced steep cuts in the interest rates of several small savings schemes on Wednesday night, which were withdrawn within hours by the Finance Minister claiming that the orders were issued by “oversight”. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala wondered whether the Finance Minister was “running a ‘circus’ or a 'government'.” “One can imagine the functioning of the economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’,” Surjewala said. Madam FM, Are u running a ‘Circus’ or a ‘Govt’? One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’. Who is the competent authority referred in order? “The BJP government had decided to launch another assault on the middle class by slashing the interest rates and profiting itself. When caught, the Finance Minister is putting forward the lame excuse of ‘inadvertent error’,” senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram said. The BJP government had decided to launch another assault on the middle class by slashing the interest rates and profiting itself. When caught, the FM is putting forward the lame excuse of “inadvertent error” “What is the biggest April Fool’s joke here? That a now- rolled back small savings rate cut was issued by “oversight”? Or that Nirmala Sitaraman is the Finance Minister of this country,” Trinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra said. What is the biggest April Fool’s joke here? That a now- rolled back small savings rate cut was issued by “oversight”?Or that Nirmala Sitaraman is Fin Min of this country? “Withdrawn. Looks like the FM realised there has been a cut announced after reading today morning’s headlines in all the leading newspapers. Truth though is, the Government of India policies are a result of oversight hence the failing economy,” Shiv Sena spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi said. Withdrawn. Looks like, the FM realised there has been a cut announced after reading today morning’s headlines in all the leading newspapers. Truth though is, the GoI policies are a result of oversight hence the failing economy. Chidambaram said the announcement of interest rates on savings instruments for the next quarter was a regular exercise. “There is nothing “inadvertent” about its release on 31st March,” he said. “When inflation is at about 6% and expected to rise, the BJP government is offering interest rates below 6% hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt,” Chidambaram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/running-circus-or-government-opposition-slams-modi-govt-over-interest-rate-cut-order-968961.html
01-04-2021||National Politics||BJP MP Kirron Kher diagnosed with blood cancer||BJP MP and actor Kirron Kher has been diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer, and is on her path to recovery, her actor-husband Anupam Kher said on Thursday. On Twitter, Anupam Kher released a statement, also on behalf of son Sikandar, that the 68-year-old actor is currently undergoing treatment in Mumbai. "Just so that rumours don't get the better of a situation Sikandar and I would like to inform everyone that Kirron has been diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer. "She is currently undergoing treatment and we are sure she will come out of this stronger than before. We are very blessed that she is being looked after by a phenomenal set of doctors. She's always been a fighter and takes things head on," Anupam Kher said in the statement. He also thanked her fans for their constant support and asked them to keep praying for Kirron Kher's speedy recovery. "She's all heart and that's why she has so many people that love her. So keep sending your love to her in your prayers and in your heart. "She is well on her way to recovery and we thank everyone for their support and love," he added. The family's statement comes a day after Chandigarh BJP chief Arun Sood shared Kirron Kher's diagnosis. "She is suffering from multiple myeloma. She is recovering well from the disease which was detected last year," Sood said. Multiple myeloma is a cancer of the plasma cells which produce antibodies to fight infections. Kirron Kher had suffered a broken left arm on November 11 last year. Thereafter, she was diagnosed with multiple myeloma at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here after undergoing a PET scan, Sood added. She was airlifted to Kokilaben Hospital in Mumbai on December 4 last year, he said. Known for films like Devdas,  Khamosh Paani, Veer Zaara and Dostana, Kirron Kher had contested her first Lok Sabha elections in 2014 from Chandigarh on BJP ticket and had then defeated Congress candidate Pawan Kumar Bansal. She again won from Chandigarh seat in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mp-kirron-kher-diagnosed-with-blood-cancer-968991.html
01-04-2021||National Politics||Is U-turn on interest rate order an 'oversight' or 'election-driven hindsight': Congress asks FM||The Congress on Thursday hit out at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman after she ordered the withdrawal of the interest rate slashing order and asked whether the U-turn was an "oversight" or an "election-driven hindsight". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the small saving rates would be reduced soon after elections. "There was already a loot on petrol and diesel and soon after the end of the election, the small saving rates will be reduced and there will be a loot on the savings of the middle-class. "This government is of jumlas (rhetoric) and the loot of common people," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag "oversight". Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "Really Nirmala Sitharaman 'oversight' in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI schemes or election driven 'hindsight' in withdrawing it?" Party general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala hit out at Sitharaman and said she has no right to continue as the finance minister. "Madam FM, Are u running a 'Circus' or a 'Government'," Surjewala asked. "You have no moral right to continue as FM," he said. "One can imagine the functioning of the economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an 'oversight'. Who is the competent authority referred in order," he said on Twitter. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said that when inflation is at about 6 per cent and expected to rise, the BJP government is offering interest rates below 6 per cent hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt. "The BJP government had decided to launch another assault on the middle class by slashing the interest rates and profiting itself. When caught, the FM is putting forward the lame excuse of 'inadvertent error'," he said on Twitter. "Announcement of interest rates on savings instruments for the next quarter is a regular exercise. There is nothing 'inadvertent' about its release on 31st March," he also said. After the government issued fresh interest rates, Sitharaman in a tweet said, "Interest rates of small savings schemes of GoI shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, ie, rates that prevailed as of March 2021. Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-u-turn-on-interest-rate-order-an-oversight-or-election-driven-hindsight-congress-asks-fm-968997.html
01-04-2021||National Politics||FM must explain the flip-flop: Ashok Gehlot targets govt over interest rates||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday asked Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to explain to the nation the flip-flop over interest rates on small saving schemes. Sitharaman on Thursday morning said the government will roll back a steep interest rate cut on small saving schemes such as PPF and NSC, saying it was an oversight. "The Finance Minister must explain the flip-flop to the nation why first such anti-people decision was taken to cut the interest rates on small saving schemes including PPF & NSC and then taken back?" Gehlot said in a tweet.  "Is the government playing a very cruel prank on common people on April 1 by announcing interest rate cuts at night and then next morning reversing the decision," he asked. The government's decision to rollback citing "oversight" was taken hours after announcing the steepest cut in the rate on small savings schemes. The interest rate on Public Provident Fund (PPF) was reduced by 0.7 per cent to 6.4 per cent while National Savings Certificate (NSC) was to earn 0.9 per cent less at 5.9 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fm-must-explain-the-flip-flop-ashok-gehlot-targets-govt-over-interest-rates-968998.html
01-04-2021||National Politics||Sabarimala issue puts 2 Kerala constituencies in focus for Assembly polls||One is a rural segment bordering the Western Ghats in central Travancore (south Kerala) and the other home to the country's pioneer IT hub here but there is a common factor between these two constituencies in Kerala, where Assembly election is just days away. Though not located nearby, Konni, an Assembly constituency in Pathanamthitta district and Kazhakuttam in the state capital are two segments where the Sabarimala temple women's entry issue and the protection of faith have taken the centre stage during the campaign. A fierce three-cornered fight is expected in both these segments, where the BJP is pinning high hopes on its steadily increasing vote share while the traditional rival fronts-the CPI(M)-led LDF and Congress-headed UDF are determined to retain their supremacy. The ruling LDF and opposition UDF and NDA are raising several other issues including development also among the voters but the Sabarimala temple issue seems to be a major topic of discussion in these two constituencies. In Kazhakuttam, senior CPI(M) leader and Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who had faced severe criticism over the women's entry issue as the minister of temple affairs, is seeking another term as LDF nominee. To beat him, the BJP is fielding its firebrand leader and an arch critic of women's entry at Sabarimala, Sobha Surendran while UDF has opted for well-known health expert S S Lal eyeing the neutral votes of the educated and techies in the segment. Though the ruling LDF wanted to put the Sabarimala issue on the back-burner and tried all means not to make it a topic of discussion during the campaign, Surendran's recent expression of regret has turned things upside down. Putting the CPI(M) in a fix, Surendran, early this month, virtually expressed regret over the incidents that took place in Sabarimala over the entry of women of the traditionally barred age group issue in 2018 and described it as something which "should never have happened" at the Lord Ayyappa Temple. However, the party general secretary Sitaram Yechury was quick to reject the 'regret' and said the Left party's stand on the issue of women's entry remains the same and reiterated that the state government was bound to implement the apex court verdict. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also had to react on the matter and said the government would implement the final verdict only after consulting with all sections in society. The opposition Congress and BJP have raised the regret of Kadakampally and the rejection of the party chief and have used it as a major campaign tool in Kazhakuttam, where it was expected earlier that development and infrastructure issues would find a prominent place. The BJP candidate Shobha Surendran even said that it was her destiny to take on the Devaswom Minister in the constituency and expressed hope that the devotee community would stand by her in her fight. In every corner meeting and public speech, she is raising the 'protection of faith' a major theme to criticise the Devaswom minister and the Left government. However, an unfazed Kadakampally Surendran said that people would vote for the over Rs 2,000 crore-worth development programmes implemented by the Vijayan government in the segment during the last five years. Surendran had defeated senior BJP leader and present union minister V Muraleedharan by 7,347 votes in the 2016 assembly polls. While Surendran garnered 50,079 votes in 2016, Muraleedharan polled 42,732 votes and Congress's M A Vaheed 38,602 votes. But, the most striking thing is the remarkable increase in the vote share of the saffron party. If the BJP candidate gained just 6.87 per cent of the total votes polled in 2011 assembly polls in Kazhakuttam, it had scaled up to 31.90 per cent in 2016 elections, according to figures. Meanwhile, Konni is a segment where the Sabarimala issue would naturally resonate during the elections as it falls in Pathanamthitta district where the Lord Ayyappa temple is located. And, its prominence increased with the candidature of BJP state president K Surendran, who had spearheaded many intense agitations against the state government's decision to implement the apex court order permitting entry of young women into the hillock shrine. LDF's sitting legislator K U Janeesh Kumar is focused on retaining the seat projecting various development programmes launched by the left government including the government medical college, a long pending demand of the people there and the Punalur-Muvattupuzha state highway. However, the UDF's Robin Peter is trying to cash in on the alleged anti-incumbency wave in the constituency. The segment had been a bastion of the Congress-led UDF since 1966. Congress strongman and MP, Adoor Prakash had won the constituency five consecutive times between 1996-2016. When he decided to contest from Attingal during the 2019 Parliamentary elections as per the party's directive, a byelection was necessitated in which Janeesh Kumar won by a margin of 9,953 votes. K Surendran, who contested in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, had garnered 46,506 votes and 39,786 votes in the following byelection. Though he could finish only third in both the elections, there had been a tremendous increase in the saffron party's vote share on which the BJP is pinning hopes this time. Surendran had garnered 28.65 per cent of the total votes polled in the 2019 by-election if the saffron party candidate could win only 11.66 per cent during 2016 assembly polls, as per figures. The Sabarimala issue had been BJP-NDA's focus in Konni during the campaigns since the beginning but they are also trying to cash in on various welfare programmes implemented by the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. Kerala had witnessed high drama during the nearly three-month-long annual pilgrimage season in 2018 with around a dozen women in the 10-50 age group being prevented from entering the Sabarimala temple by protesting devotees after the doors were opened for women following the apex court verdict, permitting women of all age groups into the shrine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sabarimala-issue-puts-2-kerala-constituencies-in-focus-for-assembly-polls-969008.html
01-04-2021||National Politics||Poll results in 4 states to decide course of national politics, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the results of Assembly polls in four states, specially Assam and West Bengal, will decide the next course of national politics. Talking to reporters here, Raut said the BJP is in power in Assam, but the Congress has put up a tough fight. In West Bengal, even though the BJP has put all its might to defeat Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress head Mamata Banerjee, she has fought like a tigress and is "sure to emerge the winner", he claimed. "We can also gauge the mood in Kerala and Tamil Nadu," the Rajya Sabha member said. Banerjee on Wednesday wrote a letter to non-BJP leaders, including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, saying time has come for a "united and effective" struggle against the BJP's alleged attacks on democracy and the Constitution, and that opposition leaders should try present a "credible alternative" to the people of the country. When asked about the letter, Raut said, "The results of polls in four states, specially Assam and West Bengal, will decide the next course of national politics. After the elections, the nature of alliances will be discussed and a clarity will be there." Even Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has received a letter from her, he said. Raut also said the "ongoing Mahabharat" in West Bengal is more fierce than the real Mahabharat. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said the battle of Mahabharat was won in 21 days and we will fight the war against coronavirus in 18 days and win. But, we haven't," the Sena's chief spokesperson said. Raut said the entire country is watching the West Bengal polls and people of that are also intelligent. "No doubt the battle is tough, but Mamata Banerjee will win," he claimed. Raut also said the "attack" on democracy in the country is not new. "Whenever there is an attack, people and opposition parties have fought back. This is the strength of our democracy," he said. On differences among political parties in Maharashtra over the need for a fresh lockdown in the state, as it has seen a huge surge in coronavirus cases, Raut said there should be no politics over the fight against Covid-19. "Whatever steps will be taken, will be in the interest of the state and its people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/poll-results-in-4-states-to-decide-course-of-national-politics-says-sanjay-raut-969009.html
01-04-2021||National Politics||Centre making states financially weaker: Ashok Gehlot||Hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Centre's economic policies, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday charged that the central government is making states financially weaker. Supporting TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee who has expressed concern on alleged attacks on democracy and constitution in a letter to leaders of opposition parties, Gehlot said he too had raised in the assembly the issue of states getting alleged step-motherly treatment from the Centre. “On the one hand, the prime minister talks about cooperative federalism and on the other hand the states are being made financially weak,” Gehlot tweeted. The chief minister said the central government has imposed cess on diesel and petrol, basic excise duty is being reduced constantly and special excise duty and additional excise duty is increasing. Therefore, the share of states from divisible pool has significantly reduced. Gehlot also said that the Centre has increased share of states in centrally sponsored schemes and reduced the Centre's share which has adversely impacted revenue of states. Gehlot also tweeted details about devolution, divisible pool and change in sharing pattern of centrally sponsored schemes. He said the actual share of states from the divisible pool has come down from 41 percent to 34 percent. After the recommendation of the 14th finance commission, the central government increased financial devolution to states from central tax collection from 32 percent to 42 percent from 2015-16. At the same time, the central government put extra financial burden on states by increasing the share of states in central sponsored schemes due to which states did not get any benefit of the increase in the financial devolution, he said. Gehlot also tweeted details about changes in funding pattern in 10 centrally sponsored schemes as per which the state share in National Food Security Mission, National Agriculture Development Scheme, integrated women's empowerment programme and PM Gram Sadak Yojana was increased from zero percent to 40 percent while the state share was increased from 10 percent to 40 percent in the integrated child development services. In Project Tiger, the state share was increased from 15 percent to 40 percent whereas the increase in the state share was from 25 percent to 40 percent in the National Health Mission and National Rural Livelihood Mission, he said. Also, the state share of Indira Gandhi canal project has increased from 25 percent to 50 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-making-states-financially-weaker-ashok-gehlot-969061.html
01-04-2021||North and Central||900 travellers test Covid-19 positive at Srinagar Airport in March||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in some states of the country, 900 travellers at the Srinagar Airport tested positive for the virus in March, making it the month with the highest reported cases since the pandemic began last year. Official figures reveal that March witnessed the highest number of cases recorded in a single month ever since air traffic was resumed in May last year after a hiatus of three months owing to Covid-19. The second-highest number of positive cases at the airport was reported in September last year with 793 passengers having tested positive. However, officials say the increase in the number of cases is due to the increase in passenger arrivals. “In September last year we had 3000-4000 total passenger footfall but right now we witness almost 8000-9000 passengers,” they said. The preventive measures against Covid-19 have been strengthened at the airport in the wake of the rising cases outside J&K. No inbound traveller is allowed to leave the airport until their test report is received. Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19. “After symptoms, his test came positive,” officials said adding that he is quarantined and is being looked after by doctors. They said that officials at police headquarters will undergo tests in the coming days. “But so far no official at headquarters has shown any symptom,” officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/900-travellers-test-covid-19-positive-at-srinagar-airport-in-march-968962.html
01-04-2021||North and Central||Islamic banking in Jammu and Kashmir: High Court seeks govt response to PIL||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court has granted three more weeks to government authorities to respond to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking the introduction of Islamic banking in the Union Territory (UT). A division bench of Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Sindhu Sharma Chief while hearing the PIL filed by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) granted three more weeks to the Union Finance Ministry, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the UT government to respond to the contents of the PIL. Advocate Zaffar Shah representing the J&K Bank informed the court that already a response has been filed by the bank with respect to the litigation. Currently, there are no guidelines for Islamic banking, which is based on the principles of not charging interest. The PIL filed in 2018 is seeking directions upon the union finance ministry for issuing necessary notification for the introduction of Sharia compliant windows (Islamic banking) as recommended by Deepak Mohanty Committee as well as in the light of a report of the inter-departmental group of the RBI. The NGO, in its petition, submits that “majority of the citizens in Jammu and Kashmir are Muslims by faith and thus have a constitutional right to enjoy all avenues of development provided the same do not contravene the article of their faith”. It has also sought direction to J&K Bank to take immediate steps for opening of Shariah compliant windows to accomplish the object of mass-level participation in Shariah banking. “The J&K Bank Limited be directed to place the entire details of non-performing accounts (NPAs) before this court and the steps taken for recovery of the outstanding amount as the same is public money which cannot be allowed to be misappropriated either by the account holders or by the management of the said bank,” the plea reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/islamic-banking-in-jammu-and-kashmir-high-court-seeks-govt-response-to-pil-968980.html
01-04-2021||North and Central||Kaushambi district court closed for 3 days after 3 test positive for coronavirus||The district court here was closed for three days from Thursday after two judges and one staff person were found positive for coronavirus. Chief Medical Officer PN Chaturvedi said that Additional Civil Judges-- Sumit Kumar and Abhishek Gupta -- and one staffer Pankaj Kumar were found positive for coronavirus. While Judge Sumit Kumar and Pankaj are undergoing treatment in Allahabad, Judge Abhishek is being treated in district hospital here, he said. He said that on Wednesday testing was done in court, which has been closed for next three days and entire court is being sanitised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kaushambi-district-court-closed-for-3-days-after-3-test-positive-for-coronavirus-968989.html
01-04-2021||North and Central||Cop killed as militants attack BJP leader’s residence in Srinagar||A policeman was killed when militants attacked the residence of a BJP leader in the Nowgam area on the outskirts of Srinagar city. A police official said militants fired at the guard post outside the residence of BJP leader, Muhammad Anwar Khan at Aribagh, Nowgam in which a policeman sustained injuries. He was immediately shifted to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, he said. “The alert guards fired in retaliation and repulsed the attack. The slain policeman has been identified as Ramez Raja,” the official said and added the BJP leader is safe as the attackers fled after facing resistance from the guards. BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur said that he spoke to Khan over the phone. “Khan is safe as the attack has been foiled. We condemn such attack," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-killed-as-militants-attack-bjp-leader-s-residence-in-srinagar-969003.html
01-04-2021||North and Central||HC asks Delhi police to file status report on plea alleging illegal detention, beating by officials||The Delhi High Court has asked the police to submit a status report on a plea alleging illegal detention and merciless beating by its officials and to preserve the CCTV footage of the concerned police post on the day of the incident. The high court issued notice to Delhi Police on the petition by a man who claimed that he and three others were “mercilessly beaten, illegally detained, tortured by the police personnel of Police Post Turkman Gate, Police Station Chandni Mahal, Central District, Delhi, at the behest of certain private individuals at the aforesaid Police Post”. “The status report be submitted by the State with a copy thereof being supplied in advance to the petitioner through counsel. “In the meantime, the State shall ensure that the footage of the CCTV cameras installed at the Turkman Gate Police Post on January 25, 2021 from 7 pm onwards as well as of the camera installed outside the said police post be preserved..,” Justice Anu Malhotra said in an order passed on March 23. The counsel for the police submitted before the court that if the CCTV footage would be available, it would be preserved. The court said the printouts of the footage be placed on record and an updated status report be submitted and listed the matter for further hearing on April 8. Advocate M Sufian Siddiqui, representing the petitioner, said on the evening of January 25, he and three others were mercilessly beaten, illegally detained and tortured by the police personnel of Turkman Gate police post under Chandni Mahal Police Station here in full public glare at the behest of certain private individuals, even when there was neither any written complaint against them nor a PCR call. The counsel said the four men sustained injuries which fall within the definition of ‘grievous hurt’ and the incident was also captured in the fully functional CCTV cameras installed in and around the police post. The counsel on behalf of the state submitted that the averments which have been made through the petition and the contentions raised on behalf of the petitioner are erroneous. He said the matter related to a conflict between a husband-wife couple and the petitioner is the cousin of the husband and the cousins were involved in a dispute. The plea said the petitioner has been running from pillar to post in his quest for justice and is aggrieved by the inexplicable delay, unconscionable silence and absolute inaction on the part of police authorities on his January 27 complaint and the communications sent subsequently. It said the police has neither concluded the preliminary inquiry within the stipulated period of 15 days nor initiated any legal action against the alleged delinquent police officials nor registered the FIR, despite the information disclosing commission of cognisable offences, which tantamount to wilful disobedience of the Supreme Court’s judgment in Lalita Kumari case. The apex court’s Lalita Kumari judgement had held that registration of FIR was mandatory if the information discloses commission of a cognisable offence. If the information does not disclose a cognisable offence but indicates the necessity for an inquiry, a preliminary inquiry may be conducted only to ascertain whether cognisable offence is disclosed or not. If the inquiry discloses the commission of a cognisable offence, the FIR must be registered. It sought direction to the authorities to conduct and conclude the preliminary inquiry in a fair, impartial and time-bound manner under the direct supervision of a Joint Commissioner of Police or by a police officer of a higher rank on the petitioner’s complaint. It also sought direction to forthwith secure and place on record the CCTV footage of all the cameras installed in and around the police post, pertaining to the alleged incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-delhi-police-to-file-status-report-on-plea-alleging-illegal-detention-beating-by-officials-969021.html
01-04-2021||North and Central||Instead of filing complaint, UP cop tells assault victim to go to Haridwar and chant 'Gayatri Mantra'||If you think that only tough and quick action can combat crimes, you have to visit this police station in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town, where the cops deal with the criminal complaints with 'Ganga Jal' and 'Gayatri Mantra' (a sacred mantra chanted by Hindus). At Nauchandi police station in Meerut town, the complainants are welcomed with a spray of 'Ganga Jal' and are also applied 'teeka' (mark) of sandalwood paste on their foreheads before narrating their woes. The strange way of dealing with the crimes at the police station came to light when a man approached the station in-charge, Premchand Sharma, a few days ago for lodging a complaint of assault by his stepson. Instead of lodging the complaint and investigating the matter, the SHO, after spraying 'Ganga jal' and applying the mark of sandalwood paste on his forehead, advised the complainant Hemant Goyal to go to Haridwar in the neighbouring Uttarakhand and spent a few days there at an 'ashram' (mutt). He also advised Goyal to recite the 'Gayatri Mantra' in the wee hours every day. Goyal did not go to Haridwar but did recite the 'Gayatri Mantra' as advised by the SHO. The assault, however, did not stop and he again approached the SHO for lodging a complaint against his stepson. ''You must have recited the mantra wrongly,'' the cop told him. Goyal's complaint was lodged, when he met senior police officials. Sources said that a probe was ordered against the SHO. ''What is the need for having laws if the police will tackle crimes in this way,'' asked Goyal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/instead-of-filing-complaint-up-cop-tells-assault-victim-to-go-to-haridwar-and-chant-gayatri-mantra-969074.html
01-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi schools to stay shut for all classes in new academic year||The Delhi government on Thursday announced that students of any class should not be called to schools physically in the new academic session till further orders. The Directorate of Education (DoE) also told schools that teaching and learning activities may commence from April 1 for students through digital mode for academic session 2021-22. "It is clarified that students of any class should not be called physically in school for the academic session 2021-22 till further orders. However, teaching learning activities may be commenced from 1st April 2021 for the students through digital modes for the new academic session," the DoE said in an official order. The directive by DoE comes following a surge in coronavirus cases in the national capital. Schools in Delhi closed in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain spread of novel coronavirus. While several states partially reopened schools in October, the Delhi government allowed schools to reopen for students in classes 9 to 12 for practical works and remedial lessons, from January 18 and February 5. "It is reiterated that the students of classes 9 to 12 (session 2020-21) may be called to school only for providing the academic guidance and support to the students for mid term exams, pre-board exams/ annual exams/ board examinations, practical exams, project work, internal assessment following the Standard Operating Procedure for COVID safety and with the consent of the parents," the DoE added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-schools-to-stay-shut-for-all-classes-in-new-academic-year-969125.html
01-04-2021||Oasis||The journey of the faithful||A recent e-mail from my ‘Annavru’ contained a nugget from BBC about a baptism ceremony in Ethiopia, where the villagers climb the sheer sandstone cliffs in Tigary region of Ethiopia to reach the Abuna Yemata Guh Church. This monolithic Church cut out of rock is located high in the mountain within a cliff face, at a height of 2500 meters, and is dedicated to Abuna Yemata, one of the nine saints who came from Syria to the kingdom of Aksum in present-day Ethiopia. To reach this ‘Church in the sky’, one must traverse steep sandstone pinnacles, and cross the gap between the cliffs with a 200-meter drop down below. The final stretch to the inner sanctum involves walking along a narrow-slanted ledge. Some feel the journey mimics the pathway to heaven thereby bringing the flock closer to God.  The Ethiopian Church encourages parents to baptize male children on the 40th day of their birth. Although newer Churches have been built in the plains, the allure of being closer to God while seeking the blessings for the boy brings people to this relic of a Church. The first section to reach the Church is a tough 10-meter vertical climb. There are only tiny indentations in the smooth rock face to serve as hand and footholds. A slip here would result in certain death and perhaps reach God’s kingdom instantly. The priest of the Church makes the climb every day without using any rope. He says “The route is blessed. Not one has ever died thanks to the protection offered by our patron saint.”  Faith is the core of their lives. Religious practices are not viewed as burdensome obligations but free and purposeful commitments. This faith propels even the young mother to climb up bare feet with her 40-day old boy strapped on to her back to seek the blessings through baptism. After the service, the descent begins which is no less perilous. Yet when the weather is good and everyone made it safe, the jubilation is incomparable. The spiritual fulfilment washes off all life’s travails and there descends a great peace of mind. This perhaps makes them ready to take on life with numerous challenges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-journey-of-the-faithful-968876.html
01-04-2021||Opinion||Can Google be the anti-Amazon of ecommerce?||By Daisuke Wakabayashi Google tried to copy Amazon’s playbook to become the shopping hub of the internet, with little success. Now it is trying something different: the anti-Amazon strategy. Google is trying to present itself as a cheaper and less restrictive option for independent sellers. And it is focused on driving traffic to sellers’ sites, not selling its own version of products as Amazon does. In the last year, Google eliminated fees for merchants and allowed sellers to list their wares in its search results for free. It is also trying to make it easier for small, independent shops to upload their inventory of products to appear in search results and buy ads on Google by teaming up with Shopify, which powers online stores for 1.7 million merchants who sell directly to consumers. But like Google’s many attempts during its two-decade quest to compete with Amazon, this one shows little sign of working. Google has nothing as alluring as the $295 billion that passed through Amazon’s third-party marketplace in 2020. The amount of goods people buy on Google is “very small” by comparison — probably around $1 billion, said Juozas Kaziukenas, founder of Marketplace Pulse, a research company. Amazon is a fixture in the lives of many Americans. It has usurped Google as the starting point for shoppers and has become equally essential for marketers. Amazon’s global advertising business grew 30 per cent to $17.6 billion in 2020, trailing only Google and Facebook in the United States. But as the pandemic has forced many stores to go online, it has created a new opening for Google to woo sellers who feel uneasy about building their businesses on Amazon. Christina Stang, 33, opened Fritzy’s Roller Skate Shop near Pacific Beach in San Diego last March. Shelter-in-place orders forced her to set up an online storefront on Shopify. She got lucky. She was sitting on a huge supply of skates when demand surged as skating videos became popular on TikTok during the pandemic. She linked her Shopify account to Google’s retail software and started buying so-called smart shopping ads. Working within an allotted budget, Google’s algorithms pick where to place ads and what products to feature. In 2020, she spent $1,800 on the ads, which were viewed 3.6 million times and led to $247,000 in sales, she said. She considered selling her products on Amazon’s marketplace, but she worried what Amazon’s fees would mean for her already-thin profit margins. She also liked that Google redirected people to her carefully curated website rather than keeping them inside its own store as Amazon does. “I could sell on Amazon and not make any real money but have a bigger online presence,” Stang said. “It didn’t seem like a great idea.” Recently, however, she has experienced one of the drawbacks of being stuck in the middle of the partnership between Google and Shopify. Her shop has been unable to list any products since January because Google suspended her account. It said her shipping costs appeared more expensive on Google than on her Shopify-powered website, even though they were no different. Shopify told her that it was a Google issue. Google’s customer service representatives recommended that she hire a web designer. She continues to manage without Google, but it has tainted her largely positive experience. “This has completely cut me off at the knees,” she said. “I’m a small business, and I don’t have hundreds or thousands of dollars to resolve this.” Sellers often complain about Amazon’s fees — which can account for one-quarter of every sale, not including the cost of advertising — and the pressure to spend more to succeed. Merchants on Amazon do not have a direct relationship with their customers, limiting their ability to communicate with them and to generate future business. And because everything is contained within the Amazon world, it is harder to create a unique look and feel that express a brand’s identity the way companies can on their own websites. But since 2002, when it started a price comparison site called Froogle, a confusing play on the word “frugal” that required a rebranding five years later, Google has struggled to chart a cohesive vision for its shopping experience. It tried to challenge Amazon directly by piloting its own same-day delivery service, but it shuttered the project as costs ballooned. It tried to forge partnerships with traditional retail giants, only to see the alliances wilt from a lack of sales. It built its own marketplace to make it easier for shoppers to buy the things they find on Google but was not able to break consumers from their Amazon habit. Last year, Google brought in Bill Ready, a former chief operating officer at PayPal, to fill a new senior position and spearhead an overhaul of its shopping strategy. Around the time of his hiring, Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, warned senior executives that the new approach could mean a short-term crimp in advertising revenue, according to two people familiar with the conversations, who requested anonymity because they were not allowed to discuss them publicly. He asked teams to support the e-commerce push because it was a company priority. When the pandemic spurred huge demand for online shopping, Google eliminated fees, allowing retailers to list products for free and walking back a 2012 decision to allow only advertisers to display goods on its shopping site. Three months after hiring Ready, Google said the free listings would show up on its main search results. Then Google said customers could buy products directly from merchants on Google with no commissions. It also said Google would open its platform to third parties like Shopify and PayPal so that sellers could continue to use their existing tools to manage inventory and orders and processing payments. The partnership with Shopify was especially meaningful because hundreds of thousands of small businesses have flocked to the software platform during the pandemic. About 9 per cent of US online shopping sales took place on storefronts powered by Shopify as of October, according to research firm eMarketer. That was up from 6 per cent the prior year and second only to Amazon’s share of 37 per cent. Harley Finkelstein, Shopify’s president, said Google and Shopify were developing new ways for merchants to sell through Google services, such as experiments to allow customers to buy items directly on YouTube and to display what products stores are carrying in Google Maps. Ready walked a fine line when it came to Amazon, which is a big buyer of ads on Google, but he made it clear he believed Amazon’s dominance in e-commerce posed a threat to other merchants. “Nobody wants to live in a world where there is only one place to buy something, and retailers don’t want to be dependent on gatekeepers,” he said in an interview. Google said it had increased the number of sellers appearing in its results by 80 per cent in 2020, with the most significant growth coming from small and midsize businesses. And existing retailers are listing more products. Overstock.com, a seller of discount furniture and home bedding, said it had paid to list products on Google in the past. But now that listings are free, Overstock is adding low-margin products, too. “When all shopping starts and stops at Amazon, that’s bad for the industry,” said Jonathan E. Johnson, Overstock’s chief executive. “It’s nice to have another 800-pound tech gorilla in this space.” What remains unclear is whether increasing the number of merchants and listings on Google will ultimately change online shopping habits. BACtrack, a maker of breathalysers, has more than doubled its advertising spending on Amazon in the last two years because that is where the customers are, it said, while it has spent 6 per cent less advertising its products on Google. “It seems like more and more people are skipping Google and going straight to Amazon,” said Keith Nothacker, chief executive of BACtrack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/can-google-be-the-anti-amazon-of-ecommerce-968945.html
01-04-2021||Panorama||Article 370 discourse dies down as Gupkar hits shaky ground||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a coalition of various political parties in Kashmir, has surprisingly remained silent on the political issues in the Union Territory (UT) for the last three months. The PAGD was formed in October 2020 by Kashmir-centric political parties with a pledge of perseverance and steadfastness towards the restoration of special status to Jammu and Kashmir, which was revoked by the Centre in August 2019. The resolution was part of the alliance’s declaration, wherein the parties stated that there would be “nothing about us without us,” meaning they will stick together come what may. From day one, the people of J&K knew it was another experiment of “convenience” and didn’t expect much from the alliance. However, nobody had expected the meltdown of the alliance so soon. Just two weeks after the alliance came into existence, its two main constituents — National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) — fielded proxy candidates against each other in several seats during the District Development Council (DDC) polls held last December. After the results, both have been taking divergent stands on important political issues confronting J&K. There has been no formal or informal meeting of the alliance leaders since the DDC poll results were declared on December 22. Even the NC leaders, including its president Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar, have opted to maintain a pin-drop silence over PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s questioning by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an alleged money laundering case. When the same probe agency grilled senior Abdullah a few months ago in connection with another such case, Mehbooba had termed it a political vendetta. When junior Abdullah was asked by reporters to comment on Mehbooba’s grilling by the ED, he was evasive. “From J&K to Tamil Nadu, Assam to Gujarat, neither is Mehbooba the first leader (to be summoned by the ED) nor will she be the last,” he said. As of now, a significant opinion in the NC and PDP has grown increasingly sceptical about their alliance and for very different reasons. While the NC thinks the PAGD is proving detrimental to its traditional standing as the largest J&K party, the PDP feels the NC is going slow on the demand for restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status as the Centre turns up heat. In between, an important constituent of the PAGD — the People’s Conference led by separatist-turned-mainstream leader Sajad Lone — left the alliance. While Lone claimed that no party in the alliance was willing to cede space and sacrifice for the bigger cause, which became the reason for his departure, the dominant public perception is that he left under pressure from the BJP. Though the remaining four parties in the PAGD have so far stuck together officially, they have stopped meeting or talking as one. The discourse about the restoration of Article 370 has been relegated to the background. Even in his speech in Parliament earlier this month, Farooq Abdullah spent most of the time talking about the farmers’ protest and other issues, and spared only little over a minute to express his dismay at the loss of J&K autonomy. It may be thus a matter of time before the parties part ways, ending the alliance that promised to mount a formidable opposition to the BJP in the Union Territory. Apart from the restoration of special status, there is little left that gives the parties in the PAGD a reason to stay united. In fact, there are more reasons for them to strike on their own and pursue individual political ambitions. Focused on statehood Barring the PDP, other Kashmir-based political parties, including the NC, have toned down their earlier stand on restoration of Article 370. The alliance has not yet made it clear whether it would only fight legally or also take a political route. Instead of vociferously demanding the restoration of Article 370, they are more focused on the restoration of statehood to J&K. More than five months since the PAGD was formed, the alliance is yet to come out with a roadmap for the fight for Article 370. The latest silence by Kashmir-centric parties can be interpreted as a readiness to recalibrate their politics according to the post-Article 370 reality. They know that even if the BJP loses power at the Centre tomorrow, no party in the country can afford to restore J&K’s special status. The assertions by some Kashmir-based leaders over the restoration of Article 370 can at best be termed a desperate attempt to hold back the ground, which is fast slipping from under their feet. As far as the PDP is concerned, its firebrand president, who had been preaching soft-separatism all her life, now feels cornered from all sides. One of her trusted lieutenants has been accused by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) of giving Rs 5 crore to the Hurriyat Conference for keeping secessionist activities alive in Kashmir. Mehbooba has also been accused by the NIA of seeking help from Hizbul Mujahideen commander Naveed Babu for campaigning for party workers during the parliamentary elections in 2019. Coming to the restoration of statehood to J&K, it seems Pakistan-backed militancy is likely to dissuade the Modi government from granting this concession, particularly at a time when both China and Pakistan are trying to escalate the security situation in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/article-370-discourse-dies-down-as-gupkar-hits-shaky-ground-968874.html
01-04-2021||Panorama||How to deal with imposter syndrome||Coined in 1978 by Suzanne Imes and Pauline Rose Clance, the imposter syndrome phenomenon can be defined as persistent feelings of self-doubt and inadequacy, despite evidence of success.  When this was coined, the study showed it to be prevalent amongst women high achievers. Upon further study, they found this was prevalent across parameters of gender, race, sexual orientation. But even more so amongst minorities.  The key characteristic of this is the attribution of successes and achievements to luck rather than skill and the plaguing fear that they will be ‘found out’ and undermining their own skill and expertise. Research has shown that the imposter phenomenon is prevalent in 70% of the population.  The researchers who first came across imposter syndrome, Imes and Clance, found that those who reported higher feelings of imposter syndrome came from families who strongly focused on achievement. Parenting style also played a role here- those whose parents employed a mixture of excessive criticism and then excessive praise had increased feelings of self-doubt.  While our primary social environment has always played a huge role in internalising different values and ideas of self-worth, it is also bolstered by society at large. The societal pressure to achieve that is so prevalent and almost feverishly dominant has a huge impact on one’s self worth.  The familial and societal injunctions are especially noticeable in Indian society where the emphasis on achievement is present from a very young and impressionable age, thereby cementing the association between achievement and self-worth even further. Sometimes, career decisions are even made by parents or influenced by families very strongly, thus diminishing the ability to trust yourself and make independent decisions.  Gender norms also influence this where women are constantly questioned about their decisions which might lead the seed of doubt to grow into feelings of imposterism. Imposter syndrome and perfectionism are also very intricately linked. This could mean that help is rarely asked for (even when needed) and over-preparation i.e. taking more time than necessary. Sometimes, it might even result in being uncertain about the result, despite the time and effort spent on ‘perfecting’ it.  This then becomes an endless cycle that can result in high achieving individuals combating imposter feelings by simply working harder, longer and seeking perfection to feel more confident which might be simply a temporary way of coping.  So how does one break this cycle and deal with the imposter phenomenon? Reach out: To a friend, colleague, mentor. Sharing your feelings with someone else will help you feel less alone in your experience. Knowing that this is not just unique to you will make it feel less intimidating and make you more open to talking about it and seeing what has helped others.  Consciously change self-talk: Language is the vehicle of communication. What you tell yourself and the way you say it makes a huge difference to how you feel. It could be something as simple as acknowledging and appreciating your success for what it is - a result of your hard work and perseverance- instead of attributing it to luck or other extraneous factors. Research has also shown that self-talk in the third person is also effective in internalisation as it creates a visual distance and enables us to see ourselves and our context from the larger perspective, as demonstrated by LeBron James when he spoke about his decision to leave a team and Malala Yousafzai when she was conflicted in her decision to speak out against the Taliban. List strengths and areas of improvement: Making a realistic assessment of your strengths and growth areas will fuel real personal and professional growth, not simply the movement that comes from constant self-doubt. Writing down what you are skilled at and the areas that actually need growth will help you recognise what areas you are doing well at and where there is need for improvement.  Seek support: Exploring this in individual therapy might be very useful to deconstruct and understand deeply where one’s feelings of imposterism might stem from and to develop better coping mechanisms. Doing so will also help in dealing with the accompanying anxiety in healthier ways. (The writer is a psychologist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-to-deal-with-imposter-syndrome-968875.html
01-04-2021||Panorama||Why the government should not bank on privatisation||Why does the Government of India want to sell public sector banks (PSBs)? Are they not serving public purpose anymore? Will their profitability increase under private ownership, and who will apportion that profit? Will the depositors’ money be safer under private management? The government has a democratic duty to answer these questions before going ahead with its plan announced in the recent Budget — privatising two PSBs, besides the IDBI, this fiscal. Its privatisation obsession should not blind it to private banks’ failures and PSBs' achievements. The rapid branch network expansion is the foremost achievements of bank nationalisation. By September 2020, the number of bank branches reached 1,60,827 from a mere 8,187 before bank nationalisation in 1969. In rural areas, branches increased from 1,443 to 52,632 during this period, raising rural share from 17.6% to 32.72%. It is another matter that the rural share has fallen from the 58.2% peak of 1990 after the bank 'reforms’. The scheduled banks' outstanding credit has increased from Rs 3,987 crore in 1969 to Rs 1,07,04,649 crore by January 1, 2021, and the deposits have gone up from Rs 3,035 crore to Rs 1,47,26,753 crore (75.59% of the GDP). Private bank deposits, as of March 2020, amounted to Rs 40,40,424 crore (30.88% share in total) against PSBs' Rs 90,43,443 crore (69.12%). Their outstanding credit was Rs 37,07,435 crore (36.79%) against PSBs’ Rs 63,71,042 crore (63.21%). The public sector bank coverage of rural areas was far better than their private counterparts. The PSBs (including RRBs) have 44,397 rural branches (84.35% of total rural branches) whereas private sector banks have only 8,235 rural branches with a 15.65% rural share. However, the present number of 52,000 rural branches — of both PSBs and private — against more than six lakh villages implies there is no bank branch in at least 87% of villages. Also, private banks are lagging in the deployment of rural ATMs, with 6,112 (18.34%) out of the total 33,312, as of 2020-end. Turning to profits, private banks cannot match PSBs in their profit earning in its true sense, not only because public sector banks have higher risk-taking capacity but also due to the dual nature of their profitability — social and commercial profits. Social profit comprises improving banking service accessibility in unbanked areas and to the weaker sections of society; this type of profit is intangible and measured in terms of an increase in incomes, output and employment in the country. The very need for nationalisation arose due to the failure of the private sector in the area of commercial viability and the protection of depositors’ money, let alone any social profit. Many banks failed in British India. One prominent reason for their liquidation was combining trading activity with banking. Trading houses like Alexander and Co, and Ferguson and Co set up banks at that time. The bad experience of their failure and the suffering of the depositing public had led to the legislative ban on combining trade with banking. In other words, the opinion against corporates controlling banks was seminal even during those days. After Independence too, the private bank experience was no good; 559 banks failed between 1947 and 1969. Nationalised banks have bailed out the failing private banks. Twenty-five private banks were merged with public sector banks from 1969 to 2020 as per AIBEA’s compilation; the YES Bank’s bailout by the State Bank of India is the latest example. Reverting to social profit, three other achievements of PSBs, besides their spread in unbanked and rural areas, merit a mention here. One, they operate 97.2% of the 41.98 crore Jan-Dhan accounts in the country. Their share of these accounts in rural areas is still higher at 97.50% against the 2.5% share of private banks. Two, PSBs (including RRBs) have bank-linked more than 80 lakh SHGs (78% of the total 1.02 crore). The outstanding amount of SHG loans of these banks was Rs 94,291 crore as of March 31, 2020 (87.25% of the total Rs 1.08 lakh crore) against private banks’ share of a mere 7% in number 6.70% in amount. Support to farming More important than the preceding two or anything else is the PSBs’ support to farming. Their outstanding agriculture credit was Rs 4,50,207 crore (86.6% in total credit to agriculture) as of March 2020, against the private banks’ Rs 72,893 crore (13.94%). Despite wielding higher social responsibility, the PSBs' operating profits during the five years (2015-16 to 2019-20) aggregated to Rs 7,77,043 crore. The huge provisioning, Rs 9,84,415 crore towards bad loans turned them red, with Rs 2,07,372 crore net losses. Bank unions say that the loan default was wilful — meaning those who had the capacity could evade the payment. And they argue that most of these bad loans belong to private corporates. The quantum of bad loans written off from 2001 to 2019 amounted to a whopping Rs 6,94,037 crore. The NPAs, as can be seen from the Economic Survey 2020-21, are not exclusively generated in PSBs. The NPAs of private banks, up to March 2020 amounted to Rs 2,05,848 crore against Rs 6,87,317 in public sector banks. The loans have become bad due to the corporate customers’ default; the written-off sum of 50 corporate customers aggregates to Rs 68,607 crore. The idea, therefore, of transferring bank ownership to loan defaulters makes no sense. The right solution for correcting the functioning of public sector banks would be putting in place a better regulation and control mechanism. If the government finds flaws in PSBs' functioning, it has every reason to correct them, but it should not throw the baby out with the bathwater. On the contrary, there is every reason and scope for the nationalisation of private banks, not the other way round if public and government interests converge. (The writer is a development economist and commentator on economic and social affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-the-government-should-not-bank-on-privatisation-969191.html
01-04-2021||Panorama||How to prevent obesity in children||With schools closed and outdoor activities on hold during the nationwide lockdown, obesity concerns have been looming large, for adults as well as children. Especially for children, it is a matter of great concern. A study conducted by the University at Buffalo highlights the negative impact of the lockdown on the health of children. The study points out that bad diet, lesser physical activity, lack of mental engagement and disturbed sleep patterns have said to be a leading cause of obesity among children. The school eco-system offers a structure and routine around mealtimes, study time, physical activities, which helps regulate sleep time. These factors when impaired contributes to an increase in associated risk of obesity. Obesity among children in India is now an epidemic. Around 14.4 million children in India are obese, making us the second country load with obese kids after China. Now with the lockdown, this number is expected to grow even further. Unfortunately, the excess weight gained during this lockdown may not be easily reversible and might contribute to obesity during adulthood, if healthy behaviours are not re-established soon. Ways to control obesity among children: Clear the junk food out of the snack pantry and make cooking meals together a part of your family’s routine. Get rid of fizzy drinks and other beverages with high calories. If your kid is going to have free access to the kitchen all day, stock it with carrots and apples. Make better choices for yourself and for your children. Kids are visual learners, if you eat a cake while telling your kids to eat their veggies, it’s not the example they want to follow.  Additionally, parents could also let their kids do chores that help them stay active, such as mopping the floor, gardening, washing, caring for pets, etc. Assign age-appropriate tasks every day to keep them busy. Set a bedtime and stick to it. Encourage kids to talk about their feelings of stress, and pencil in screen-free family time. Alongside, you should also keep a keen eye to ensure that: You eat together as a family Switch off the TV to avoid distraction from mealtime Do not answer calls, a strict rule of no mobile on the meal table should be enforced and practiced Ensure that your child eats at least two fruits in a day Ensure that your child chooses a health snack over a sweet treat, help them choose an apple over a biscuit and a banana over store-bought chips Engage in in-door games with your children A healthy diet and ample physical and mental activity can help your child stay fit during this lockdown. These simple measures will go beyond the pandemic to inculcate a healthy culture among children. Remember, healthy children become healthy adults! (The writer is Consultant Robotic, Laparoscopic GI & Bariatric Surgeon at a network of hospitals in Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-to-prevent-obesity-in-children-969192.html
01-04-2021||Panorama||An anatomy of life||Hardly anyone will assert that life is all smooth sailing. On the contrary, many will point out that expecting it to be easy and trouble-free is absurd. Life has always been a test and ups and downs are part and parcel of it. It is in facing obstacles with courage and calm that we learn and grow. However, what is easy in theory is difficult to put into practice. More often than not, minor adversities succeed in throwing us out of gear. A traffic jam is a good example. A vehicle may suddenly stall and this causes nothing less than pandemonium. Horns bleat, people swear and soon all activity comes to a standstill. Normalcy can be restored with a little give and take, but often this does not happen until the police arrive on the scene. The same kind of problem can arise within the home. We expect our gadgets to work perfectly all the time. Any glitch, say a power outage or a computer breakdown, puts us on tenterhooks. We become anxious, ill-tempered and cannot rest until things are set right once more. Our relationships with others move on similar lines. As long as people are friendly and we meet with approval, all is well. Any criticism though is met with disappointment. This can linger and even cause resentment. Consider this incident that happened many years ago when I was working as a teacher. The day had begun badly with arguments and tears. I was still heavy at heart when I reached school. Sister M., the Principal, noticed this. Calling me aside, she asked me what the matter was. Under her kindly gaze, I unburdened myself. After a brief silence, she said, ‘Do you think you are the only one facing this kind of situation? Perhaps God has sent you this suffering so that you do not become proud.’ Certainly, they were not words designed to bring comfort, but I could see that she was sincere and well-meaning. Strangely, they brought me the consolation I needed. Sister M. wanted me to understand that along with the gift of life come frustration and obstacles. The silver lining is that when you accept that life is fraught with difficulties, it becomes easier and begins to be more trouble-free!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/an-anatomy-of-life-969193.html
01-04-2021||Right in the Middle||The real joke||I recall how scheming we were in our younger days to send gullible people on a ‘fool’s errand’ to mark April 1, the most light-hearted day of the year. From simple jokes to elaborate hoaxes, friends and relatives who consider themselves to be wise, guard themselves against falling into the trap. It is one day when the fools gain some social recognition, but not without letting the so-called wise be under the illusion of having all the fun. The switch from winter to spring has been a time for celebrations across diverse cultures--the Romans had a festival named Hilaria, the Jewish calendar has Purim, and the Indians clown themselves with colours on Holi. I am reminded how it had played differently on Iraq’s erstwhile President Saddam Hussein though, who was at the receiving end of a rather cruel joke. April Fool was the code name of the double agent who had the last laugh in getting the dictator caught from his hiding. Come to think of it, it is one day in a year that reduces the contrast between the wise and the foolish-- lets the wise person know that she or he could easily be a fool at a given time. The fool’s day, April 1, is an old age tradition that caught popular imagination since the calendar was reformed in France in 1564. Those who stubbornly clung to the old calendar system had jokes played on them. It caught on and became a global ritual ever since. Such has been its popularity that even films were themed on the subject: the 1964 Saira Banu-Biswajeet starrer ‘April Fool’ had a song which continues to be played till this day, to mark the only day in the year for the fools. But there is something seriously amiss in our lives in recent times though. Playing pranks on April Fool’s Day has become passé. Is it because our digitally obsessed world has saturated us with all kinds of silliness, more than what we can possibly process? Far from being a medicine, it has reduced laughter into a laughable hoax. Aren’t we been bombarded by unscrupulous videos of people doing and advocating stuff that only makes us look anything but foolish? No one would like to look that way. Isn’t it? My sense is that most people have become cautious to avoid being publicly fooled. They may have their reasons but I wonder if such a protective approach to life makes them any wiser. Perhaps not, as it restricts us from being aware of our vulnerabilities and makes us less tolerant of the others who outsmart us. Learning to laugh at yourself, it is said, is the simplest path to inner peace that helps us to be more resilient and kind. With this, I’m ready for any prank. Are you? With all of us living in a fool’s paradise why worry if there is just a day for being fooled!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-real-joke-968873.html
01-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Fodder for a long journey||Unlike the 200 metre jeepable road now, when coming via Rishikesh, one had to traverse some 11 km on foot or horse ride to reach our native village Khand in Garhwal hills in Uttarakhand. The commuters preferred the earliest Devprayag-bound bus that ran 45 km along the Ganga River and deboarded at Singtali when with sunrise still in the offing, so they could cover the tiring pedestrian pathway in the freshness of the early hours. This was in the '90s when motorable roads were few in Garhwal. With the nearest road averaging 10 km away from most villages, travel on foot, invariably with baggage was the norm. To me, the stroll to my village was a pleasure. The exhilaration at the thought of reaching my ancestral home, overlooking the holy River Ganga afar subsumed the fatigue of the journey afoot. The journey begins with a 250-metre steep walk to reach one end of the hanging bridge below a cliff. The scene turns more picturesque towards the middle of the bridge when the turbulently flowing narrow, immaculate Ganga River below unravels a legion of a variegated spectrum of waves, and subdued rosy sunshine comes in from the Dhang Garh peak to the left. Besides peacocks, monkeys and snakes, the region is home to bears, tigers and other wild animals that cower inside jungles at dawn. With the bridge crossed, the uphill 500-metre enervating steep climb merges atop with the broad Rishikesh-Badrinath pathway, now ramshackled though once agog with to and fro pilgrims. Amid this sylvan ambience stood an antique restaurant-cum-home of a small family from nearby Jhaid village. It was here that I had planned my breakfast. “This half 500-metre steep track exhausts you more than the entire distance ahead. Now relax here a while”, said the welcoming shopkeeper binding the wooden logs. I was stunned by his vivid memory when he queried how I missed visiting my village last year. It was gratifying when the man served me a parantha with an omelette, my favourite breakfast that would provide me with enough energy for the on-foot journey ahead. While he was still beating the eggs with a wooden whisk, his agile wife had already powdered the coarse lumps of salt using the grinding stone and was preparing parantha. Though omelette served as a solid fuel for energy, equally valuable feed for my solo journey was the series of interesting interactions between the pilgrims from various parts of the country and a few foreigners. Greeting any visitor from the opposite side with ‘Jai Badri Vishal’, some barefoot, their normal query was the distance left to the next night halt. Alas, with motor road direct to the village now, those remembrances appear dreamlike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/fodder-for-a-long-journey-969190.html
01-04-2021||Second Edit||Upholding rights and values||It is reassuring that the Supreme Court has quashed an FIR against The Shillong Times Editor Patricia Mukhim for allegedly creating communal disharmony through a Facebook post. She had, in her post, raised the issue of an attack on some non-tribal persons, who were playing basketball in a town in Meghalaya, by a group of local tribal youth. She drew the attention of Chief Minister Conrad Sangma to the incident, and demanded action against them. It was also pointed out that such attackers are never arrested and punished under the law. Instead, an FIR was filed against her, and she was booked for inciting communal tension. The Meghalaya High Court refused to quash the complaint and ruled that investigation agencies should be given a free hand to probe the matter. The Supreme Court, quashing the FIR, said that “free speech of the citizens of this country cannot be stifled by implicating them in criminal cases”. It found no hate speech in Mukhim’s Facebook post but a call for equality of all citizens. The court pointed out that India is a plural and multi-cultural society and the Constitution grants all citizens the right to free speech, to travel freely and settle throughout the length and breadth of the country. The law is equal for everyone, and criminals have no community. Some of these ideas have come under pressure in the country in recent times and that is why their reiteration is necessary and important. The court has repeatedly had to assert these ideas which in the normal course would not call for a special mention in a democracy where the rule of law exists and which is governed by a Constitution that gives equal rights to all citizens.  The case has highlighted four issues. One is the intolerance of some people for others, based on race, language, place of birth etc. The second is the reluctance of governments to take action in instances of such intolerance, especially when vested interests are involved. The third is the tendency to view the demand for justice in such cases as acts of mischief and attempts to create social or communal disharmony. The fourth is the failure of even the courts, in this case the Meghalaya HC, to judge such issues in terms of the basic tenets and principles of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has struck the right note on these issues and underlined the importance of the rights of citizens and values like justice and fairness. The ruling is also a reminder to governments and law courts of their responsibility to respect and uphold those rights and values.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/upholding-rights-and-values-968869.html
01-04-2021||Second Edit||Explore alternative sea routes||The world let out a collective sigh of relief on March 29 when the container ship ‘Ever Given’, which had run aground in the Suez Canal, was freed by salvage crews. The skyscraper-size, over 2,00,000-tonne ship, had got wedged in the canal on March 23, blocking all shipping traffic via this vital trade route. Dozens of other nearby ships had to anchor, while hundreds of others waited at the canal’s entrances. According to data from Lloyd’s List, the stranded ship held up trade valued at over $9 billion per day. The traffic jam in the Suez added to the already high stress on global supply chains. India, which uses the Suez Canal for trade with North and South America and Europe, is said to have suffered losses worth crores of rupees. Understandably, the world was anxious to get the ‘Ever Given’ afloat at the earliest possible as every additional day of a blocked Suez Canal was taking a heavy toll on a Covid-19 battered global economy. So severe was the crisis that at one point that salvage companies were considering unloading some of the 18,000 containers that the ship was carrying. Fortunately, this was not necessary. The hard work of salvage crews worked round the clock and high tides helped the tugs and dredgers dislodge the ‘Ever Given’ earlier than expected. With ‘Ever Given’ dislodged, ships have started plying the Suez Canal. But the crisis is not over yet. It will be many days if not weeks for the traffic jam in the canal to be cleared. Investigations have begun into what caused the ship to run aground. The sea-worthiness of the ship, decisions made by the ship’s captain and crew, and weather conditions are among the issues that are being probed. With companies likely to file lawsuits over losses incurred, the blame game has begun. There is a possibility of the ship’s Indian captain and predominantly Indian crew being blamed for the incident. The Indian embassy in Cairo must provide the crew with the best of legal and other support. The global shipping business, which relies heavily on high-tonnage ships, needs to relook this strategy. Massive ships may cut costs but are more likely to run aground as did ‘Ever Given’. The incident underscores the extreme vulnerability of trade to obstructions at chokepoints, whether due to natural disasters, human errors or sabotage. Whenever these narrow waterways get choked, talk of alternative routes come up and is then quickly forgotten. Alternatives like Israel’s Ben Gurion waterway or the Northern Sea Route must be explored seriously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/explore-alternative-sea-routes-969186.html
01-04-2021||South||MNM has set trend with initiative to recall MLAs if they fail to deliver: Kamal Haasan||Makkal Neethi Maiam has set the trend with an initiative to recall its MLAs if they failed to deliver on their promises in the event of MNM candidates getting elected after the April 6 Assembly polls, party chief Kamal Haasan said here on Wednesday. "It is a long overdue process and somebody has to bell the cat," he told reporters here on the sidelines of the release of the manifesto for Singanallur constituency, where its vice-president, Dr R Mahendran is contesting. Mahendran has announced that the people will have the right to recall him if he failed to deliver what they wanted from him if elected. When pointed out that the right to recall was a long pending demand from the public as part of electoral reforms and whether the MNM would approach Election Commission with the issue, Haasan said that the party has set the trend by giving options to the people to recall their MNM MLAs. Once others also start following the trend, it will become a law, he said. On the party's strategy, Haasan said, "Honesty is the strategy and strength of MNM, which is work in progress as there is no permanent solution in the politics."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mnm-has-set-trend-with-initiative-to-recall-mlas-if-they-fail-to-deliver-kamal-haasan-968859.html
01-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till April 30, to effectively implement test-track-treat protocol||The Tamil Nadu government has extended the Covid-19-enforced lockdown till April 30 with existing relaxations and restrictions, and will effectively implement the test-track-treat protocol to contain the spread of the virus, according to an order issued by Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan. According to the order, there was a need to ensure that the RT-PCR tests conducted were uniformly distributed across all districts with adequate testing to be done in districts reporting a high number of infections. On tracking new cases, Ranjan said the new infections detected due to intensive testing need to be isolated and their contacts have to be traced at the earliest and quarantined. Containment zones have to be "demarcated" and prescribed containment measures should be implemented within such zones, he said. "Effective demarcation of containment zones in vulnerable and high incidence areas is key to break the chain of transmission and controlling the spread of the virus. The containment zones shall be carefully demarcated by the district authorities...," he said. On treatment protocol, he said there should be quick isolation of Covid-19 patients in care facilities or at home and clinical interventions shall be administered. "Effective infection prevention and control practices shall be followed in treatment facilities and by healthcare workers and professionals," he said. The district administration should take all necessary measures to promote Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and strict adherence to wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing, he said. The district collectors shall strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines and for the enforcement of social distancing, the district administrations, as far as possible, use the provisions of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). "Based on the assessment of the situation, local restrictions at district/sub-district and city/ward level with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19 shall be imposed," he said. Any person violating these measures would be liable to be proceeded against under the Disaster Management Act, besides legal action under the Indian Penal Code and other legal provisions as applicable, he said. On the vaccination drive, he said inoculation against Covid-19 in the present scenario was critical to break the chain of transmission. Therefore, the district administration shall rapidly step up the pace of vaccination to cover all priority groups, as recommended by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 and approved by the Centre, in an expeditious manner, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-april-30-to-effectively-implement-test-track-treat-protocol-968883.html
01-04-2021||South||Telangana adds 887 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths push toll to 1,701||Telangana recorded 887 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single day spike so far this year, pushing the tally to over 3.08 lakh , while the death toll rose to 1,701 with four more fatalities, the state government said on Thursday. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 201, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (79) and Nirmal (78), it said in a bulletin, providing details as of 8 PM on March 31. The total number of cases stood at 3,08,776 while with 337 patients being cured, the total recoveries were at 3,01,564. The state has 5,511 active cases and59,297 samples were tested on Wednesday. Cumulatively, over 1.02 crore samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was over 2.74 lakh, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.55 per cent, while it was 1.3 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 97.66 per cent, while it was 93.9 per cent in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-adds-887-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-push-toll-to-1701-968977.html
01-04-2021||South||Home Minister Amit Shah campaigns in Puducherry||Shah who arrived at the airport in Lawspet, drove to the Siddhananda temple in Karuvadikuppam to offer prayers. He was accompanied by Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal, BJP's local unit president V Saminathan and former PWD Minister and BJP nominee in Mannadipet segment A Namassivayam. This was Shah's second visit to the union territory as he had earlier addressed a poll rally in Karaikal in February. The BJP is contesting from nine seats in the Assembly polls while the AINRC heading the NDA in Puducherry has fielded its nominees in 16 segments and AIADMK in the remaining five.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/home-minister-amit-shah-campaigns-in-puducherry-969012.html
01-04-2021||South||Election Commission bars DMK leader A Raja from campaigning for 48 hours||Election Commission of India (ECI) on Thursday barred former Union Telecom Minister A Raja from campaigning for 48 hours with immediate effect for his controversial and derogatory remarks on Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. In its order, the ECI said Raja's response to its notice was not found satisfactory and seeking more time to represent is an attempt to buy time which the Commission cannot afford to give in the midst of elections. The ECI delisted Raja's name from the list of star campaigners of the DMK and debarred him from campaigning for 48 hours with immediate effect. “The Commission also advises you to be watchful and not to make intemperate, indecent, derogatory, obscene remarks and lower the dignity of women in future during the election campaign,” the order said. The speech, which the AIADMK says was derogatory in nature, went viral on social media prompting DMK Chief M K Stalin to appeal to his party leaders to ensure that their speeches are made in a dignified manner. Raja, in his response, said he never meant to disrespect Palaniswami or his mother but was only comparing the political growth of the Chief Minister with that of DMK Chief MK Stalin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/election-commission-bars-dmk-leader-a-raja-from-campaigning-for-48-hours-969014.html
01-04-2021||South||Wishes pour in for Rajinikanth after the Centre announced the Dadasaheb Phalke award||Congratulatory messages poured in from various quarters to superstar Rajinikanth on Thursday, after the Centre announced conferring the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke Award on the veteran. His long-time friend and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan said the award, highest to be bestowed on a performing artist, is 100 per cent appropriate for Rajinikanth while DMK President MK Stalin said that though 'delayed' the recognition was welcome. உயரிய விருதான தாதா சாகேப் பால்கே விருது உச்ச நட்சத்திரமும் என் மனதிற்கு இனிய நண்பருமான ரஜினிகாந்திற்கு அறிவிக்கப்பட்டிருப்பது பெரும் மகிழ்வளிக்கிறது. திரையில் தோன்றுவதன் மூலமே ரசிகர்களை வென்றெடுத்துவிட முடியும் என்பதை நிரூபித்த ரஜினிக்கு இந்த விருது 100% பொருத்தம். "It is a great pleasure that the highest award, the Dada Saheb Phalke Award, has been announced to Rajinikanth, the supreme star and my dearest friend. The award is 100 per cent appropriate for Rajini, who has proven that he can win over fans by appearing on screen," Haasan tweeted.   Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar had announced on Thursday that the veteran actor will be bestowed with the Dada Saheb Phalke award for the year 2019, making him the third cinema personality after the late thespian Sivaji Ganesan and late director K Balachander, also Rajinikanth's mentor, to have been chosen for the award from Tamil Nadu. Stalin described Rajinikanth as a "dear friend" and an "unparalleled performer" and expressed joy over him being selected for the award. "Delayed but welcome," he said in a tweet. தாமதம் என்றாலும் வரவேற்புக்குரியது! He wished that Rajinikanth, "a symbol of acting and friendship," continues with his journey in filmdom PMK leader and former union minister Dr Anbumani Ramadoss congratulating the superstar. "Actor Rajinikanth has been honoured with the Dada Saheb Phalke Award, the highest award of the film industry in India. Award-winning close friend @rajinikanth Congratulations," he tweeted. AMMK leader TTV Dhinakaran, national award-winning lyricist Vairamuthu, popular comedian Vivekh and a number of film personalities greeted the actor on being selected for the award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wishes-pour-in-for-rajinikanth-after-the-centre-announced-the-dadasaheb-phalke-award-969048.html
01-04-2021||South||From The Newsroom: A Raja barred from campaigning for 2 days||In your evening news brief, Election Commission of India bars DMK leader A Raja from campaigning for 48 hours; GST collections in March touch a record high and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar appeal to eligible people to get vaccine against Coronavirus.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of April 1, 2021:   The Election Commission of India has barred DMK leader A Raja from campaigning for 48 hours with immediate effect.  The move comes after the election body found his reply regarding his remarks over Tamil Nadu CM and his mother unsatisfactory. The EC has reprimanded the DMK leader for violation of the model code of conduct and delisted his name from the list of star campaigner.    GST collections in March touched a record high of over Rs 1.23 lakh crore, a 27 per cent growth over the year-ago period, the Finance Ministry said on Thursday. "GST revenues crossed above Rs 1 lakh crore mark at a stretch for the last six months and a steep increasing trend over this period are clear indicators of rapid economic recovery post-pandemic," the ministry said.  Closer monitoring against fake-billing, deep data analytics using data from multiple sources including GST, income tax and customs IT systems and effective tax administration have also contributed to the steady increase in tax revenue over the last few months, it added.   As the state geared up to vaccinate everyone above 45 years of age from Thursday, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar appealed to the eligible people to make use of this protective cover against coronavirus. The Health Department said in a statement that Covid-19 vaccination will continue at all the primary health centres, community health centres, Taluk hospitals, district hospitals, medical colleges and private hospitals as already being done. It added that Karnataka has in stock 13.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine and 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin vaccine and it has been supplied to all the cold chain points across the districts as per their requirement.   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-the-newsroom-a-raja-barred-from-campaigning-for-2-days-969105.html
01-04-2021||South||Rajinikanth thanks friend who identified his acting skills||Hours after he was selected for the prestigious Dadasaheb Palke award, Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Thursday thanked his then bus driver and now friend Raja Bahadur for “identifying my acting skills” and encouraging him to taking up the profession. The 70-year-old also thanked his elder brother Sathyanarayana Gaikwad for “several sacrifices” to transform Shivajirao Gaikwad to Rajinikanth, besides paying tributes to his guru, K Balachander, who introduced him in the 1975 Tamil film Aboorva Raagangal. In a statement, Rajinikanth said he dedicates the honour to Balachander, film directors, producers, technicians, distributors, theatre owners, media and his fans. He thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, and DMK President M K Stalin for congratulating him on his win. From an ordinary bus conductor to the superstar of the celluloid world, thanks to his electrifying presence on the screen, to the highest paid actor in the country — Rajinikanth has seen the best of everything in his life. And this is not the first time he has publicly thanked his friend and his brother – Rajinikanth has been recognising their role in shaping him as an actor every now and then. He never misses a chance to meet Bahadur and his elder brother whenever he is in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-thanks-friend-who-identified-his-acting-skills-969108.html
01-04-2021||South||NIA completes raids in 31 locations across AP, Telangana over alleged Maoist links||The National Investigation Agency said it has raided 31 locations in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as part of its probe into the role of various persons and organisations allegedly promoting the banned CPI (Maoist) activities. The central agency has recovered 40 mobile phones, 44 SIM cards, 70 storage devices like hard discs, micro SD cards, flashcards, 184 CDs/DVDs, 19 pen drives, tab, audio recorder, and Rs 10 lakh in cash. Sickles, axe, machetes, CPI (Maoist) flags and a huge number of incriminating documents, handwritten letters, CPI (Maoist) party literature, press notes etc. have also been recovered, the NIA said. Beginning on Wednesday evening, NIA sleuths conducted simultaneous searches in the residences of several civil liberty activists, advocates and revolutionary writers with suspected links with the outlawed Maoists. “Searches were conducted at 31 locations spread across eight districts of Andhra Pradesh — Visakhapatnam, Guntur, Prakasam, Srikakulam, Kurnool, Krishna, East Godavari and Kadapa — and four districts of Telangana — Ranga Reddy, Hyderabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Medak — in the case relating to furthering the activities of the proscribed organisation CPI (Maoist) in Andhra Pradesh in the guise of frontal organisations,” NIA officials said in a statement on Thursday. The case dates back to November 23 last year when a person named Pangi Naganna was intercepted by the Visakhapatnam rural police at Munchingput. They found Maoist literature, press notes, medicines, wire bundles and "some other incriminating materials". Pangi, ostensibly working as a journalist, was found to be passing on information about police movements to the Maoists. Pangi is also accused of instigating the villagers against the police combing operations, obstructing their entry, to revolt against the police and hold rallies against the government. The AP police had then booked a case under various sections of the IPC, Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Andhra Pradesh Public Security Act, and the Arms Act. The case was transferred to the NIA, which registered its FIR on 7 March. Top Maoist leader Akkiraju Haragopal, Pangi and 62 others, including several activists, advocates, writers, were mentioned as the accused in the case now being probed by the NIA Hyderabad office. “Till now, six accused — Pangi Naganna, Anduluri Annapurna, Jangarla Koteswar Rao, Manukonda Srinivasa Rao, Rela Rajeswari and Boppudi Anjamma —have been arrested in the case. Further investigation is on,” NIA officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-completes-raids-in-31-locations-across-ap-telangana-over-alleged-maoist-links-969148.html
01-04-2021||South||Kerala: Data privacy row over duplication in electoral roll||Kerala witnessed a row over data privacy in the Kerala electoral roll after Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala released online a list of over four lakh voters in Kerala alleged to be duplicate entries. The CPM tried to counter it by accusing him of compromising the personal data of the voters. Meanwhile, some of the persons mentioned in the list released by the opposition leader on the portal 'www.operationtwins.com' alleged that their names were wrongly mentioned in the list. Names of some twin brothers were also allegedly mentioned in the list. CPM leaders alleged that the website on which the data was released by the opposition leader was hosted in Singapore and it amounted to breach of personal data privacy. The opposition leader said that he only pointed out flaws in the voters list that was already published and it did not involve any data privacy violations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-data-privacy-row-over-duplication-in-electoral-roll-969172.html
01-04-2021||South||Women will have no protection if DMK returns to power, says Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Thursday alleged that women in the state will not have protection if the DMK was voted to power in the April 6 assembly election. Referring to the alleged offensive remarks made by DMK MP A Raja recently over his birth, the CM said DMK Chief M K Stalin 'failed' to condemn the comments of his party leaders on women. He said there would be no protection to women if the Dravidian party was voted to power. The ruling AIADMK lodged a police complaint and a case has been registered against Raja. Later, the senior DMK leader apologised for his remark but claimed his words were taken out of context. Addressing a meeting seeking votes for the AIADMK candidates and alliance parties here, Palaniswami said Stalin had submitted a memorandum to the Governor Banwarilal Purohit levelling graft charges against him and some ministers, while 13 former ministers from the DMK were facing corruption charges. Palaniswami further said the DMK government led by late M Karunanidhi was the only one in the country to be dismissed on charges of corruption by the Centre in 1976. He listed out various welfare projects implemented by the AIADMK government, including Athikadavu-Avanashi water project, construction of flyovers and roads. Earlier, campaigning in the Nilgiris district, Palaniswami attacked the DMK for trying to divert the attention of the people by spreading lies about his government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/women-will-have-no-protection-if-dmk-returns-to-power-says-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-k-palaniswami-969176.html
01-04-2021||South||Study points fingers at flaws in dam management for Kerala floods||A study by the Indian Institute of Science in Bengaluru has found that flaws in dam management was the cause for the 2018 floods in Kerala that claimed over 400 lives. The report has come as an embarrassment to the LDF government in Kerala on the eve of the Assembly election. Congress leader Oommen Chandy said that the LDF government was morally responsible for the death of over 400 persons in the flood. The report conducted for the Comptroller and Auditor General said that the flood cushion mechanism of the Idukki dam was not utilised and this led to the sudden water flow leading to the floods and calamities. The report also pointed out the lack of rain warning systems at the dams. Earlier also there were reports that lapses in dam management caused the floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/study-points-fingers-at-flaws-in-dam-management-for-kerala-floods-969209.html
01-04-2021||South||Timing is suspect in 'deserving honour' for Rajinikanth||By awarding the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke Award to Rajinikanth, the BJP has managed to bring the Tamil superstar back into the limelight just six days before Tamil Nadu votes to elect its 16th Assembly. The actor himself would have not liked this focus in the midst of the election season – he was away from the public glare since December last year following a short stay at Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad due to fluctuation in his blood pressure. Many argue Rajinikanth certainly deserves the recognition, but raise questions on the timing— Tamil Nadu votes on April 6. In fact, political observers feel the timing of the announcement will embarrass the actor himself as it comes just a few days before the crucial elections, raising questions on the intent of the BJP government. They said the move was aimed at reaching out to the actor’s fans to put their weight behind the AIADMK-BJP alliance. But Rajinikanth himself has refrained from supporting any political party this election after he pulled out of politics. “They (BJP) wooed him till the doctors ruled him out. And now the award comes just days before the elections. Why the award was bestowed at this time is clear, they (BJP) are hoping his fans will support,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, said the move was nothing but aimed at garnering votes. “I think this is nothing but vote bank politics. I think the BJP wants Rajinikanth’s fans to vote for the ruling alliance. It looks like the BJP will continue to chase him how much ever he tries to run away from them. This development is unlikely to change anything in the way Tamil Nadu votes,” Manivannan added. It is no secret that Rajinikanth dealt a body blow to the BJP when he announced on December 29, 2020, that he will not keep his date with politics owing to his ill-health. The BJP, which hardly has any base in Tamil Nadu, was hoping to ride on the shoulders of the popular actor to emerge as an alternative to Dravidian parties who have been ruling the state alternatively since 1967. After having been left high and dry, the BJP affirmed its alliance with the AIADMK and is now contesting in 20 assembly constituencies. Opinion polls have projected a defeat for the AIADMK-BJP alliance with DMK coming back to power after 10 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/timing-is-suspect-in-deserving-honour-for-rajinikanth-969222.html
01-04-2021||State||CD row: Medical exam conducted on woman||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) officials subjected the woman allegedly involved in the CD scandal to medical test in Bowring hospital on Wednesday . The officials also recorded her statement. The woman has been asked to appear again on Thursday for further investigation.  Since the parents of woman had alleged that she was giving statements under pressure, the the SITofficials had requested the doctors to subject her for counselling. The psychiatrists counselled her and she was again questioned by the SIT officials around4 pm.  Ramesh Jarkiholi was served notice to appear before SIT officials on April 2. He had requested the officials to give him four days time to answer to their questions during his last interrogation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cd-row-medical-exam-conducted-on-woman-968937.html
01-04-2021||State||For first time in 2021, state's daily Covid tally breaches 4,000-mark||The daily Covid-19 cases in Karnataka breached 4,000-mark for the first time in 2021 on Wednesday. The state reported 4,225 fresh infections with Bengaluru Urban alone accounting for 2,928 in the day’s tally of cases. As many as 26 deaths were also reported on Wednesday. The fatality rate now stands at 0.61% while positivity rate is 3.89%. Health Commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra said, “I have held a meeting with district officials on Wednesday and have asked them to focus on symptomatic patients. We have asked mobile teams to visit private establishments and test symptomatic people so that treatment can commence faster. Contact tracing will be enhanced within 72 hours. “Many deaths reported so far revealed that most of the cases were reporting to hospitals late for treatment. Many patients are getting treated at home, or are going to a local clinic and coming late to dedicated Covid hospitals,” the Health commissioner said. The Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) met on Wednesday night. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said, “We discussed conducting  survey in slums to check spread of Covid infection there. The speed with which we are reaching the peak this year is faster than last year. But this is just the beginning.” “This kind of ascent is scary. This is very concerning and if stricter restrictions are not imposed soon, we will soon have numbers like Maharashtra. The situation is especially alarming in Bengaluru,” he warned. Many restrictions recommended by the TAC have not been implemented by the government. Dr C N Manjunath, another TAC member said, “Numbers are worrying. Control of gatherings and crowd, and preparedness of hospitals is important. Private hospitals are also pitching in. Important drugs like Remdesivir and steroids are being stored. Even oxygen infrastructure in district hospitals and medical colleges have been strengthened. All needy patients have to be treated as early as possible and reduce the number of deaths.” “ICU admissions are on the rise. We will be able to predict the exact case fatality rate over the next week. The R0 is crossing 1.6. Today we have tested more than one lakh people with RT-PCR testing accounting for 97%. In Bengaluru, positivity rate is crossing four per cent. We have to cope with treatment burden in the coming days,” headded. “Although deaths have shown an increase, it might be mostly because of reconciliation and we need to track deaths carefully going forward,” Dr Babu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/for-first-time-in-2021-states-daily-covid-tally-breaches-4000-mark-968939.html
01-04-2021||State||KPCL sets new record in power generation||The Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) has set a new record by generating 121.708 million units (MU) on Saturday. Further, out of the record output, a total of 80.253 MU were generated by the thermal power corporations. According to an official release by the KPCL, the previous record for the highest generation of power March 25 (total generation of 117.22 MU out of which 77.329 MU was from the thermal units). "The performance of all units at the Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) that was commissioned 30-years ago is excellent resulting in the achievement of PLF (peak load factor) above 95 per cent,” the release said. Currently, the KPCL is catering to 55 to 60% of the state’s power demand during this peak summer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kpcl-sets-new-record-in-power-generation-968947.html
01-04-2021||State||Discussed only RDPR affairs with Governor: Eshwarappa||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa claimed that he only discussed the affairs of Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Department with Governor Vajubhai Vala adding that he did not give any complaint against B S Yediyurappa.  Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, Eshwarappa said there is nothing special in submitting a letter to the governor. There is no need to give importance to it. But leaders of the opposition party are giving importance to it. "What can I do for this?", he questioned and said he shared only administrative affairs of the department with Governor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/discussed-only-rdpr-affairs-with-governor-eshwarappa-969095.html
01-04-2021||State||Objectionable materials found in Mangaluru temple offering box; two held||Two people have been arrested on charges of dropping objectionable items into the offering box at a temple here, police sources said on Thursday. The sources said the two had earlier confessed their guilt to the Koragajja Katte (temple for spirit worship) priest and had surrendered before shrine authorities who later handed them over to the police. City police commissioner N Shashi Kumar said the temple authorities had summoned them during the 'Nemotsava' festival (performance of 'Bhoota Kola'-spirit worship) where the two allegedly admitted their guilt. The commissioner said another accused, who was a friend of the duo, had died of serious health issues recently. Later, one of them also faced health issues and fearing the wrath of the 'Daiva,' as the temple deity- Koragajja-is called in Tulunadu region, both decided to surrender. Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused had resorted to similar acts in at least three places and the probe will continue, the commissioner added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/objectionable-materials-found-in-mangaluru-temple-offering-box-two-held-969126.html
01-04-2021||State||23 taluks in Karnataka identified as landslides prone||A total of 23 taluks in Karnataka have been identified as landslides prone, and an expert panel has recommended strengthening the District Level Disaster Management Committee and devising an action plan pertaining to prevention, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Thursday. The expert committee constituted under the leadership of Ananth Hegde Ashisara, Chairman of Karnataka Biodiversity Board, to study landslide hit regions, submitted its final report to the Chief Minister here today. The committee has provided guidelines for the protection of rivers and valleys in the vulnerable areas of Western Ghats and the coastal region. It has also given several significant scientific suggestions and relief measures for the prevention of landslides, Yediyurappa said. The committee has made numerous recommendations for the prevention of landslides, relief measures and reconstruction, the CMO quoted him as saying in a release. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) has identified 23 taluks in the state which are prone to landslides, he said. "The committee has recommended strengthening the District Level Disaster Management Committee. It has also recommended preparing an action plan pertaining to the prevention of landslides." The Government of Karnataka will examine the recommendations and take necessary steps, the CM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/23-taluks-in-karnataka-identified-as-landslides-prone-969213.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tap water supply by 2023 polls? Can’t, says Karnataka CM||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has asked the Centre for more time in providing tap water connections to rural households after he is said to have inadvertently agreed to complete the enormous task by 2023, timed for the next Assembly elections.  According to sources, at a recent video conference, Yediyurappa was asked by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to complete the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) by 2023. The project’s deadline is 2024, but it was advanced for Karnataka that goes to polls in 2023.  The chief minister consented after which officials told him that the 2023 deadline was not realistic, the sources said.  “It is the well-considered view of the state government that Karnataka should be allowed the full mission period to complete the JJM target,” Yediyurappa stated in his letter to Shekhawat, a copy of which is with DH. Under JJM, Karnataka is doubling down on its effort to provide functional household tap connections (FHTC) to all rural households. Of the 91.19 lakh rural households, 26 lakh have been covered and the remaining 65 lakh will be reached in the coming years.  Yediyurappa told Shekhawat that 23.57 lakh households are likely to be covered in the next six months. “While providing HTCs to the remaining 42 lakh households is doable in two years, in order to make them functional with the full-service level of 55 litres per capita per day the state will have to provide water from sustainable sources including from perennial rivers and reservoirs; and for that, the state would need time till 2024,” he explained.  There are 60 ongoing multi-village schemes scheduled to end mid-2023 that will cover 2.8 lakh households with tap water connections, Yediyurappa said. Another 41 schemes would be taken up. These schemes are expected to be completed only by March 2024, the CM stated.  All these projects would still leave 30.3 lakh households whose coverage will take time, Yediyurappa said. Meanwhile, the government has accorded administrative approvals for JJM projects covering over 27,000 households since February. In a recent order, the government has permitted single-bid tenders up to Rs 2.5 crore.  “There’s no illegality in single-bid tenders,” Rural Development and Panchayat Raj principal secretary L K Atheeq said. “JJM has led to a significant increase in the prices of pipes. So, we’re either getting no bids at all or single bids. Also, we’re implementing JJM on a war-footing. That’s why we’ve permitted it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tap-water-supply-by-2023-polls-can-t-says-karnataka-cm-968846.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ethical questions over elephant Kusha's 'forcible' capture at Dubare||The forcible capture of elephant Kusha by officials in Dubare camp, Kodagu, while the animal was with its companion, has raised ethical questions. Forest officials acknowledged that they have to take hard decisions to avoid human-animal conflict. It is common for elephants to leave the camp during the time of ‘musth’ and return after a while. However, Kusha left the camp and didn’t return for more than a year. During each attempt to capture him, the jumbo escaped, preferring to stay in the wild. Separated from companion After a struggle of six months, officials at the camp, with the help of four tamed elephants, captured Kusha early morning on Tuesday, separating him from his companion in the process. Brickbats on social media Many on social media questioned the ethics of capturing an animal which repeatedly indicated its preference to stay in natural habitat. Retired principal chief conservator of forests B K Singh said rehabilitating elephants to the forests should be given priority. “The first option in elephant management is to send it to the wild after capture and not to bring it to captivity. Usually, the chief wildlife warden and his officers come under pressure from the public and politicians to bring elephants, straying into human areas and causing damages to lives and properties, to captivity,” he said.  He said that in the past, such elephants were released in the wild, sometimes even more than 200 km away. “Many of these elephants came back to the places where they were captured, but quite a few of them adapted themselves to the new habitat. Kusha has lived for more than a year in the wild. It can manage the situation in ‘musth’ and also during in-fights,” he said. Responding to the suggestion, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Vijaykumar Gogi said the department had considered the option of leaving the elephant in the wild, but decided to capture it to avoid possible man-animal conflicts. “We have to see the issue from several aspects. We give primacy to animal rights. However, one has to consider the problem of elephants raiding crops or harming humans. Any decision to allow Kusha to live in the wild included the risk of recurrence of such incidents. Capturing it seemed to be the safest option,” hesaid. Joseph Hoover, a member of the State Wildlife Board, said capturing an elephant was a hard decision that the department has to make. ‘Shrinking forests’ “Shrinking of forests and largescale damage to animal corridors will mean the department will be pressured by one and all to capture animals eventually. This is the cost of unplanned development projects,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ethical-questions-over-elephant-kushas-forcible-capture-at-dubare-968902.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa, Health Minister appeal to people above 45 to get vaccinated||As the state geared up to vaccinate everyone above 45 years of age from Thursday, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar appealed to the eligible people to make use of this protective cover against coronavirus. Cautioning people not to underestimate the danger posed by Covid, Yediyurappa tweeted, "Our protective cover is the vaccine against corona. Everyone over the age of 45 can get the vaccine today. Go to your nearest vaccination centre and get the vaccine. Together we can defeat coronavirus." ನಾಗರಿಕ ಬಂಧುಗಳೇ, ಕೋವಿಡ್ ಅಪಾಯವನ್ನು ನಿರ್ಲಕ್ಷಿಸದಿರಿ. ಎಲ್ಲ ಸುರಕ್ಷತಾ ನಿಯಮಗಳನ್ನು ತಪ್ಪದೇ ಪಾಲಿಸಿ. ಕೊರೋನಾ ವಿರುದ್ಧ ಲಸಿಕೆಯೇ ನಮ್ಮ ಸುರಕ್ಷಾ ಕವಚ. 45 ವರ್ಷ ಮೇಲ್ಪಟ್ಟ ಪ್ರತಿಯೊಬ್ಬರೂ ಇಂದಿನಿಂದ ಲಸಿಕೆ ಪಡೆಯಬಹುದು, ನಿಮ್ಮ ಹತ್ತಿರದ ಕೇಂದ್ರಕ್ಕೆ ತೆರಳಿ ಲಸಿಕೆ ಪಡೆದುಕೊಳ್ಳಿ. ಜೊತೆಯಾಗಿ ನಾವೆಲ್ಲರೂ ಕೊರೋನಾ ಹಿಮ್ಮೆಟ್ಟಿಸೋಣ. Health Minister Sudhakar too tweeted, "As we begin vaccinating all citizens aged above 45 years from today, 5,500 vaccination sites will be operational across the state including 650 private and 4,850 government facilities." As we begin vaccinating all citizens aged above 45 years from today, 5500 vaccination sites will be operational across the state including 650 private & 4850 govt facilities. 1.5 lakh doses of vaccine is supplied to BBMP which is distributed to about 600 sites across Bengaluru. According to him, 1.5 lakh doses of vaccine is supplied to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, the civic body, which is distributed to about 600 sites across the state capital. The Health Department said in a statement that Covid-19 vaccination will continue at all the primary health centres, community health centres, Taluk hospitals, district hospitals, medical colleges and private hospitals as already being done. It added that Karnataka has in stock 13.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine and 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin vaccine and it has been supplied to all the cold chain points across the districts as per their requirement. The government of India has assured the state that additional vaccine doses will be supplied regularly in the coming days as per daily coverage, the department added. The vaccination drive covering everyone above 45 years of age started at a time when there is an alarming rise in cases in Karnataka. The state reported 4,225 fresh cases including 26 deaths on a single day on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-health-minister-appeal-to-people-above-45-to-get-vaccinated-969000.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah urges Governor to sack BSY over Eshwarappa's allegations, bring in President's rule||Terming the allegations made by senior Minister K S Eshwarappa against Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa as "serious" and evidence for collapse of administration in the state, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday urged the Governor to intervene and recommend President's rule. The senior Congress leader also demanded that the Chief Minister be sacked. Eshwarappa, who is Rural Development Minister in Yediyurappa's cabinet, on Wednesday had complained to the Governor against the Chief Minister alleging direct interference in the affairs of his department. He had met Governor Vajubhai Vala and submitted a five-page letter on "serious lapses and authoritarian way of running the administration" by the Chief Minister. "Eshwarappa has provided evidence for the allegations of corruption, nepotism and illegalities against the BJP that I have been making as the leader of opposition. He should not bow down to any pressure and stick to his statement," Siddaramaiah said in a statement. Stating that Eshwarappa for the first time in his political career has done a good job, he said, "I congratulate him for considering the interest of the state as important over his personal interest." Corruption, nepotism and illegalities were not restricted to only Rural Development Department, he said, it was there in every department of this government. "The BJP leadership should not attempt to shut Eshwarappa's mouth and provide opportunity to other Ministers to share their opinion freely." Eshwarappa, in his letter, has listed out instances like the Chief Minister sanctioning huge funds on the request of MLAs to the tune of Rs 774 crore under RDPR Department ignoring him, works worth Rs 460 crore sanctioned by bypassing him. He has also alleged Rs 65 crore was directly sanctioned on the basis of a letter by the Bengaluru Urban zilla panchayat president, who according to him is a "close relative" of Yediyurappa's family, while pointing out that annual allocation for the Bengaluru Urban zilla panchayat is just Rs 1.17 crore. Noting that Ehwarappa has not only complained against the Chief Minister to the Governor, but also to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP National President, Siddaramaiah demanded that they should react to the allegations immediately and uphold internal democracy. "Eshwarappa through his research has made it public that it is the corruption virus which has infected this government and not coronavirus that is responsible for the state treasury getting empty," he said. Pointing out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the 2018 assembly polls campaign had alleged his administration as "10 per cent commission government", the former Chief Minister asked him to give a corruption rating to the state government after examining its "horoscope" sent to him by his own party minister. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi, change your world famous slogan 'Na Khaunga, Na Khane Doonga' (neither will I indulge in corruption, nor allow anyone else to indulge in it), to 'Main bhi Khaunga, Tum bhi Kaho' (I will also indulge in corruption, you too indulge)," he chided. Referring to Karnataka High Court vacating the stay on investigation against Yediyurappa and others for allegedly offering bribe to JD(S) MLA Naganagouda Kandkur's son Sharanagouda in 2019, Siddarmaiaah said, "this proves our allegation that the BJP government in the state is an illicit child from an immoral act called 'Operation Kamala." He demanded for an detailed investigation into the crores of rupees that were allegedly used for 'Operation Kamala' which was the main reason for the BJP government's existence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-urges-governor-to-sack-bsy-over-eshwarappas-allegations-bring-in-presidents-rule-969083.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Covid-19 cases breach 10 lakh-mark with over 4,000 cases for second successive day||The number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka breached the 10 lakh mark on Thursday, with Karnataka reporting 4,234 cases and 18 more deaths, taking the death toll to 12,585, the Health department said. The day also saw 1,599 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban alone reported 2,906 cases today. A total of over 2,15,26,958 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,15,732 were tested on Thursday alone. As of April 1 evening, cumulatively 10,01,238 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,585 deaths and 9,57,769 discharges, a department bulletin said. It said, out of 30,865 active cases, 30,600 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 265 are in ICU. Among 18 deaths reported today, 11 are from Bengaluru Urban, Dharwad 2, and one each from Kalaburagi, Mandya, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Bidar. Bidar accounted for 218 new cases, Kalaburagi 144, Mysuru 109, Tumakuru 102, Hassan and Mandya 67, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,37,733, followed by Mysuru 55,919 and Ballari 39,856. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 4,11,313, followed by Mysuru 54,077 and Ballari 38,897.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-covid-19-cases-breach-10-lakh-mark-with-over-4000-cases-for-second-successive-day-969135.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Laxmibai & Bendre: Couple dumps trend for tradition, goes retro for pre-wedding photoshoot||This couple from the city took a departure from the trend for pre-wedding shoots at picturesque locales and chose to give it a feel from the past.  They selected the sprawling old bungalow where the bride, Chetana Desai, grew up. It is right next to ‘Sri Mata,’ the residence of Jnanapith awardee poet laureate, the late Da Ra Bendre, at Sadhankeri in the city.   Chetana works as an interior designer in Bengaluru. She and her family are very close to the family of the celebrity poet. She is set to tie the knot with Nikhil Maggavi in the last week of April.  The bride discussed her plan with photographer Harshad Uday Kamath of Dharwad. After coming to know of Chetana’s passion for Bendre’s poetry and her family’s ties with the Bendres, Kamath suggested that they should have the photoshoot at Chetana’s house itself. The girl’s family members liked the idea a lot. Bendre’s family members too were willing to co-operate. Kamath prepared a theme based on poet Bendre’s poems on love and his romance with his wife Laxmibai. Chetana’s grandmother provided her grand old sarees and antique jewellery.  The poet’s family offered the umbrella, coat, cap, dhoti for Nikhil to wear and articles used by the poet like the old gramophone. The shoot was done using a Nikon D 750 camera. The events brought back to life include Laxmibai performing Tulasi Puja, Bendre offering flowers to his wife, the poet plaiting his wife’s hair, the couple listening to songs on the gramophone, Bendre reciting his compositions and the couple playing chowka baara with cowrie shells. When the printouts came, they created quite a sensation and were liked by thousands when uploaded on social media. Harshad is an MBA, who worked for an MNC for three years. Photography was a hobby he developed, after trying his hand at painting. The hobby has now become his profession. So far, he has done more than 40 pre-wedding shoots and each one is unique.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/laxmibai-bendre-couple-dumps-trend-for-tradition-goes-retro-for-pre-wedding-photoshoot-969174.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2008 Bengaluru blast case: Maudany moves SC to relax bail conditions||Kerala’s People Democratic Party leader Abdul Nazir Maudany has approached the Supreme Court to modify his bail conditions in the 2008 Bengaluru blast case to allow him to visit and stay in his home state. In an application, 56-year-old Maudany, through advocates Haris Beeran and R S Jena, stated that it was just and necessary to relax the bail conditions on account of recent developments of the cases being dragged due to various reasons, including the Covid-19 pandemic. While granting bail to him on July 11, 2014, the top court had directed him not to leave the city of Bengaluru. He said the progress of the case was crawling at a snail’s pace due to various reasons, including recall of witnesses and transfer of prosecutor and trial judges thrice and now on account of Covid-19. For the last year, recording of the statement of the accused was underway. At present, his presence in the trial was not required, he claimed in the application. He also claimed that there was no presiding officer at the trial court at present. He had already spent 11 years since arrest and seven years since bail in Bengaluru, he said. Among other reasons, the applicant contended he was not able to avail of Ayurveda treatment for his ill-health. For his various ailments, he was also not able to get proper treatment due to a high number of Covid-19 cases in the city. His father was also critical after having suffered a stroke. He also submitted that being in the city caused him an excessive financial burden due to high rent. Further, he said the top court had earlier three times relaxed the bail conditions to permit him to visit Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2008-bengaluru-blast-case-maudany-moves-sc-to-relax-bail-conditions-969175.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Give wide publicity to crop insurance schemes: Karnataka HC tells govt||The Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the state government to ensure that wide publicity of crop insurance schemes is given to farmers in all the districts. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, said that the farmers may not be aware of the insurance scheme and its benefits. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha on the issues of farmers’ suicides and implementation of the crop insurance scheme. Perusing the affidavit filed by the government on the meetings of the state and district level grievance redressal committees, the bench observed that frequent meetings have not been held. Going through the minutes of the meeting, the bench said that the last meeting held was on March 16, 2019, in Yadgir district. “However, we find from the minutes of the meeting in Yadgir district that there were no enquiries made in the villages to ascertain whether there are any farmers who have been denied the benefit of the crop insurance scheme,” the bench said. Yadgir district committee has been directed to consider the specific grievances made in complaints in January and February 2021. The committee has also been directed to depute an appropriate officer to visit the villages with a view to find out whether any farmers are deprived of the benefit of the scheme. “We direct the state government to ensure that wide publicity is given to the crop insurance scheme and to the fact that any farmer deprived of the scheme has the right to approach the district grievance redressal committee. Steps shall be taken to give wide publicity in terms of Clause 26 on the availability of crop insurance scheme,” the bench said.   The government advocate informed the court that because of the code of conduct due to by-election, the state is not in a position to take a decision regarding the payment of compensation to those farmers who ended their lives by suicide after availing loans from private money lenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/give-wide-publicity-to-crop-insurance-schemes-karnataka-hc-tells-govt-969179.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 50K above 45 years of age vaccinated on Day 1 in Karnataka||On Day One of vaccination when it was thrown open for those aged 45 years and above, even for those without comorbidities, 50,620 individuals were vaccinated in Karnataka, taking the cumulative tally to 6,74,316. However, the health department did not provide a district-wise breakup of how many got vaccinated on Thursday. As per the cumulative figures, Bengaluru Urban vaccinated 95,127 persons followed by Ballari (47,767), Belagavi 42,437), Bagalkot (39,133), and Raichur (30,088). Bangalore Urban immunisation officer Dr Syed Sirajuddin Madni told DH that 1,864 individuals were vaccinated in the district. “Thursday is routine immunisation day. Hence, figures are low across districts. Also, the Co-WIN portal does not give us a break-up of whether the individual has comorbidities or not.” Since it is opened for all above 45 years of age, health facilities no longer ask for comorbidities certificate, said health authorities. Out of 5,500 vaccination centres in Karnataka, 650 are private ones out of which 135 private facilities are in Bengaluru and 4,850 are government facilities. As many as 1.5 lakh doses were supplied to BBMP’s 525 sites today. 4,234 cases, 18 deaths The number of Covid-19 cases in the state breached the 10-lakh mark on Thursday, with 4,234 cases and 18 more deaths, taking the total number of positive cases to 10,01,238 and the death toll to 12,585. The day also saw 1,599 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban alone reported 2,906 cases on the day. A total of over 2,15,26,958 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,15,732 were tested on Thursday alone. As of April 1 evening, cumulatively 9,57,769 have been discharged in the state. Out of 30,865 active cases, 265 are in ICU. Among the 18 deaths reported, 11 are from Bengaluru Urban, two are from Dharwad, and one each from Kalaburagi, Mandya, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Bidar. Bidar accounted for 218 new cases, Kalaburagi 144, Mysuru 109, Tumakuru 102, Hassan and Mandya 67, followed by others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-50k-above-45-years-of-age-vaccinated-on-day-1-in-karnataka-969194.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi sex CD case: Woman's father approaches Karnataka High Court||The father of the woman, said to be featured in the 'sex video' allegedly involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, has approached the Karnataka High Court questioning the police recording his daughter's statement. The father said in his petition that his daughter was a victim of circumstances and politics and her indecent video was aired by various media. He said he contacted her only to realise that she has been victimised and was under tremendous pressure. Stating that he had lodged a police complaint that his daughter was kidnapped by unknown influential people in Belagavi,he said his daughter too lodged a plaint with police. "In the course of investigation, the petitioner has learnt that the statement of his daughter is recorded under section 164 of the CrPC ... throwing all legal norms to the winds," the petition said. He argued that recording statement under section 164 of the CrPC was not only violative of the mandatory requirements of the said provision,it is also violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India (protection of life and personal liberty). Meanwhile, police sources said the woman's family shifted from Belagavi to Vijayapura and demanded her safety. In Bengaluru, the police visited a few spots, which were said to be places where the objectionable videos were shot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-sex-cd-case-womans-father-approaches-karnataka-high-court-969195.html
01-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CD row: SIT inspects woman's rented room, Jarkiholi's flat||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) officials on Thursday took the woman allegedly involved in the CD scandal for spot inspection (mahajar) to her rented room in a multi-storey building in RT Nagar (near the CBI office) and to a flat in Malleswaram. The officials started the mahajar at 10.20 am. They inspected the spot and collected details about the materials in her room. They also asked her about the Rs 9 lakh found in the room during the SIT officials' search there, after former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi's complaint. The woman reportedly showed them the clothes she wore when she made video calls to Jarkiholi and when she met him. The officials have taken possession of the materials and will send them to the forensic laboratory. The officials questioned the building owner and his employees. They also collected details of the others who were staying in the building and asked them about people who visited her, what time the woman used to come and go and other details. The procedure in her room was over by 1.30 pm. The woman was later taken to the flat in an apartment building which belongs to Jarkiholi. The officials started the procedure there around 2 pm and it went on till 7 pm. They questioned the employees of the apartment building, including security guards. The woman was later escorted to the place where she is staying at present. SIT sources said she had been asked to appear before them again on Friday as there were a few more procedures to be completed. Jarkiholi will appear before the SIT officials on Friday morning. He had earlier sought time to answer their questions. The former minister has reportedly contacted his legal advisers over the questions posed by the SIT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cd-row-sit-inspects-womans-rented-room-jarkiholis-flat-969206.html
01-04-2021||West||Arvind Sawant made Sena's chief spokesperson along with Sanjay Raut||The Shiv Sena has appointed its Lok Sabha member Arvind Sawant as the party's chief spokesperson, in an apparent bid to keep in check its other chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut. Sawant was earlier a spokesperson of the party. He was the Shiv Sena's lone minister in the Narendra Modi-led central cabinet before he quit in 2019 after his party snapped ties with the BJP and joined hands with the NCP and Congress to form government in Maharashtra. The Sena published a new list of its spokespersons in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Wednesday. Raut, the Rajya Sabha member and the executive editor of 'Saamana', was made the party's chief spokesperson in September last year. The move to appoint Sawant also as the Sena's chief spokesperson comes against the backdrop of Raut recently calling Maharashtra NCP leader Anil Deshmukh an "accidental home minister". The Rajya Sabha member also faced criticism from the ally Congress in the state after he suggested that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should take over as UPA chairperson. The United Progressive Alliance (UPA) is currently headed by senior Congress leader Sonia Gandhi. Maharashtra Revenue Minister and senior Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat on Tuesday said Raut should be careful before making any comments. State Congress chief Nana Patole had also asked if Raut was the spokesperson of Pawar. Meanwhile, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena has dropped state minister Gulabrao Patil and Lok Sabha member Dhairyasheel Mane as party spokespersons. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab, Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi, legislators Sunil Prabhu, Pratap Sarnaik, Bhaskar Jadhav, Ambadas Danve and Manisha Kayande, Sena's deputy leader Sachin Air, former mayor Shubha Raul, corporator Sheetal Mhatre, Kishore Kanhere, Sanjana Ghadi and Anand Dube will continue as the Sena's spokespersons, the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/arvind-sawant-made-senas-chief-spokesperson-along-with-sanjay-raut-968990.html
01-04-2021||West||Ambani security scare: NIA searches hotel in Mumbai||The NIA, which is probing the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence and murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren, conducted searches at a hotel in south Mumbai on Thursday, an official said. A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) reached the hotel located in Soni building near the Babulnath temple here around 12.45 pm. Customers and hotel staff members were asked to vacate the premises, the official said, adding that the searches are still on. Suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, whom the NIA arrested last month in connection with the security scare outside Ambani's residence, was recently brought by the probe agency to the Babulnath area as part of its probe into the case, he said. The gelatin sticks found in the vehicle near Ambani's house last month were procured by Vaze, NIA sources claimed on Wednesday. The NIA on Sunday recovered a laptop, a printer, two hard disks, two-vehicle number plates, two DVRs and two CPUs from the Mithi river here with the help of divers. The agency is probing the alleged role of Waze in parking the explosives-laden SUV near Ambani's residence on February 25 and in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren. The body of Hiren, who was in possession of the SUV, was found in a creek in Mumbra town of neighbouring Thane district on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-security-scare-nia-searches-hotel-in-mumbai-969038.html
01-04-2021||West||As Rajini gets Phalke, village awaits the return of the native||As news of Rajinikanth getting the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke Award reached Mavadi Katepathar village, about 60 km from Pune, some villagers said they are awaiting the Tamil superstar to keep his promise of visiting his native place. "Shivajirao Gaikwad (Rajinikanth's name before he became an actor) is a son of the soil who made it big in the movies. He had assured us when he was shooting at Lonavala a few years ago that he will visit his native place and we feel he will keep his word," a villager said. Rajini's roots are in the village that is still home to many Gaikwads, he said. Some villagers met Rajinikanth a few years ago when he was in Lonavala for a shoot, he added. "We tried to catch up with him during the shoot but were sent away by the security guards. Later, we went to his hotel and waited for him near the lift. "We introduced ourselves in Hindi and he asked us to speak in Marathi. We were surprised to know that he speaks fluent Marathi," he said. Sadanand Jagtap, former sarpanch of Mavadi Kathepathar told PTI that the entire village felt proud after hearing the news of Rajinikanth being honoured with the prestigious award. Jagtap was in the delegation which went to Lonavala to meet the actor. Another villager Hanumant Chachar was also a part of the delegation, Jagtap said. Akash Chachar, the 29-year-old son of late Hanumant Chachar said that after meeting Rajinikanth, his father and a few other villagers corresponded with the actor's office but there was no response. "We will once again invite the 70-year-old actor as he has roots in this village," Akash said. Vijay Kolte, another resident of the region, said, "I hope someday Rajinikanth will come to the village and fulfil the wish of the villagers as for them he is still Shivaji Gaikwad, the local lad who made it big." In and around Pune, Mavadi Kadepathar is known as 'Rajinikanth's village'. A village elder said Rajinikanth's grandfather moved to Basavanna Bagewadi in Karnataka's Vijayapura tehsil and then to Bengaluru, where the actor was born. The family migrated in search of work almost like many others in the village. Though they had land in the village, the family remained in Karnataka, he said. In 2013, they invited Rajinikanth to inaugurate a Marathi literary meet in Saswad, but there was no response. In 2016, then BJP MLA Anil Gote had demanded that the Maharashtra Bhushan, the state's highest award, be given to Rajini. He also claimed the Gaikwad family is from Kolhapur. Born on December 12, 1950, as Shivajirao Gaikwad in a Marathi family settled in the then Bangalore, the actor was named after Maratha warrior ruler Chhatrapati Shivaji. Rajinikanth was the fourth child of Jijabai and Ramojirao Gaikwad. His father was a police constable. His mother died while he was eight. Early in his career, while doing a stage play at the Madras Film Institute, Rajinikanth, whose mother tongue is Marathi, was advised by noted film-maker K Balachander to learn Tamil. He mastered the language soon and thus began his celluloid journey which made him a demigod. The Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Indian cinema's highest honour, will be presented to Rajinikanth on May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-rajini-gets-phalke-village-awaits-the-return-of-the-native-969092.html
01-04-2021||West||Yes Bank loan fraud: ED files charge sheet against Mumbai realty firm owners, others||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet in connection with its money laundering probe against Mumbai-based realty group Omkar Realtors and Developers linked to alleged illegal diversion of Yes Bank loan funds worth over Rs 400 crore. In a statement, the central probe agency said the prosecution complaint (charge sheet) has been filed under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) before a special court in Mumbai. The charge sheet names chairman of Omkar Realtors and Developers Kamal Kishore Gupta, its managing director Babulal Varma, actor-producer Sachin Joshi (also the promoter of Viiking Group) and their companies. The ED had earlier raided the premises of Omkar Group promoters and arrested all three accused in the case. The central agency's case is based on an FIR of Aurangabad Police (Maharashtra) against Gupta and Varma on charges of cheating and diversion of Yes Bank loan funds of Rs 410 crore which were taken for the redevelopment of Anand Nagar SRA (Slum Rehabilitation Authority) CHS. "As per the terms and conditions of Yes Bank, the loan amount of Rs 410 crore was to be utilised for the construction of rehab buildings at Anand Nagar SRA CHS, Wadala. "However, instead of constructing SRA buildings, the whole amount of Rs 410 crore was diverted by the accused to group companies," the ED claimed in its statement. Out of this Rs 410 crore, an amount of Rs 80 crore was further layered to Joshi and his Viiking Group of companies in the guise of service fee and investment. "However, during the investigation, it was found that neither Sachin Joshi nor his companies were ever engaged in any such business and the said transactions were found to be sham," the ED alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yes-bank-loan-fraud-ed-files-charge-sheet-against-mumbai-realty-firm-owners-others-969094.html
01-04-2021||West||One Covid-19 patient can infect 400 people, says Maharashtra Covid-19 task force head||The head of Maharashtra's Covid-19 task force Dr Sanjay Oak on Thursday said a Covid-19 patient can infect 400 people, and hence, there is no alternative to masks, hygiene and social distancing. Speaking to reporters, Oak said a new range of symptoms such as common cold, mild body ache and fatigue has emerged in Covid-19 patients in the state. "The coronavirus infection generally spreads through our nose. One Covid-19 patients can infect at least 400 people. Hence, there is no alternative to wearing mask, hygiene and social distancing," the senior health official said. Symptoms such as common cold, mild body ache and fatigue have emerged among patients and people tend to postpone their visit to a doctor when they notice these signs, he said. "In the current situation, any such symptom should be treated as Covid-19 infection and medicines should be given accordingly," he said. Oak also alleged that the Centre was not providing enough support to undertake vaccination for all. "There are some challenges in mass vaccination. We want permission for door-to-door immunisation. The state government is ready to implement it, but we cannot do it without the Centre's permission," he said. A sizeable population can't move outside their homes easily and such people can be inoculated at home, the official said, adding that the side-effects of the vaccines are nothing compared to the protection they offer from the virus. "There are reports that some states have started door-to-door vaccination, and Maharashtra should also be allowed to do so. The state should be able to vaccinate maximum population by June for better control on the virus and its spread," he said. Speaking about the line of treatment, Oak said, "Treating every symptom as Covid-19 and starting the treatment as soon as possible is the need of the hour." There have been cases where people with a common cold and mild body ache come to Covid-19 centres very late and succumb to the disease within a couple of days from the date of admission, he said. "This means when they approach us, the infection has been spread widely," he added. When asked about the surge in infections in the state, he said, "It is true that the number of cases in Maharashtra is drastically increasing. Maharashtra is reporting the number of Covid-19 cases honestly, and hence, our figures appear high." Genome sequencing of samples in the state has been increased to ascertain the strain of the virus, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-covid-19-patient-can-infect-400-people-says-maharashtra-covid-19-task-force-head-969129.html
01-04-2021||West||Covid-19 patient in Nashik dies after staging protest over lack of hospital beds||In a shocking incident, a Covid-19 patient who staged a sit-in protest wearing an oxygen mask connected to a cylinder – for not getting bed in hospital in Nashik passed away. The deceased was identified as Babasaheb Kole, a 38-year-old, who staged a protest outside the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) building. On Tuesday night, he could not get a bed in the local hospitals. On Wednesday morning, he was seen protesting, after which the corporation sent an ambulance and took him to a hospital, where he was admitted. However, Kole’s oxygen level dropped in the evening and he passed away past midnight. Speaking to reporters, his wife said: “Two-three days back he was taken to Bytco Hospital. From there, he went to another hospital, from there to the government medical college, where we were told that there are no beds available. We went to a lot of hospitals. Nobody admitted him. Then we came back to civil (hospital) and got oxygen for him and put him on it." Taking strong cognizance of the incident the Nashik’s municipal commissioner Kailash Jadhav has asked the Nashik Police to probe and find out who instigated the patient to go on agitation. "The matter is being investigated in detail," he said.  The NMC security and the Sarkarwada police station are now trying to track the people who have provoked him for the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-in-nashik-dies-after-staging-protest-over-lack-of-hospital-beds-969131.html
01-04-2021||West||Wear a mask and be 'fool-proof': Mumbai police's witty message on April Fool's Day||It’s April fool’s day and the Mumbai Police took to Twitter to warn people against a "costly prank" -- not wearing a mask. “Don't get fooled by the virus, wear a mask and be 'fool-proof',” Mumbai Police said in a new tweet to raise awareness about the importance of wearing face masks.   Mumbai has been witnessing a massive rise in Covid-19 cases lately. The city logged over 8,000 cases on Thursday. Considering the huge jump in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra CM, Uddhav Thackeray had recenly said that another lockdown may be on the cards if the citizens do not follow the Covid-19 protocals properly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wear-a-mask-and-be-fool-proof-mumbai-polices-witty-message-on-april-fools-day-969140.html
01-04-2021||West||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai breach 8,000-mark||In what could trigger tightening of norms and return of work-from-home, the financial capital of Mumbai on Thursday registered a mammoth 24-hour tally of over 8,000 fresh Covid-19 cases. During the last 24 hours, 8,646 cases and 18 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 41,29,931 and 46,758, respectively. The doubling rate in Mumbai is now 49 days. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases between 25-31 March is 1.38 per cent, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Maharashtra witnessed 43,183 new cases and 249 deaths. A total of 32,641 patients recovered from the deadly virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-breach-8000-mark-969142.html
