02-04-2021||Davangere||Impose President's Rule in Karnataka: Siddaramaiah over Eshwarappa's letter||Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah has urged Governor Vajubhai Vala to recommend the Centre to enforce President's Rule in Karnataka as administrative machinery is collapsed. Speaking to media persons, here on Friday, the former chief minister said the BJP-led government in the state has no responsibility and corruption is ruling the roost. There is no coordination among ministers of the government. So, development works have come to standstill and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa must step down from the top post. He said Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa's letter to the party high command accusing the chief minister of interfering in the affairs of his department is the best example for dissidence in the BJP. The allegation was made by a senior leader of BJP and not by the leader of the Opposition party. When questioned on the sleaze CD case involving BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi, he said the probe is in progress. He also charged that the chief minister has no concern for poor people. He alleged that the government has reduced the quantum of rice given to people under the Anna Bhagya scheme and it has abolished the Vidya Siri scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/impose-presidents-rule-in-karnataka-siddaramaiah-over-eshwarappas-letter-969518.html
02-04-2021||First Edit||BJP high command, stem the rot||Karnataka Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K S Eshwarappa has breached all norms of propriety by submitting a written complaint to the governor against the alleged lapses by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in sanctioning funds to certain MLAs and his “authoritarian rule”. Normally, it is the Opposition that approaches the governor against the functioning of the government, but here is a rare case where a senior cabinet minister writes to the head of the state against his own chief minister.  By doing so, Eshwarappa has not only put the government to acute embarrassment and made it a laughing stock in the eyes of the public, but has also exposed the absence of cohesiveness within the Yediyurappa administration, which has anyway come out in the open on many other occasions. The right course of action for the minister would have been to discuss the issue directly with the chief minister and if his grouse persisted,  the appropriate forum would have been the Cabinet. Nonetheless, Eshwarappa’s allegations cannot be simply brushed aside as this is not the first time that such serious charges are levelled against the chief minister. Former Union minister and senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has on many occasions openly accused Yediyurappa and his family of corruption. Under normal circumstances, Eshwarappa would have been sacked from the ministry, while disciplinary action would have been initiated against Yatnal, but Yediyurappa has not been able to rein in either, giving credence to rumours that such acts of indiscipline may actually have the blessings of the high command. There has been speculation for some time now that BJP is keen to replace the ageing Lingayat strongman with a young leader in preparation for the 2023 assembly elections, but Yediyurappa has been able to ward off all such moves. Nevertheless, his position has considerably weakened with the Karnataka High Court restoring trial against him in corruption and forgery cases, while a controversial CD involving a cabinet minister has singed his government’s image. The attack from within is seen as a ploy to further destabilise him. One of the cardinal principles on which the cabinet functions is collective responsibility and Yediyurappa should learn to take everybody along, for his style of functioning had come into question earlier too. In 2010 for instance, 11 BJP MLAs who revolted against him, had petitioned the governor. The BJP, on its part, should either strengthen the hands of Yediyurappa or let him go, instead of allowing the uncertainty over his continuance in office to fester.  Whatever be the internal politics of the party, governance should not be allowed to suffer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bjp-high-command-stem-the-rot-969609.html
02-04-2021||In Perspective||Open Covid-19 vaccination to 18 years and above||Vaccine as a response to the pandemic has been excellent so far despite the current inadequacies in our health systems. However, it is now time to up the ante. Over 6.87 crore  people in India have so far received one dose of the vaccine and around 96 lakh both the doses, as on April 2. However, measured on a per-capita basis, total number of vaccines we have administered is amongst the lowest in the world. We have only four jabs per 100 people, Israel has 114.58 per 100. Our scientists have created an indigenous vaccine, we have exported vaccines to countries in need and have truly embodied the spirit of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’. However, we cannot lockdown our economy, we need to go out to work, schools need to reopen, elections need to happen. With a dangerous increase in the number of cases, we may just be running out of time, and very quickly at that. We have not seen any significant ramp up of our vaccination programme which is required urgently to have the desired impact. Vaccination is important as it provides good protection against severe disease and reduces the transmission. We are dealing with not just imported mutations but also native mutations, perhaps missing some too as sequencing is limited. The sequencing effort needs a definite boost. In addition to reinforcing the triad of using masks, hand hygiene and social distancing, it is time to now open vaccination for all 18 years and above. With the right approach, issues around vaccine manufacture and supply, maintaining the cold chain and administering vaccines can be easily tackled. Partnering with the large private sector will be helpful. Unfortunately, vaccine hesitancy is a reality and needs to be tackled head on with reinforcing the correct messaging. It is good to note that all 45 years of age or above will now be eligible to get vaccinated. However, it is the younger population that goes out to work and is at risk of exposure to the virus and hence need the vaccine as much. As per sources, 6.5% of Covid-19 vaccine doses in India are wasted, suggesting that over two million doses have gone to waste so far. Each Covishield vial has 10 doses in total, while a Covaxin vial contains 20 doses — each dose being 0.5 ml (for one person). Once opened, all doses must be administered within four hours, otherwise, it goes to waste and the remaining doses must be destroyed. The wastage of vaccine varies across states: UP -9.4%, Tamil Nadu 3.7% and Himachal Pradesh 1.4%. It will be prudent for states to learn from each other to target zero-vaccine wastage. The Central Government may also consider publishing daily, state-wise data about the number of doses supplied to each state. This is likely to improve vaccination drive, especially in laggard states. In fact, though health is a state subject, the pandemic response needs to be unified. Importantly, vaccine doses come with an expiry date and it would be criminal wastage if the vaccines were to expire unutilised. In fact, the first batch in Karnataka is set to expire in May 2021. It may be worthwhile to consider consolidation of vaccine centres as small centres may have higher wastage, though this may not be possible in difficult terrain or special populations. Further, we need to look at doing additional studies on vaccine stability to increase shelf life. In addition to expanding vaccine coverage to all 18 years and above, we need to look at making the process seamless and drudgery-free. It may help to move the vaccine centres closer to the population- public buildings, libraries, sports stadia etc, can be roped in as vaccination centres. Where possible, open air environments should be preferred over AC buildings to prevent vaccination centres becoming hot spots for spread. Adequately equipped ambulances stationed on-site can help provide emergency response in case of an allergic reaction, the occurrence of which, for vaccinations in general is one per million. Management of delayed reactions to the vaccine like fever, myalgia, pain at injection site etc, can be guided through digital healthcare as has been done in the case of home isolation of Covid positive cases and telemedicine consults. Furthermore, we also need to consider other vaccines for emergency use approvals, open market access to vaccine with requisite checks, involve corporates to organise vaccine camps and incentivise hospitals to have round the clock vaccine service and even explore vaccinating the foreign nationals on Indian soil in coordination with their embassy/consulate. Every single person who is vaccinated is one less opportunity for the virus. Time is of essence here, and in this race against the virus, time is not on our side. The question is not whether we can roll out the Covid vaccine for all, but can we afford not to? (Dr Arora is Vice President-Asia, Day to Day Health; Dr Swaminathan is Director, Infectious Diseases & Infection Control of a Bengaluru-based hospital)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/open-covid-19-vaccination-to-18-years-and-above-969614.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||23 taluks in Karnataka face landslide risk: Report||As many as 23 taluks in Karnataka face risk of landslides while five others need attention due to minor landslides witnessed over the years, a report has warned. The report, 'Landslide Vulnerability of Karnataka', was prepared by G S Srinivasa Reddy, former director of Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), and is based on data from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and the Geographical Survey of India (GSI)  The study began in the wake of the 2018 flood havoc in Kodagu, where about 900 houses collapsed or were damaged, displacing thousands of people, while 33,548 farmers suffered crop loss. As per the report, which analysed information from Isro and GSI, 25,024.9 sq km of land in 23 taluks of Malnad and coastal districts is vulnerable to disaster. The report called for controlling human activity in the Western Ghats, which is vulnerable to landslides due to incidents like cloud bursts. Accordingly, eight taluks in Uttara Kannada, five in Dakshina Kannada, three in Kodagu, four in Chikkamagaluru, one each in Hassan, Udupi and Shivamogga need urgent mitigation measures. The report was submitted to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa along with another report prepared by a committee headed by Karnataka Biodiversity Board chairman Ananth Hegde Ashisar. Reddy, who was part of the committee, said, "We need village-level mitigation measures. We have suggested an early warning system based on threshholds, which includes geographical and geological factors." He said the government has to adopt a multi-pronged approach, starting with detailed studies and surveys on the ground. "Infrastructure, from buildings to roads, in these taluks have to be assessed in detail. This helps to prevent any development works that will lead to disasters," he said. Keshava H Korse, a conservation biologist based in Shivamogga, who was part of the committee, said a comprehensive regulatory regime to control land use was required. "The climate aspect is beyond the control of the government but man-made changes in such areas have to be regulated at the earliest," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/23-taluks-in-karnataka-face-landslide-risk-report-969247.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fire breaks out at Maddur forest range||Several acres of forest vegetation was gutted due to forest fire at Karadikallu gudda, in Maddur range, coming under Bandipur Tiger Reserve area, on Thursday evening. The fire erupted near the southern part of Berambadi village, spread fast towards Karadikallu gudda, due to heavy winds. The forest officers of various ranges rushed to the spot within half an hour and took all measures to extinguish the fire and prevent it from spreading. Around 250 people, including the foresters, deputy range forest officers and employees doused the flames and prevented it from spreading towards the thick forest, according to Assistant Conservator of Forest K Paramesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fire-breaks-out-at-maddur-forest-range-969465.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||211 staff at Hubballi Airport inoculated against Covid-19||Hubballi Airport, in association with District Health Department inoculated nearly 211 staff, including front-line workers at the airport, on Friday. In a special drive, the district administration organised the Covid-19 vaccination drive at the Cargo terminal of the Hubballi Airport. The camp was organised based on a request from the Hubballi Airport Director Pramod Kumar Thakre. “Every day the staff working at the airport come directly in contact with passengers and are at high risk of contracting the disease. As a preventive measure, the inoculation drive has been taken and nearly 211 staff was inoculated with Covishield. None of the staff showed any side effects,” he said and added that an ambulance was kept on standby to attend to any untoward incident. Speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said the district administration is ready to organise vaccination drive anywhere if there are more than 100 eligible beneficiaries. “The only requirement from the organisers are minimum 100 beneficiaries along with their Aadhar details, while the rest of the requirement will be taken care by the health department,” he said and added that health staff will arrive at the vaccination centre with ‘Adverse Effect Following Immunisation' (AEFI) kit, to ensure that no untoward incidents take place. The administration will also tie up with a nearby hospital to provide emergency service. He said the administration is also planning to join hands with NGOs, including Rotary and Lions clubs to take up inoculation drive on large scale.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/211-staff-at-hubballi-airport-inoculated-against-covid-19-969567.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||B R Hill temple opens for the public after four years||With the renovation of the 500-year-old Sri Ranganatha Swamy temple at Biligiri Rangana Betta (BR Hill),Yalandur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, the sanctum sanctorum will be open for the public from April 3. It may be mentioned that the temple was closed for devotees since March 2017, to take up renovation works by the Muzrai department. The renovation was taken up following public outcry over the dilapidated condition of the temple. The department of Archaeology and Museums, took up the works at a cost of Rs 2.4 crore. The pillars were replaced and the repair works were done at the sanctum sanctorum. Special puja were held on Thursday and Friday, in the presence of local devotees and priests. District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar, along with his wife, took part in the rituals on Friday. MLAs N Mahesh and R Narendra and Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi were present. Suresh Kumar said, “The works were completed in tandem with the department of Tourism, Archaeology and Museums and district administration. Several philanthropists have donated for the cause. The minor works would be completed soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-r-hill-temple-opens-for-the-public-after-four-years-969583.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||No need for heli-tourism at the cost of trees: Eco-activists||The proposed heli-tourism project, near Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel, has come under criticism as it would lead to felling of hundreds of trees in the region. The heli-tourism project will be taken up in association with Jungle Lodges and Resorts, a government undertaking. Eco-activists and residents of the ‘Heritage City’ are against the project, which would cost several trees, a few of them over a century-old. Tourism department officials have submitted a proposal in connection with clearing of trees for the development of the helipad. There is a helipad near Lalitha Mahal Palace, but it belongs to the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru, the Wadiyars. The activists suggest the government can seek the support of the royal family for heli-tourism and the existing helipad can be used for the purpose.   Eco-activist S Shylajesha said, "Mysuru, which is a heaven for tourists, will be hell if such harmful development works are carried out. Clearing of tree not only affects green cover, but, it harms hundreds of birds. The region is one of the hot spot for birds and many volunteers visit the area for birding." "The city has already witnessed devastation under the guise of development. We oppose concrete structures and support development of green. If the destruction continues, the future generations have to see forests only on maps," he said. He is holding a bird watching session for like-minded people near Lalitha Mahal Palace, on Sunday morning, to create awareness about the imminent dangers of the project. Another activist, Banu Mohan, said, "No trees should be chopped off, at any cost. Mysuru need no heli-tourism, which costs trees. There are many other places. Even Mysuru Airport at Mandakalli, can be used for the purpose. We have written a letter to Chief Conservator of Forests, demanding not to permit felling of trees.” The spot will be inspected and public opinion will be gathered before taking any decision. The process of survey is under way, said an officer. An officer attached to the Tourism department said that the department owns 48 acres of land near Lalitha Mahal Palace and the helipad is planned on five acres of land. “We have asked the Forest department to take up a survey of the trees. There are no huge trees. But, the land is filled with shrubs, weeds and small trees. A final decision will be taken after the survey by the Forest department," he informed. Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF) K C Prashanth said, "The department has received a proposal to conduct a survey, but no permission is granted to cut the trees."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-need-for-heli-tourism-at-the-cost-of-trees-eco-activists-969584.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||3,271 cases resolved through mediation in Chamarajanagar dist||In all, 3,271 cases were resolved through mediation in the Lok Adalat, that was held across Chamarajanagar district on March 27. Addressing media persons here, on Thursday, District Principal and Sessions Judge S Sultanpuri said, “More than three lakh cases have been resolved through Lok Adalat in Karnataka. There were 20,051 cases pending in the district courts. Out of this, 6,878 cases, which could be resolved through mediation, were taken up during the adalat.” In all, 3,271 cases, including 342 civil cases, 2,505 criminal cases and 425 other cases were resolved during the Lok Adalat through mediation in Chamarajanagar district. Around Rs 13.46 crore, collected, was distributed as compensation to the affected person, banks and government. As more than 3,000 cases were resolved through mediation, people have saved a lot of time and money, he said. This was the first time in Chamarajanagar district, cases were resolved through mediation. It was possible due to the legal awareness campaign held in rural areas, he said. District Legal Services Authority member-secretary C G Vishalakshi, District Bar Association president Ummathuru Indresh and secretary Manju Harave were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3271-cases-resolved-through-mediation-in-chamarajanagar-dist-969589.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||11 Moraji Desai school students test Covid-19 positive||Eleven students of Morarji Desai Residential School, functioning on the premises of TAPCMS in Srirangapatna have tested positive for Covid-19. Five students each of the 8th and 9th standard and one student of the 10th standard have been infected with the Covid virus. The students have been shifted to the Covid Care Centre at Vokkaligara Bhavan in Mandya, for treatment. The school has been sealed down and has been declared a containment zone. A notice has been issued to the school authorities to sanitise all the classrooms, taluk health officer Dr S D Bennur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-moraji-desai-school-students-test-covid-19-positive-969599.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Megalithic rock cut cave discovered in Udupi||A rock-cut cave belonging to the Megalithic period was discovered at Paniyadi, which is popular for its famed Anantha Padmanabha temple of the Puttige Mutt. During the renovation of the Anantha Padmanabha temple, the cave was discovered on the northern side of the temple. Prof T Murugeshi, associate professor, Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, MSRS College, Shirva in Udupi,  visited the site and confirmed that it was a rock-cut cave of the Megalithic period. Similar Megalithic rock-cut caves are found at the Pavanje Subramanya Temple, Sooda Subramanya temple and Santuru Subramanya temple. The Paniyadi Megalithic belongs to 800 BC. and is 2,000 years old, he said. This discovery is unique to understand the antiquity of Phanis. Pani and hadi became Paniyadi, meaning settlement of Phanis. Phani is referred in Mahabharata and the Puranas as the ancient original inhabitants of this country. In the Udupi district, places like Paniyadi and Paniyuru indicate the existence of the settlement of Phanis in the remote past. More than that, the Phanis were famous for their Naga worship and Naga is their totemic emblem also, he explained. Anantha Padmanabha, the presiding deity of Paniyadi, is also related to Naga worship. Lord Anantha Padmanabha is sitting on the Naga coil and the Naga hood stands high on his head. A similar icon was found in Keelinje near Udupi belongs to the 10th century AD, while the Paniyadi deity belongs to the 14th century, said Prof Murugeshi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/megalithic-rock-cut-cave-discovered-in-udupi-969604.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Give wide publicity to crop Insurance scheme: Karnataka HC tells govt||The High Court on Monday directed the state government to ensure that wide publicity of crop insurance schemes is given to farmers in all the districts. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, said that the farmers may not be aware of the insurance scheme and its benefits. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha on the issues of farmers’ suicides and implementation of the crop insurance scheme. Perusing the affidavit filed by the government on the meetings of the state and district level grievance redressal committees, the bench observed that frequent meetings have not been held. Going through the minutes of the meeting, the bench said that the last meeting held was on March 16, 2019, in the Yadgir district. “However, we find from the minutes of the meeting in Yadgir district that there were no enquiries made in the villages to ascertain whether there are any farmers who have been denied the benefit of the crop insurance scheme,” the bench said. Yadgir district committee has been directed to consider the specific grievances made in complaints in January and February 2021. The committee has also been directed to depute an appropriate officer to visit the villages with a view to find out whether any farmers are deprived of the benefit of the scheme. “We direct the state government to ensure that wide publicity is given to the crop insurance scheme and to the fact that any farmer deprived of the scheme has the right to approach the district grievance redressal committee. Steps shall be taken to give wide publicity in terms of Clause 26 on the availability of crop insurance scheme,” the bench said.   The government advocate informed the court that because of the code of conduct due to by-election, the state is not in a position to take a decision regarding the payment of compensation to those farmers who ended their lives by suicide after availing loans from private money lenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/give-wide-publicity-to-crop-insurance-scheme-karnataka-hc-tells-govt-969615.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||State Gram Panchayat Employees Association’s district committee to place demands before govt on April 24||Members of State Gram Panchayat Employees Association’s district committee will place their demands before the government during ‘Maruti Manpade Nudi Namana’, the fourth district convention, at Maruti Manpade Auditorium, in Siddapura, in Virajpet taluk, on April 24, said Samiti district president P R Bharat. Speaking to reporters in Madikeri on Friday, he said that the Gram Panchayat workers who have worked as corona warriors have been neglected by the government. “The Gram Panchayat workers are deprived of a regular salary and other benefits. Salaries of thousands of Gram Panchayat workers in the state have been pending for the past several months. The workers are not provided with minimum wages and dearness allowance,” he said. He further said that the labour officer and executive officers of Virajpet and Somwarpet Taluk Panchayats will take part in the formal programme of the district convention to be inaugurated at 10.30 am. State Gram Panchayat Employees Association's Somwarpet taluk committee president H G Navin, Kushalnagar taluk committee president A Appanna and Virajpet taluk committee secretary Janaki were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/state-gram-panchayat-employees-association-s-district-committee-to-place-demands-before-govt-on-april-24-969658.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Women should develop rational mindset: People's Science Movement||People’s Science Movement leader Sowbhagyamma called upon the women to develop the habit of questioning the old practices which do not have any relevance to this day. Speaking during the state-level workshop on the role of women in the People’s Science Movement, organised by Karnataka Rajya Vijnana Parishat, in association with various organisations, she said that women are being made to follow superstitions for ages. Even today, the reason for many problems in women’s lives is blind belief, Sowbhagyamma said and called upon the women to abolish superstitious beliefs. “Women who have been inspired by the People’s Science Movement, are not only able to lead peaceful lives but are also achieving high in their respective fields,” she said. Presiding over the programme, Madikeri BEO T N Gayatri said that women should develop a rational mindset and should raise their voice on the injustice against them. SBI retired general manager Sudana Ratnavathi opined that women need encouragement for their endeavours. State best teacher award-winning teacher and Vijnana Parishat district committee former vice president D M Revathi, Government High School headteacher T G Premkumar, and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/women-should-develop-rational-mindset-peoples-science-movement-969659.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four-laning of Mysuru-Bengaluru national highway to be completed by September, says MP Pratap Simha||MP Pratap Simha said that Lalithakala Academy and Rangayana have utilised the funds from the government effectively and helped the artistes. He was speaking during the inauguration of a three-day art camp organised by Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan and Karnataka Lalitha Kala Academy in Madikeri. An amount of Rs 1.40 crore earmarked for the SC/ST artistes from Lalitha Kala Academy has been utilised effectively. ‘Parva’, based on the novel penned by writer S L Bhyrappa has been produced on stage by Rangayana-MysurPratau. Rangayana has become an epicentre of activities under the presidentship of Addanda Cariappa, said the MP. He said that the work on the four-laning of Bengaluru-Mysuru national highway is in progress and is likely to be completed by September next year. With the completion of the highway, Mysuru can be reached in one and a half hours from Bengaluru. Similarly, the work on the road from Srirangapattana-Guddehosur in progress. By next year, Madikeri can be reached within two and a half hours from Bengaluru, said the MP. Karnataka Lalitha Kala Academy president D Mahendra said that people should also join hands with the government in carrying out various activities. The academy had given financial assistance to the active artistes during the lockdown. By organising the programmes online due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the academy has supported the artistes, he said. The academy will hold art camps in naturally rich districts like Kodagu in the future as well, he added. Kannada and culture department retired commissioner K R Ramakrishna said that the natural beauty of Kodagu gives inspiration to the artists. Kodagu is a good place for holding art camps in Karnataka. Bharathnatyam artiste Nagalakshmi said that western countries are following the traditional values of India. Old temples and memorials are known for their architecture in India. Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Kodagu Vidyalaya president K P Uthappa, Kodagu Kendra president K S Devaiah and others spoke on the occasion. Artists Vasanthkumar from Hassan, Arathi M (Vijayapura), Praveen Kumar H M (Hosakote), H D Veerendra Kumar (Chitradurga), Ganigera Appa Saheba (Bengaluru), Santosh Mala (Udupi), Priyanka Shahapura (Bagalkote), Dr Krishna Veni (Ballari), C Boraiah (Davangere) and S Madhusudan (Chamarajanagara) are taking part in the three-day camp.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-laning-of-mysuru-bengaluru-national-highway-to-be-completed-by-september-says-mp-pratap-simha-969662.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||B R Hill temple opens for the public after four years||With the completion of the renovation of the 500-year-old Sri Ranganatha Swamy temple at Biligiri Rangana Betta (BR Hill),Yalandur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, the sanctum sanctorum will be open for the public from April 3. It may be mentioned that the temple has been closed for devotees since March 2017 to take up renovation works by the Muzrai department. The renovation was taken up following public outcry over the dilapidated condition of the temple. The department of Archaeology and Museums, took up the works at a cost of Rs 2.4 crore. The pillars were replaced and the repair works were done at the sanctum sanctorum. Special puja was held on Thursday and Friday, in the presence of local devotees and priests. District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar, along with his wife, took part in the rituals on Friday. MLAs N Mahesh and R Narendra and Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi were present. Suresh Kumar said, “The works were completed in tandem with the Department of Tourism, Archaeology and Museums and district administration. Several philanthropists have donated for the cause. The minor works would be completed soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-r-hill-temple-opens-for-the-public-after-four-years-969682.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||No complaint on B S Yediyurappa, sought suggestions from Governor: Eshwarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K S Eshwarappa has said that he did not raise a complaint against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's "direct interference" in the affairs of his department but he sought guidance from Governor Vajubhai R Vala. In a press conference here on Friday, Eshwarappa said, he welcomes the distribution of funds as per the request of the MLA but the procedure and the rules must be followed. "I did not complain against Yediyurappa but sought suggestions from the Governor, who served as Finance Minister several times," he said. Eshwarappa, in his 5-page letter to the Governor against Yediyurappa, noted the sanction of Rs 774 crore for road development on the request of MLAs without bringing it to the notice of the minister. The CM has distributed Rs 1599 crore without bringing it to my notice, Eshwarappa said. Expressing displeasure he said, "I am not a postman but a minister. It is not good to take decisions related to my department without bringing it to my notice."  Eshwarappa maintained that he and the CM have differences in few matters but, "We are one," he defended and said, "I am not a rebel. I am loyal."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-complaint-on-b-s-yediyurappa-sought-suggestions-from-governor-eshwarappa-969398.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Issues should be discussed within party: S Suresh Kumar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Friday opined that good developments within the party can be shared with the public, but lapses and differences should be discussed and resolved within the party. He was speaking to reporters, at Biligiri Ranganatha Swamy temple, Yalandur taluk, Chamarajanagar district. Commenting on Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa writing a letter to the Governor and party high command against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, he said, "I learnt about it from the media. I will express my opinion on the party forum."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/issues-should-be-discussed-within-party-s-suresh-kumar-969585.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||AAP alleges scam in Karnataka's Covid-19 procurement||The Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday accused Health Minister K Sudhakar of favouring two companies to supply medical equipment to his department. According to Mohan Dasari, president of AAP Bengaluru, the alleged irregularity was in the procurement of biochemistry and haematology instruments by Karnataka Drug Warehousing and Logistics Society (KDWLS), resulting in losses to the tune of Rs 39 crore to the state exchequer. Not only were the companies favoured, the government also ended up paying more for equipment which were procured at a cheaper price by a few other states, hecharged. When contacted, Sudhakar’s office dismissed the allegations levelled by AAP. Short-notice tenders were floated by KDWLS in September 2020 for the supply of a semi-automatic biochemistry analyser, fully automated biochemistry analyser and a 3-part haematology cell counter. Soon after, the specifications of the tender were changed, allegedly to benefit two companies. “If it was re-tender, the government is not supposed to change the tender specifications,” Mohan pointed out. Only one company submitted bids for the tender, he said, alleging that specifications were made to suit only that company, due to which major suppliers of the equipment stayed away from bidding. “Most of the companies which participated in the pre-bid meeting requested authorities to change specifications, which fell on deaf ears,” he said. The entire episode was at Sudhakar’s  behest, he alleged, adding that this was done for kickbacks. But Sudhakar’s office claimed that specifications were changed to ensure supply of better equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/aap-alleges-scam-in-karnatakas-covid-19-procurement-969610.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Have differences in a few matters with CM: Eshwarappa||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) K S Eshwarappa said he and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa have differences in a few matters and claimed that they would “strengthen the party together”. In a press conference here, on Friday, Eshwarappa said, “I am not a rebel. I am loyal”.  “A lot of people, who are loyal, are misleading Yediyurappa. He joined the Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP) by quitting BJP in 2012, by listening to a few people. After joining KJP, no one was with Yediyurappa. So, he re-joined the BJP. We both had disputes then also,” he said. ‘No funds for Sumarga’ Eshwarappa said the Rural Development Department had come up with the ‘Chief Minister Grameena Sumarga’ project and the CM had announced Rs 780 crore for the development of about 20,000 km roads in rural areas. But, no funds were released despite repeated letters, he said.   ‘Don’t care about signature’ Eshwarappa said he does not care about the signature campaign, launched by some BJP MLAs and ministers for taking up the issue with the governor and the party high command. “I don’t care. A few MLAs, who are part of the campaign, telephoned me and said they participated in it due to certain reasons,” he said. “The MLAs, ministers and MPs involved in the campaign also belong to BJP and we will work together. The issue will be sorted out, following the Assembly election in five states. Many have supported my move and have assured of supporting me,” he said. Referring to KPCC president D K Shivakumar’s statement that either Yediyurappa should resign or he should sack Eshwarappa, he said, “I and Yediyurappa are one and my intention is to follow procedures and rules. We will continue to work together and run the government together”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/have-differences-in-a-few-matters-with-cm-eshwarappa-969624.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Who is K S Eshwarappa loyal to, asks D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Friday raised questions on the ‘loyalty’ of Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa after he went to the Governor with a complaint against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.  “If he wrote (a complaint) against the CM, who is he loyal to? He may be loyal to his party, but is he loyal to the CM,” Shivakumar asked reporters. He was responding to Eshwarappa’s claim that his letter to the Governor was an act of loyalty and not rebellion.  “Are we schoolchildren? Do we lack common sense? The administration has collapsed. Why is the CM quiet without sacking him?” Shivakumar said. Shivakumar also defended the Congress using Eshwarappa’s letter as a tool to attack the government. “What would Eshwarappa have done if he was in the Opposition? He has given us the opportunity,” he said.  On Covid-19, the Congress leader warned the government against ‘selective application’ of guidelines. “Let them do whatever with the Covid-19 guidelines. But the guidelines should apply to everyone. It shouldn’t be selective and based on their whims by curbing protests when they don’t want them. They can’t curtail democratic rights,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/who-is-k-s-eshwarappa-loyal-to-asks-d-k-shivakumar-969628.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Lahar Singh laments KSE raking up 2013 meet||Senior BJP leader Lahar Singh Siroya on Friday took exception to Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K S Eshwarappa revealing details of a 2013 meeting that took place at his residence.  Eshwarappa, at a news conference in Mysuru, said he met B S Yediyurappa, who had then quit the BJP to form KJP, at Siroya’s residence. The minister said they discussed Yediyurappa’s return to the BJP.  Eshwarappa also claimed that Yediyurappa said in their meeting that he was made to believe by those around him that they would support the KJP venture only to desert him later.  “This was a goodwill meeting. It’s unfortunate, however, that details of this meeting are being discussed,” Siroya, an MLC and Yediyurappa’s confidant, told DH. “The meeting happened at my residence at the initiation of Eshwarappa. And, when this meeting took place, Yediyurappa’s induction into the BJP was almost final,” he added.  According to sources, Yediyurappa has been urged by those close to him that he should sack Eshwarappa from the Cabinet. However, the CM is in no mood to do anything like that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/lahar-singh-laments-kse-raking-up-2013-meet-969633.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||No cakewalk for BJP in Basavakalyan bypoll||Aside from discord in the administration, the ruling BJP is having to confront a tough battle in the bypoll-bound Basavakalyan and Maski assembly constituencies where the party’s poll managers feel things are not as easy as they expected. In Basavakalyan, the BJP faces rebel trouble as former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba has decided to contest as an Independent. Coupled with some disgruntlement over Sharanu Salagar’s candidature, the BJP is worried about Lingayat and Maratha votes getting split.  Party sources said while they were confident of an easy win in the Belgaum Lok Sabha seat, it was not the same case with the assembly bypolls. In Basavakalyan, the BJP has fielded Salagar, a Lingayat, whereas the Congress has picked Mallamma, wife of late MLA B Narayan Rao and the JD(S) has fielded Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri hoping to woo the minorities. However, with Khuba, also a Lingayat, distancing himself from the party and wanting to contest as an independent, the party fears that the community votes will be divided. Also, Salagar’s candidature might rub the 40,000-strong Maratha community in the wrong way. Apparently, they wanted the ticket for someone from their community. The Sharad Pawar-led NCP, which has fielded M G Mule, a Maratha, will look to cash in. “The candidate has a support base among the OBCs, minorities and the Marathas. The party also has a Lingayat support base. We’re expecting at least 20,000 votes,” NCP state president Tilak Nambiar said.  Meanwhile, the minority votes might go either way. “If the voters stick with the Congress and not go with JD(S), it’ll be another blow for us,” a senior BJP leader said. Anti-incumbency test in Maski  In Maski, the party is fighting hard to ensure the victory of disqualified MLA Pratapgouda Patil amid a sense of anti-incumbency. Patil is a three-time MLA facing Congress candidate Basanagouda Turvihal, who lost on a BJP ticket by just 213 votes in the previous election. The anti-incumbency might garner sympathy votes for Turvihal, some BJP leaders fear.  The outcome of the Maski bypoll will be key for Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa as he is said to be keen on ensuring Patil’s victory as he was one of the 17 MLAs who defected, helping the BJP come to power.  BJP general secretary N Ravikumar is confident of victory “We’re working on the ground. We’re taking up community-level and door-to-door campaigns. There’s definitely tough competition, but we’ll win for sure,” he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-cakewalk-for-bjp-in-basavakalyan-bypoll-969635.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Shettar, Karjol slam Eshwarappa for letter||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar and Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol have slammed Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa for writing a letter to Governor Vajubhai Vala against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa regarding the fund’s allocation for his department. They said Eshwarappa is a senior minister in the Cabinet and he could have raised the issue in the Cabinet meeting with the chief minister to get his grievances resolved. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Shettar said the chief minister’s prerogative cannot be questioned. “We are progressing under the leadership of the chief minister. Eshwarappa, instead of writing a letter, could have spoken with Yediyurappa on this and discussed it in the Cabinet meeting. The discussions on the topic should have been inside four walls and writing the letter is not fair.” He said the tussle between Yediyurappa and Eshwarappa over the fund’s issue will not have any bearing on the by-election of Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency and assembly constituencies of Maski and Basavkalyan.  Karjol said the Cabinet members and elected representatives cannot question the prerogative of the chief minister and a senior minister writing letter does not appear good. “All Cabinet members have to work in unity with the chiefminister. Funds have been allocated for 33 departments in the budget, but funds, as sought by all 224 MLAs, could not be given. Anybody, if they need more funds for their constituencies, should talk to the chief minister.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shettar-karjol-slam-eshwarappa-for-letter-969638.html
02-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Governor can't act on Eshwarappa complaint: Experts||The complaint against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa to the governor is of little significance, as the governor has no powers to interfere in the state’s administration, according to legal experts. The role of the governor is restricted to offering advice to the CM in times of crisis or during untoward developments, they say. According to former advocate-general Prof Ravivarma Kumar, the governor cannot interfere in the daily affairs of the government. “There is no provision in law for a minister to file a complaint against the CM,” he said. The chief minister has supreme powers in state administration and to take decisions on the affairs of any department directly, he said. Senior advocate B V Acharya recalled a decision by the High Court during the tenure of S M Krishna as chief minister. “One of the decisions taken by him without consulting his Cabinet was challenged in court. While the single bench cancelled the CM’s order, another bench of the court upheld his decision,” he said, noting that the CM had the powers to intervene in any department. In another instance, an appeal filed by the law department against the release of an accused in a case was cancelled by then chief minister S Nijalingappa, he added. Another senior advocate Uday Holla, said that any decision on the state’s administration was left to the discretion of the CM. “The governor can advice the CM and ministers to set aside their differences to ensure welfare of the state. However, he cannot interfere based on a complaint by the minister,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/governor-cant-act-on-eshwarappa-complaint-experts-969640.html
02-04-2021||Main Article||The exit dilemma||Newly elected US President Joe Biden now faces one of his most crucial foreign policy challenges in violence-beset Afghanistan where his two predecessors, and like him, had publicly stated countless times that they would exit from America’s longest and never-ending war. Only 2,500 American and around 7,500 NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organisation) troops remain in Afghanistan now, bolstering the beleaguered Ashraf Ghani regime in Kabul. And the chances of their withdrawal throwing Afghanistan into total political turmoil, accompanied by grave fratricidal violence, cannot be denied. As admitted, America’s 21-year war has cost the US exchequer $2 trillion, leaving 2,300 US soldiers and nearly 38,000 Afghan civilians dead. Countless negotiations for achieving peace and a stable interim government in Kabul to replace the democratically elected President Ashraf Ghani’s dispensation have been ongoing in Doha (Qatar) between the US and delegates from the increasingly assertive Taliban since a couple of years. That outgoing US President Donald Trump had appeared to have been in a tearing hurry to exit Afghanistan, perhaps more out of building his own image and over electoral benefits and not Afghanistan’s interests, is rather clear by now. President Biden, on the other hand, though committed to ensuring a total withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan, realises the bloody mess that will result if the US withdraws by May 1, 2021, as mutually decided by the US and the Taliban at the Doha parleys in February 2020. Recent signals emanating from Washington do point to the fact that though Biden’s administration is committed towards honouring the Trump-Taliban deal to withdraw all US troops by May 1, 2021, some re-thinking on the deadline appears to be in the offing. A few days back, Biden in an interview with ABC News, expressed that it was going to be “tough” to meet the May 1 deadline, and opined that it “was not a very solidly negotiated deal that (Trump)….. worked out.” President Biden also stated that even if the May deadline did not take place, American troops are not going to be in Afghanistan “much longer”. It is interesting to recall that Joe Biden, while serving as the vice-president with then President Barack Obama, had cautioned his president against any hasty withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan till a semblance of peace and stability had returned to that violent nation. And now, the ball is in his court. America is staring at a situation with the overall security scenario having worsened owing to the Taliban on the ascendancy and in near control of virtually the entire Afghan countryside. Meanwhile, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken stated the other day that “the president’s goal is very, very clear…….. to get the troops back” and to not permit Afghanistan from becoming a haven for terrorists and posing any threats to the US. After his maiden visit to India (where the Afghan situation and India’s role there would have certainly been discussed), US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin also paid a surprise visit to Kabul and interacted with President Ghani and other top US and Afghan military officials. Avoiding questions about the Taliban not keeping their part of the commitment as negotiated in Doha, Austin made some non-committal noises and would have flown back to the US rather worried at the worsening situation in Afghanistan. Revisiting policy The Taliban, since the Feb 2020 negotiations, though not targeting foreign troops, have been consistently indulging in large-scale violent acts against their own people, especially in the Afghan government, NGOs and women activists. That the Taliban is just waiting for the US and other foreign troops to leave and then take over the reins of power in Kabul, in utter disregard of any negotiated settlement, is more than obvious. In particular, the Taliban, in keeping with their medieval mindset, will take their nation back to the dark ages. Both Afghan women and school-going children are terrified at their prospects under the cruel, fundamentalist regime of the terrorist outfit. Meanwhile, India too will have to re-visit its Afghan policy: talk to the Taliban or not? Though India has not been overly involved in the political discussions over Afghanistan, barring attending once as observer in Doha, it is also a fact that both Pakistan and the wily Chinese in tandem had managed to keep India at bay over the future of Afghanistan with a little support from, amazingly, Russia. Now, the Americans have asked India to attend the forthcoming five nations’ conference on the future political contours of Afghanistan. India, much respected in Afghanistan owing to its policy of non-interference in the internal affairs of that nation and being the largest regional donor of humanitarian aid to Kabul, must continue with its support to Ashraf Ghani or whoever heads the democratically elected government. Supporting the Taliban’s entry in any interim government would be a myopic step, if ever taken by India, which must not, directly or indirectly, support a terror-driven Taliban dispensation. India must ask the UN to station a combined force in Afghanistan till political stability returns to that hapless land. It must warn its strategic ally, the US, not to exit Afghanistan in haste, for the repercussions would be very adverse for the entire region. The US and India need to be on the same page as regards shaping Afghanistan’s future government. (The writer, a security expert, served as first director general, Defence Intelligence Agency)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-exit-dilemma-969611.html
02-04-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru Mayor Rukmini Madegowda tests positive for Covid-19||Mysuru Mayor Rukmini Madegowda and her husband Madegowda, who is also a Zilla Parishad member, tested positive for Covid-19. The Mayor had participated in several programmes and also chaired a meeting at Mysuru City Corporation, recently. The health department authorities had collected Rukmini's swab sample on March 31. Her husband Madegowda was the primary contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-mayor-rukmini-madegowda-tests-positive-for-covid-19-969334.html
02-04-2021||Mysuru||14.84 crore man days generated in 2020-21: K S Eshwarappa||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) KS Eshwarappa said that the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) has managed to provide 14.84 crore man-days of work, worth Rs 3,997 crore in 2020-2021. He said, "Initially, it was targeted to generate 13 crore man-days as the Union government revised it to 14.65 crore man-days, the state received an additional Rs 800 crore. With additional 7.08 new job cards, 16.85 lakh persons are newly enrolled. In all, 56.83 lakh people of 30.19 families got a job under the scheme and 2.40 lakh families completed 100 days of work." The minister said, "The wages have been increased under MNREGA. Now, a worker will get Rs 289. Earlier, it was Rs 275. In addition, Rs 10 will be given for agriculture equipment."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/1484-crore-man-days-generated-in-2020-21-k-s-eshwarappa-969582.html
02-04-2021||Mysuru||One year on, Old Police Station Road sans repair work||Even after a year of digging the road, for laying underground drainage pipes, there are no signs of asphaltation. The incomplete work has drawn the criticism of the residents of Old Police Station Road in Metagalli, Mysuru. The road is left neglected since over a year, and the officials concerned have forgotten the asphaltation works. The rising dust and poor road condition is causing a lot of inconvenience to the residents. The roads in Metagalli and BM Sri Nagar were dug up, to lay underground drainage pipes in November 2019. The road was dug more than five feet deep and the pipes were laid. The residents complain of thick dust, posing a threat to their health, especially for children and senior citizens. Health complications due to inhaling of the dust, has become a cause for concern. "The road turned worse during the monsoon last year. Now, with summer setting in, dust has again become a problem, with many complaining of allergic bronchitis. Dust allergy induced chest infection during Covid times has left them confused, if Covid test has to be done," said Ravi, a resident. Due to the Covid crisis last year, everyone was worried about their safety and are exploring ways to lead their life. Hence, the road issue took a back seat and was left unattended. It has been totally forgotten by the officials concerned. Kiran, a shopkeeper, said, "The whole shop is covered with dust, with every passing vehicle. The authorities should take measures to take up asphaltation, before the rainy season." When the issue was brought to the notice of corporator V Ramesh, he assured that the works would be completed soon. "The authorities have been told to water the roads, to minimise the dust. Parts of B M Sri Nagar has been asphalted. The remaining roads, where the UGD pipeline has been laid, is yet to be asphalted. The road has been levelled and the works would be taken up soon," he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/one-year-on-old-police-station-road-sans-repair-work-969586.html
02-04-2021||Mysuru||Retired DIGP for people-friendly policing||Retired deputy inspector general of police P Rajendra Prasad on Friday called upon the police to be people-friendly. He was addressing a gathering during the ‘Police Flag Day’ celebrations at Police parade grounds, here. "There should be a bridge between the police and the public, rather than a wall. In the present situation, people are afraid to approach the police. Thus, the police should reach out to the people, listening to their problems," he said. Rajendra Prasad, who served as deputy commissioner of police in Mysuru city, recalled his service. He said that he introduced ‘Namma Mane Police’ programme. "Under the programme, one police constable was appointed for 50 houses and his responsibility was to resolve the issues of these houses. Likewise, ‘Namma Shale Police’ was also introduced. Under the programme, traffic police used to visit schools to educate students on traffic norms," he said. "Under ‘Operation Sunset’, 2,000 policemen used to make rounds of the city from evening to night and there was a decline in crime rate," he said and suggested to re-introduce such programmes. Inspector General of Police (IGP) (Southern Range) Praveen Madhukar Pawar, Karnataka Police Academy (KPA) Director Vipul Kumar, Deputy Director Suman D Pennekar, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta and Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/retired-digp-for-people-friendly-policing-969587.html
02-04-2021||Mysuru||Zilla Panchayat targets 55.14 lakh man days under MNREGA||Zilla Panchayat authorities have set a target to generate 55.14 lakh man-days in the current fiscal under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). ZP Chief Executive Officer A M Yogeesh informed about the target in a press conference here, on Thursday.  The CEO said, “Action plan for the works worth Rs 267 crore has been prepared at the taluk level. In all, a total of 37,452 works are planned. Last year, 35 lakh man days were planned, but we achieved 116% with 40.61 lakh man days.” Mysuru district has made a remarkable progress by emerging third after Udupi and Kodagu district in terms of progress in MNREGA. The district was at last in 2019-20 financial year, he said. There was a target to take up works worth Rs 149 crore, but the works worth Rs 178 crore was done. ZP president Parimala Shyam said, “Several people returned to villages due to lockdown in March 2020 and jobs were provided to such people under MNREGA scheme. This time also, we will achieve the target.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/zilla-panchayat-targets-5514-lakh-man-days-under-mnrega-969588.html
02-04-2021||National||India nudges other BIMSTEC nations for early signing of coastal shipping, motor vehicle agreement||India on Thursday nudged the other BIMSTEC nations to move fast on regional connectivity initiatives – beginning with easing coastal shipping and trans-border movement of vehicles. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar joined his counterparts in the other BIMSTEC nations for a virtual meeting and called for early finalisation of the long-pending Coastal Shipping Agreement and the Motor Vehicle Agreement. The BIMSTEC Foreign Ministers, however, endorsed a master plan for transport connectivity for adoption at the next summit of the seven-nation bloc in Sri Lanka this year. They also approved three pacts for signing at the next summit – the BIMSTEC Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, the Memorandum of Understanding on mutual cooperation between diplomatic academies and training institutions of the BIMSTEC member states and the Memorandum of Association on the establishment of the BIMSTEC Technology Transfer Facility in Colombo. The BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) is a bloc comprising seven littoral and landlocked countries dependent on Bay of Bengal. New Delhi is keen on the early signing of the proposed BIMSTEC Coastal Shipping Agreement and the BIMSTEC Motor Vehicle Agreement to boost regional trade within the Bay of Bengal region. The Motor Vehicle Agreement will pave the way for hassle-free movement of cargo and passenger vehicles across borders in the BIMSTEC region that comprises seven nations, including five of the eight SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) members. The Coastal Shipping Agreement will apply to shipping within 20 nautical miles off the coastlines of the BIMSTEC nations and will hence require smaller vessels and involve lesser cost and time. If signed, ratified and brought into force, the BIMSTEC Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters will allow measures to locate, freeze and forfeit or confiscate any funds or finances meant for the financing of all criminal acts in the territory of any of the members of the bloc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nudges-other-bimstec-nations-for-early-signing-of-coastal-shipping-motor-vehicle-agreement-969268.html
02-04-2021||National||Indian Railways registers highest freight this fiscal year||Indian Railways registered the highest freight figures in terms of loading and earnings in the 2020-21 fiscal despite Covid-19 challenges. In the FY 2020-21, total loading was 1,232.63 million tonnes which is 1.93% higher compared to last year’s loading (1,209.32 million tonnes) for the same period, said the Railways in a statement. In this FY 2020-21, the national transporter earned Rs 1,17,386 crore from freight loading which is 3% higher compared to last year’s earning (Rs 1,13,897.20 crore) for the same period. Railways saw the highest-ever loading in seven consecutive months from September 2020 to March 2021. In the month of March 2021, Indian Railways' loading was 130.38 million tonnes which was a growth of 27.33%. In March 2021, Indian Railways earned Rs 12,887.71 crore from freight loading which is also 26.16% higher compared to last year’s earnings for the same month. Even freight trains’ speed has also registered a significant increase in the existing network. Average speed for the freight trains in March 2021 was registered as 45.6 Km/hr which is 83% increase as compared to 24.93 Km/hr in the same period, said the railways  Covid-19 has been used by Indian Railways as an opportunity to improve all-round efficiencies and performances, said the Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-registers-highest-freight-this-fiscal-year-969271.html
02-04-2021||National||India refrains from calling out China but says WHO team probing Covid-19 origin should be given access to data||India on Thursday refrained from calling out China but took note of the recent revelation by the World Health Organization (WHO) that its investigators had experienced difficulties in accessing raw data while studying the origin of the Covid-19 virus in the communist country. “It is pertinent to note that the WHO Director-General has separately raised the issue of delays and difficulties in accessing raw data for the team conducting the study (on the origin of the Covid-19),” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement issued in New Delhi. India’s statement came two days after the United States and the 13 other nations jointly expressed concern over delay and difficulties experienced by the WHO experts in accessing “complete, original data and samples” while probing the origin of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in China. “We fully support the Director-General’s expectation that future collaborative studies will include more timely and comprehensive data sharing,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, stated. “In this connection,” he added, “We (Government of India) also welcome his (WHO chief’s) readiness to deploy additional missions.” New Delhi, however, avoided directly calling out Beijing for not adequately cooperating with the WHO team that visited Wuhan in central China – the ground zero of the Covid-19 pandemic. The United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, Canada and Israel are among the 13 nations that joined the US on Tuesday to nudge China to grant the WHO investigators full access to all pertinent human, animal, and environmental data, research, and personnel involved in the early stages of the outbreak relevant to determining how the pandemic emerged. “With all data in hand, the international community may independently assess Covid-19 origins, learn valuable lessons from this pandemic, and prevent future devastating consequences from outbreaks of disease,” the 14-nations said in a joint statement issued on Tuesday. India, however, chose to tread cautiously apparently because its relations with China continued to be in a delicate stage as the military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations could not be completely resolved yet. “We join other stakeholders in voicing their expectations that follow up to the WHO Report or further studies, including on an understanding of the earliest human cases and clusters by the WHO on this critical issue, will receive the fullest cooperation of all concerned,” said the MEA spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-refrains-from-calling-out-china-but-says-who-team-probing-covid-19-origin-should-be-given-access-to-data-969273.html
02-04-2021||National||Sharad Pawar is in good health, says NCP leader Nawab Malik||NCP chief Sharad Pawar who underwent a surgical procedure for the removal of a gall bladder stone two days ago is responding well to the treatment, a party leader said on Thursday. He underwent a check-up at 7 pm and is now allowed to walk and take solid food, said Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Twitter. Pawar was responding well to the treatment and was in excellent health, said Malik. Pawar, 80, was admitted to the Breach Candy Hospital here on Tuesday after he experienced abdominal pain. He underwent endoscopy for the removal of a gall bladder stone on the same night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharad-pawar-is-in-good-health-says-ncp-leader-nawab-malik-969281.html
02-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express services to be suspended from April 2||Amid the worsening Covid-19 situation, the Western Railway on Thursday announced that the services of Ahmedabad-Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express would be suspended for a month from April 2. Divisional Railway Manager of Western Railway's Mumbai division made this announcement through his official Twitter handle late this evening. "Suspension of Train No. 82902/82901 Ahmedabad-Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad Tejas express with effect form 02-04-2021 for the period of one month," the tweet said. "Night curfews have also been implemented in both the connecting states, which may cause inconvenience to passengers in general," said an official of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), an undertaking of Indian Railways. The railway authorities had resumed the services of Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad Tejas Express regularly four days a week from February 14 this year. The IRCTC had cancelled all the trips of this train from 24 November last year due to poor occupancy levels owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, after resuming its services in October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ahmedabad-mumbai-tejas-express-services-to-be-suspended-from-april-2-969282.html
02-04-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Our April Fool's Day is on November 8'||The finance ministry on Thursday issued a formal order for withdrawal of the cut in interest rates on small savings schemes and restored the old rates. Earlier in the day, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government will roll back the steep interest rate cut on small savings schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-our-april-fools-day-is-on-november-8-969287.html
02-04-2021||National||Scolded for playing mobile games, Noida teen jumps to death||A 15-year-old boy allegedly jumped to death from an under-construction building after he was scolded by his parents, who had asked him not to play games on his mobile phone, police said on Thursday. The Class 7 student had gone missing from his home in Sector 110 the under Phase 2 police station limits last night after his parents scolded him, officials said. "The boy was peeved over the scolding for playing mobile games and left home around 8 pm. This morning, his body was found from a nearby under-construction building. He had allegedly jumped off the building last night," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Elamaran G said. "The body has been sent for a post-mortem examination and the matter is being probed. Forensic experts have also collected evidence from the spot," the officer said. In two other cases, two people allegedly committed suicide in Noida and Greater Noida on Wednesday, police said. One of them aged 22 lived in the Sector 49 police station area of Noida, while the other aged 35 lived in the Bisrakh area of Greater Noida, police added. Both bodies have been sent for autopsy and further proceedings are being carried out, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scolded-for-playing-mobile-games-noida-teen-jumps-to-death-969307.html
02-04-2021||National||Indian markets closed on April 2 on account of Good Friday||India's currency, debt and equity markets will remain closed on Friday, April 2, on account of Good Friday. Markets will resume trading on Monday, April 5. The NSE Nifty 50 index ended 1.2% higher at 14,867.35 on Thursday, while the S&P BSE Sensex rose 1.05% to 50,029.83. The 10-year benchmark bond yield ended at 6.18%, while the rupee settled at 73.1050 to the dollar on Wednesday, March 31. India's forex and debt markets were closed on Thursday, April 1, on account of the annual book closing of banks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-markets-closed-on-april-2-on-account-of-good-friday-969310.html
02-04-2021||National||India reports 81,466 new Covid-19 cases, 469 deaths, highest this year||India saw 81,466 new coronavirus infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise in six months, taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,23,03,131, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The single-day rise in cases is the highest recorded since October 2, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,63,396 with 469 daily new fatalities, the highest since December 6, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 23rd day in row, the active cases have increased to 6,14,696 comprising 5 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 93.67 per cent, the data stated. As many as 81,484 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 2 while 482 daily deaths were registered on December 6. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,15,25,039. The case fatality rate stood at 1.33 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,59,12,587 samples have been tested up to April 1, and 11,13,966 samples were tested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-81466-new-covid-19-cases-469-deaths-highest-this-year-969315.html
02-04-2021||National||Bengaluru sees housing price decline of 0.8 % year-on-year||Hyderabad stood at 122nd position globally in terms of annual appreciation in housing prices during October-December 2020 as rates for residential properties in the city rose marginally, according to Knight Frank. As per Knight Frank's Global Residential Cities Index Q4 2020, Bengaluru was at 129th position, Ahmedabad 143rd, Mumbai 144th, Delhi 146th, Kolkata 147th, Pune 148th and Chennai at the 150th place in the global list. "Hyderabad is the only Indian city globally to witness residential price appreciation in Q4 2020, positioning at 122nd rank with a marginal 0.2 per cent year-on-year (y-o-y) rise in home prices," Knight Frank India said in a statement. Chennai was the lowest-ranked Indian city at the 150th spot, registering a 9 per cent decline in home prices during October-December 2020 as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. Among the other Indian cities that have seen de-growth in home prices, Bengaluru saw a decline of 0.8 per cent y-o-y, followed by Ahmedabad 3.1 per cent, Mumbai 3.2 per cent, and Delhi 3.9 per cent. Kolkata witnessed a y-o-y decline of 4.3 per cent in home prices, while Pune fell 5.3 per cent. Globally, Ankara (Turkey) ranked first with an annual price appreciation of 30.2 per cent, followed by Izmir in Turkey with a 29.4 per cent increase and Istanbul with a 27.9 per cent rise. Auckland in New Zealand is at 4th place with an appreciation of 26.4 per cent, St Petersburg in Russia at 5th position with a 25.4 per cent rise. As per the list, Seoul in South Korea was ranked 6th with a 22.3 per cent increase in housing prices, followed by Moscow in Russia with a 21.1 per cent rise. Ottawa Gatineau in Canada is at 8th position with a 19.7 per cent rise, Wellington in New Zealand was ranked 9th with an 18.4 per cent surge in prices. Halifax in Canada ranked 10th with an annual appreciation of 16.3 per cent in home prices. Prices across the 150 cities worldwide increased by 5.6 per cent on average in 2020, up from 3.2 per cent in 2019. The report highlighted that 81 per cent of cities saw prices rise in 2020, and the index's annual rate of growth increased for the sixth consecutive quarter in Q4 2020. Besides, 20 per cent of cities registered double-digit growth in the year. Shishir Baijal, Chairman & Managing Director, Knight Frank India, said, "The performance of Hyderabad's residential market has remained consistent all through the pandemic, with the city's real estate market maintaining annual price growth in each quarter, all through 2020". This performance can largely be attributed to the city being a preferred destination by professionals from IT/ITeS companies, he said. "The Indian residential market has strongly rebounded over the last three quarters with the pandemic experience on owning houses, lower prices and multi-decade low home loan interest rate. The Government interventions on stamp duty cut in key markets also helped the sector gain momentum back to pre-Covid levels," Baijal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-sees-housing-price-decline-of-08-year-on-year-969330.html
02-04-2021||National||Drugs Controller General of India allows clinical trials for third dose of Covaxin||Bharat Biotech, the homegrown vaccine developer, has got permission from the expert panel of India’s drug regulator to conduct clinical trials for a third booster dose of Covaxin on a few of its volunteers. The expert panel of the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its nod for the booster dose to be administered on volunteers, six months after the second dose. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should conduct the booster dose study only in 6 mcg cohort and also should follow up the subjects at least for six months after the third dose,” the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) said. The vaccine maker was also asked to present the details of the primary and secondary objectives and various assessments to be carried out in the subjects. “Accordingly, the firm should submit the revised clinical trial protocol for evaluation,” the committee said. At the vaccine maker’s request, the committee recommended that the firm may unblind the participants of the age group of more than 45 years and offer to administer the vaccine free of cost as and when they become eligible for the vaccine in the national program Bharat Biotech had presented amendments in the approved Phase 3 clinical trial protocol for unblinding of subjects on placebo and addition of another cohort in Brazil. The committee also asked Bharat Biotech to submit a detailed revised clinical trial protocol for the inclusion of cohorts from Brazil along with the revised statistical calculation for assessing the efficacy of the vaccine. Sputnik delayed Meanwhile, the SEC has sought additional data and information from Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL), which has sought emergency use authorisation for the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine. The committee asked DRL to present data pertaining to all immunogenicity parameters, unblinded data of serious adverse events and RT-PCR positive cases, along with causality analysis reported till the date for further examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-controller-general-of-india-allows-clinical-trials-for-third-dose-of-covaxin-969354.html
02-04-2021||National||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in self-isolation after coming in contact with Covid-19-affected person||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to be in self-isolation at home for the next few days after she came in contact with Covid-19-affected person. Priyanka tested negative for Covid-19 but doctors have advised her to be in home isolation for the next few days, she tweeted. She has cancelled her campaign tours for Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-in-self-isolation-after-coming-in-contact-with-covid-19-affected-person-969387.html
02-04-2021||National||India wields oil 'weapon' to cut dependence on Saudi Arabia||When India's government last month asked refiners to speed up diversification and reduce dependence on the Middle East - days after OPEC+ said it would maintain production cuts - it sent a message about its clout and foreshadowed changes to the world's energy maps. It was a move that had been in the works for years, fuelled by repeated comments from Indian Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who in 2015 called oil purchases a "weapon" for his country. When the Organisation of Oil Exporting Countries and Major Producers (OPEC+) extended the production cuts into April, India unsheathed that weapon. Indian refiners plan to cut imports from the Kingdom by about a quarter in May, sources told Reuters, dropping them to 10.8 million barrels from monthly average of 14.7-14.8 million barrels. Oil secretary Tarun Kapoor, the top bureaucrat in the ministry, told Reuters that India is asking state refiners to jointly negotiate with oil producers to get better deals, but declined to comment on plans to cut Saudi imports. "India is a big market so sellers have to be mindful of our country's demand as well to keep the long-term relationship intact," he said. The Saudi state oil company Saudi Aramco and the Saudi energy ministry declined to comment. Pradhan, who sees high oil prices as a threat to India's recovering economy, said he was saddened by the OPEC+ decision. India's fuel import bill has rocketed, and fuel prices – inflated by government taxes imposed last year - have hit records. The International Energy Agency forecasts India's consumption to double and its oil import bill to nearly triple from 2019 levels to more than $250 billion by 2040. An oil ministry official, who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter, said the OPEC+ cuts have created uncertainty and made it difficult for refiners to plan for procurement and price risk. It also creates opportunities for companies in the Americas, Africa, Russia and elsewhere to fill the gap. If India is successful, it will set an example for other countries. As buyers see more affordable choices and renewable energy becomes increasingly common, the influence of big producers like Saudi Arabia could wane, altering geopolitics and trade routes. Diversification Drive India's oil demand has risen by 25% in the last seven years - more than any other major buyer - and the country has surpassed Japan as the world's third-largest oil importer and consumer. The country has already curbed its reliance on the Middle East from more than 64% of imports in 2016 to below 60% in 2019. That trend reversed in 2020, however, when the pandemic pummelled fuel demand and forced Indian refiners to make committed oil purchases from the Middle East under term contracts, shunning spot purchases. As India shifts gears again after Pradhan's call for faster diversification, refineries are looking for new suppliers, the oil ministry official said. Costly refinery upgrades that allow for the processing of cheaper, heavier oil grades have encouraged importers to seek out far-flung sources. HPCL-Mittal Energy Ltd bought the country's first cargo from Guyana this month, and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd just imported Brazilian Tupi crude for the first time. In past years, refiners have jointly negotiated oil deals with sanctions-hit Iran, which offered free shipping and price discounts, and now plan to do the same with other producers. Since the break with Saudi Arabia began, Pradhan has had meetings with United Arab Emirates' minister of state and chief executive of Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (ADNOC), Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, and U.S. energy secretary Jennifer Granholm to strengthen energy partnerships. Pradhan recently said African nations could play a central role in India's oil diversification. The country is looking at signing long-term oil supply deal with Guyana and exploring options to raise imports from Russia, the oil ministry source said. A separate Indian government source said the government expects Iranian sanctions to ease in three to four months, potentially offering India a cheaper alternative to Saudi oil. Two traders agreed that Iran stood a good chance to benefit from India's shift, as did Venezuela, Kuwait and the United States. An Indian refinery source said the U.S., Africa, Kazakhstan's CPC Blend and Russian oil would probably get a look too. Although Indian importers will scoop up increasing volumes of attractively priced global grades, most analysts expect the Middle East to remain India's primary oil supplier, mainly because of lower shipping costs. India's oil ministry is working with refiners on a framework to jointly negotiate terms with suppliers. "Buyers have alternatives in today's market and these alternatives are going to multiply going forward," Kapoor said. "There are so many companies in India that do buying at their own level, so these companies coming together also becomes quite a big bloc." On Thursday, Saudi Arabia and OPEC+ agreed after discussions with U.S. officials to ease oil curbs beginning in May. Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman conceded that the production cuts had put state oil company Aramco "in some difficulty with some of its partners." The Relationship Analysts say the oil spat does not need to spill over into broader strategic ties in other sectors, including defence. "Until recently, the balance of power was skewed towards Saudi Arabia, but increasingly, India is using access to its market and the diversity of options to put pressure on Saudi Arabia," consultancy Eurasia said in a note. "For Saudi Arabia, losing market share in a global environment in which most developed economies are already seeing their oil demand decline due to green policy implementation, would be a blow." Abdulaziz confirmed that Aramco had maintained normal April oil supplies to Indian refiners while cutting volumes for other buyers - a sign Saudi Arabia is concerned about India's search for new sources. Saudi Arabia is India's fourth-biggest trade partner, importing a slew of items, including food. Saudi Armaco is looking at buying a 20% stake in Reliance Industries' oil and chemicals business. It is also a part of a joint venture to build a 1.2 million barrels per day refinery in India. But Amitendu Palit, senior research fellow at National University of Singapore, said it would be difficult for Saudi to find a stable alternative buyer if India continues with reduced purchases for too long. "This bilateral relationship should not be impacted due to any decisions on one commodity. However in a global surplus, market buyers have a lot of negotiating power and sources," Palit said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wields-oil-weapon-to-cut-dependence-on-saudi-arabia-969389.html
02-04-2021||National||Not a member of your party, don’t need your suggestion on seats: Mamata to PM||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for indicating that she may contest from another seat anticipating defeat in Nandigram. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo said that the Prime Minister should remember that she is not a BJP member so that he will control her. Speaking at a rally in Cooch Behar district’s Dinhata, Mamata said that she does not need the Prime Minister’s suggestion on contesting from another seat apart from Nandigram. “First, the Prime Minister should control his Home Minister Amit Shah and then think of controlling us. Remember, we are not members of your party so that you will control us. I have contested only from Nandigram and will win from there,” said Banerjee. Her comments come a day after the Prime Minister at a rally in Howrah district that Mamata should come clean on rumors that she may contest from an alternate seat. Accusing Union Home Minister Amit Shah of influencing the Election Commission (EC), Mamata said that the West Bengal Assembly elections were not being conducted by the EC  but by Shah. She also accused the Central forces of trying to intimidate voters. The Chief Minister indicated that the BJP may resort to horse trading if the TMC wins in the Assembly elections with a thin margin. She urged the people to elect TMC candidates in more than 200 seats adding that anything less than that will result into the BJP buying the traitors. “I want you to ensure that we win more than 200 seats as anything else will mean that BJP will buy the ‘gaddars’(traitors). Earlier the TMC supremo had expressed her concern that the BJP may buy the polling agents of her party who play a crucial role in electoral malpractices such as booth jamming and fake voting. Speaking at another rally at Natabari in the district the Chief Minister said that leaders from Tamil Nadu, which will go to polls next week, have contacted her regarding Income Tax raids on the relatives of DMK leader M K Stalin. “Raids by Central agencies in Bengal are also motivated by similar vindictive politics,” said Mamata. At another rally in Alipurduar district the Chief Minister said that the BJP Government has excluded the names of 14 lakhs people from the NRC and was planning similar things in Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-a-member-of-your-party-don-t-need-your-suggestion-on-seats-mamata-to-pm-969407.html
02-04-2021||National||Two saffron activists arrested in nuns' harassment case||Two persons were arrested almost a fortnight after two nuns and two postulants were harassed and forced to deboard a train at Jhansi railway station in Uttar Pradesh by some alleged saffron activists, who said that they indulged in conversion. According to the police sources, the two persons were identified as Anchal Ajaria and Purukesh Amaria, associated with a little-known saffron outfit 'Rashtrabhakt Sangathan'. They were arrested from Jhansi railway station on Thursday night. ''We received information that two persons were discussing the incident (harassment and deboarding of the nuns and the two postulants) and making plans to hold demonstration against the police.....both were arrested,'' said a senior police official in Jhansi on Friday. They were produced before a local court, after which they were taken into judicial custody. The nuns and their two postulants, who were on their way to Odisha from Rishikesh, were allegedly harassed and forced to deboard Utkal Express at Jhansi railway station on March 19 after some saffron activists, who were also travelling in the same coach complained that they were engaged in religious conversion. The railway police had detained the nuns and the two postulants but later let them off after quizzing them for several hours after finding that all of them were Christians by birth. The incident had triggered a huge outcry and Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah demanding stern action against the offenders.  Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, however, recently denied that the nuns were harassed and accused Kerala chief minister of lying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-saffron-activists-arrested-in-nuns-harassment-case-969419.html
02-04-2021||National||Tamil Nadu polls: BJP approaches EC seeking Udhayanidhi Stalin's disqualification over remarks against Swaraj, Jaitley||The BJP has filed a complaint with the Election Commission demanding disqualification of Udhayanidhi Stalin's candidature in Tamil Nadu Elections over his statement on former Union Ministers late Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley. The party has demanded that he be delisted from the list of DMK star campaigners and debarred from campaigning. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-polls-bjp-approaches-ec-seeking-udhayanidhi-stalins-disqualification-over-remarks-against-swaraj-jaitley-969420.html
02-04-2021||National||Covid-19 second wave in India may peak by mid-April, say scientists||Scientists have predicted using a mathematical model that the ongoing second-wave of Covid-19 pandemic across the country could peak by mid-April, following which the infections may see a steep decline by the end of May. During the first wave of Covid-19 infections across India, the mathematical approach, named SUTRA, predicted that the initial surge of infections in August would peak by September and lower in February 2021. Scientists, including Manindra Agrawal from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, applied the model to predict the trajectory of the current surge in infections and found that the number of daily new infections is likely to peak in mid-April for this ongoing pandemic wave. "For the last several days, we have found that there is a reasonable chance that the cases in India could peak sometime between 15-20 April. It is a sharp slope, but on the way down, it would likely be equally sharp, coming down very fast and by end of May may see a dramatic reduction," Agrawal told PTI. "There is some uncertainty in predicting the peak value of daily new infections because of the sharp rise. Currently, it is coming to 1 lakh infections per day, but this can go up or down. But the timing remains the same between April 15-20," he added. The scientists predict that in the current wave, the first state to peak could be Punjab in a few days, followed by Maharashtra. However, the IIT Kanpur professor added that the model's prediction of the new peak is sensitive to the daily new infections data. "Even a little bit of change each day causes the peak numbers to change by several thousand numbers. But the location of the peak has remained on mid-April," he added. Independent calculations made by scientists, including Gautam Menon from Ashoka University in Haryana, have also predicted that the peak of the ongoing wave of infections could be between mid-April and mid-May. However, Menon cautioned that such projections of Covid-19 cases should really be trusted only in the short term. "Any excessively precise prediction, of a peak within just a 5-day window, would ignore the many uncertainties associated with the inputs to any such calculation," Menon, who was not involved in the SUTRA modelling, told PTI. Agrawal noted that the model uses three main parameters to predict the course of the pandemic. "The first is called Beta, or contact rate, which measures how many people an infected person infects per day. It is related to the R-naught value, which is the number of people an infected person spreads the virus to over the course of their infection," Agrawal explained. The other two parameters, he explained are 'Reach', which is a measure of exposure level of the population to the pandemic, and 'Epsilon' which is the ratio of detected and undetected cases. "The reason we had to introduce 'Reach' is that unlike earlier pandemics which start at a location and suddenly spread fast across a place, in Covid, the spread of the pandemic has been slower due to the many protective measures in place," Agrawal explained. The mathematician said 'Epsilon' helps factor in the number of asymptomatic infections across the country. "Since the detected cases are quarantined, we assume they no longer contribute to new infections. So a growing number of daily new cases, reflect larger undetected infections. By measuring the number of new cases each day, we try to estimate the undetected and asymptomatic infections," Agrawal explained. He added that the model relies on inputs from daily reported new infections, based on which the value of the three main parameters are inferred. "We learn everything from the daily-infections data. The beta value across India has gone up by 50 per cent in March, which indicates that a combination of factors -- people becoming more relaxed, and more infectious variants going around. But precisely what reason this could be is something biologists have to say," the scientist noted. While the model did not previously predict a second-wave in India, he said it could have been due to a change in the parameters sometime between February and March 2021. "So clearly during this time some parameters had changed. So we had to wait for some time to collect new data and see how the parameters had changed, which we now know," Agrawal said. On Friday, India recorded 81,466 new infections in a span of 24 hours -- the highest single-day rise in cases since October 2, 2020 -- taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,23,03,131, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-second-wave-in-india-may-peak-by-mid-april-say-scientists-969435.html
02-04-2021||National||SC issues orders to make MACT rules more consumer friendly||The Supreme Court  has directed for making the mechanism related to motor accident claims consumer friendly with the use of technology, online payment and use of emails for communication between the police, insurance companies and the tribunals dealing with such cases. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy issued a slew of directions for adoption as a uniform practice across the country. Additional Solicitor General J K Sud sought some time for implementation of a suggestion for the central government to develop an online platform accessible to the tribunals, police authorities and insurers throughout the country. However, the pan-India directions to make MACT rules more consumer friendly were issued following a report prepared by the law officer after discussion with all stakeholders and amicus curiae N Vijayraghavan and advocate Vipin Nair. In its directions, the court said that the jurisdictional police station should report the accident to the Motor Accident Claims tribunal and insurer within first 48 hours either over email or a dedicated website. After the accident, the police should collect and verify the relevant documents for computation of compensation. They should email the detailed accident report to the tribunal and the insurer within three months. Similarly, the claimants may also be permitted to email the application for compensation with supporting documents, to the tribunal and the insurer within the same period. Afterwards, the tribunal would issue email summons to the insurer, which would again respond by email with proof of service on the claimants. After passing the award, the tribunal should email an authenticated copy to the insurer, which should satisfy the award by depositing the amount into a bank account maintained by the tribunal by RTGS or NEFT.  The court also directed the tribunal for maintaining a bank account for this purpose and record the relevant account details along with the directions for payment to the insurer in the award itself. The bench put the matter for further directions on May 4, when the issue for pan-India mobile application or website for MACT claims could be dealt with.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-orders-to-make-mact-rules-more-consumer-friendly-969448.html
02-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Repoll in Assam booth after row over EVMs found in a BJP candidate's car||In your evening news brief,  Election Commission suspended four officials after row over EVMs found in a BJP candidate's car; 41 people dead after train derailed inside a tunnel in Taiwan and Sachin Tendulkar hospitalised.  The Election Commission on Friday suspended four polling officials after a controversy over a video of EVMs found in a BJP candidate's car erupted on Thursday. In its report on Friday, the EC said that the EVMs were secure. However, re-polling would be done in Indira MV School in the Ratabari constituency. Violence broke out in Karimganj district of Assam on Thursday night after a mob spotted a BJP candidate's vehicle being used to take a polled EVM to the strong room. The vehicle of the polling party of Indira MV School in the Ratabari constituency broke down on their way to the strong room in Karimganj town, officials said on Friday morning. "They took a lift in a private vehicle. Incidentally, the vehicle was registered under the name of sitting BJP MLA from Patharkandi Krishnendu Paul. When it reached Nimal Bazar area, some public spotted it," an official of the district administration said. Paul is also the BJP candidate from the seat this time. The mob, mostly consisting of AIUDF and Congress supporters, vandalised the vehicle, upon which the polling party ran away, leaving behind the EVMs, eyewitnesses said. Dozens of people were killed on Friday when a packed train derailed inside a tunnel in eastern Taiwan, the island's worst railway accident in decades. Taiwan's National Fire Agency said at least 41 people were confirmed dead with more than 60 sent to hospital. Officials said the accident could have been caused by a maintenance vehicle sliding down an embankment and striking the train before it entered the tunnel near the coastal city of Hualien. Cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar said on Friday that he has been hospitalised as "a matter of abundant precaution under medical advice." The 47-year-old had tested positive for Covid-19 last week. Besides Tendulkar, former India all-rounder Irfan Pathan, his elder brother Yusuf and S Badrinath -- all of whom had recently participated at the Road Safety World Series Challenge -- have so far announced that they have tested positive for Covid-19. Source: DHNS/ PTI/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-repoll-in-assam-booth-after-row-over-evms-found-in-a-bjp-candidates-car-969456.html
02-04-2021||National||J&K Police to revamp security cover of leaders facing militant threat||In the backdrop of recent attacks on political leaders and activists, Jammu and Kashmir police are going for a massive revamp in the security cover of politicians facing threats from the militants. Besides, there will be a fresh advisory and training to the policemen guarding the VIPs and politicians. While addressing a presser here, Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said there have been enough deliberations on reviewing the security cover of politicians including those facing threats. “Our men deployed for the protection of VIPs and politicians will get fresh training sessions, new SoPs and advisories. I assure that if there is any bid from militants to target politicians, that will be foiled,” he said. Kumar revealed that among political parties, leaders and activists of the BJP were more vulnerable, and accordingly police will take concrete measures to ensure fool-proof security cover to them. “We can’t give security to one and all, but those who face threats and are vulnerable will be provided with enough security cover. We will change the security guards wherever needed and accordingly enhance the cover of those who need it the most,” the police chief added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-police-to-revamp-security-cover-of-leaders-facing-militant-threat-969462.html
02-04-2021||National||HC grants bail to doctor facing rape allegation, says not a case of forceful sexual assault||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a doctor of Safdarjung Hospital, accused of raping a woman on the promise of marriage, on the ground that it was "not a case of forceful sexual assault" and he would not be in a position to terrorise the victim or tamper with evidence. Justice Subramonium Prasad said there is nothing on record to indicate that the man had promised marriage to the prosecutrix and whether the woman's physical relationship was based on her free consent or not will be decided only in trial. “The prosecutrix is a make-up artist and is a resident of Delhi. It cannot be said that she is a naive lady. This is not a case of forceful sexual assault..,” the high court said in its March 22 order. It added that the accused is a doctor working in Safdarjung Hospital and it cannot be said that he would be in a position to terrorise the woman or tamper with evidence. The court noted that the evidence has been collected and the mobile phone of the man was with the police. “In view the above, this court finds it just and expedient to grant bail to the petitioner (doctor) in the event of arrest in...registered at Police Station Hauz Khas for offences punishable under Section 376 (punishment for rape) and 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison with and intent to commit an offence) IPC…,” the high court said. The court granted bail to the doctor on furnishing of a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with a surety by his relative of the like amount. It directed him to give all his mobile numbers and address to the investigating officer and that he shall report to the concerned police station on every Monday. “The petitioner shall not tamper with evidence or exert pressure on the prosecutrix. It is made clear and needless to state that the observations made in this order are only for the purpose of grant of bail and not on the merits of the case,” the high court said. According to the woman, her father had suffered a heart attack in January 2019 and she took her to the Safdarjung hospital where the accused was the duty doctor. During the course of treatment, he visited the woman’s residence and gave his profile for the purpose of marriage and asked for her profile as well, she said. The woman alleged that later on he called her to meet him to know each other, and once she was called at his friend’s house where she was given a soft drink after which she lost consciousness and on regaining consciousness, she realised she has been raped. When she confronted the man, she was threatened that a video had been taken by him and would be made viral, the woman alleged, adding that later on she was called at some hotels and raped again. An FIR was lodged at Hauz Khas Police Station on January 28, 2021 on the woman’s rape complaint. Seeking bail the doctor’s counsel submitted that the FIR was registered on the allegation that the petitioner took the woman to his friend’s flat on June 9, 2019 where she was raped. However, this story has been completely given a go by and now the allegation is that the man promised marriage and established a physical relationship with her, he argued, adding that no useful purpose would be served by arresting the doctor. The court noted that the material on record showed that though initially, the woman came up with the case wherein she has alleged that the man gave her a drink laced with sedatives and taking advantage of the fact that she was not conscious he raped her. “This allegation has been given a go by and the subsequent allegation of the prosecutrix is that sexual relationship was established on the basis of promise to marry. There are contradictions between the initial version and the present version of the prosecutrix. "This court has perused all the records and does not find any promise of marriage. There is no further material that has to be recovered from the petitioner. The sexual relationship was established on the promise of marriage or not is a matter of trial and has to be established during the trial,” the court said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-bail-to-doctor-facing-rape-allegation-says-not-a-case-of-forceful-sexual-assault-969480.html
02-04-2021||National||India pitches for early disengagement in remaining areas in eastern Ladakh||India on Friday hoped that China will work with it to ensure the disengagement of troops in the remaining areas of eastern Ladakh at the earliest, and asserted that de-escalation of tension alone will lead to restoration of peace and tranquility in border areas and provide conditions for progress of bilateral ties. At a media briefing, Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said the two sides continue to remain in touch through military and diplomatic channels on the issue. He also referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's comments that a prolongation of the situation is in neither side's interest. "We, therefore, hope that the Chinese side will work with us to ensure that disengagement in the remaining areas is completed at the earliest," he added. This, he said, would allow both sides to consider de-escalation of forces in eastern Ladakh as that alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquility and provide conditions for progress of the bilateral relationship. Bagchi also said that there was a consensus that the two sides should now quickly resolve the remaining issues in the region. "The disengagement in Pangong Lake area was a significant step forward and it has provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in western sector," he said. Bagchi said the two sides had detailed exchange of views on the remaining issues both at the the senior commanders' meeting and the discussions held under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pitches-for-early-disengagement-in-remaining-areas-in-eastern-ladakh-969501.html
02-04-2021||National||If EC doesn't wake up, it'll be fatal for democracy: Congress||The Congress on Friday questioned the Election Commission after a BJP candidate's vehicle was found transporting a polled EVM in Assam's Karimganj district and said if the poll body does not wake up now and remains "complicit" it will be fatal for democracy. Violence broke out in Karimganj district on Thursday night after a mob spotted a BJP candidate's vehicle being used to transport a polled EVM to the strong room, forcing the police to fire in the air to bring the situation under control. The EC suspended four poll officials and ordered a repoll at the booth as a video went viral on social media. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at the Election Commission, tweeting in Hindi that the "EC's car has broken down, the BJP's intentions are bad and the condition of democracy has worsened". Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that the "EVM fraud" was for everyone to see and asked whether the EC needed the BJP's help to carry EVMs. "EVM fraud is for everyone to see. EVMs found in the car of BJP MLA candidate Krishnedru Paul after the second phase of polling in Assam. Does the ECI need the BJP to carry the EVM's. "If the ECI doesn't wake up even now and remains mute or complicit, it is fatal for democracy," he said on Twitter. Surjewala alleged that the BJP was staring at a decisive defeat in the Assam Assembly elections and it had "panicked immeasurably". "The last desperate measure is always EVM theft. Will the ECI reply - Why were EVM recovered from BJP candidate Krishnendu Paul's car? Why were EVM found in the boot of a luxury car near Hatipura polling station in Diphu in Assam," he asked. He posed several questions to the ECI, asking why were the officials carrying the EVM in Jamunukh without any security official accompanying them, in violation of the ECI mandate, and whether the voters in Kalaigaon complained of EVM disappearing from the booth. "What enquiry was held? What action was taken," he asked in a series of tweets. "Will the ECI reply - Whether some suspicious officials were found inside the strongroom in Dibrugarh, where EVM are kept? What action was taken," he asked. Surjewala also asked whether 139 polling stations faced serious EVM malfunctioning in the second phase, including in Jagiroad, Nagaon, Hojai, Nilbagan, Lumding, and sought to know what action has been taken. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the Election Commission needs to start acting decisively on reports of private vehicles transporting electronic voting machines, and a serious re-evaluation of the use of EVMs needs to be carried out by all national parties. Tagging a tweet which carried a video showing EVMs in the car of a BJP candidate in Assam, she said every time there was an election, videos of private vehicles caught transporting EVMs show up. "Unsurprisingly they have the following things in common: The vehicles usually belong to BJP candidates or their associates. The videos are taken as one off incidents and dismissed as aberrations. The BJP uses its media machinery to accuse those who exposed the videos as sore losers," she said. She alleged that too many such incidents are being reported and nothing is being done about them. "The EC needs to start acting decisively on these complaints and a serious re-evaluation of the use of EVMs needs to be carried out by all national parties," she said in a series of tweets. Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said that with such incidents happening again and again, the EC needs to restore the confidence of people in elections and the safety of EVMs. He said the incident is of serious nature and must be probed thoroughly. The incident snowballed into a huge controversy with the opposition Congress and AIUDF alleging that the EVM was being "stolen", while the Election Commission suspended four poll officials and ordered a repoll at the booth. The vehicle of the polling party of the 149-Indira MV School in the Ratabari constituency broke down on their way to the strong room in Karimganj town, officials said. "They took a lift on a private vehicle. Incidentally, the vehicle was registered under the name of the wife of the sitting BJP MLA from Patharkandi Krishnendu Paul. When it reached the Nimal Bazaar area, some public spotted it," a official of the district administration said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-ec-doesnt-wake-up-itll-be-fatal-for-democracy-congress-969503.html
02-04-2021||National||2 injured as police fires rubber bullets to prevent mob from snatching EVM in Assam||Two persons were injured after police fired rubber bullets at a mob that attempted to snatch an EVM at a polling booth in Assam's Udalguri district, alleging rigging by BJP and its ally UPPL, officials said on Friday. The incident took place at number 215 Raja Pukhuri LP School in Kalaigaon on Thursday night. After the poll ended, an argument broke out between polling agents and officials over the signing of documents. Barring two polling agents, all others reached the venue late in the morning as a result of which, their signatures could not be collected. The presiding officer also did not take the signatures at the end of the polling, an official of the district administration said. "Soon, a crowd of over 500 people gathered at the spot and attempted to snatch the EVM alleging rigging by BJP and UPPL members. A police team led by the district additional SP reached the spot. Failing to pacify the crowd, they fired rubber bullets to disperse the mob. Two persons sustained minor injuries," he said. BPF candidate Durga Das Boro reached the spot and tried to pacify the crowd. Later, the police escorted the polling team to deposit the EVM at the strongroom. Voting at Kalaigaon constituency took place in the second phase on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-injured-as-police-fires-rubber-bullets-to-prevent-mob-from-snatching-evm-in-assam-969504.html
02-04-2021||National||India has not imposed any export ban on Covid-19 vaccines: MEA||Asserting that India has not imposed any export ban on anti-coronavirus vaccines, the Ministry of External Affairs on Friday said the country has taken the lead in sending vaccines abroad with over 640 lakh doses supplied to more than 80 countries till now. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi also said the ministry's 'Vaccine Maitree' initiative to supply vaccines abroad has been "very successful and very well liked" by our partners across the world. "As on date, under the 'Vaccine Maitree' initiative, we have supplied a total of about 644 lakh doses to the global community and of these, 104 lakh doses have been supplied as a grant, 357 lakh doses on a commercial basis and 182 lakh doses through the COVAX initiative," Bagchi said at an online media briefing. With regard to the demand for made-in-India vaccines, many countries across the world have been requesting for their supply, he said. "I don't have an exact number for what is the demand (for the vaccines) because it is a request based on the requirement of countries," Bagchi said. The 'Vaccine Maitree' initiative has been extremely successful and very well liked by our partners across the world and "we are continuing to try to supply to the extent possible given our domestic requirements", Bagchi said. Asked about reports that Nepal has approached India to procure 5 million more vaccine doses but has not got any response, he said India has taken the lead on sending vaccines abroad. "No country has shared with the world the number of vaccines that India has while vaccinating its own population. Till now, we have supplied vaccines to more than 80 countries across in the world and we have already stated that our external supplies would be done keeping in mind our domestic requirements," the MEA spokesperson said. "At this time, I hope our partners understand that vaccines are primarily purposed for domestic consumption. I want to emphasise that we have not imposed any export ban on vaccines," Bagchi asserted. Regarding the concerns of other countries, India's position has been suitably conveyed through its official channels, he added. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring anti-coronavirus vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-not-imposed-any-export-ban-on-covid-19-vaccines-mea-969536.html
02-04-2021||National||Centre identifies 11 'states of grave concern' amid surge in Covid-19 cases||As India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 80,000 mark on Friday, the Centre identified 11 states and union territories including Karnataka as “states of grave concerns” since they have contributed 90% of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the last two weeks. Others on the list are Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Rajasthan besides the union territory of Chandigarh. The situation, officials said, was particularly worrying in Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. Each of these states have either crossed or close to crossing their early reported peaks during the first wave seen last year, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement after Cabinet Secretary Rajib Gauba reviewed the situation with top officials from the states and asked them to use every legal power they have to stem such an alarming growth of the epidemic. Gauba told Chief Secretaries, Director Generals of Police and senior health professionals that the growth of Covid-19 caseload stood at 6.8% in March 2021, which had surpassed the previous record of 5.5% recorded in June 2020. While India reported over 97,000 daily new cases at the peak of the pandemic last September, more than 81,000 new cases have been recorded in the last 24 hours. Worryingly in the first wave, the tally (seven day moving average) crossed from 20K cases to 60K in about 36 days and grew from 60K to 80k in 25 days. But in the second wave, the shift from 20K cases to 40K happened in just 8 days and from 40K to 60K in 11 days. On the daily count, the epidemic further grew from 53,000 cases to 81,000 cases in just three days, adding nearly 30,000 new infections within 72 hours. The Cabinet secretary told the state officials to use the Police Act, Disaster Management Act and other legal and administrative provisions for imposing penalties on defaulters to ensure people wear masks and follow the social distancing norms. The officials were told to focus on markets, fairs, and social and religious congregations that could turn out to be super spreader events. Observing that vaccination is one of the five tools to contain the surge, Gauba said enhanced testing, strict containment, prompt contact tracing and enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour were equally important to bring down the numbers. States were asked to set up containment zones or micro containment zones and carry out daily monitoring of positive patients living at home to ensure that they stay isolated. Moreover, the states will have to increase their testing continuously to ensure that positivity comes down to 5% or less than 5%. Also the task is to ensure that RT-PCR tests comprise 70% of total tests, which is not the case at the moment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-identifies-11-states-of-grave-concern-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-969545.html
02-04-2021||National||Mumbai reports nearly 9,000 new Covid-19 cases, 20 deaths||Mumbai recorded 8,832 new coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest one-day rise since the pandemic began, the civic body said. The city had reported 8,646 new cases the day before, a record which Friday's tally surpassed. As many as 20 deaths were reported on Friday, highest since the beginning of December 2020, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The tally of Covid-19 cases in the country's financial capital thus rose to 4,32,192 and the death toll reached 11,724. The city had witnessed 20 deaths on December 2 after which the daily toll had declined. As many as 44,328 Covid-19 tests were carried out during the day, taking the total of tests done to 41,74,259. Also, 5,352 patients were discharged from hospitals, which took the number of recoveries to 3,61,043. The recovery rate has gone down to 84 per cent, while the growth rate of Covid-19 cases has risen to 1.46 per cent and doubling rate (period during which caseload doubles) has dropped to 46 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-reports-nearly-9000-new-covid-19-cases-20-deaths-969548.html
02-04-2021||National||India declines to comment on Pakistan's flip-flop on bilateral trade||India on Friday declined to comment on Pakistan's flip-flop on plans to go for limited imports of sugar and cotton from the country. "We have seen reports on this. But as is evident, we are not the right party to whom this question should be directed at," said Arindam Bagchi, Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). His response came following questions on the issue at a media briefing. In a volte-face, Pakistan's Cabinet on Thursday rejected the proposal of a high-powered committee to import cotton and sugar from India. Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said there can be no normalisation of ties until New Delhi reverses its decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The somersault came a day after the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) under newly-appointed Finance Minister Hammad Azhar on Wednesday decided to buy the two key items from India, lifting a nearly two-year-long ban on their import from the neighbouring country. Asked whether India is planning to restore the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status to Pakistan, Bagchi said he does not have any information on it. India withdrew the MFN status to Pakistan following the Pulwama terror attack in 2019. To a question on whether there was any interaction between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Pakistani counterpart Qureshi in Dushanbe on the sidelines of a conference, the MEA spokesperson said he was not aware of any such interaction with the Pakistani delegation. Both Jaishankar and Qureshi were at the Tajikistan capital earlier this week to attend the Heart of Asia conference. The Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process is an initiative aimed at bringing together all the key stakeholders to bring lasting peace and stability in war-ravaged Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-declines-to-comment-on-pakistans-flip-flop-on-bilateral-trade-969554.html
02-04-2021||National||Maharashtra sees biggest spike of 47,827 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 47,827 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count since the coronavirus pandemic began. The new figure took the state tally of positive cases to 29,04,076, a Health Department statement said. As many as 202 coronavirus patients died in the state on Saturday, taking the death toll to 55379, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-sees-biggest-spike-of-47827-covid-19-cases-969579.html
02-04-2021||National||Inculcating reading habit among children will strengthen their foundational literacy & personality: Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said inculcating reading habit among children from a young age will help strengthen their foundational literacy and personality. The vice-president called upon the educationists, intellectuals, parents and teachers to bestow special attention in promoting the reading habit among children and underlined the importance of reading in the development of children's personalities. "This is imperative for their (children) personalities to develop and to wean away children from excessive use of gadgets," Naidu said while addressing Odia Adikabi Sarala Das's 600th birth anniversary function in Cuttack. While stressing on the uses of mother tongue among the people, particularly children, the vice-president said reading and writing should be inculcated by teachers to strengthen foundational literacy. More authors should write books for children. These books should be written and illustrated keeping in view the children's varying interests and abilities, he said. Noting that he has been championing the cause of promoting the use of the mother tongue in every state, the vice-president said: "Firstly, the medium of instruction up to primary school must be in the mother tongue or local language. Many studies have already catalogued the advantages of studying in mother tongue during early schooling. Besides, the administration and the judiciary too should use the local language to effectively communicate with the people". On Adikabi Sarala Das's literary achievements, Naidu said the Mahabharata written by him has not dimmed among Odia people even after hundreds of years because of his unique style and diction. He said this shows the importance of writing and communicating with the people in simple, colloquial language. Hailing Sarala Das as not just Adi Kabi, but also as Adi Aitihasika (historian) and Adi Bhougolbith (geographer), Naidu said Sarala Das was a pioneer in democratizing literature as he had used colloquial language as early as the 15th century. Naidu compared Sarala Das with Kabir and Yogi Vemana, while highlighting great poets having an extraordinary ability to communicate complex emotions and ideas in a simple language and leave a lasting impression on a wide cross-section of readers. Hailing Sarala Das as a literary genius, who earned the title of 'The Father of Odia Language', Naidu said that he has enriched Odia language and culture. "No wonder, Odia came to be recognised by the Government of India as a Classical Language of India with Sarala Das standing as a beacon", he added. On this occasion, Naidu complimented Biswa Bhushan Harchandan, Governor of Andhra Pradesh, for being conferred with the prestigious 'Kalinga Ratna'. Earlier in the day, the vice-president has released the book titled 'Neelimarani My Mother, My Hero', written by MP Achyut Samanta at Raj Bhavan in Bhubaneswar. "Generally we read biographies of great leaders, entrepreneurs and explorers. But it is heart-warming that today we are releasing the biography of a mother, because it is the mother who makes a man or woman great through her upbringing and values. I congratulate and compliment Achyuta Samanta ji for putting down in words the life and struggle of his late mother Smt Neelimarani j," he said. On his arrival at the Biju Patnaik International Airport, Naidu was welcomed by Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal and Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inculcating-reading-habit-among-children-will-strengthen-their-foundational-literacy-personality-naidu-969593.html
02-04-2021||National||We condemn any use of violence: MEA on situation in Myanmar||As Myanmar's military continued crackdown on civilians protesting against the February 1 coup, India on Friday condemned any use of violence and said it stood for the restoration of democracy in the country. At a media briefing, Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said India has urged for the release of political prisoners and supported any attempts to resolve the current situation, including through the efforts of 10-nation ASEAN. "Let me be very clear. We condemn any use of violence. We believe that the rule of law should prevail. We stand for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar," he said. To a question on whether India will allow people from Myanmar to cross over to the Indian side along the Indo-Myanmar border, Bagchi said it is being dealt with as per law as well as on humanitarian considerations. "As far as border crossings are concerned, we are dealing with it as per our laws and humanitarian considerations," Bagchi said. Myanmar has been rocked by massive protests since the military seized power in the coup on February 1. According to reports, hundreds of people, including children, were killed in the crackdown by Myanmarese authorities. Leader of National League for Democracy (NLD) Aung San Suu Kyi is among the key people detained by the military following the coup. "We have urged the release of political prisoners and supported any attempts at resolving the current situation, including through the efforts of ASEAN," Bagchi said. "We remain engaged on this issue with our international interlocutors and at the UN Security Council in an effort to play a balanced and constructive role," he said. As the situation deteriorated in Myanmar, thousands of people fled to Thailand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-condemn-any-use-of-violence-mea-on-situation-in-myanmar-969595.html
02-04-2021||National||Non-govt functionaries appointed during Trivendra Singh Rawat's tenure removed from their posts||All non-government functionaries appointed president, vice president and advisor of different commissions, corporations, councils and committees in Uttarakhand during Trivendra Singh Rawat's chief ministership were on Friday removed from their posts. An order issued by Chief Secretary Om Prakash said all the non-government functionaries appointed to such posts from March 18, 2017, till date are relieved of their duties with immediate effect.      However, the order leaves out of its ambit people who were appointed during the period to a constitutional post for a fixed tenure.  Over 100 people were appointed president, vice president and advisor of different commissions, corporations, councils and committees in the state, besides being given ministerial ranks during the chief ministership of Rawat, who resigned on March 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-govt-functionaries-appointed-during-trivendra-singh-rawats-tenure-removed-from-their-posts-969664.html
02-04-2021||National||India, France and Australia to hold trilateral talks||The foreign ministers of India, France and Australia are expected to hold a trilateral meeting on April 13 with a focus on boosting cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region, people familiar with the development said on Friday. The meeting is set to focus on exploring practical cooperation in other crucial areas such as dealing with the adverse impact of the coronavirus pandemic, they added. Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne and her French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian are scheduled to visit India around April 12 to attend the Raisina Dialogue. India and Australia are part of the Quad or the Quadrilateral coalition, which is aimed at ensuring a free and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. The other two members of the Quad are Japan and the US. The India-France-Australia trilateral will also discuss a range of areas for practical cooperation, said one of the people cited above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-france-and-australia-to-hold-trilateral-talks-969668.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||Why is there no law against 'Love Jihad' in Kerala: UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath asked why the Kerala government was not bringing in law against 'Love Jihad'. Speaking at an election rally in Alappuzha in Kerala, he said that both the ruling LDF or the opposition UDF were not interested in bringing a law to curb 'Love Jihad'. The statement of the UP chief minister came close on the heels of the LDF facing an embarrassment as Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani, who is a new entrant to the Left Front, stated that the concerns over 'Love Jihad' should be addressed, which was against the officials stand of the CPM. The BJP is allegedly trying to woo the Christian voters by triggering the 'Love Jihad' issue in the election campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-there-no-law-against-love-jihad-in-kerala-up-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-969270.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||India's arts community fears Hindu hardliners can't take a joke||A comedian jailed for a joke he did not tell, threats against theatre directors and a religious backlash to a blockbuster TV drama have left India's arts community fearing a rising nationalist assault on free speech. Artists, writers and satirists are facing criminal charges and warnings of violence for touching on religious issues, leaving performers to wonder whether India is being led away from its secular roots. Even pop idol Rihanna recently sparked a social media storm by wearing a pendant of Ganesh, one of the country's most revered deities, in a topless photo. Comedian Munawar Faruqui was jailed for more than a month after he was hounded at a gig in the central city of Indore. A Hindu fringe group activist began accusing the 30-year-old of intending to insult Hindu gods just as he took the stage. Faruqui, a Muslim, is known for hitting sensitive topics in his humour, including deadly religious riots in Gujarat state when Hindu nationalist Prime Minister Narendra Modi was chief minister there nearly two decades ago. He defended himself by pointing to his track record of ridiculing Islam as well, and an audience member told AFP the comedian was polite throughout the encounter. But his heckler was not appeased, and instead went to fetch the police who detained Faruqui and four others. His three bail applications were rejected -- with one lower court commenting that "religious feelings had been outraged" -- before the Supreme Court ordered his provisional release. In a video he posted after he left jail, Faruqui said he had been "affected by something I didn't do." Faruqui said he became a comedian to make people happy but lamented that a "sheep mindset can ruin someone's life". Religion has always been a sensitive topic in the country of 1.3 billion people -- 80 per cent of them Hindu -- but Modi's two huge election wins since 2014 have empowered his hardcore followers. Many believe that there should be curbs on freedom of speech to prevent religious insults. "Don't you feel bad if anyone offends your God?" asked Prakash Sharma, an outspoken senior member of Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh. "Right now society is sleeping and it is tolerating this. Their children will beat them up in their own homes if they don't mend their ways," he told AFP. And while comics have backed Faruqui, they are wary of coming under the crosshairs themselves. "You have to be sensitive about content because it's very clear India is becoming intolerant," comedian Samil Shah told AFP. "You can't go about offending the majority." Sociologist Shiv Visvanathan said the backlash against comics was strange when there had always been a strong comedy element to Indian folklore and cinema. "Democracy is supposed to be happily quarrelsome and relaxed about the quarrel," he told AFP. Other members of the country's entertainment community have found themselves in the firing line. A theatre festival in central India was cancelled when a right-wing group threatened "aggressive protests" to stop the event, after objecting to the title of two plays. One had committed the sin of using the words "caste" and "saint" together, which was considered an affront to the dignity of Hindu deities. "Our posters came back to us with circles around these titles and soon phone calls followed," said Shantanu Pandey, who was to direct a play at the festival. Web giant Amazon's streaming service also came under fire when its political drama, "Tandav", was accused by hardliners of depicting Hindu gods in a negative light. The company soon issued an unconditional apology and edited or dropped the scenes that stirred the controversy. Modi's government has signalled that it will extend legal cover to the campaign against religious offence. It has announced new rules that may force social media and digital platforms to take down content within 36 hours of a complaint being made. Meenakshi Ganguli of Human Rights Watch said the government and its partisans had abetted a cultural clampdown that had fostered a "chilling effect on freedom of speech and expression." "Sadly, in many cases, the authorities have not just failed to act against violent government supporters, but have targeted peaceful critics," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-arts-community-fears-hindu-hardliners-cant-take-a-joke-969319.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||Poll-bound states account for nearly 25% of savings schemes collection||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday scrapped the steep cuts in interest rates on small savings schemes within hours of its rollout claiming that the orders were issued by “oversight”. “Interest rates of small savings schemes of the government of India shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, i.e, rates that prevailed as of March 2021,” Sitharaman said. “Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn,” the finance minister said within hours of the Department of Economic Affairs announcing sharp cuts on interest rates on various small savings schemes by up to 110 basis points. Nirmala Sitharaman's u-turn came on the day of the second phase of Assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam. Interestingly, according to data collected by the National Savings Institute (NSI), West Bengal is only behind Maharashtra in terms of contributions to the small savings schemes run by post offices and banks. The rate cut would have had an effect on the BJP's chances not only in West Bengal but also in other poll-bound states as collection from savings schemes from these states account for 23.9% of small savings schemes collection in terms of gross collections and 23.4% in terms of net collections. Where net collections also account for the withdrawal of funds from these schemes. (Net collection = Gross collection - withdrawals) Tamil Nadu is another major contributor to the schemes and the state is set to vote on April 6 and the BJP is looking to clinch more Assembly seats in the state in alliance with the BJP after only having formed a government in Karnataka among the southern states. Tamil Nadu's contribution to the NSS in terms of gross collections was 4.8% and in terms of net collections, it was 6.6% in 2017-18. The latest data for FY21 is not available on the NSI website, however, the data for 2017-18 shows that West Bengal accounted for 13.2% of the net collections out of the Rs 1,58,180.28 crore that was collected in small savings schemes run by post offices and bank at the end of the fiscal year. Maharashtra contributed a little over 15% and were the largest contributors. When it comes to gross collections in small savings schemes, West Bengal tops the list contributing 15.1% to the collection. Withdrawals in West Bengal were higher and hence its share in terms of net collections is behind Maharashtra. The interest rate cut of 50-110 basis points would have affected the BJP's campaign in Assam and Kerala too, though they account for a smaller portion of the contribution to these savings schemes. For now, savers can heave a sigh of relief that the rate cut has been withdrawn. However, a rate cut may be implemented in the next quarter starting July 1 considering consumer price inflation has remained benign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/poll-bound-states-account-for-nearly-25-of-savings-schemes-collection-969325.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||Congress questions EC's impartiality over Assam EVM issue||Congress on Friday questioned the impartiality of the Election Commission after an Electronic Voting Machine (EVM) was found in a car of a BJP MLA from Assam after the votes were cast in the second phase of elections in the state. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra called for “serious re-evaluation” of the use of EVMs for conducting elections by all national parties and sought a clarification from the Commission. “Dear EC, what is the matter? Can you give an explanation to the nation on this? Or should we say goodbye to impartiality of the EC,” Priyanka said after the Commission claimed the polling officers had traveled in a private car after their official vehicle developed a snag while returning from the polling station in Ratabari assembly seat. .. The EC needs to start acting decisively on these complaints and a serious re-evaluation of the use of EVM’s needs to be carried out by all national parties. 3/3 “The EC needs to start acting decisively on these complaints and a serious re-evaluation of the use of EVMs needs to be carried out by all national parties," Priyanka said. “EC's car has broken down, the BJP's intentions are bad and the condition of democracy has worsened,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. A delegation of Congress leaders also approached the Election Commission on Friday evening. “In respect of the EVMs found in the car of a BJP candidate in Assam, we told the Commission that it was a complete violation of the guidelines specified by the EC itself,” senior Congress leader Ashwani Kumar said. In a memorandum to the Commission, the Congress demanded appointment of special observers in all constituencies for protection of EVMs during the polls; provision of data to all candidates on an audit of EVMs as per serial number and other data including the reserved EVMs. “If the ECI doesn't wake up even now and remains mute or complicit, it is fatal for democracy,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee into the EVM controversy. "The issue is not of repoll in a particular booth. It is how did an EVM crawl into the car of a BJP candidate? Who is in bed with whom here & for how long. Requires a Joint Parliamentary Committee Investigation ASAP,” Tewari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-questions-ecs-impartiality-over-assam-evm-issue-969348.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||Akhilesh Yadav slams govt over small savings interest rate u-turn||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Friday asked the BJP government at the Centre to withdraw forever any decision on slashing interest rates on small savings, saying its decisions have created fear among people. The government on Thursday revoked a steep interest rate cut on small savings schemes such as PPF and NSC, with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman saying it was an oversight. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, the "BJP government by conspiring to reduce interest rates on PPF and small saving schemes of common people has created fear among elderly, women and common man that interest rates might go down to zero per cent also on their savings. How will they survive then? BJP government should withdraw its decision forever". भाजपा सरकार ने PPF, बुजुर्गों, कन्याओं व आम जनता की छोटी बचत पर ब्याज दर और घटाने का षड्यंत्र रचकर, देशभर के बुज़ुर्गों, महिलाओं व आम लोगों में ये डर बैठा दिया है कि उनकी जमा राशि पर ब्याज शून्य तक हो सकता है फिर जीवन यापन कैसे होगा। भाजपा सरकार हमेशा के लिए ये फ़ैसला वापस ले। Reacting to Yadav's remarks, BJP spokesman Chandramohan tweeted, "This shows you studied in Australia. Read something in India also. This was made clear yesterday that interest will remain the same. Why are you becoming brother of Pappu."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-yadav-slams-govt-over-small-savings-interest-rate-u-turn-969359.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||After TMC's 'chotiwala' jibe, Giriraj Singh says Mamata has 'neither Maya nor Ram'||Amid the TMC and BJP's squabble over the ongoing West Bengal Assembly polls, Union Fisheries Minister Giriraj Singh has reacted sharply to TMC MP Mahua Moitra's statement where she said "There are chotiwalas & then there are chotiwala rakshasas who refer to gotra of Rohingyas as if it were a term of abuse. Modiji should ask his cabinet minister to refrain from such filth". Urging Hon’ble PM to please take my name next time he alludes to me in speech. On Thursday, while addressing an election rally in Joynagar, PM Narendra Modi had said "earlier, Mamata Didi had issues with chants of 'Jai Shri Ram', over immersion of Durga idols. Now TMC has problems with people wearing saffron, sporting tilak and choti, they are calling them 'rakshas'." In the high-stakes poll battle, Mamata has gone out of her way to counter the BJP's communalism allegations towards the TMC, exhibiting her Hindu roots by reciting chants such as 'Chandi Path' during her poll rally in Nandigram. On Thursday, Banerjee said "I said that Maa Mati Manush (mother, land and people) is my gotra. However, in reality, I am from Shandilya gotra and they (BJP) are now teaching me Hinduism". "We talk about development and employment, but Mamata didi is chanting 'kalma' at one side and telling people about her gotra on the other. She has neither 'Maya' or 'Ram'," Singh said. Singh also said that Mamata is acting out a drama out of fear of losing. "She wrote letters to different people and to the Governor. PM rightly said that didi will talk about contesting from other places too, but where will she go? She will lose from any place she goes," he said. Singh was referring to a written by Mamata to Opposition leaders for "a united front for effective struggle against the BJP's attack on democracy and the Constitution."  Mamata had written the letter to Sonia Gandhi, the letter has been sent to several CMs including Uddhav Thackeray, Hemant Soren, and Arvind Kejriwal, alongside several Opposition leaders including Sharad Pawar and M K Stalin. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-tmcs-chotiwala-jibe-giriraj-singh-says-mamata-has-neither-maya-nor-ram-969397.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||PM acting like street-side fellow: Mahua Moitra on Modi's 'Didi-o-Didi' taunts||As the political showdown continues between the ruling TMC and the BJP in poll-bound West Bengal after two phases of voting, TMC's Mahua Moitra slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his 'cheap' 'Didi-o-Didi' digs on Mamata Banerjee during his rallies, likening him to a 'street-side fellow'. When asked if she meant it as a catcall, she said, "Don't take it out of context. But doesn't it sound like that?" In his rally in Uluberia on Thursday, PM Modi criticised Mamata as the second phase of polling was underway. Nandigram was one of the constituencies voting, where Mamata is facing off with friend-turned-foe Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. In his rally, the PM had said, "Didi, your action shows that you are losing from Nandigram. Your action shows that you have given up. Didi..O didi... there is a rumour that you will file a nomination from another constituency. Is there any truth to it?" Moitra hit out at the PM for mocking a sitting CM in the "cheapest, basest way possible". "Would he say that about his mother? Would he say that about his sister? Would he say that about his estranged wife? Would he say that about anybody? How is that okay? Is this PM going to come and teach us about decorum?" she added. ‘Contesting from second seat?’PM Modi jabs Mamata Banerjee Yes Mr. Prime Minister, she will.And it will be Varanasi! So go get your armour on. Soon after, Moitra tweeted to PM's jab about Mamata's constituency. "Yes, Mr Prime Minister, she will. And it will be Varanasi. So go get your armour on," she wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-acting-like-street-side-fellow-mahua-moitra-on-modis-didi-o-didi-taunts-969413.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||Emulate Maharashtra's MVA model at national level under UPA, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said the experiment of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), in which three ideologically different parties came together to form a government in Maharashtra, should be emulated at the national level under the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). He also called the MVA an "ideal government". "Maharashtra has shown a new path to anti-BJP parties in the country by running an ideal government of three ideologically different parties for the last one-and-a-half years," Raut told reporters here. "This experiment should be emulated by the UPA at the national level. It was also highlighted by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjeein her letter to 27 opposition leaders in the country," he added. The Rajya Sabha member said that all the opposition parties should come together to discuss and chart out a new political course. "After 1975, Jay Prakash Narayan brought together all the opposition parties. Unfortunately, there is no such leader today," he said. After the 2019 Assembly elections in Maharashtra, Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress had joined hands to form the government in the state to keep the BJP away from power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/emulate-maharashtras-mva-model-at-national-level-under-upa-says-sanjay-raut-969449.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||Raiding opposition is BJP's coping mechanism when facing electoral defeat: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said raiding the opposition is the BJP's "coping mechanism" when it is facing defeat in elections. The Congress' ally DMK condemned the Central government for alleged searches by income tax officials in the residence of party chief M K Stalin's daughter Senthamarai in Chennai and claimed it has a 'political objective'. However, income tax officials neither confirmed nor denied the searches. Taking to Twitter, Rahul Gandhi said, "Raiding the opposition is the BJP's coping mechanism when facing electoral defeat." Raiding the opposition is BJP’s coping mechanism when facing electoral defeat. DMK General Secretary Duraimurugan said when parties were on the verge of completing the campaign and looked forward to the day of polling, the income tax searches in the residence of Senthamarai was done with a 'political objective.' "The DMK is not a party that can be scared by such searches," Duraimurugan said, adding the party had already faced similar instances and it would not be deterred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raiding-opposition-is-bjps-coping-mechanism-when-facing-electoral-defeat-rahul-gandhi-969473.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||Oppn parties press for disqualification of Assam minister from polls for threatening scribes||Opposition Congress, AIUDF, Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Dal on Friday demanded immediate disqualification of minister Pijush Hazarika from Assembly polls for allegedly threatening two journalists for reporting a controversial election speech of his wife. An FIR has been registered against Hazarika, who is Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, with Jagiroad police station in Morigaon district on the basis of complaint filed by the concerned journalist Najrul Islam. The complainant has also been provided a police bodyguard with immediate effect. In an audio clip telecast by Assamese news channel Pratidin Time, Hazarika was heard talking to journalist Nazrul Islam and, during the conversation, the minister threatened him and another scribe, Tulsi, to drag them out of their homes and "vanish" them. Addressing a press conference, All India Congress Committee General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala condemned the threats of Hazarika and said his outburst is a signal of his loss from the Jagiroad constituency. The AIUDF Organisational General Secretary Aminul Islam slammed the BJP leader and said the power has made him arrogant and disrespectful. Raijor Dal Advisers Sitanath Lahkar and Ghanashyam Nath said there are enough grounds under relevant sections of the law to disqualify the BJP minister from the ongoing elections. "We strongly condemn the language and threat to journalists by minister Pijush Hazarika. He behaved like a goon. The Election Commission should immediately disqualify him and that is our demand," Lahkar said. There are sufficient grounds as per the Section 123 of the Representation of People Act, 1951 and Section 171C of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 to disqualify the minister, he added. "A journalist worked as per his ethics and Hazarika threatened to make him disappear, drag him and break his legs. What does it mean? Is it not a language of a goon? "Unfortunately, we are seeing that the ECI is not taking actions as required. They need to be more strict," the Raijor Dal Advisers said. The Assam Jatiya Parishad General Secretary Jagadish Bhuyan too condemned the threat to a journalist and demanded immediate action against the BJP minister. Hundreds of journalists, advocates, students, intellectuals and other sections of the society came out on roads during the day and protested against Hazarika's threats to the two scribes and demanded immediate arrest of the BJP minister. The All Assam Students' Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chhatra Parishad (AJYCP) have also condemned the action and asked the ECI to disband him from the polls. The Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora filed a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer, Assam and demanded to disqualify Hazarika from Assembly polls. The Gauhati Press Club (GPC) also condemned the "act of intimidation in the strongest words" and said that it is very unbecoming of a public representative to threaten a journalist of dire consequences, no matter what. Hazarakia said in the phone conversation, which has now gone viral, that he was "sad" because the news was related to his wife Aimee Baruah, who in campaign for her husband a few days ago made a controversial comment on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. At a public meeting a few days ago in Jagiroad constituency of Hazarika, Baruah was seen stating that the people from the Bengali community will be thrown out of the country if the CAA is not implemented. Hazarika, who is in the fray from Jagiroad constituency where voting is over, could not be reached for his comment on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppn-parties-press-for-disqualification-of-assam-minister-from-polls-for-threatening-scribes-969644.html
02-04-2021||National Politics||ECI to hear issue of BPF candidate joining BJP amidst polls in Assam on Saturday||The Election Commission of India will hold a hearing on Saturday into Bodoland Peoples Front (BPF) candidate Rangja Khungur Basumatary crossing over to BJP in the middle of the ongoing Assam Assembly polls. The ECI will hold the hearing into the BPF candidate at 12 noon Saturday, a source told PTI on Friday. Ahead of the third phase of polls in Assam when the Tamulpur constituency in which Basumatary is a contestant is slated to go to vote, the contestant quit his party and joined BJP on Thursday. The poll panel is acting on a complaint submitted to it by BPF in Delhi the previous day. Basumatary had reportedly gone missing for two days and at around midnight on Wednesday, he met senior BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma. Sarma tweeted that he had met the BPF candidate and he would join the saffron party. BPF is an ally of the opposition Congress in Assam, where two out of the slated three-phased poll got over on Thursday. Basumatary told a local TV channel that he had decided to resign from BPF as the party did not lend any helping hand to him in terms of funds during the campaign. Tamulpur constituency is in Baksa district under Bodoland Territorial Region and will go to the poll during the third phase on April 6. Basumatary has said due to technicalities it is not possible to withdraw from the contest now, but he would be supporting BJP's ally United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) nominee Leho Ram Boro on the seat. Reacting to the development, Congress MP Manish Tiwari on Thursday said that Basumatary had gone missing due to threatening by BJP and lambasted the saffron party for it. "Never in India did such immoral activities took place during elections. You (BJP) want to win the poll by wrong means. This is a fascist mentality and it is BJP's education. That party does not believe in democracy and democratic system. This is absolutely the worst spectre of fascism that is on display in the Assam polls," he told a press conference. Tiwari demanded that the BJP government in the state tell the people what had happened to Basumatary for two days. "I demand a detailed probe into the incident by Election Commission. How come such an incident took place in front of the EC? Is the EC blindfolded?" the Congress leader asked. Meanwhile, sources said that Sarma has sent his reply to the poll panel on the matter. The content of his reply is, however, not immediately known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/eci-to-hear-issue-of-bpf-candidate-joining-bjp-amidst-polls-in-assam-on-saturday-969660.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Three militants involved in attack on BJP leader’s house killed in Pulwama: J&K police||Three local militants affiliated with the Al-Badr outfit, two of whom were involved in yesterday’s attack on a BJP leader’s house in Srinagar, were killed in a pre-dawn encounter with security forces in the Kakapora area of south Kashmir's Pulwama district on Friday. The gunfight erupted after a joint team of the Army’s 50 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search operation (CASO) in Ghat Mohalla, Kakpora, 26 km from here, on specific information about the presence of militants there, reports said. Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the militants refused to surrender despite repeated offers and instead made five civilians hostage. “That’s why the operation got delayed. Contact with them was established at 4.35 am.” “In the ensuing encounter, three militants identified as Suhail Nisar Lone, Yasir Wani and Junaid Ahmed, all residents of Pulwama were killed,” he said. While Lone and Wani had joined militancy in February this year Ahmad had become an ultra just last month. Police said Suhail and Junaid were involved in yesterday’s Nowgam attack in which a policeman Rameez Raja from Anantnag district was killed after his rifle was snatched. “Suhail is the one who was wearing burqa during the attack. Suhail and Junaid were affiliated with the Al-Badr outfit. From their possession, we recovered one Ak-47 rifle, one pistol and the SLR rifle number 51392. This is the same SLR that was snatched from Nowgam attack site,” the IGP said, adding that “this makes clear that the slain duo was involved in yesterday’s Nowgam attack.” He said two more militants of Lashkar-e-Toiba - Obaid and Shahid - both residents of Srinagar are still on the run. “Preliminary investigations reveal that the Lashkar and the Al-Badr had jointly carried out the Nowgam attack. We solved the case in less than 24 hours,” Kumar said. He said that the vehicle (JK13-E2098) that was used by Suhail and Junaid from Nowgam to Pulwama was found outside the house where today’s encounter happened. “The vehicle belongs to the house owner where the encounter took place,” the IGP added. Kumar revealed that six militants, including the two wanted in the Nowgam attack, are active in Srinagar city. “We are working on leads and very soon they will be arrested, killed or brought back,” he said and asserted that the police will not allow the situation in Srinagar to turn bad. Meanwhile, reports said at least eleven people were injured in the clashes with security that broke out near the gunfight site. A local news portal quoting Dr Gulzar Ahmad, Block Medical Officer, Pampore, reported that the hospital received ten civilians with pellet injuries while a woman suffered a bullet wound. However, the IGP Kashmir said, a woman sustained a bullet wound in her leg during cross-firing while three civilians sustained pellet injuries. “All are stable,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-involved-in-attack-on-bjp-leader-s-house-killed-in-pulwama-jk-police-969328.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Closed throughout 2020-21 due to Covid-19, bird flu, Delhi zoo sees animal deaths fall to 3-year low||The Delhi zoo recorded 125 animal deaths in 2020-21, the lowest in the last three years, officials said here. The zoo reopened to the public on Thursday after remaining shut for more than a year due to the coronavirus pandemic and bird flu. Zoo Director Ramesh Pandey said the mortality rate for the last financial year ending Wednesday "hovered around 10 per cent", which is the lowest since 2017-18. There are around 1,160 animals in the zoo at present. The final inventory report will be ready by mid-April, he told PTI. The number of animal deaths in the financial year 2020-21 is "significantly less than last year" and it can be attributed to better monitoring and consistent efforts of the staff, Pandey said. "The quarterly data is almost identical and there are no fluctuations, which indicates that no 'adverse event' took place," he said. Pandey said the number of deaths could have been less had there been no case of bird flu. The first case of bird flu was reported from the zoo on January 15, when a sample from a brown fish owl that was found dead in its enclosure tested positive. Seven more samples from the zoo premises also tested positive over the next few weeks. The zoo lost two tigress, a tiger and two cubs in the last one year. It, however, added one Bengal tigress to the family in November last year and plans to bring in three more tigers from Chennai and Nagpur for breeding purposes. According to official data, 172 animals died in the zoo in 2019-20 and the mortality rate was more than 17 per cent. In 2018-19, the facility lost 188 animals and the mortality rate stood at around 15 per cent. According to Pandey, 1,645 people visited the zoo on Thursday. "We did not expect more than a hundred people (due to the pandemic), but the response has been excellent," he said. Visitors reported minor hiccups in making online payments for tickets on the first day.   The visitors are required to buy ticket online on the zoo's website or at the entry gates using the QR codes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/closed-throughout-2020-21-due-to-covid-19-bird-flu-delhi-zoo-sees-animal-deaths-fall-to-3-year-low-969337.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Two criminals wanted in over 60 cases arrested after a brief encounter in Delhi||Two people wanted in murder, attempt to murder, and robbery cases were arrested from the Begumpur area here in the early hours of Friday following a brief exchange of fire, police said. They were identified as Mahesh, alias Bholi, and Mohit, alias Deepak, they said. Both of them were injured in the encounter and taken to a nearby hospital for treatment, said Sanjeev Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell). They were previously involved in more than 60 cases related to robbery, snatching, and murder in Delhi, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-criminals-wanted-in-over-60-cases-arrested-after-a-brief-encounter-in-delhi-969386.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Lockdown in Chhatisgarh's Durg from April 6 to 14 amid Covid-19 surge||The administration in Chhattisgarh's Durg district on Friday announced a complete lockdown from April 6 to 14, in light of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the region, an official said. District Collector Sarveshwar Narendra Bhure said in view of the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases, it has become necessary to break the chain of transmission by imposing a lockdown and public support is required for it. The lockdown will be imposed from April 6 to April 14, the statement issued by the district administration said. The statement, however, did not mention which activities will be allowed and restricted during this period. Appealing to people to stay indoors, the collector urged citizens to get tested if they come in contact with Covid-19 infected persons. He also urged people above the age of 45 to get vaccinated at nearby vaccination centres. As on Thursday, the Covid-19 tally in Durg district stood at 40,068, including 754 casualties. According to official figures, the district has recorded 10,295 cases in the last two weeks and has 9,883 active cases. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday had directed district collectors to decide on imposing lockdowns in their respective regions as per the local situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-in-chhatisgarhs-durg-from-april-6-to-14-amid-covid-19-surge-969392.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in J&K doubles in March||The positivity rate of Covid-19 cases doubled in Jammu and Kashmir in March with 4,519 new cases reported in the month gone by and the hospital bed occupancy seeing an increase of over 100%. In February, out of 6,77,465 tests carried, 1,992 were found positive while in March out of 8,49,922 tests carried, 4,519 were reported positive. The positivity rate of samples in March was 0.5% approximately while the percentage in February was nearly half of that of March – 0.3%. However, it was between 15 March and March 31 that J&K saw a steep rise in Covid-19 cases. According to the media bulletin, 4,70,087 tests were carried out during this period out of which 3,226 were found positive. The positive percentage in the last two weeks of March was recorded as 0.7%, the data reveals. The steep rise in the positivity rate from 0.3% in February to 0.7% in the last two weeks of March reveals the spread of Covid-19 in J&K. The majority of the cases are being reported from the Kashmir division. With the number of cases rising, the pressure on hospital beds has also increased and in the past two weeks, hospital beds occupied in the Kashmir division has moved up from 66 to 139. At tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar, the number of admitted patients has increased to 42 on March 31 from 22 on March 15. Currently, there are 2,874 active positive cases in J&K, a majority of them under home isolation. Experts have expressed concern over the rising number of patients requiring admission. On Thursday, J&K recorded yet another highest single-day spike of 461 Covid-19 positive cases and four deaths. J&K reported 461 cases after a gap of five months, the last time such a high number was reported was in November 2020 when over 450 cases were reported. In the last week, J&K recorded 2,008 Covid-19 positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/positivity-rate-of-covid-19-cases-in-jk-doubles-in-march-969394.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Over 200 booked for issuing fake certificates in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli||A case has been registered against 205 people for issuing fake birth and death certificates on behalf of the municipality in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district, police said on Friday. The FIR lodged on Thursday under sections of cheating and forgery on the complaint of Nagar Pallika Parishad in Kairana, names five accused while 200 others were unidentified, they said. Station House Officer (SHO) Premvir Singh Rana said further investigation in the case was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-200-booked-for-issuing-fake-certificates-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-969406.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||2 dead, several hospitalised after consuming spurious liquor given by panchayat poll candidates in UP||Two people died, one lost his vision while several others were hospitalised after allegedly consuming spurious liquor distributed by panchayat election candidates in Tigalpur village here, police said on Friday. "Some panchayat election candidates had distributed liquor on the occasion of Holi to woo voters. After its consumption, Sanjay Singh (30) and Premdas (45) died, while Amar Singh lost his vision and is admitted to a hospital," Senior Superintendent of Police Sankalp Sharma said. Sanjay Singh and Premdas were admitted to a hospital on Thursday but they died during treatment. Some others are also hospitalised, the police said. Three people, including prospective candidates for village head, have been arrested, Sharma said, adding that they were booked under relevant sections of IPC, including 304 (culpable homicide). The liquor that was distributed could not be recovered, but empty pouches found in the village have been sent for an examination, he said, adding that the bodies of the deceased were sent for autopsy. District Magistrate Deepa Ranjan said the matter is being probed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-dead-several-hospitalised-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-given-by-panchayat-poll-candidates-in-up-969411.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Lockdown in parts of 4 districts of Madhya Pradesh to curb Covid spread||The Madhya Pradesh government has placed urban areas of Chhindwara district and Ratlam city under lockdown, while it will come into force in Betul district and parts of Khargone from Friday night to prevent the spread of coronavirus, officials said. The lockdown in Chhindwara's urban areas and Ratlam city came into force from 10 pm on Thursday, which will continue till 6 am on April 5, they said. The entire Betul district will be placed under lockdown from 10 pm on Friday and urban areas of Khargone district from 8 pm. The curbs there will continue till 6 am on April 5, the officials said. Meanwhile, talking to reporters here, state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said that separate teams of senior officials have been sent to these four districts to assess the coronavirus situation there and provide assistance to the local administration in the fight against the pandemic. "In view of the spurt in coronavirus cases in Chhindwara, which shares border with Maharashtra, and to effectively control it, a three-day lockdown has been imposed in the district," Chouhan said. The Sunday lockdown, which is already in place in several cities in the state, will continue as before, he said. Chouhan appealed to the people of the state to celebrate festivals by remaining at home and added that no rallies or traditional Gair (taken out on the occasion of Rangpanchmi) will be allowed to be organised in the state. He said that eligible persons should get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19. Madhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 2,546 coronavirus cases, which took its infection tally to 2,98,057 and the fatality count has gone up to 3,998.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-in-parts-of-4-districts-of-madhya-pradesh-to-curb-covid-spread-969414.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||UP: Dalit youth held captive, tortured by 4 men on suspicion of having affair with their kin||A 22-year-old Dalit man was allegedly held captive and tortured by four people, who also inserted an iron rod in his rectum, here on suspicion that he was having an affair with a girl of their family, police said on Friday. The accused have been arrested and the victim rushed to the district hospital where his condition was stated to be serious, they said. According to police, on Wednesday night the Dalit man was mercilessly beaten by the accused causing injuries in his private parts. The victim's family members alleged that an iron rod was also inserted in his rectum, they said. Tikonia SHO Gyan Prakash Tiwari said, "On the complaint by the victim's brother, an FIR under IPC section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and  SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, has been lodged against four persons." They had suspected that the victim was having an affair with their kin, he said. "All the four accused, Bramhadeen and his three sons Bharat, Gajraj and Raju, have been arrested," Tiwari said, adding a detailed probe into the matter is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-dalit-youth-held-captive-tortured-by-4-men-on-suspicion-of-having-affair-with-their-kin-969417.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||58 mentally challenged people from Bihar, UP found working as bonded labourers in Punjab: MHA||The Centre has informed the Punjab government that 58 mentally challenged people from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were found working as bonded labourers in the border districts of the state and asked it to take appropriate action to deal with the "serious" problem. In a communication to the chief secretary of Punjab, the Union Home Ministry said the Border Security Force (BSF) has found these 58 people were brought to Punjab with the promise of good salary but exploited, given drugs and forced to work in inhuman conditions. The home ministry said the BSF has informed it that these labourers were rescued from the border areas of Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Abohar in Punjab in 2019 and 2020. "During the course of questioning, it emerged that most of them were either mentally challenged or were in a feeble state of mind and have been working as bonded labourers with farmers in border villages of Punjab. "The persons apprehended belong to poor family background and hail from remote areas of the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh," the letter, accessed by PTI, said. The home ministry said it has been further informed that "human-trafficking syndicates hire such labourers from their native place to work in Punjab on the promise of a good salary, but after reaching there, they are exploited, paid poorly and meted out inhuman treatment". To make them work in the fields for long hours, these labourers are often given drugs, which adversely affect their physical and mental condition, the letter said. The BSF has been handing over the rescued persons to the state police for necessary action. "Keeping in view the multi-dimensional and overwhelming enormity of the problem, which involves human-trafficking, bonded labour and human rights violation, you are requested to look into the matter and take appropriate measures to address this serious problem," the home ministry told the Punjab government. The Punjab government has also been asked to inform it on priority about the action taken in the matter. The home ministry also sent a copy of the letter to the Union Labour Secretary with the request to issue suitable instructions to all states, especially Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha for creating awareness amongst people to ensure that the poor are not duped by unscrupulous elements by making false promises for better job prospects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/58-mentally-challenged-people-from-bihar-up-found-working-as-bonded-labourers-in-punjab-mha-969423.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||UP cop tests positive for Covid-19 weeks after second vaccine shot||A senior police officer, who took his second coronavirus vaccine dose last month, and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19. Inspector-General of Police (IG) Rajesh Pandey shared a Facebook post on Thursday, saying he, his wife and a policeman deployed for his security have tested positive for the disease. The officer also requested all those who came in contact with him recently to get tested. Pandey's son had tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago. "I took first jab of the vaccine on February 5 and the second one on March 5. My wife is yet to take the second jab," Pandey said, adding that his personal security guard has also taken both doses of the vaccine. Pandey, who has been transferred from the Bareilly range, is undergoing treatment at a private medical college here. He was sent to Lucknow as in-charge of the election cell and was here to collect his household items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cop-tests-positive-for-covid-19-weeks-after-second-vaccine-shot-969432.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Schools for students up to Class 8 shut till Apr 11||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday extended to April 11 the closure of all schools for students up to Class 8, amid a spike in coronavirus cases in the state, according to an official. Earlier, the government had shut schools for students up to Class 8 till March 31. Uttar Pradesh reported 2,600 new Covid-19 cases and nine fatalities on Thursday, pushing the state's infection tally to 6,19,783 and the death toll to 8,820, according to a health department bulletin. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath issued the fresh directions during a review meeting at his 5-Kalidas Marg residence. He has directed the closure of schools for students up to Class 8 till April 11, an official spokesperson said, adding that authorities have been ordered to ensure all Covid-19 protocols are followed for other classes. During this period, teachers will continue to go to schools for administrative work while education activities will not be there, the chief minister said. Adityanath asked officials to reactivate Covid-19 hospitals and give a report to him by evening in this regard. He directed for special alertness in Lucknow, Kanpur, Meerut, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad and Agra. Of the fresh cases on Thursday, the highest of 935 cases were reported from Lucknow followed by 242 from Allahabad, 198 from Varanasi and 103 from Kanpur Nagar, the bulletin had said. Adityanath also asked officials to increase coverage of vaccination against Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-schools-for-students-up-to-class-8-shut-till-apr-11-969466.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||No plan for lockdown in Delhi, says CM Arvind Kejriwal amid Covid-19 surge||Delhi is encountering the fourth wave of Covid-19 infection but the imposition of a lockdown is not being considered yet, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday and urged the Centre to allow states to undertake mass-level vaccination. If there is a need for a lockdown in the future, a decision will be taken after consultation, he said, adding the fourth wave is less serious than the previous ones as there are fewer number of deaths and hospitalisations this time. The chief minister, however, added, "It's a matter of concern since the Covid-19 cases are rising exponentially. But there is no need to panic. The government is monitoring the situation and taking all necessary steps." After a high-level meeting, Kejriwal suggested that the Centre should lift the age bar of 45 years for vaccination to pave the way for mass-level inoculation.   If the Centre allowed vaccination at non-healthcare facilities like schools, immunisation be undertaken on a war footing to check the spread of the virus, he said. Kejriwal also appealed to the people to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and regularly wash hands to prevent the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-plan-for-lockdown-in-delhi-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-amid-covid-19-surge-969484.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt to create online register of students in Kota coaching centres||The Rajasthan government will create an online register of students preparing for competitive examinations in Kota city. The step has been taken to make necessary arrangements for these students, who come from across the country, in situations like the Covid-19 pandemic, according to an official statement issued here on Friday. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved the proposal for this project, which will be completed at an estimated cost of Rs 68 lakh. According to the proposal received by the Department of Information Technology and Communication, a student database will be prepared to create a web portal and a mobile app with information like students' address, their family, hostels and PGs, coaching centres in Kota. Through the portal, students' issues regarding coaching, housing and meals will be resolved. The RajComp Info Services Limited (RISL) will prepare the student register which will have a database of around two lakh students in Kota. Similar student registers will also be prepared for other cities with coaching institutes, the statement added. There are around 50 small and 10 big coaching institutes in Kota where around two lakh students prepare for competitive examinations of engineering, medical and other fields. The city has 25,000 paying guest facilities, 3,000 hostels and 1,800 kitchen messes. The annual turnover of the coaching industry in Kota is more than Rs 3,000 crore, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-to-create-online-register-of-students-in-kota-coaching-centres-969495.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi Prisons to suspend 'mulaqat' with family for inmates from April 5 amid surge in Covid-19||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Prisons department has decided to suspend the prisoners' meeting with their relative from April 5, authorities said on Friday. The system of internal 'mulaqat' was resumed on March 20 with a view to normalise the routine of inmates, they said. However, the jail authorities have again decided to discontinue it amid an increase in coronavirus cases in the national capital, officials said. Meeting of inmates with their legal counsels, however, will continue with proper Covid precautions, they said, adding that the facility of telephone and 'e-mulaqat' will continue to remain available for the prisoners. "In view of the rising trend of Covid-19 cases once again, it has been decided to suspend physical 'mulaqat' of Delhi Prison inmates with family and friends with effect from Monday till further orders. The situation will be reviewed again in 15 days," said Sandeep Goel, Director General (Delhi Prisons). According to the latest data shared by Delhi Prisons department, as on April 2, out of the 130 inmates who tested positive for Covid-19, 118 have recovered, two have died and there are presently 10 active cases. All the 293 prison staff who were found Covid positive have also recovered, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-prisons-to-suspend-mulaqat-with-family-for-inmates-from-april-5-amid-surge-in-covid-19-969505.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||J&K posts 2.94% growth in GST collections in FY21||The gross GST revenue collections including settlement for the financial year 2020-21 in Jammu and Kashmir stood at Rs 4,890.35 crore as against Rs 4,750.60 crore in the previous year, registering a growth of 2.94 per cent, officials said on Friday. The growth in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue collections was posted despite constraints witnessed during the initial months of the fiscal due to the COVID-19 lockdown, indicating the revival of business and economic activities in the Union Territory, the officials added.          As per the official figures, the revenue collection for the months of April, May and June stood at Rs 68.36 crore, Rs 163.71 crore and Rs 278.84 crore respectively, as against Rs 521.69 crore (April), Rs 393.55 crore (May), and Rs 420.23 crore (June) in 2019. Despite the pandemic, the GST revenue showed growth during the second half of the financial year, the officials said. The reasons for the buoyancy include several measures taken by the government along with the economic relief package announced in September 2020 for boosting the ailing sectors that had suffered due to the pandemic, they added.             The surveillance and monitoring by J&K's tax department in preventing tax evasion also complemented the efforts of the government in this regard, the officials said. Similarly, under the Motor Spirit and Diesel Oil Tax (MST), the collections for the financial year 2020-21 in the Union Territory of J&K stood at Rs 1,459.89 crore as compared to Rs 1,421.69 crore in 2019-20, up 2.71 per cent, the officials said. Under Stamps and Registrations, the collections came in at Rs 268.29 crore as against Rs 289.13 crore in the previous fiscal. Overall, for the financial year 2020-21, the total revenue collections stood at Rs 6,618.53 crore compared to Rs 6,472.24 crore in 2019-20, showing a growth of 2.26 per cent, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-posts-294-growth-in-gst-collections-in-fy21-969533.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Mohali court rejects gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari's plea for medical examination||A Mohali court has rejected a plea of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari who sought directions to jail authorities to constitute a medical board for examining him. The court of Judicial Magistrate 1st Class (JMIC) Amit Bakshi said the Supreme Court has already considered Ansari's plea regarding his medical condition. "There is nothing on record which cab suggest that after the apex court order on March 26 there have been any fresh medical issues with the accused," the Mohali court judge said. No separate order to constitute a board for treatment of the accused is required to be passed, the judge wrote in his March 31 order. Ansari, wanted in Uttar Pradesh for several cases, was on Wednesday produced before the Mohali court in connection with an alleged 2019 extortion matter. He was in a wheelchair when he was brought to the court. Ansari, through his counsel Raj Sumer Singh, had moved a plea in the court for directing the jail authorities to get him medically examined due to "acute ailments and medical distress". The counsel had also claimed that the accused suffered "medical" emergency on March 29, 2020 and since then he has been suffering from "acute chest pain". Ansari had a previous medical condition and had also suffered two major heart attacks. It was feared that if he was denied proper medical assistance, he might succumb to his medical ailments, it was further submitted. The counsel had also sought a reply from the Rupnagar jail superintendent before deciding the application. The counsel also mentioned in the plea while referring to the March 26 Supreme Court order that as the MLA from Mau had to travel to Uttar Pradesh, keeping in view his medical condition, he be treated through a recognized government medical hospital in Mohali by constituting a board. The Mohali court judge in his order said, "No reply on behalf of the jail superintendent would be required as the jail superintendent was duty bound as per law to provide appropriate medical facility to the accused as per his medical condition (if any), as per the jail manual and also to comply with the order dated March 26 of the apex court." The court also directed that as Ansari is in judicial custody in the present case, therefore, the jail superintendent, at the time of transferring the custody of the accused to UP as per directions of the apex court, will mention that he be produced through video conferencing on April 12 in the present case. Ansari has been lodged in Rupnagar district jail in Punjab since January 2019 in connection with an alleged extortion case. On March 26, the Supreme Court directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of Ansari to the Uttar Pradesh Police, saying the custody was being denied on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues. The apex court had also said that a convict or an undertrial prisoner, who disobeys the law of the land, cannot oppose his transfer from one prison to another and the courts should not be a helpless bystander when the rule of law is being challenged with impunity. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy had said the custody of Ansari be handed over to Uttar Pradesh within two weeks so as to lodge him in Banda District Jail in UP. The apex court also noted that Ansari was allegedly involved in several cases of attempt to murder, murder, cheating and conspiracy apart from offences under the Gangsters Act, which were lodged in Uttar Pradesh. Out of these cases, 10 are at the stages of trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mohali-court-rejects-gangster-turned-politician-mukhtar-ansaris-plea-for-medical-examination-969534.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 3,594 fresh Covid-19 cases; 14 deaths||Delhi recorded 3,594 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest daily count this year, while 14 more people died due to the infection, taking the death toll to 11,050, according to the city health department. The positivity rate also mounted to 4.11 from 3.57 per cent a day before, amid a massive surge in cases in the span of the last few weeks. Delhi had reported 2,790 cases on Thursday, and 1,819 coronavirus cases on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 2.71 per cent. The number of cumulative cases on Friday stood at 6,68,814. Over 6.45 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The city had recorded 992 cases on Tuesday, 1,904 cases on Monday and 1,881 cases on Sunday. It had reported 1,558 cases on Saturday, 1,534 cases on last Friday, 1,515 cases last Thursday, 1,254 cases a day before that and 1,101 cases last Tuesday, when it had crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time since December 24. On December 8, last year, the city had recorded 3,188 cases and 2,706 on December 6. According to the latest bulletin, 14 more people died due to the disease, taking the toll to 11,050, it said. The number of active cases rose to 11,994 from 10,498 a day before. A total of 87,505 tests, including 54,898 RT-PCR tests and 32,607 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-3594-fresh-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-969537.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||65-year-old woman beaten to death by son in Rajasthan’s Kota||A 65-year-old woman died here on Friday, two days after her alcoholic son allegedly thrashed and beat her with a brick, police said. The victim, identified as Rajkumari Bairwa, went into a coma after the incident that took place on Wednesday night in Udhyog Nagar. She succumbed during the treatment at Maharao Bhimsingh Hospital. The accused, Shashikant, 35, according to police, is unemployed and would "frequently" hit his mother over monetary issues. "On Wednesday as well, the argument over money turned violent," Sub Inspector (SI) Mohammed Ibrahim said, adding that he thrashed her after she refused to give him money. The victim had been living with the accused, her younger son, since the death of her husband Babulal, who worked for the state's irrigation department. Her elder son is employed with the revenue department and is currently posted in Ajmer, the SI said. A case was lodged on the complaint of the victim's brother under Section 302 (Murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), he said, adding that efforts were on to nab the accused. The victim's body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/65-year-old-woman-beaten-to-death-by-son-in-rajasthan-s-kota-969539.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi-Meerut Expressway to be India's first toll plaza free highway||Delhi-Meerut Expressway, which was opened for the public on Thursday, will be the first toll plaza free highway in the country. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) will deploy automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) cum FASTag-based multi-lane free-flow tolling system. The system will use high-definition cameras to read the number plate and automatically deduct the toll amount from the FASTag. The NHAI is testing the linking of automatic number plate readers (ANPR) to the FASTag system. Once the testing is completed, the NHAI will start the system on a pilot basis, said an official in the Authority. Once the pilot succeeded, the same can be implemented on other highways also said the official.   In the new system, there will be no toll plazas to collect road users' charges from vehicles. Instead, ANPR will be installed in the entry and exit of the roads and it will read the number plate of the vehicles and deduct the charges. The advantage of the new system will be where vehicles need not stop or slow down to pay toll charges, said the official. The new system is also called a closed tolling system. According to this, once the system is established, vehicle users have to pay for the kilometres travelled rather than paying for the entire stretch. However, the company, which authorised to collect toll charges, will set up check posts near entry and exit gates to monitor if vehicles are using the toll corridors even without having FASTag wallets. Earlier, Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari said the government will remove all toll booths and implement complete GPS-based toll collection within one year. The toll collection also increased ever since the Union Road Transport Ministry announced that from February 16, vehicles without FASTag are required to pay double toll fees at electronic toll plazas across the country. At present 93 per cent of the vehicles pay toll using FASTag, but the remaining 7 per cent have still not taken it despite paying a double toll. The FASTag system is helping it mop up more than Rs 100 crore every day, said the official||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-meerut-expressway-to-be-indias-first-toll-plaza-free-highway-969547.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan: Rebel BJP leader withdraws nomination for Sahara Assembly seat||Rebel BJP leader Ladulal Pitliya on Friday withdrew his nomination for the Sahara Assembly seat of Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, according to state party leaders. This is being seen as a big relief for the BJP as Pitliya's rebellion after he was denied the party ticket in the 2018 Assembly elections had cost it the seat. He had jumped into the fray as an independent, receiving 30,573 votes and finished third. Congress candidate Kailash Chandra Trivedi had won the seat, defeating BJP's Rooplal Jat by a margin of around 7,000 votes. Nearly a month ago, Pitliya had rejoined the BJP. When the party announced Ratanlal Jat as its candidate for the April 17 bypolls, Pitliya again filed nomination papers as an independent. A BJP spokesperson here said Pitliya withdrew his nomination and decided to serve the party, expressing faith in public welfare policies of the Union government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. State BJP president Satish Poonia said, ''The party had given serious consideration to the candidature of Ladulal Pitliya but unanimously decided the name of Dr Ratanlal Jat. The party has said that it will respect Pitliya and give deserving responsibility to him. He has withdrawn his nomination unconditionally. The party welcomes his decision." He described the withdrawal of nomination by Pitliya as a result of an efficient election management of party leaders. The BJP will win all three seats of Sahara, Rajsamand and Sujangarh with the hard work of its workers and the blessings of the people, Poonia added. The bypolls to the Sahara seat have been necessitated due to the demise of sitting Congress MLA Kailash Trivedi. The Congress has fielded Trivedi's wife Gayatri Devi. According to poll officials, 2,47,400 people, including 1,24,100 men and 1,23,300 women, are eligible to vote in the Sahara elections. Twenty-one candidates had filed their papers for the bypolls. The last date for the withdrawal of nominations is April 3. While the voting will be held on April 17, the counting will take place on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-rebel-bjp-leader-withdraws-nomination-for-sahara-assembly-seat-969556.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi: Fake call centre busted; 25 employees apprehended for duping US nationals||Twenty-five employees of a fake call centre here have been apprehended for allegedly duping US nationals, Delhi Police officials said on Friday. The call centre was in Saidullajab in south Delhi's Mehrauli area, they said. Its employees used to dupe US nationals by asking them to pay membership fees on the pretext of providing them US government grants for unemployed persons and handicapped persons, police said. So far, 25 employees, including their boss Kamal Dass, have been apprehended. They were detained following a raid, they said. Employees used fake names and called their potential targets in the US through spoofing calls via internet. During inquiry, Dass disclosed that they used get details of potential targets from their sources and accordingly, briefed employees about their strategy to dupe them, police said. "The employees at the call centre called up US citizens by impersonating themselves as officials and asked them to pay membership fees on the pretext of providing US government grants for unemployed persons and handicapped persons. Once the victim paid the amount, they stopped attending their calls," Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. To pay the fees, the victims were asked to purchase Google Play Cards, Ebay gift cards and Amazon gift cards, he said. Then they were asked to share the coupon code to encash the cards. The employees sent these coupon codes to their "sources" and received money through bank transfers and cash payments, Thakur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-fake-call-centre-busted-25-employees-apprehended-for-duping-us-nationals-969559.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||DMs asked to take call on physical classes in schools amid Covid-19 surge in J&K||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in different parts of Jammu and Kashmir, the Union Territory administration has asked district magistrates to take a call on the continuation of physical classes in schools in their areas, considering students’ safety. The J&K administration issued the direction after dozens of students and teachers tested positive for coronavirus in different districts, mostly in Anantnag, Kulgam and Budgam over the past couple of days. “All district magistrates / District Disaster Management Authorities’ chairmen in J&K shall take a call on the continuation of academic activities i.e. physical classes or online classes in their respective jurisdictions, keeping in view the safety of students and present trend of Covid-19 pandemic in different districts,” a government order said on Friday. The order, issued by Deputy Secretary Umesh Sharma of the School Education Department, said the chief education officer and other authorities would assist district magistrates in taking such decisions. The order referred to the earlier government orders and guidelines on Covid-19 containment measures and said it has been observed that the surge of the pandemic has wide variation among districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dms-asked-to-take-call-on-physical-classes-in-schools-amid-covid-19-surge-in-jk-969561.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Scam-tainted Congress leaders will be taken to task once SAD comes to power: Sukhbir Badal||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said all Congressmen who have allegedly indulged in scams and plundered the state exchequer would be taken to task once his party comes to power in Punjab. Addressing a rally here, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief accused Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of “backstabbing” the state's farming community by allegedly participating in the process to finalise the three new agricultural ordinances. Badal blamed Congress for “plundering thousands of crores of rupees” by allegedly giving patronage to illegal liquor and sand mafia and claimed that several legislators of the ruling party were running “illegal liquor distilleries” in the state. Outsiders from Rajasthan and Jammu have teamed up with Congress legislators to form “sand mafia” in the state which is “looting the state exchequer by mining sand illegally”, he claimed. The state suffered a loss of around Rs 6,500 crore in excise revenue and could not collect even Rs 100 crore of the Rs 1,400 crore revenue from sand mining as projected by the Congress-led government, the SAD chief claimed. Why should people repose their faith in the chief minister again, asked Badal as he claimed that Singh had visited his office only 11 times during the last four years. The chief minister backstabbed the farming community by promising and amending the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) in 2017 and also being part of the process to finalise the three agricultural ordinances, Badal claimed. The chief minister also failed to stand up to the centre on all issues concerning the state including the recent Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) because he was afraid of being targeted by the Enforcement Directorate. “This is why Amarinder Singh dances to the tunes of the Centre,” said Badal. Whereas the SAD had always honoured the promises made to Punjabis, said Badal. “Parkash Singh Badal had promised to extend free power facility to farmers for agricultural operations and fulfilled this commitment in the very first cabinet meeting after assuming power in the state,” he said. Similarly, the SAD was responsible for the start of assured foodgrain procurement on minimum support price in 1966 and a majority of agricultural markets for procurement of foodgrains were established during the tenure of governments led by the Akali Dal, he said. The SAD president also took on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal and the party’s Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann. He said Kejriwal had promised eight lakh jobs in Delhi but according to an RTI, only 214 jobs were created in the national capital in three years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scam-tainted-congress-leaders-will-be-taken-to-task-once-sad-comes-to-power-sukhbir-badal-969568.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Stones pelted at Rakesh Tikait’s convoy: Police||Stones were allegedly pelted at the convoy of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in Rajasthan’s Alwar district, damaging the rear windshield of his car. Police have detained a student leader, who the Bhartiya Kisan Union claimed, belonged to ABVP, the student wing of the BJP, and accused the party of being behind the attack. Tikait, however, was not in his car when the stones were allegedly pelted, Bhiwadi Superintendent of Police Ram Murti Joshi said, adding no one was injured in the incident.   The incident took place when Tikait’s convoy reached Tatarpur chauraha on its way to his second rally venue, the SP said, adding the farmer leader addressed two rallies in the district on Friday. He said Kuldeep Rai, a student leader of Alwar-based Matsya University, along with his supporters showed black flags when the cavalcade was passing. "At this, some of the cars stopped and their occupants in the vehicles argued with them over the issue. Amid all this, the windshield of one car was damaged apparently in stone pelting,” the SP said. BKU’s state president Rajaram Meel, who was accompanying Tikait, alleged that at least 40 to 50 people carrying sticks stopped the convoy and entered into an altercation with them. "We were moving towards Bansur after addressing the first meeting in Harsoli when the incident took place,” he said. Meel said Tikait addressed the second meeting after the incident. Former CPI(M) MLA Amra Ram, who too was accompanying Tikat, alleged that the attack was carried out by the ABVP members at the behest of the BJP. BKU spokesperson in Ghaziabad also blamed ABVP for the attack. "Some ABVP activists attacked Rakesh Tikait and damaged the rear windshield of his vehicle for which BKU workers staged a sit-in. Police arrested the errant activists after which the sit-in protest was called off,” BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI in Ghaziabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stones-pelted-at-rakesh-tikait-s-convoy-police-969578.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||No sitting of regular courts in Allahabad HC next week due to Covid-19||There will be no sitting of regular courts in the Allahabad High Court and its Lucknow bench from April 5-9 in view of the recent spike in coronavirus cases in the two cities of Uttar Pradesh. The Chief Justice passed an order in this regard Friday. The order further added that during the aforesaid period only the special benches constituted for hearing urgent matters will hold court. According to a notification, the decision was taken after the members of Administrative Committee of High Court discussed over phone the recent spike in coronavirus cases in Allahabad and Lucknow. The Allahabad High Court and its Lucknow bench were closed from March 28-31 for Holi. They reopened on April 1. Subsequently, a notification was issued that the High Court will remain closed on April 1 and 2 in view of the rapid surge in the number of active coronavirus cases in the two cities. The next two days being Saturday and Sunday, the court was supposed to reopen on April 5. However, with the new notification, the court will continue to remain closed from April 5 to April 9, except for urgent cases. Uttar Pradesh reported 16 more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, pushing the death toll to 8,836, while 2,967 new cases took the tally in the state to 6,22,736, according to a health department bulletin. The highest number of fresh cases was reported from state capital Lucknow (940), the bulletin said. Allahabad reported 213 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-sitting-of-regular-courts-in-allahabad-hc-next-week-due-to-covid-19-969602.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||AAP, BJP spar over new excise policy in Delhi||The BJP is opposing Delhi's new excise policy as it earns crores of rupees from liquor mafia, the AAP claimed Friday, inviting a sharp reaction from the saffron party which alleged the ruling party was running a "misleading propaganda" that the new norms would finish illegal alcohol trade. The Delhi government had on March 23 approved a new excise policy which had lowered the legal drinking age to 21 from 25 years. It had also withdrawn the government from running liquor vends in Delhi. According to the government, the move is expected to lead to an annual revenue growth of 20 per cent. Addressing a press conference here, AAP spokesperson Atishi claimed the new excise policy will prevent BJP leaders from collecting ‘hafta’ (extortion money) from restaurants and clubs which is why they are opposing it. "In restaurants and clubs, often 21 to 25 years old people go to buy or consume liquor. The BJP harasses restaurant-owners and extorts money over this," said Atishi. She said if the Kejriwal government makes the legal drinking age 21 then the extortion rackets will be finished and the BJP leaders will face "humongous losses". "When the BJP-ruled Goa, Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh have a legal drinking age of 18 years, then why the BJP is opposing making legal drinking age 21 in Delhi?” she asked. Delhi BJP General Secretary Harsh Malhotra and spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said Atishi and other AAP leaders are running a "misleading propaganda" that their new excise policy will end the liquor mafia and illegal collections from the sale of spurious liquor. They alleged the AAP was evading BJP's questions on this policy. "The Aam Aadmi Party should tell why its minister said there are 849 liquor shops in Delhi while currently, Delhi has only 639 shops. They should tell why they want to add 210 new liquor shops without informing people," they said in a statement. "AAP leaders should tell Delhi as to why they want to handover 500 government liquor shops to private sector when adequate revenue is coming from them? Today Delhi has 79 wholesale liquor licenses, but under the new policy there would be only 1 or 2 wholesale licenses whose commission will go up from 2 per cent to 12 per cent. The AAP Government should tell Delhi why it is being done," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-bjp-spar-over-new-excise-policy-in-delhi-969663.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Heatwave conditions likely in parts of Rajasthan for next 48 hours: Met office||Several parts of Rajasthan are likely to experience heat wave conditions over the next 48 hours with a rise in maximum temperatures, the meteorological department here said on Friday. The met office has issued a yellow alert for Saturday and Sunday in some districts of the state including Kota, Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, and Jalore. Director of meteorological centre, Radheshyam Sharma said at present, the maximum temperature in most places is below 40 degrees Celsius but the mercury will rise by two to three degrees Celsius in the next two-three days. He said a new western disturbance will be active on April 5 and 6 in the districts of Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Hanumangarh, Ganganagar and Churu. Due to this, duststorms with a wind speed of up at 30-40 km per hour are likely to occur in Jodhpur and Bikaner divisions, Sharma said. However, there is a possibility of drizzle or light rain in both the district on April 6 accompanied by gusty winds with speed reaching 40 to 50 km per hour, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heatwave-conditions-likely-in-parts-of-rajasthan-for-next-48-hours-met-office-969665.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Chilla route between Noida-Delhi briefly disrupted due to protest by farmers||Traffic movement was briefly disrupted between Noida and Delhi through a key route on Friday evening after a group of farmers started protesting on the road stretch, officials said. The protesters belonged to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and were holding a demonstration against the attack on their leader Rakesh Tikait in Rajasthan earlier on Friday. "The Chilla route between Noida and Delhi has been affected due to the demonstration. Commuters can use the DND (Delhi-Noida Direct) flyway or the Kalindi Kunj route for travelling," a Noida Traffic Police official told PTI. Due to the sudden closure of the route, several vehicles piled up on the busy road stretch at the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border around 8 pm. The route was re-opened for normal traffic movement in about an hour, the traffic police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chilla-route-between-noida-delhi-briefly-disrupted-due-to-protest-by-farmers-969674.html
02-04-2021||North and Central||Wheat purchase starts at 500 procurement centres in Haryana: Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday said wheat purchase has started at about 500 procurement centres in the state. This time around more than 80 lakh tonnes of wheat is expected to be procured, he added. The minister also said that if a farmer is not paid within 72 hours, then the government will pay 9 per cent interest on that amount. Chautala was speaking after inaugurating the newly constructed four-lane flyover on the Gurugram-Faridabad road near Bandhwari village in Gurugram district, according to an official release. To a question on the Hisar incident, Chautala said in a democracy, everyone has the right to protest. Farmers on Thursday held a protest against Chautala outside the Hisar airport and demanded the withdrawal of the Centre's new agricultural laws. Assuring farmers for the procurement of every single grain of wheat and mustard crops, the minister said the state government has made extensive provisions for the procurement. He said the state government intends to ensure that during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, farmers do not face any trouble while selling their crops. Proper arrangements have been made for the procurement in the mandis. Chautala said he is closely monitoring the entire procurement process. If any irregularity is found in the procurement process, then strict action will be taken against the concerned officials, he noted. With the construction of a four-lane flyover near Gurugram-Faridabad Road near Bandhwari village, it will be the fastest route between Indira Gandhi International Airport and Jewar Airport, Chautala said. The new flyover constructed at a cost of about Rs 11.5 crore and is 514 metres in length and 21 metres in width. The public works department has constructed this flyover in just 21 months to make the main crossing between Faridabad and Gurugram stop free. Apart from this intersection, there are two other intersections on Faridabad-Gurugram Marg, which will be revamped after holding talks with the NHAI, the deputy chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wheat-purchase-starts-at-500-procurement-centres-in-haryana-deputy-chief-minister-dushyant-chautala-969677.html
02-04-2021||Opinion||Where MGR is 'hard currency', parties evoke him, his 'golden era'||Sometime in the 70s in Tamil Nadu, hospitals noted a record number of blood donations. It was as if everyone in town was eager to donate blood. Oddly enough, this was not linked to any blood donation campaign encouraging people to donate blood. The number of donors peaked on Thursdays, declined on the following days and rose again from Wednesday. It was a strange phenomenon indeed. The donors were paid Rs 5 for a pint of blood. This money was used by them to buy movie tickets for new releases on Fridays. It was later confirmed that whenever a new MGR movie was released, the queue of donors lining up to donate blood to buy movie tickets was the longest.  Marudur Gopalan Ramachandran aka MGR, the matinee-idol-turned-politician, straddled the intertwined worlds of Tamil cinema and politics like a colossus figure. In his films, MGR was the quintessential do-gooder, who never drank or smoked and treated all women as sisters and mothers. For the common folk, he was one of their own, speaking their language, voicing their hopes and aspirations. It did not matter that the man was not born in Tamil Nadu but in Ceylon. That he was born to parents who spoke Malayalam and not Tamil did no harm to his carefully crafted image. The Tamil masses loved and adored MGR- first as an actor and then in his later avatar of a politician. As the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, he scaled up the mid-day meal scheme originally started by Kamraj in 1956 to provide free mid-day meals for over eight million school children in the state. Freebies like sewing-machines, plastic pots for slum dwellers, tooth powder, uniform and footwear were doled out - MGR hailed as a modern-day Karna had thus laid the foundations of welfarism and populism in Tamil Nadu. Fondly called 'Makkal Thilagam', MGR’s name and enduring legacy continue to be a potent vote bank in the Dravidian heartland. None before or after has been deified like MGR. Becoming a legend in his own lifetime, he is now a part of Tamil folklore and continues to wield an uncanny sway over the parties, politicians and voters of the state. Not surprisingly, political parties, especially the AIADMK founded by the venerated leader, have used the ‘MGR’ card to gain political mileage over the years. This election is no different. In fact, unlike the previous elections where only the AIADMK and parties floated by actors-turned-politicians like Vijayakant’s DMDK (who called himself Karuppu MGR or dark-skinned MGR) were fighting it out to stake a claim to MGR’s legacy; unexpected claimants have entered the fray to appropriate MGR’s legacy. In a recent interview, DMK Chief Stalin fondly remembered MGR as his 'Periyappa'. He was quoted as saying, “MGR was the treasurer of DMK then and gave us certificates. I am not your father but Periyappa (Uncle - father's elder brother), he told me. I advise that you concentrate on your studies. Your father can't say so I am telling you to study.” After the death of Kamraj, the god-fearing, anti-DMK votes shifted from the Congress to MGR- which was one of the biggest reasons behind MGR’s maiden victory in 1977. As a consequence, MGR had to whittle down the rationalist aspect of Dravidian politics to retain these non-Dravidian voters. The MGR regime was also generous in doling out funds for renovations of temples. As Chief Minister, MGR frequently visited shrines like the Kollur Mookambika temple. Often blamed for giving a pro-Hindu slant to Dravidian politics, MGR’s tenure was marked by two landmark communal events in the history of the state - the Meenakshipuram conversions and the Mandaikadu riots. There was a paradigm shift in the state’s policy towards minorities and handling communal tensions. Bereft of any local icons and keen to expand its footprints in the state, the BJP has tried to appropriate or rather misappropriate MGR’s legacy by trying to portray MGR as a Hindu icon. Two videos released by the Tamil Nadu BJP featuring MGR prominently grabbed attention and left ally AIADMK miffed. One of the videos takes a dig at the Dravidian parties and its followers with the lyrics going - ‘Black crowd and the red crowd will be defeated by the saffron crowd’. An image of MGR fades then into PM Narendra Modi’s picture as the lyrics say, 'We see Modi as the man with a golden heart (MGR)', thus likening Modi to MGR. The saffron party contesting 20 seats in 2021 is probably chalking out its strategy of becoming the main opposition to the DMK by 2026. The BJP which has mastered the art of misappropriating regional icons, realises that in Tamil Nadu, it is MGR- who watered down the regional thrust of Tamil politics and was open enough about his religious beliefs despite being the supremo of a party linked to the rationalist Dravidian movement, happens to be their best bet. Both the DMK and the BJP seem to be suffering from collective amnesia. While the DMK leaders only remember MGR as the treasurer of the DMK who was instrumental in installing Karunanidhi as the CM post-Annadurai’s death, they seem to have completely forgotten the post-1972 MGR, who fought tooth and nail against the DMK, keeping it out of power for 15 long years.  The BJP seems to be blissfully ignorant about the ideology of its new mascot. MGR did tone down the anti-Hindi, regionalist and rationalist facets of Tamil politics but the Puratchi Thailavar had described his ideology as Annaism- a heady mix of Dravidiansim, Communism and Capitalism. Surely, the BJP can not be comfortable embracing all elements of MGR’s Annaism. While the DMK, the BJP and even Kamal Hasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiyam are going hammer and tongs to evoke MGR, the AIADMK has been caught napping. Riddled by factionalism and in its desperate attempts to project itself as Amma’s government, the party has provided an opportunity to its rivals to stake claim to the legacy of its founder. The Palaniswami government celebrated MGR’s centenary year across the state only in 2018- a year after the centenary year was over! Which side will profit the most by using the MGR card will only be known on May 2. But for now, one thing can be said with certainty — in Tamil Nadu’s political markets, MGR continues to be characterised as ‘hard currency’. Profitable political transactions are impossible without evoking him or his ‘golden era’. (The writer is a Mumbai-based freelance journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/where-mgr-is-hard-currency-parties-evoke-him-his-golden-era-969590.html
02-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Keeping fit||Who would have imagined that exercise would all of a sudden consume our lives? Blame it on Covid-19, which confined us to the four walls of our homes, counting not stars, but the errant spiders in the ceiling, or wandering from room to room to kill time, or staring at cracks in the joints, hitherto unnoticed. No wonder then that the opening up of parks, fitness centres, pools and recreation clubs, was accorded such a rousing welcome. The telltale signs in the most awkward regions of the physique were enough to reveal what had been missed and explained the masses making a beeline to these treasure troves--to walk, to jog, to play, to swim or simply let the hair down. But supreme among them all were the parks, nay the woods so lovely, dark and deep, replete with the creatures shy of appearing in the day. The young and the old, the weak and the strong, the healthy and the sick, all were there, donning colourful masks, one of the three weapons against the deadly foe. And behold the scene! There’s the man who seems to be walking on air for fear of trampling upon a passing insect, so measured are his steps; the lovebirds meandering around as they catch up on their way to their workplace; the maid who saunters along, snatching a break from the drudgery of the kitchen; arthritis stricken elderly woman hobbling painfully; the young man complete in his sports gear, racing past triumphantly; the gigantic man with the walrus moustache taking huge strides; ladies ambling along, their toddlers in tow; the burly man whose midriff appears a second ahead of him, the gentleman issuing orders to his subordinates as he swaggers; not to forget the ones doing asanas or pranayamas under a wintry or warm sun, and the little ones at the play area  – all with the single-minded purpose of ensuring their daily dose of exercise. Which got me thinking of our forefathers who toiled in the fields the whole day and came back to a well-earned meal and a good night’s sleep. To whom terms like diabetes, hypertension or cholesterol were Greek and Latin, yet what healthy lives they led! But alas! We live in a different world-- a world that glues us to our seats for hours, a world that is terrifying yet fascinating as it engulfs us in its orbit! So habituated are we to this, that we cannot think of the other. Just like the new normal imposed by the pandemic!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/keeping-fit-969617.html
02-04-2021||Second Edit||An award Rajinikanth richly deserves||Not many among Rajinikanth’s younger fans know that he began his film career with negative roles. In Puttanna Kanagal’s Kannada film Kathasangama (1975), he played a ruffian who rapes a blind woman, a role unthinkable for him today. His evolution from bad man to hero to quasi saint is surely one of Indian cinema’s most intriguing real-life stories, and his rise has already become a subject worthy of study in a school textbook. There is much that is admirable in Rajinikanth, and even Bollywood, which had for long looked at the southern films more with amusement than respect, now accepts him as a phenomenon with few parallels.  Born into a Marathi-speaking family in 1950, the young Shivaji Rao Gaikwad got to do everything middle-class children in Basavanagudi in tranquil south Bengaluru did in those days: play cricket, act in school plays and visit Ramakrishna Ashrama for its discourses. He worked for a brief while as a coolie and then became a bus conductor. He continued to pursue his passion for acting by appearing in pouranika (mythological) plays, rich in music and costumes and mounted on a stage oblivious to the politically aware and bare-bones theatre propounded by Brecht. B V Karanth and Girish Karnad were among those then producing a high-brow Kannada theatre and debating such questions as individualism versus social commitment.  With his exaggerated mannerisms---his cigarette-popping is an enduring gimmick---Rajini moved to the other extreme, in a cinema that revels in fantasy and instant gratification. When he was studying at the Madras Film Institute, he was spotted by director K Balachandar, who cast him in the Tamil film Apoorva Ragangal (1975) as an abusive husband. But his negative phase was short-lived, and he was soon doing happy, heroic roles. In the decades that followed, he delivered hundreds of hits, mainly in Tamil, creating memorable characters and delivering punch dialogues that drove fans into a frenzy. In his post-2000 films, he turned into a comic book-style superhero, and was hailed as Asia’s second highest-paid actor, after Jackie Chan. His politics, tepid and reluctant, has taken several turns and U-turns. His predecessors in Tamil films, who made it big in politics, took pride in their Dravidian identity. Rajini’s thoughts, on the other hand, are not moored in any ideology that excites the Tamil heart. His statements have often contradicted the causes he espouses in his films, leaving his fans confused. The Dadasaheb Phalke award conferred on him, just six days before Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, is another acknowledgement of the mass adulation he enjoys. It is richly deserved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/an-award-rajinikanth-richly-deserves-969608.html
02-04-2021||South||Facing privatisation, Vizag Steel Plant posts impressive production-sales figures||Faced with the centre's privatization bid, the Vizag Steel Plant has posted a sales turnover of around Rs 18,000 crore in 2020-21, “the second-highest since its inception.” On March 21, the period overlapping with the protests, the Navratna PSU achieved a sales turnover of Rs 3,300 crore and sales volume of 7,11,000 tonnes, “for the first time in the history of the company.” “This is a whopping 42 per cent more than the previous best of Rs 2,329 crores in March’19,” PK Rath, CMD, Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, the corporate entity of VSP, said on Thursday. VSP, operating under the steel ministry, has also registered a net profit of about Rs 740 crore in the last four months. Workers of the Vizag Steel Plant are in agitation mode since the first week of February, opposing the Narendra Modi government's plan to privatize the first shore-based integrated steel plant in the country. The Rs 18,000 crore sales turnover in 2020-21 represents “an impressive growth of 13 per cent and the sales volumes reached 4.45 million tonnes, with a four per cent growth,” Rath said while addressing the company's senior officials in a virtual meeting. “The overall improvement in the company's performance has been possible due to the record levels of production being achieved since December’ 20,” the CMD stated as he complimented the works collective for achieving the best ever production figures exceeding the capacity of 6.3 Million Tonnes Per Annum expansion.  “During 2020-21, we achieved export sales of 1.3 Million Tonne, which is 261 per cent higher than the previous year. In addition to this, 35 out of total 57 ocean export contracts were finalized with 100 per cent advance payment terms. Having established such a good market for exports, there should not be any looking back,” Rath said. The lack of captive iron ore mines is stated as the main reason for the company's losses over the years. The workers protest against the privatization has received widespread support from the public and political parties in Andhra Pradesh. A statewide shutdown was also organized in their solidarity on 5 March. However, days later, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has stated in Parliament that the centre would proceed with the 100 per cent disinvestment of its share in Vizag Steel, by way of privatization. RINL has spent around Rs 10 crore on CSR activities last year including Rs five crore given to PM-CARES for Covid-19 mitigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/facing-privatisation-vizag-steel-plant-posts-impressive-production-sales-figures-969272.html
02-04-2021||South||Changes in community voting trends crucial in Kerala elections||As the Kerala Assembly election campaign is drawing to a close, the changing voting trends of various communities are going to be very crucial in view of sensitive issues ranging from the entry of women into Sabarimala to ‘Love Jihad’. Even as the Hindu community constitutes around 55% of the Kerala population, the Muslims (27%) and the Christians (18%) often become game-changers in the elections due to the en bloc voting pattern of the minorities. This time the BJP is trying hard to make inroads into the Christian vote bank by triggering an anti-Muslim sentiment and highlighting issues like an inadequate scholarship to the community and ‘love jihad’. But political analysts feel that it is unlikely to work especially owing to issues like the recent attack on Malayali nuns in Uttar Pradesh and Jesuit priest Stan Swamy languishing in jail. Till recently, the Christian vote banks were said to be pro-Congress especially as Kerala Congress, which enjoys the support of the community, quit the UDF and joined the Left Front. Senior political analyst Jacob George said the Congress may pay the price for ending its decades-long tie-up with Jose K Mani’s party. However, the LDF is likely to face the wrath of the prominent Latin Catholic community in the coastal areas due to deep-sea trawler row as well as the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian church owing to the dilly-dallying in implementing a Supreme Court order granting control of around 2,000 churches to them.  As for Muslim votes, the general feeling is that there would be a strong consolidation of all outfits like the Indian Union Muslim League, Jamaat-e-Islami’s political outfit Welfare Party and Popular Front’s political outfit SDPI to prevent the growth of BJP. The Muslim hardline outfits prefer the Congress-led front retuning to power, rather than the CPM as the Left leadership took a hard stand against them, political analysts pointed out. The BJP is trying hard to woo the Nair community by highlighting issues like Sabarimala women entry. Even though Nair Service Society had openly flayed LDF over the Sabarimala issue, they have not backed BJP’s stand. But a large section of the community seems to be leaning towards the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/changes-in-community-voting-trends-crucial-in-kerala-elections-969299.html
02-04-2021||South||I-T raids Stalin's daughter & son-in-law; unfazed DMK chief says he faced Emergency||Income Tax sleuths swooped down on premises belonging to the daughter and son-in-law of DMK President M K Stalin on Friday, prompting a strong response from the Dravidian party that questioned the timing of the raid as it came just five days before Tamil Nadu votes to elect a new Assembly. The residence of Senthamarai and Sabareesan, daughter and son-in-law of Stalin, on the scenic East Coast Road (ECR) was raided along with other premises related to Sabareesan and his business firms. The raids were continuing but I-T officials were tight lipped on its initial outcome. This is the second time the I-T raids are being conducted in houses of DMK leaders this election season – last week, party leader E V Velu's properties came under the scanner. As the raid targeted the DMK's first family, the development snowballed into a controversy with political parties terming it as “motivated and revengeful.” Leading the attack against the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “trying to intimidate DMK” was Stalin himself. “I would like to remind Modi that this is DMK. I am Kalaignar's (M Karunanidhi) son. I will not be cowed down by these intimidation tactics. I had faced MISA (Maintenance of Internal Security Act) during (1975) Emergency,” Stalin told a road show in Jayankondam, 265 km from here. He said the DMK was not AIADMK to “fall at your feet” and surrender the rights of Tamil Nadu, while alleging that the Centre had bullied the state government through raids at ministers and a former Chief Secretary. Later, Stalin wrote a letter to his party men asking them to focus on getting people's support till the voting day. “I will take care of the pressure. You continue to work among the people and ensure they vote for our alliance,” Stalin said. The DMK chief also received support from Congress, Left, and other alliance partners. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Raiding the opposition is BJP’s coping mechanism when facing electoral defeat.” Stalin's son and DMK youth wing chief Udhayanidhi went a step further and asked the I-T to raid his residence. “They have raided my sister's house. I challenge them to raid 25/9, Cenotaph road, Chittaranjan Salai, Chennai which is my address. If you have the guts, come and raid my house,” Udhayanidhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-t-raids-stalins-daughter-son-in-law-unfazed-dmk-chief-says-he-faced-emergency-969333.html
02-04-2021||South||Congress files corruption charge against Left government in poll-bound Kerala||With just three days remaining for the Assembly polls in Kerala, opposition Congress on Friday came up with a fresh corruption charge against the Left government in the state over its purchase of power from corporate major Adani group even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected the allegation. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the LDF government had signed an agreement with the private group to purchase power at a higher price which involved corruption. Giving details of the agreement, he charged that the agreement was to buy 300 MW of power from Adani at a higher price and the Left government had colluded with the BJP government at the Centre for the "corrupt deal". To purchase Rs 8850 crore worth power, a 25-year-long contract was signed with the Adani group, through which the corporate major could make a profit of over Rs 1,000 crore, the Congress leader further claimed. "Through the contract, a huge burden is imposed on people. Both the state and union governments are equally responsible for the deal," he said. At present, solar power is available at two rupees. Then why a pact was signed with the private group to buy power at the rate of Rs 2.82 per unit, Chennithala asked. "Thus, the common man has to pay Rs one extra for each unit for 25 years. This will help Adani reap a profit of Rs 1,000 crore," he told reporters in Alappuzha. The agreements signed by the state Electricity Board with the Centre's Solar Energy Corporation Limited (SECL) in June and September of 2019, had paved the way for Adani's business deal in the state, the opposition leader added. Rejecting the charges, Vijayan, however, told reporters in Kannur that Chennithala was "jealous" of the five years under the LDF government when there had been no load- shedding. "That's why he is now trying to tarnish the deals of the state Electricity Board," the Chief Minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-files-corruption-charge-against-left-government-in-poll-bound-kerala-969356.html
02-04-2021||South||DMK slams Centre for 'Income Tax raids' at Stalin's daughter's residence||The DMK on Friday condemned the Central government for 'searches' by income tax officials in the residence of party chief M K Stalin's daughter Senthamarai in Chennai and alleged it has a 'political objective.' Party general secretary, Duraimurugan said when parties were on the verge of completing the campaign and looked forward to the day of polling, the income tax searches in the residence of Senthamarai, daughter of his party chief Stalin was done with a 'political objective.' Income tax officials neither confirmed nor denied the searches. The Centre has made a 'wrong calculation' that raids just ahead of the election would shock Stalin, his family and the party and also weaken poll preparations, he claimed while speaking to reporters here. "The DMK is not a party that can be scared by such searches," he said adding the party had already faced similar instances and it would not be deterred. Only recently, tax searches were held in the premises linked to party leader A V Velu and now searches have been conducted in the residence of Senthamarai and the union government pursuing such a tactic was neither 'democratic' nor 'honest politics' and 'I condemn' this, he said. Had the party been afraid of such raids, the party would have been 'dead' long ago and these only added to their determination and resoluteness, he added. The Centre may have thought that Stalin would not be able to see his beloved daughter becoming sad, but the DMK president is the leader of 'lakhs and lakhs of party cadres' and he is a 'courageous lion,' he said. When asked on searches in premises of party leaders belonging to AIADMK, an ally of the BJP and other parties as well, Duraimurugan said the tax raids vis-a-vis the DMK people were aimed at intimidating them while those in respect of others was only an 'eye-wash,' he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-slams-centre-for-income-tax-raids-at-stalins-daughters-residence-969374.html
02-04-2021||South||Kamal Haasan a 'super-NOTA'; his party will not win single seat: Karti Chidambaram||Congress leader Karti Chidambaram on Friday dubbed Kamal Haasan a "super-NOTA" and said the actor-turned-politician's Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) will not win a single seat in the Tamil Nadu Assembly polls as it is "not a sustainable political party". The Congress MP from Sivaganga also slammed the AIADMK-BJP alliance and said the people of Tamil Nadu do not want a government that has any "stain, scent or shadow" of the BJP as its 'Hindi-Hindutva' agenda "irritates" them. In an interview with PTI, Karti Chidambaram also claimed that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-Congress alliance will win over 200 out of the 234 Assembly seats in the single-phase April 6 polls. "People do not want a government which will not respect Tamil sentiments, Tamil language and Tamil heritage. They do not want a government which has any stain, scent or shadow of the BJP," Karti Chidambaram said. The Congress leader also claimed that despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent visits to poll-bound Tamil Nadu and several top BJP leaders' aggressive campaigning, the BJP's "zero MLAs, zero MPs" status will remain. "They will remain at zero MLAs and zero MPs. The prime minister can make as many trips as he wants to Tamil Nadu, but the BJP's Hindi-Hindutva policies will be roundly rejected by the people," he told PTI over phone while on the campaign trail seeking votes for the DMK-Congress alliance's candidates. Asked if Haasan and his outfit MNM will impact the polls, Karti Chidambaram said, "He (Haasan) is only a 'super-NOTA', he will not win a single seat and his is not a sustainable political party. They will only congregate for the elections and they will disperse after the elections." The 'None Of The Above' (NOTA) option on electronic voting machines, was introduced in 2013. After the Supreme Court order in 2013, the EC added the NOTA button on the EVMs as the last option on the voting panel. On the key issues in the Tamil Nadu polls, Karti Chidambaram said the main issue was that of ten years of "non-performance" of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). "The livelihood of the average person has not improved in Tamil Nadu. Then there is the rampant mis-governance and corruption by the AIADMK. It has favoured a few in giving out public contracts, there has been a huge siphoning of resources as well as poor quality of work by the public works department," the 49-year-old leader said. During the Covid times, the AIADMK did not provide direct cash transfer to the people and only gave Rs 1,000 for ration cards which was "woefully inadequate" for the lockdown period, he said. Asked if the reported differences within AIADMK were giving the advantage to the Congress and the DMK, Karti Chidambaram said even if the party is united, people will not support the AIADMK which became "abundantly" clear during the parliamentary elections. "Even if you add the votes of (TTV) Dhinakaran (the leader of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam), the AIADMK would have lost," he asserted. Karti Chidambaram also expressed confidence that the DMK led alliance will "win handsomely" and repeat the performance of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when the UPA won 38 out of the 39 parliamentary seats. He said the alliance will win over 200 seats in the 234-member Assembly. Asked about the announcement of the Dadasaheb Phalke award to Rajinikath by the Centre on Thursday amid poll campaigning and its impact, the Lok Sabha MP said, "I congratulate Mr Rajinikanth for getting the award. He has had a long innings in the film industry, he should remain in the film industry and this will have absolutely no bearing on elections." "The BJP has been trying to ride on his (Rajinikanth's) coat-tail for many years and this will have absolutely no impact," he said. Single phase polling to 234 Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu is scheduled on April 6. The counting of votes will take place on May 2 along with that of Kerala, Assam, West Bengal and Puducherry polls. The Congress is contesting 25 seats in the Tamil Nadu polls The alliance comprising DMK, Congress and some small parties is taking on the ruling AIADMK that is facing the polls in alliance with the Pattali Makkal Katchi, the BJP, the former union minister GK Vaasan-led Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) along with other smaller parties. The MNM has been trying to position itself as the only alternative to the Dravidian majors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-a-super-nota-his-party-will-not-win-single-seat-karti-chidambaram-969395.html
02-04-2021||South||Two boys die of burns as dry grass catches fire||Two boys sustained burns and died later at hospital after a heap of dry grass caught fire while they were playing with a lit matchstick, police said on Friday. The incident happened in a village in Mahabubnagar district of Telangana on Thursday, the police said. Three boys, aged about eight, were playing when the fire occurred. One of them managed to escape, they said. The other two sustained about 70 per cent burns and were taken a hospital. They died while undergoing treatment, the police said. A case was registered, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-boys-die-of-burns-as-dry-grass-catches-fire-969429.html
02-04-2021||South||LG Soundararajan receives vaccine at women's hospital||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday inaugurated a special vaccination drive against Covid-19 for those above 45 years old by taking the shot. Tamilisai, aged 60, took the vaccination at the Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital for Women. She appealed to all those aged above 45 to get the vaccination as a preventive measure. The vaccination would be done from Monday to Saturday between 10 AM and 5 PM at the hospital. She presented her aadhaar card as proof of her age, a press release from the Health Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lg-soundararajan-receives-vaccine-at-womens-hospital-969472.html
02-04-2021||South||DMK and Congress leaders keep insulting women, says Narendra Modi in Tamil Nadu rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched yet another blistering attack on the DMK and Congress, charging that their leaders "keep insulting women", while pointing out that the NDA schemes are aimed at empowering women. Addressing an election rally here seeking votes for NDA candidates including from ally AIADMK for the April 6 Assembly polls, Modi said the late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran's vision for inclusive development and prosperous society "inspires us." Lashing out at the DMK and Congress, he said they had no agenda to talk about and alleged that the two parties, facing polls as allies, will not guarantee either safety or dignity for the people while the law and order situation will "suffer" under them. "I understand that DMK and Congress have no real agenda to talk about but they should control their lies because people are not foolish," he said. Modi said Madurai teaches about empowering 'nari shakti' (women power) and referred to the reverence and respect shown to local deity Meenakshi Amman and popular names associated with the region like Kannagi Amman, Rani Mangammal and Velu Nachiyar. Many schemes of the NDA including the Ujjwala scheme were aimed at empowering women. "Our efforts in the Swachch Bharat mission, Ujjwala Yohana and other such schemes are aimed at empowering women. Sadly, the DMK and Congress have not understood the ethos of Madurai. No wonder their leaders keep insulting women again and again," he said without naming anyone. DMK leader A Raja had earlier courted controversy for making alleged disparaging remarks against Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami's mother during an election rally, drawing criticism. Taking note of a complaint from the ruling AIADMK, the Election Commission had on Thursday barred Raja from campaigning for 48 hours and also removed him from his party's list of star campaigners for the polls. Further targeting the DMK, Modi alleged it tried to make the peace-loving Madurai a "mafia den" due to family issues earlier, referring to the then squabble in the party's first family involving brothers MK Stalin and MK Alagiri. "DMK and Cong will not guarantee either safety or dignity for you. The law and order situation will suffer under them. DMK tried to make a peace-loving Madurai a mafia den just because of family complications in DMK first family," Modi said. Slamming DMK and Congress over the bull taming sport jallikattu, Modi said it was banned in 2011 by the Congress- led UPA, with the Dravidian party being in "big ministries" in the Centre. "Congress and DMK keep showing themselves to be the only protectors of Tamil culture but fact suggests something else." "In 2011, the UPA was in power and DMK was in big ministries. Same UPA government banned jallikattu. One UPA leader described jallikattu as a barbaric practice. Really? Is that the word you use for something that is part of the Tamil culture for centuries," Modi asked. He recalled the TNCC's poll promise in 2016 calling for a ban on jallikattu and said "Congress and DMK should be ashamed of themselves." When in 2016-17 the people of Tamil Nadu wanted a solution and wanted jallikattu to continue, "I could sense their pain," Modi said. "Our government cleared an ordinance brought by the AIADMK government for jallikattu to take place," he said. Accusing the Congress and DMK of having "mastered the art of not working and then spreading the lies about those who work," he said the classic example was the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) sanctioned for Madurai. "In many years in power Congress and DMK did not even think about it. It was our government which brought AIIMS here. I assure you all this project will be completed as per proper processes," he said. Recalling the late MG Ramachandran, founder of his alliance party AIADMK, Modi said that his democratically elected government was dismissed by the Congress in 1980 but when elections were held again, he won from Madurai West. "The people of Madurai stood behind him like a rock. In 1977, 1980, 1984 MGR won from places around this region. His vision for an inclusive and prosperous society inspires us," the PM said. Pointing out that his government was working with the aim of ensuring inclusive growth, Modi said it wanted to focus on Tamil Nadu, especially the southern parts, in the areas of infrastructure, irrigation, investment. He recalled his August 15 speech last year from the Red Fort saying the government was going to spend Rs 100 lakh crore on creation of next generation infrastructure. This will cater to the needs of not only present but also future generations, he said. There has been a 238 per cent increase in fund allocation for railway infrastructure projects in Tamil Nadu compared to 2009. Many big projects have been completed in the last seven years and in the coming years, "we want better metro, road, rail and air connectivity," he said. He recalled the government proposing seven textile parks in this year's budget. On the categorisation of seven communities under the Devendra Kula Velallar, he charged the DMK and Congress with doing nothing on the matter but said it was another example of their "all lies no work attitude." "They preferred to keep the issue hanging for several long decades. It was the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu and the BJP-led government in Centre that worked to ensure dignity for the Devendra Kula Vellalar community," he said. Modi also recalled the various reforms that have ensured ease of doing business, initiatives related to water supply and in the digital sphere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-and-congress-leaders-keep-insulting-women-says-narendra-modi-in-tamil-nadu-rally-969487.html
02-04-2021||South||No MLAs in DMK-led front can be purchased by BJP: Congress leader||None of the MLAs in the DMK-led alliance from Tamil Nadu can be purchased by the alleged power-hungry BJP as was done in many of the States, Opposition Congress Leader in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjuna Kharge said on Friday. "It was impossible and nobody can buy any MLA from Tamil Nadu," Kharge told reporters while replying to a question after he accused the BJP of encouraging defection and toppling of governments by purchasing MLAs in States like Goa, Manipur, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. MLAs in Tamil Nadu are well-educated, highly qualified and fight for social justice; they cannot be purchased, Kharge said. Terming the BJP as a poisonous snake, Kharge said the party was implementing the RSS ideology of dividing the people on religious and communal basis, which was evident from the violence during the visit of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to the city two days ago. From demonetisation to GST, the lives of the people had become miserable and the growth of all businesses, MSMEs, textile and agriculture sectors have declined, he said. Referring to the criticism by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Congress has no achievements during its 70 years of rule, he said the party has ensured right to education, food security up to 2014 while the BJP government has destroyed the economy. "Modi takes decision without thinking, without consulting and takes the nation backwards," Kharge said. On the criticism of dynasty politics, he said that after former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, there was no Prime Minister from the Gandhi family. As far as AIADMK was concerned, there was no Anna or Amma and it was only Amit ShahADMK, he said. Asked about the I-T raids on the premises of son-in-law of DMK president M K Stalin and DMK leaders, he said this was the method in which the BJP government functions -- by threatening the Opposition through various agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-mlas-in-dmk-led-front-can-be-purchased-by-bjp-congress-leader-969493.html
02-04-2021||South||Over 3 crore people want temples freed from govt grip: Sadhguru||In just a little over a month since its launch, the 'FreeTNTemples' campaign has been endorsed by more than three crore people, Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev has said. Not only have the citizens of this state spoken their will, so have spiritual leaders of the community who have long sought this reform, he said in his second letter to the Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Opposition Leader M K Stalin. Also, Vasudev posted an appeal to the leaders on Twitter: "Hereby, I convey the heartfelt wishes of over 3 cr Tamils. As responsible political leaders, I beseech that you liberate #Temples, the core of Dravidian Pride; to be always remembered as the restorers of the soul of Tamil Nadu to its full Glory." Hereby, I convey the heartfelt wishes of over 3 crore Tamils. As responsible political leaders, I beseech that you liberate temples, the core of Dravidian pride, to be always remembered as the restorers of the soul of TN to its full glory & possibility." He urged the Chief minister and the Opposition Leader to make a promise to the Tamil people that their beloved temples will be given back to them under your leadership. Recently, Vasudev sent an open letter to the two leaders asking them to include in their respective poll manifesto that temples would be free from state control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-3-crore-people-want-temples-freed-from-govt-grip-sadhguru-969500.html
02-04-2021||South||LDF tried to 'destabilise' sacred places, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday attacked the Left government in Kerala for its action against Ayyappa devotees during Sabarimala protests, saying they tried to "destabilise" sacred places and that devotees were not criminals. The Ayyappa devotees, who should have been welcomed with flowers, were lathi-charged, Modi said bringing up the Sabarimala women entry issue at an election rally at Konni in Pathnamthitta district, near the famous Lord Ayyappa shrine. The state had witnessed violent protests after the LDF government decided to implement the 2018 Supreme Court verdict allowing women of all ages to offer prayers at the shrine. Rightwing outfits had staged protests against the government's decision to implement the verdict. Continuing his attack on the Left, Modi said: "But what has the LDF done? First they tried to distort the picture and image of Kerala and tried to show the Kerala culture as backward.Then they tried to destabilise sacred places by using their agents who carried out mischief." The devotees of Swami Ayyappa, who should have been welcomed with flowers, were welcomed with lathis, he said. "I want to state clearly that the innocent devotees of Swami Ayyappa are not criminals," the prime minister, who is on his second leg of campaign tour in the southern state, said. Modi said Communism had done everything to portray Indian culture in bad light and it will no longer be allowed to trample over the country's culture. "For decades, the Left cabalhad done everything to portray Indian culture in poor light.Their lies would not go on anymore.An imported and internationally rejected ideology will no longer be allowed to trample over the culture of our land." "This is why Babasaheb Ambedkar questioned if Communism and free democracy can ever co-exist? He said that communism is like a forest fire that will burn and consume everything," he said, adding the BJP karyakartas will stand in the way of any effort to trample over the Indian culture. Referring to the action of the LDF government against a section of devotees who protested the government decision to implement the apex court verdict in Sabarimala, Modi said the government was showing its wrath towards people. "I fail to understand, which government will shower lathis on innocent devotees? Which government will repeatedly attack its own citizens?" he asked. Modi said NDA proposes a forward looking development agenda that puts Kerala on the fast route to progress. "My vision for FAST includes F for fisheries and fertilisers, A for agriculture and Ayurveda, S for skill development and social empowerment and T for tourism and technology. We will ensure that each of these sectors develop," he said. Besides the highway works in Kerala as part of the Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor, many economic corridors have been announced and the centre has provided for developing 1,100 km of national highway network in the state. On the tourism front, he said the left government lacked vision, but the NDA would focus on the different aspects of tourism including health, spiritual, cruise and eco tourism. With Keralites observing Good Friday,Modi today used a Christian reference and lambasted the ruling LDF and Opposition UDF, saying they have committed 'seven deadly sins' including arrogance, greed, envy, lust for power. "You all have heard of the seven deadly sins.UDF and LDF have committed their own seven deadly sins in Kerala," Modi said, attacking the two fronts in Kerala who have been ruling the state alternatively over the years. "The first sin is pride and arrogance.UDF and LDF feel that they can never be defeated.This has made their leaders very arrogant and disconnected from their roots, while the second sin is their greed for money," he said, referring to the gold, dollar and solar cases, which has tainted the two fronts. The gold smuggling case is about the seizure of 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore from a diplomatic baggage at the Thiruvananthapuram airport in July last year and the dollar case pertains to alleged smuggling of USD 1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs 1.3 crore by a former finance head of UAE consulate). The Solar panel scandal, which hit the previous UDF government of Oommen Chandy, relates to a couple cheating people of crores of rupees by promising to instal solar panels and offering franchise and jobs. Modi claimed the two fronts are envious, jealous and want to outdo each other in committing wrongs. "They suffer from competitive corruption.They are jealous if the other alliance makes a paisa more than the other," the prime minister said at the rally at the stadium which was overflowing with people. The lust for power has made the two fronts to enter into alliances with communal, criminal and repressive elements of society, he alleged. "What was the stand of the Indian Union Muslim League on Triple Talaq? What are the social policies of Popular Front of India (PFI) and its political arm Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI).Can their regressive politics be supported? No," he said. The two fronts were promoting dynasty politics and everything else is a side issue, Modi said. "We have also seen how children of big leaders are behaving. The case of the son of the top LDF leader is well-known.I do not need to elaborate more on it because his antics are common knowledge," he said in an apparent reference to CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son who is behind bars in connection with a case being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldf-tried-to-destabilise-sacred-places-says-pm-modi-969509.html
02-04-2021||South||My govt does not see people's faith before serving them, says PM Modi, calls Congress 'high-handed'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday slammed the Congress as 'high-handed' without an understanding of local sensibilities and asserted that his government does not see people's caste or faith before serving them. In Tamil Nadu, the situation was such that senior DMK leaders who worked shoulder to shoulder with late party patriarch 'Kalaignar' (M Karunanidhi) were feeling suffocated due to 'the newly minted crown prince' of the party (DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin), he said, addressing a poll meeting here, adding 'politics does not work this way.' "Today the mood of the nation is clearly against the politics of nepotism and entitlement." The opposition loved calling people anti-democratic, but they should see the 'nearest mirror,' he said. Congress invoked Article 356 several times and both the DMK and the AIADMK governments in Tamil Nadu have been dismissed by that party in the past, he said. Having Congress, hence, in any coaltion meant having a high-handed ally who does not understand local sensibilities, he alleged. "Our ideology is sab ka saath, sab ka vikaas and sab ka vishwaas," and at the root of this mantra lay the spirit of compassion towards everyone, he said. "Our government does not see people's caste, creed or faith before serving them. Ours is a government for everyone," he asserted and recalled his government's efforts to buttress his point. When nurses from Kerala were abducted while working in Iraq, the government did everything possible to bring them back home safely. Similarly, Father Alexis Premkumar who belonged to Tamil Nadu and Father Tom were safely rescued from Afghanistan and Yemen respectively, he said, adding "let those who believe in conflict further it. We believe in compassion and we will always serve the people with that spirit." Bypoll will be held on April 6 for the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency alongside the Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/my-govt-does-not-see-peoples-faith-before-serving-them-says-pm-modi-calls-congress-high-handed-969528.html
02-04-2021||South||In poll-bound Kerala, PM Modi mentions 'seven deadly sins' of LDF, UDF||Prime Minister Narendra Modi opened his last leg of the campaign for BJP in Kerala for the April 6 polling by raising Sabarimala Ayyappa chants, referring to prominent temples in the state capital as well as mentioning the 'seven deadly sins' of the UDF and the LDF. Addressing an election meeting on Friday at Konni in Pathanamthitta district where the Sabarimala temple is situated, Modi alleged that the LDF government in Kerala welcomed Sabarimala devotees with lathis and treated them as criminals. He opened his address by repeatedly chanting ‘Swamiye Saranam Ayyappa’ and said that the LDF tried to destabilise sacred places using their agents to create mischiefs. The LDF tried to create an image that Kerala was a backward state and portray Indian culture in a bad light, he added. In a bid to woo Christian voters, Modi had said that in a recent election meeting in Kerala, the LDF betrayed Kerala for "a few pieces of gold" like Judas betrayed Jesus Christ for a few pieces of silver. On Friday, which also happened to be Good Friday, he stated that the LDF and UDF committed 'seven deadly sins', known as cardinal sins, including lust for power and greed. The LDF and the UDF were arrogant as they felt that they were undefeatable, were greedy by involving in smuggling and corruption, were allying with communal and criminal elements to satisfy their lust for power, were jealous of each other and made money through corruption, he said. In his address in Thiruvananthapuram, Modi sought blessings from the temples in the state capital, including the Sree Padmanabha Swami Temple and the Attukal Devi Temple. He attacked Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who is now contesting from Kazhakoottam in Thiruvananthapuram, over the Sabrimala issue. Modi said there was a surge of support to NDA in Kerala, especially from youngsters, women and professionals, as the people realised that the LDF and UDF could not ensure the state’s development. He said that his vision for Kerala was a ‘FAST’ route of progress in which ‘F’ stands for fisheries and fertilisers, ‘A’ for agriculture and Ayurveda, ‘S’ for social empowerment and skill development and ‘T’ for tourism and technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-poll-bound-kerala-pm-modi-mentions-seven-deadly-sins-of-ldf-udf-969529.html
02-04-2021||South||Cong alleges corruption in Kerala govt-Adani Group power deal||The Opposition Congress-led UDF in Kerala raised fresh allegations of corruption by the state government in a power purchase deal between the Kerala government and the Adani Group. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala questioned the 25-year deal that the Kerala State Electricity Board has entered into with the Adani Renewable Energy Park through Solar Energy Corporation of India in 2019 for buying power for Rs. 8,850 crore under the Renewable Purchase Obligation that mandates minimum purchase or production of renewable power. While solar and wind power were available at Re. 1 to Rs. 2 per unit, the deal with the Adani group was to buy power for Rs. 2.82. The Adani Group would get Rs. 1,000 crore undue profit from it, he alleged at a press conference on Friday. Other Congress leaders, including Kerala PCC President Mullappally Ramachandran, also joined the issue by alleging a secret deal between Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Adani group. Vijayan, however, alleged that the Congress was making futile efforts to tarnish the LDF government’s image by raising baseless allegations. KSEB top officials told a section of the media that the KSEB signed the deal with the Solar Energy Corporation of India only after following the norms and the prices were finalised through tendering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cong-alleges-corruption-in-kerala-govt-adani-group-power-deal-969546.html
02-04-2021||South||Karaikal district: Where independents have more fight in them||In every Assembly election, contestants belonging to popular political parties alone are considered as serious contenders, rarely are the independents so seen. This time, the Karaikal district of the Union Territory of Puducherry is witnessing the Independent candidates giving a tough fight to the parties. Assembly constituencies in the Puducherry regions are small with about 25,000-35,000 voters. The popularity of individual candidates in the area often becomes the deciding factor in winning elections. On many occasions and in many constituencies, Independents have risen up to expectations and won the elections. This time, three constituencies in Karaikal district - Tirunallar, Nedunkadu, and Neravy-TR Pattinam constituencies are seeing independents as among the top contenders. In Tirunallar, former Minister and two-time MLA PR Siva is contesting as an independent. He was earlier with the AINRC. The constituency has now been allotted to the BJP. He is taking on Congress's R Kamalakannan, who served as Agriculture Minister in the Narayanaswamy-headed cabinet. BJP has fielded GNS Rajasekaran. In the nearby Nedunkaduconstituency, Dr V Vigneswaran, a prominent social activist in the area, is contesting as an independent. He was previously with the DMK. He is taking on AINRC'sS Chandrapriyanka(sitting MLA) and Congress's A Marimuthu, former MLA. In the Neravy TR-Pattinam constituency, two independent candidates are among the main contenders. Sitting MLA Geetha Anandan, who was with the DMK, is contesting as an independent as she was denied a ticket this time. VMCS Rajaganapathy, son of former Minister VMC Sivakumar, is also in the fray as an independent. They both are taking on DMK's Nagathiyagarajan and BJP's VMCS Manoharan. Interestingly, the BJP candidate and the independent VMCS Rajaganapathy are brothers. If any of the independents go on to win the elections, they might play a crucial role in the formation of the next government in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karaikal-district-where-independents-have-more-fight-in-them-969551.html
02-04-2021||South||TDP boycotts MPTC, ZPTC polls||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has decided to boycott the Mandal and Zilla parishad polls to be held on April 8. The schedule of the local body polls, following last year's notification, was issued late Thursday by Nilam Sawhney, who took charge as the new SEC in the morning. Ramesh Kumar, with whom the Jaganmohan Reddy government had a spat over the conduct of elections, had retired from the post on Wednesday. TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu has alleged that the new SEC Sawhney, who till December last year was the Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary, has “become a rubber-stamp in the hands of the Reddy government”. “We had to take such a drastic decision as we have lost faith in this election process. Not only the TDP, Janasena and other parties are also seeking a fresh notification. We will fight this legally and also make the public aware of such undemocratic processes in the state,” Naidu told reporters on Friday, adding that the poll boycott was “the most difficult decision in my four-decade political career”. The notification for the Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituencies (MPTC) and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies (ZPTC) polls was issued in March last year and nominations were also filed. However, the polls could not be held at that time due to the spread of the Covid-19 in the state. The TDP is demanding that the poll process be initiated afresh, alleging that the ruling YSRCP had resorted to violence and widespread intimidation disallowing other party candidates from filing nominations. The party leaders complained to the SEC that an unusually high number of seats were marked as unanimously elected. The Janasena had in February moved the AP high court seeking a fresh notification for the ZPTC, MPTC polls. On Friday, a day after the schedule announcement, Sawhney called for a consultation with political parties. The TDP, Janasena etc parties did not attend the meeting in protest. The parishad polls are in continuation of the Panchayat and municipal polls, which were held after a year's gap in February and March respectively. The YSRCP swept both the polls and wants the parishad polls to also be completed now. Naidu questioned the urgency in conducting the polls when the matter was before the courts and the state is in the midst of the Covid-19 second wave. “TDP has resorted to the poll boycott tactics realizing that the public would not vote for the party,” YSRCP leaders remarked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-boycotts-mptc-zptc-polls-969564.html
02-04-2021||South||HC orders notice to TN govt on plea to post FIRs online||The Madras High Court has directed the Tamil Nadu government to file a report on a plea to upload online all First Information Reports (FIRs) registered by the police, as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamurthy gave a direction to this effect while passing interim orders on a PIL from advocate M Balaji, on Thursday. According to the petitioner, the FIRs, once registered, have to be uploaded on the website within 24 hours. However, the police department failed to do so. In its reply, the police department submitted that due to sensitivity of cases, the facilities to view the FIR in certain cases are not programmed. However, steps will be taken to explore the possibilities of uploading the FIRs in future, it said. The bench said such measures should be devised expeditiously and the state should indicate the measures taken to implement the direction of the Supreme Court, within six weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-orders-notice-to-tn-govt-on-plea-to-post-firs-online-969581.html
02-04-2021||South||DMK chief's family, others raided to check illegal political cash: I-T dept sources||The Income Tax Department's raids on DMK chief M K Stalin's daughter Senthamarai and others on Friday were aimed to check "political cash distribution" in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, sources in the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said. Till now, 28 premises in Chennai, Coimbatore and Karur have been covered as part of the action, they said. "Several incriminating material on tax evasion have been found so far" during the raids which are underway, claimed the sources in the CBDT, which frames policy for the tax department. The searches are being conducted on three different groups and a few individuals in the state, they said. Tamil Nadu will vote for its 234-member assembly in a single phase on April 6. "These groups and individuals are involved in businesses ranging from running distilleries and breweries, real estate, local financing, solar power EPC to handling cash of politically exposed persons for the ongoing elections," a senior tax department officer said. "Part of these groups and individuals are alleged to have been actively assisting in political cash distribution. Searches have been conducted to verify and unearth such activities too," the officer said.   The DMK has condemned the central government for this action and alleged that it had a "political objective". Party general secretary Duraimurugan said when parties are on the verge of completing campaigning and are looking forward to the day of polling, the income tax searches in the residence of Senthamarai was done with a "political objective". The Centre has made a "wrong calculation" that raids just ahead of the election would shock Stalin, his family and the party, and also weaken poll preparations, he claimed while speaking to reporters in Vellore. "The DMK is not a party that can be scared by such searches," he said adding that the party had already faced similar instances and it would not be deterred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-chiefs-family-others-raided-to-check-illegal-political-cash-i-t-dept-sources-969591.html
02-04-2021||South||LDF/UDF are 'twins' of mis-governance, corruption, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday attacked the two rival fronts — LDF and UDF in Kerala, describing them as "twins" of misgovernance, corruption and political violence and came down on the Left government, saying there was a "total hartal" in the state. He also lashed out at the Pinarayi Vijayan government for its action against Ayyappa pilgrims during the Sabarimala protests in 2018, saying they tried to "destablise" the sacred places and described Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran as "one of the masterminds" to shower lathies on the devotees. "You have a minister who was supposed to help temples, but he was one of the masterminds to shower lathis on devotees in Sabarimala. Disproportionate assets, disrespecting our women, destroying public property...this is what local UDF and LDF MLAs are doing. When the leaders are like this, people feel unhappy and disconnected from politics", the Prime Minister said, speaking at a rally in Thiruvananthapuram tonight. Modi on Friday addressed two rallies in Kerala -- at Konni, about 35 from the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa in Sabarimala in Pathnamthitta district and at the state capital later in the day. The Ayyappa devotees, who should have been welcomed with flowers, were lathi-charged, Modi said, bringing up the Sabarimala women's entry issue at an election rally at Konni, one of the two constituencies from where BJP state president K Surendran has been fielded. Later, at a rally in Thiruvananthapuram, he took a dig at the CPI(M)-LDF and Congress headed UDF, describing them as "twins" of mis governance, corruption, political violence, casteism, cronyism and nepotism. Referring to the manner in which former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan, who was accused in an espionage case and later exonerated, was treated, Modi termed the Congress as a "shameless party" and said it would sacrifice any hard working person in the name of the factional feud. "Congress is such a shameless party that they will sacrifice any hard-working person on the altar of factional politics. Many years ago, in the battle between the I-faction and A-faction, the career of a patriotic scientist Nambi Narayanan was destroyed. That is why, even though they do try, not many professionals relate with UDF," he said, adding NDA candidate 'Metroman' E Sreedharan has emerged as an inspiration for so many professionals. Pointing to the alliance between the Congress and Left in West Bengal, he said both parties were warming up to each other after every election and suggested that they merge. "Election after election, Congress and the Left are getting closer. The logical step after suchcloseness is a full merger of Congress and the Left. They can call the new party CCP- Comrade Congress Party," he said. Slamming the ruling LDF for lacking vision, Modisaid there was a "total hartal on governance" in Kerala. "...the LDF government has failed to show any forward looking vision to solve their (people's) problems. The Kerala government neither has an innovative development initiative, nor does it expand resources allotted by the Centre for the welfare of the people". This was happening in many sectors, including health, infrastructure, road construction, disaster management and more, Modi said, winding up his campaign tour of the southern states as he exuded confidence of a huge wave of support for NDA in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Union Territory of Puducherry. Listing his government's achievements, Modi said it had opened metros in 18 cities, while only five had metros when his party came to power in 2014. At the Thiruvananthapuram meeting, NDA candidates Kummanam Rajashekharan, Sobha Surendran, V V Rajesh, G Krishnakumar, among others, participated. Earlier, the Prime minister, who began his Konni rally by chanting 'Swamiye Saranam Ayyappa" thrice, used a Biblical reference to accuse the rival fronts of having committed the seven sins-- pride, greed, envy, lust for power, wrath, dynasty politics and sloth. The state had witnessed violent protests after the LDF government decided to implement the Supreme Court verdict of 2018, allowing women of all ages to offer worship at the hill shrine. The activists of the BJP and right-wing outfits had staged violent protests against the government's decision. "But what has the LDF done? First, they tried to distort the picture and image of Kerala and tried to show the Kerala culture as backward. Then they tried to destabilise sacred places by using their agents, who carried out mischief," Modi said adding that Ayyappa devotees are not criminals. Modi said Communism had done everything to portray Indian culture in bad light and it will no longer be allowed to trample over the country's culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldf/udf-are-twins-of-mis-governance-corruption-says-modi-969671.html
02-04-2021||South||Three years after #GoBackModi, DMK now wants Modi for its campaigns||DMK candidates had an unusual request to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. Over 20 candidates of DMK and Congress took to Twitter to "appeal" to Modi to campaign in their constituencies to "widen their winning margin". DMK's campaign was aimed at mocking the BJP's unpopularity in the state. While some wanted Modi to campaign for their opponents so that they can romp home, the remaining asked him to come to their constituencies to ensure that they win by huge margins. “Dear Prime Minister @narendramodi, please campaign in Thiruchendur. I am the DMK candidate here and it will help me in widening my winning margin. Thank you sir,” read a tweet posted by Anitha Radhakrishnan, DMK's candidate from Tiruchendur, one of the six abodes of Lord Murugan. The tweets were identical but posted from the candidates' respective handles. Nominees from Congress also followed suit. The trend began a couple of days when Kartikeya Sivasenapathy, DMK's challenger to AIADMK Coimbatore strongman and Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani, asked Modi to campaign for him. “Dear prime minister Mr Narendra Modi. Please campaign for Mr S.P. Velumani, local administration minister. I am the DMK candidate against him and it will be very useful for me if you support him,” he wrote. While the Tamil Twitter had a hearty laugh, BJP was unusually silent. Not just candidates, but DMK chief M K Stalin also told a rally recently that the DMK's support base increases when Narendra Modi campaigns against the party. “It is an election strategy. It is not mocking at the unpopularity of the BJP but stating the fact,” a DMK leader told DH, adding that the anti-BJP sentiment is “still strong” in Tamil Nadu. He recalled that even BJP candidates in Tamil Nadu have avoided using pictures of Modi in their campaign material. The campaign by DMK “welcoming” Modi is in stark contrast to the now famous #GoBackModi hashtag that trended worldwide in April 2018 for the first time when the Prime Minister visited Tamil Nadu at the height of Cauvery agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-years-after-gobackmodi-dmk-now-wants-modi-for-its-campaigns-969678.html
02-04-2021||State||Tur dal prices in Karnataka slowly increase||As if soaring fuel and LPG cylinder prices were not enough, consumers are now witnessing prices of tur dal, a key and affordable source of protein for the masses, slowly inch upward. Heavy and untimely rains in 2020 and the recent amendment to the APMC Act have triggered a severe shortage of pulses, especially 'tur dal' (red gram), across Karnataka. The shortfall has already pushed the cost of one kilo of tur to Rs 100-Rs 110 in the retail market, with prices expected to touch Rs 140 to Rs 150 ahead of the Ugadi festival, according to traders. Being one of the largest producers of pulses, Karnataka lost a whopping 66% of standing tur crop to untimely rains in 2020. Adding to the woes, several private players have begun to ‘hoard’ the dal after directly procuring it from farmers through agents following an amendment to the APMC Act. As a result, tur dal has become expensive. Kalaburagi APMC Secretary Shailaja MV revealed that the APMC has witnessed a 50% drop in the supply of tur ever since the amendment to the Act. On an average, the APMC market was receiving about 15 lakh quintals of tur every year. Amarnath C Patil, former President of Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI), said that some traders, through agents, are already purchasing pulses directly from farmers and transporting it to Latur in neighbouring Maharashtra for hoarding. Basavaraj Ingin, President of Karnataka Red Gram Growers Association, said private companies had already booked farmers through an NGO in Kamalapur for procurement. "A few others are directly selling the produce in the Latur market for a good price. While about 50 truckloads of tur was going to Maharashtra, it has only increased now,” he said. Shivasharanappa Niggudgi of Tur Mills Association said, “Several mills have stopped work due to a shortfall in supply.” Kalaburagi district alone contributes about 50 to 60% of tur production in Karnataka. Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, President of Bangalore Wholesale Food Grains and Pulses Merchants’ Association, said the "shortage is likely to remain until the next season, thus pushing the prices up to Rs 150". He said with "festivities around and tur being the sought-after pulse, prices will only go up.” After a bounteous monsoon, tur was sown in a whopping 4,47,404 hectares of area. But the untimely rains damaged the standing crop in 3,15,461 hectares. Talking about the impact of rains, Dr Rathendranath Sugur, Joint Director of Agriculture, said, “Rains have reduced the yield to a mere 25 lakh quintals as against the annual average of 45 to 50 lakh quintals."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tur-dal-prices-in-karnataka-slowly-increase-969246.html
02-04-2021||State||Karnataka HC comes to rescue of meritorious student||The High Court of Karnataka has passed an interim order directing the National Board of Examination to permit the admission of a student for the Fellowship of National Board (FNB) course in Sports Medicine at Ganga Medical Centre and Hospital at Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu. The student-petitioner BS Sujith, a native of Challakere in Chitradurga district, had secured 15th rank in the Fellowship Entrance Test (FET) 2020. In the two rounds of counselling, he did not accept the seat allotted to him and sought for participating in the final mop-up round. In the middle of the counselling process, a circular was issued on March 11, 2021, indicating that only registered candidates who have not been allotted seats in the first two rounds of counselling will be eligible to take part in the mop-up round. The petitioner was informed that on account of the allotted seats rejected by him, he would not be eligible to take part in the mop-up round. The petitioner contended that a subsequent clarification issued on March 23, 2021, stated that candidates who did not accept the seat and also not paid the fee are however eligible to participate in the mop-up round. The petitioner’s contention was that he had not accepted the seat and had also not paid the fee. He also said that the authorities had allotted Sports Medicine seats to three candidates who secured All India Rankings of 63, 67 and 80. A division bench, headed by Justice Aravind Kumar, pointed out that the subsequent clarification runs contrary to the first circular. Observing that March 31 was the last date for admission, the bench directed the respondent to permit Sujith to be admitted at Ganga Medical Centre and Hospital at Mettupalyam in Coimbatore. The court, however, said admissions shall be subject to the petition’s outcome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-comes-to-rescue-of-meritorious-student-969303.html
02-04-2021||State||Issues in BJP with K S Eshwarappa writing to Governor will be sorted out: Kateel||State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the issues related to Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa writing to Governor Vajubhai Vala, accusing Yediyurappa of interfering in his department, will be sorted out within two days. “We will speak to all the MLAs of the party. BJP National General Secretary (Karnataka in-charge) Arun Singh too has spoken on the issue. I am confident that the issue will be sorted out after speaking to Eshwarappa and others individually,” said Kateel to mediapersons in Mangaluru. “K S Eshwarappa is a senior leader and the minister in the government. He has written letters to all of us and the same letter has been given to the Governor as well,” said the BJP State President. Minister Eshwarappa had approached Raj Bhavan two days ago with a formal complaint against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s “direct interference” in the affairs of his department. He had accused Yediyurappa of interfering in his department in violation of the Karnataka (Transaction of Business) Rules on division of power in the Cabinet. To a query on former Siddaramaiah reacting to K S Eshwarappa’s letter to the Governor,  Kateel said “the issue is not as embarassing that of Rahul Gandhi tearing the ordinance of then UPA government led by Manmohan Singh to save convicted legislators from disqualification in the past.” BJP will win The State President asserted that the BJP will win all three by-elections in Karnataka.  Bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency and two Karnataka assembly constituencies — Basavakalyan and Maski ­—will be held on April 17. However, the infight in Congress is continuing. Nalin Kumar Kateel refused to comment on the sleaze CD issue and said that the investigation is in progress. The truth will come out after the investigation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/issues-in-bjp-with-k-s-eshwarappa-writing-to-governor-will-be-sorted-out-kateel-969391.html
02-04-2021||State||Govt may announce holidays to schools soon: Basavaraj Horatti||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti said the State government is likely to announce a holiday for schools (till class 9) across Karnataka owing to an increase in Covid-19 cases and souring temperature. Speaking to media persons after receiving a memorandum from teachers union representatives at his home here on Friday, Horatti said like in Bengaluru the second wave of Covid-19 cases is increasing across Karnataka. On top of the Covid-19 cases, the districts in North Karnataka are also reeling under severe heat, Horatti said and added that like in Bengaluru, where the government has announced holidays for schools till class 9, the government may extend the same rule to other districts. “I have already spoken to the officer on special duty, education minister and chief minister in this regard and they have assured of issuing a direction announcing holidays to schools in a day or two,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-may-announce-holidays-to-schools-soon-basavaraj-horatti-969511.html
02-04-2021||State||Karnataka shuts gyms, swimming pools, puts restrictions in Bengaluru pubs, restaurants amid Covid-19 surge||The Karnataka government on Friday ordered the closure of gyms and swimming pools while capping the seating capacity in theatres at 50 per cent in a new set of guidelines aimed at curbing Covid-19 with cases spiking.  The new restrictions will be in force till April 20, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said in his order.  Besides the closure of gyms and swimming pools, the government has ordered apartment complexes to shut common facilities such as party halls and clubhouses.  “In cinema halls, alternate seating subject to a maximum of 50 per cent seating capacity only shall be allowed in the districts of Bengaluru Urban and Rural, including BBMP, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Bidar and Dharwad,” the order stated.  Gatherings and functions are prohibited in places of religious worship, but individuals are allowed to visit them and offer prayers, the order specified. Restrictions on public gatherings and congregations during religious festivals and jathras/fairs will continue, it added.  The government has also clamped down on rallies, dharnas irrespective of the reason.  The order stated that classes 6-9, including Vidyagama, will be suspended, but that classes 10-12 can continue. However, physical attendance is not a must. Even college classes will be closed, except those due for board or university exams.  Similarly, boarding schools and residential hostels will be closed, except for students of classes 10-12 and college-goers appearing for exams, the order stated. ‘ Public transport will function normally without exceeding seating capacity.  The new curbs signal the alarm within the B S Yediyurappa administration as the number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka breached the 10-lakh mark this week. “It has been observed that there has been a persistent rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state during the last one month,” the order pointed out.  In the districts of Bengaluru Urban and Rural, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Bidar and Hubballi-Dharwad, the number of customers in pubs, bars, clubs and restaurants is capped at 50 per cent.  “Strict Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) like ensuring wearing of masks, physical distancing, provision of hand sanitiser/hand wash shall be enforced. If there is any violation in pubs, bars, clubs, restaurants, the facility shall be closed till the pandemic is over,” the order stated.  The above rule will apply to shopping malls, closed markets and departmental stores, which will be closed if violations occur.  The number of persons allowed for various activities will remain the same: 500 people at marriages if it is an open space, 200 in a hall or a closed space; 100 people at birthday celebrations in open spaces and 50 in closed spaces; 100 people at funerals in an open space, 50 if closed; 50 people at cremations and burials; 100 people in all other congregations; 500 are allowed in religious and political gatherings in open spaces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-shuts-gyms-swimming-pools-puts-restrictions-in-bengaluru-pubs-restaurants-amid-covid-19-surge-969527.html
02-04-2021||State||Mysuru reports new high of 174 Covid-19 cases||Mysuru reported a record high of 174 Covid-19 positive cases in the second wave of the pandemic in the country on Friday. The total number of positive cases so far is 56,093 and the total number of deaths stands at 1,055. There are 853 active cases in the Mysuru district. Among the new cases, 136 are primary contacts of infected persons, while 29 are suffering from Influenza-like illness (ILA) and nine are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases. While the Health department authorities have observed a total of 3,36,804 persons till date, 2,75,619 persons have successfully completed quarantine and 5,092 are under quarantine. A total of 54,185 persons have recovered and are discharged from the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-reports-new-high-of-174-covid-19-cases-969580.html
02-04-2021||State||Finance Department hints at lifting recruitment freeze for key departments||There appears to be some good news in store for government job aspirants. The Finance Department is expected to give its nod for recruitment this fiscal. Though not all recruitment requests will be approved, proposals will be cleared based on immediacy, according to sources. A circular by the department has raised hopes among aspirants and various government departments, as it indicated that the government was open to lifting the freeze on issuing new appointment orders to candidates.  The circular issued by Finance Secretary (Budget & Resources) Ekroop Caur stated that only a few proposals submitted by various departments will be considered initially. The government had frozen recruitment for government jobs on July 6, 2020, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The freeze came at a time when the government struggled to steer the economy back to normalcy. Several departments had written to the department seeking exemption from the moratorium. The Finance department had assured to approve some of the proposals after April 1, 2021. “Administrative departments are now directed to submit those proposals again for re-examination by the Finance department,” the circular said, adding that any new appointments will require concurrence from the Finance department. “Though the state is far from reaching the pre-Covid economic levels, the Finance department will likely clear few of the recruitment proposals it has sought for re-verification,” sources told DH. Home, Higher Education, Primary and Secondary Education, and Health and Family Welfare departments are among those seeking clearance for recruitment. Staff shortage is a grievance put forth by all departments. However, requests of only key departments will be approved initially, before taking up proposals from small departments, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/finance-department-hints-at-lifting-recruitment-freeze-for-key-departments-969607.html
02-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to do away with exams for classes 1 to 5 and hold oral test for classes 6 to 9 this academic year||Keeping in mind the pandemic induced situation, the Department of Public Instruction has decided to revise the examination pattern for grades 1 to 9 for the current academic year. As classes were not held for a few months and subsequently many had difficulties in accessing online education, the Department has decided to do away with the examination or assessments for grades 1 to 5th standard and decided to promote all kids to the next class. However, for students of 6th to 9th grade, the Department is planning an oral assessment instead of a written examination. Confirming the decision of the department, a senior officer told DH that a detailed and revised guidelines to conduct the examination will be issued on Monday. "All these years the exams were held for grade 4th and above. Up to grade 3, the students would have been promoted based on their learning levels. However, now it is impossible to hold exams for even grade 4 and 5 as there were no offline classes held for those kids," said an official source. But for the students of 6th grade and above, the department is mulling an assessment-based examination instead of a written examination. "Private schools are conducting exams and assessment also online. But due to lack of internet and digital interface accessibility for rural students, it has been discussed to hold only oral assessment for this year," the source added. The department sources explained that two methods of assessment have been discussed already and a final one will be announced on Monday along with other guidelines. "During the discussion, two models were suggested. One was to assess students' learning level based on their performance in unit tests conducted all these days and the second method was to conduct viva voce by calling students in batches each day," the official revealed. Interestingly, the private schools affiliated to the state board have already begun holding exams and some of the schools are almost completing the exams. Hence, the revised guideline will not make any difference for private unaided schools affiliated to the state boards. It can be recalled that a few days ago health minister Dr K Sudhakar had said that the government has decided to promote all kids up to grade 9 without examinations. But later this was denied by primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar and also by the Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. In the meantime, several teachers have also expressed the view that it would be ideal to conclude the examination process fast and declare summer vacation following the increase in cases and also that they have been called for Covid-19 duty. D Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said, "What we do is also assessment and it is called summative assessment and formative assessment. But only for grade 9, we conduct examinations on par with grade 10 because the no-detention policy does not apply here." The Formative assessment is based on the performance of kids in the unit tests conducted and the Summative assessment is examining kids' learning levels by conducting examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-do-away-with-exams-for-classes-1-to-5-and-hold-oral-test-for-classes-6-to-9-this-academic-year-969238.html
02-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RTC employees will resume indefinite strike if Karnataka govt doesn't meet demands by April 6, says federation||Members of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation Employees' Federation have set April 6 as the deadline for the Karnataka government to fulfill its nine demands by April 6, failing which they will resume their indefinite strike from April 7. Addressing mediapersons here on Friday, the federation’s Dharwad Division Honorary President P H Neeralakeri said that the government’s claim of fulfilling eight of the nine demands is just on paper and has not been implemented on the ground. The state government has also not met one of its major demands — to pay their employees wages on par with the sixth pay commission, he said. “As per the rules, we have issued a notice to the managing directors of four road transport corporations on March 13, 2021, regarding our decision to go for a strike if our demands are not met. So far, there has been no response from the government,” he said. adding that they have complete faith in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Transport Minister Lakshman Savadi when it comes to resolving the issue by April 6. “We will wait till April 6 for the government to fulfil our demands. If they fail to do so, then the government will be held responsible for any inconvenience caused to the public due to no operation of bus services across the state from April 7,” he said. Federation to ask private vehicles to join the protest Neeralakeri said they will urge private vehicles (maxi-cabs, buses, and other passenger vehicles) not to operate their vehicles during the protest days. “We are hopeful that state government would not take any hasty decision of privatisation of routes and put the lives of more than 1.36 lakh employees in quandary,” he said, adding that it would cost the state government an additional burden of Rs 2,121.72 crore to fulfill all their demands. The government can take an additional loan for this purpose and pass on the burden of repaying that on the four corporations. He said that while the federation is willing to compromise on its demand of making the drivers and conductors government employees, they will not back off from the main demand of the 6th pay commission as the wage difference is more than 24%. Neeralakeri said so far only seven of the 30 road transport corporation staff, who lost their lives due to Covid-19, have received a compensation of Rs 30 lakh each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rtc-employees-will-resume-indefinite-strike-if-karnataka-govt-doesnt-meet-demands-by-april-6-says-federation-969523.html
02-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka clocks 4,991 fresh Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Karnataka reported 4,991 fresh infections on Friday as the active cases swelled to 34,219. Six new fatalities took the toll to 12,591 in the state. The positivity rate for the day shot up to 4.19% from 3.65% on Thursday.  Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 3,509 cases and five deaths. The state capital now has 24,600 active carriers of the virus which is 72% of the active caseload in the state. The other fatality was reported from Kalaburagi. As many as 269 patients are in ICUs across the state. Mysuru district reported next highest infections in the day with 174 cases followed by Tumakuru 142, Bidar 126 and Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi 105 each. The Covid-19 tally in the state has surged to 10,06,229. The day also saw 1,631 patients getting discharged after recovery taking the total number of recoveries to 9,59,400. A total of 2,16,45,891 samples have been tested for Covid-19, so far. Of which, 1,18,933 were done on Friday alone. Following a surge in Covid-19 cases, the state government on Friday issued a slew of restrictions recommended by the State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu, member of TAC, in the backdrop of the spike in cases and the restrictions imposed by the government on Friday told reporters here, "After much deliberations, we had made these recommendations to the government. After examining the same, the state government has come up with new curbs. The very objective is to contain super-spreader events in closed spaces." "There is an evidence that infection is spreading fast in such events. By imposing restrictions for two weeks, the government wants to mitigate the situation. People should help the government in containing the virus," he added.   Shot in the arm Even as the state is grappling with a rapid surge in cases, more than one lakh people were vaccinated on Friday. Out of 1,26,270 vaccinated, 68,100 were between 45 and 60 years of age. The next highest vaccinated numbers were among the elderly. As many as 51,373 above the age of 60 were vaccinated. As many as 40,73,206 people in the state, so far, have been vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-clocks-4991-fresh-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-969552.html
02-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fire at Bandipur Tiger Reserve forest range||Vegetation on several acres of forest land was gutted due to fire at Karadikallu Gudda, under Maddur range, Bandipur Tiger Reserve in the district, on Thursday evening. The fire, that erupted near the southern side of Berambadi village, spread towards Karadikallu Gudda due to heavy wind. The forest officers of various ranges rushed to the spot within half an hour and took all measures to extinguish the fire and to prevent it from spreading. Around 250 people, including foresters, deputy range forest officers and other staff struggled the whole night and doused the flames. They also prevented it from spreading towards the thick forest, Assistant Conservator of Forest K Paramesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fire-at-bandipur-tiger-reserve-forest-range-969601.html
02-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PIL alleges inaction on Karnataka Lokayukta reports||The High Court has ordered a notice to the chief secretary, Karnataka Lokayukta and principal secretaries of various government departments for failing to initiate action on the Lokayukta report. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing a PIL filed by Sai Datta, a social activist. The petitioner said that no action has been initiated against the erring officials in more than 342 reports under section 12 (1) of the Karnataka Lokayukta Act. Similarly, in 932 cases permission/consent is awaited from competent authorities for action as per rule 14 (2) (d) of Karnataka Civil Services (CCA)Rules. The petitioner sought directions against the principal secretaries, who act as competent authorities, as they have failed to take action on the reports forwarded by the office of the Lokayukta under section 12 (1) ofthe act. The report under section 12 of the Lokayukta Act is sent to the government after the Lokayukta or the Upalokayuktas are satisfied that action has to be initiated against the erring officials. In such instances, the competent authority should examine the report and intimate the Lokayukta /Upalokyukta about the action taken or proposed to be taken within 3 months of the date of receipt of such report, the petitioner said. The petitioner also claimed that the inaction on the part of the competent authorities is nothing but abdicating their statutory duties and their actions of sitting over the reports for years together. This inaction has defeated the very object of the statute and the same needs to be addressed by fixing accountability, the petition said. The matter has been posted to June 4 for further consideration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pil-alleges-inaction-on-karnataka-lokayukta-reports-969618.html
02-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC suggests separate forensic science laboratory for narcotic drugs||The High Court of Karnataka has suggested that a separate Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) be set up for conducting tests for narcotic drugs and contraband articles under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The court directed the special public prosecutor (SPP) to persuade the Home department to provide field test kits to all the police stations in Karnataka.  Justice K Natarajan passed this order while dismissing a petition filed by Arjav Deepak Mehta, an accused in a case under the NDPS Act. Besides the other contentions, the senior counsel appearing for the petitioner pointed out that the police officials attached to Jeevan Bima Nagar police station had not done field test in respect of the contraband. He also said that as per the guidelines issued by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), samples of the seized articles shall be sent for chemical analysis within 72 hours and the report shall be obtained within 15 days. In the case on hand, though the sample was sent, the report has not been received. The court dismissed the petition observing that the petitioner was found in possession of 3.95 grams of LSD strips, while 0.5 grams is the commercial quantity. “Such being the case, the contraband article is more than the commercial quantity and the investigation is still pending. Therefore, the petitioner is not entitled for bail,” the order said. Meanwhile, the court said that the guidelines are directory in nature and are not binding on the FSL. The court also said that it is not possible for the FSL to give a report within 15 days since there is only one FSL in Bengaluru for the entire state of Karnataka. The court asked the SPP to persuade the government to have a separate FSL for narcotic cases. “He shall persuade the government to establish a separate Forensic Science Laboratory for conducting tests for Narcotic Drugs and contraband articles under the NDPS Act,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-suggests-separate-forensic-science-laboratory-for-narcotic-drugs-969619.html
02-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sandalwood wants Karnataka CM to scrap 50% occupancy norm for theatres||The Sandalwood on Friday sought the State government to scrap its new guideline of permitting a maximum of 50 per cent occupancy in cinema halls. Minutes after the fresh guidelines were issued, the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) convened a meeting of producers and exhibitors on Saturday. Two big-budget movies Power Star Puneeth Rajkumar's Yuvarathnna and Challenging Star Darshan's Roberrt are now running successfully. About 90% of the seats have been booked online for the next two days. The guideline will impact about 220 theatres in eight districts. "It is similar to a murder. Everybody in the industry will be bankrupt now," KFCC president D R Jairaj told DH. He said that it would be difficult to run the industry and the operations would have to be shut down. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa stated that there was no proposal to permit only 50% of occupancy in theatres. The guideline is issued without consulting the Chamber. We would have stalled the recent releases if the government had informed us in advance. The cost of running a show is the same irrespective of the occupancy at 50 per cent or 100 per cent," he said. "The CM has now placed the industry on ventilator," K V Chandrashekhar, Karnataka Film Exhibitors' Association president charged.  "In the last 11 months, the industry has not received even a single paise benefit from the government. It takes at least two years for us to make up for the losses," he said. The audiences are following Covid-19 guidelines while watching movies. The guideline will affect the industry. It will create fear among people," Puneeth Rajkumar said. Director Santosh Anandram termed the decision as shocking. "There are programmes all over. There will be around 500 people inside the theatres. Why should the industry be targeted when there are two breaks during the show?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sandalwood-wants-karnataka-cm-to-scrap-50-occupancy-norm-for-theatres-969622.html
02-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SIT is holding impartial investigation in Ramesh Jarkiholi case: Praveen Sood||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to probe the sleaze video clips, purportedly featuring former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, is conducting an independent and impartial investigation, said Praveen Sood, DG and IGP. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the event to mark Police Flag Day at KSRP Parade Ground in Koramangala on Friday, Sood said, the reason behind forming the SIT was to ensure an independent probe as per the law into the case. “People need not tell them (SIT officials) what they need to do and how to do it. They work according to the provisions laid down in IPC and CrPC. I do not interfere in SIT’s progress on a day-to-day basis. Interference and undue pressure will defeat the very purpose of forming SIT,” Sood said. “After the investigation is completed, people can give their opinions, but certainly not at this stage. There is no violation of the Nirbhaya guidelines, the court is watching the progress. There are responsible officers in SIT. We cannot work according to what people say,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sit-is-holding-impartial-investigation-in-ramesh-jarkiholi-case-praveen-sood-969625.html
02-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ramesh Jarkiholi fails to show up before SIT, cites health issues||Gokak MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi, who’s facing charges of sexual abuse, has failed to appear before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) officials on Friday. He cited health issues for not appearing before them. On March 29, when he was subjected to questioning for the third time, Ramesh had sought four days time to answer their questions. Accordingly, the officials had served him notice to appear on April 2. According to SIT sources Ramesh had informed them in writing through his advocate that he has sought two more days over health issues. “Now, the former minister has to appear before SIT on Monday (April 5), failing which necessary action will be taken against him according to the law,” a senior officer said. Ramesh’s move has raised many questions. Police officials suspect he’s buying time to approach the court for an anticipatory bail or he was trying to gather information on the woman’s statements before the officials. The woman had filed a complaint of rape against Ramesh with the Cubbon Park police. Jarkiholi’s advocate Shyam Sundar told reporters that his client was ready for a medical test. “We don’t have any objections for the SIT officials subjecting him (Ramesh) to medical test, if it is required for the investigation. I have met the officials at the request of Ramesh and informed them about his request,” Shyam said. He said Ramesh was at his Gokak residence. “For the last few days, he is facing health issues. After he recovers, he will appear before the officials. He will appear before them without fail after two days,” he added. Meanwhile, the SIT on Friday interrogated the woman and recorded her statement during her third appearance before the officials. The SIT questioned her about the materials found at her rented room in RT Nagar and the seizures they made from a flat in Malleswaram and also about the complaint by Ramesh with Sadashivanagar police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ramesh-jarkiholi-fails-to-show-up-before-sit-cites-health-issues-969629.html
02-04-2021||West||Maharashtra stares at blood shortage amid pandemic||Maharashtra is staring at a massive blood shortage amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) has flagged the issue with the Maharashtra government, which is reviewing the situation on a daily basis. The drastic drop in the number of blood donation camps – because of the pandemic – has led to a dip in collection across the state. “There is a shortage of blood. In some places like in Mumbai, Thane and Pune it is five to six to seven days… other places have a stock of 10 days,” said Food and Drug Administration Minister Dr Rajendra Shingane. Housing Minister Dr Jitendra Awhad described the shortage as acute and appealed to people to come forward to donate blood. “There is an acute shortage of blood in Maharashtra. Blood banks are running dry and we have blood only to suffice for the next 7 to 8 days. It's a dire need of the hour for people to come forward and donate blood,” he said and appealed to the youth to donate blood “voluntarily and selflessly”. The government has appealed to political parties, NGOs and the corporate sector to undertake blood donation camps. “Also people are working from home and colleges are shut which is leading to the shortage,” STBC officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-stares-at-blood-shortage-amid-pandemic-969321.html
02-04-2021||West||CCTV footage shows Sachin Vaze driving with accused Shinde in an Audi||A CCTV footage purportedly showing Vaze and suspended police constable Vinayak Shinde seated inside a black Audi surfaced on Thursday. The probe agencies so far have seized seven high-end cars used by Vaze -- the Scorpio found near Ambani's residence, two Mercedes cars, a Prado Land Cruiser, a Mitsubishi Outlander, a Volvo, and an Innova. The CCTV footage which the NIA has obtained is of March 2 and captured at a toll plaza, sources claimed. The central agency is yet to seize the Audi, they added. The same car had been earlier found parked at the Mumbai Police Commissioner's office, sources said. The NIA conducted searches at a hotel and a club in south Mumbai and a flat in neighbouring Thane on Thursday in connection with its probe into the Ambani security scare case, and also detained a woman, an alleged associate of main accused Sachin Vaze, sources said. A team of the National Investigation Agency, which is probing the recovery of an explosives-laden Scorpio near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, reached the Soni building, where the hotel and the club are situated, around 12.45 pm. Customers and staff members of the hotel were asked to vacate the premises, located near the Babulnath temple. During the search, the NIA sleuths also made enquiries with a few people at the club and the hotel, the official said. The probe team left the place after over three hours. Vaze, a suspended police official whom the NIA arrested last month in connection with the case, had been recently brought by the probe agency to the Babulnath area as part of its probe, sources said. Another NIA team conducted searches at a flat in Mira Road area in Thane district. According to sources, the flat was in a woman's possession and was locked for over two weeks, and the same woman, an alleged associate of Vaze, was detained by the agency from the airport on Thursday evening. However, this was not officially confirmed by the central agency. The gelatin sticks found in the vehicle near Ambani's house had been procured by Vaze himself, NIA sources had claimed on Wednesday. The NIA on Sunday recovered a laptop, a printer, two hard disks, two vehicle number plates, two digital video recorders (DVRs) and two CPUs from the Mithi river here with the help of divers. The agency is probing the alleged role of Vaze in parking the explosives-laden SUV near Ambani's residence on February 25 and in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran. The body of Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, was found in a creek in Mumbra town of neighbouring Thane district on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cctv-footage-shows-sachin-vaze-driving-with-accused-shinde-in-an-audi-969338.html
02-04-2021||West||Conservation work of Bibi Ka Maqbara launched||As Bibi Ka Maqbara, a 17th century Mughal-era monument in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city, is currently shut due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has embarked on its repair and conservation work. The ASI has started conserving paintings and marble parts of this popular tourist attraction, a senior official said. "The conservation of the monument is being done in three parts- paintings inside the entrance gate, the domes and the partitions carved in marble around the grave," deputy superintending archaeological chemist Shrikant Mishra said on Thursday. The entrance gate, where the tickets are checked, have paintings from inside, which are being scientifically conserved, he said. "The work of colour reintegration has been undertaken and the material required for that has been called from Rajasthan," he said. The key dome of the main structure will undergo the process of scientific conservation and cleaning, Mishra said. The intricate net partitions carved in marble inside the monument will also undergo the same processes, he added. According to him, the work will cost around Rs 50 lakh and it would go on for the next two to three months. "The paintings conservation work may take some more time," he said. When contacted, historian Dulari Qureshi said she welcomes the ASI's move, but stressed the need to restore other parts of the monument as well. "There are domes on four sides of Bibi Ka Maqbara, which are also deteriorating at a fast pace. These domes also need to be conserved," she said. The structure, known as the 'Taj of the Deccan' because of its striking resemblance to the Taj Mahal, was commissioned by Emperor Aurangzeb in 1660 in the memory of his wife Dilras Banu Begum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/conservation-work-of-bibi-ka-maqbara-launched-969358.html
02-04-2021||West||Amid surging coronavirus cases, Pune issues new curbs||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra’s cultural and IT capital of Pune, the district administration has come out with a sort of mini-lockdown, shutting down bars, hotels, restaurants, cinema halls and multiplexes for a week’s time. Night curfew timings in the Pune district have been revised to 6 pm to 6 am from the earlier 8 pm-7 am. The regulations will come into force from Saturday. The decision was taken on Friday at a review meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, the guardian minister of Pune district. Pune’s divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told reporters that no public functions will be allowed in the city. Not more than 50 and 20 persons will be allowed to attend marriages and funerals, respectively. “While bars, hotels and restaurants will be closed, they can undertake parcel/delivery services,” he said. The Pune district comprising the areas under Pune Municipal Corporation, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and the metropolitan areas have been recording over 8,000 cases for a couple of days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-surging-coronavirus-cases-pune-issues-new-curbs-969381.html
02-04-2021||West||Lockdown in Maharashtra? CM Uddhav Thackeray to address state at 8:30 pm||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will address the state at 8:30 pm on April 2 as coronavirus cases hit fresh highs across the country. The state might impose some form of lockdown or curbs as Maharashtra faces the worst of the second Covid-19 wave. "Cases are rising daily in Mumbai, this is a matter of concern. Due to the surge, a shortage of beds and ventilators is also being seen. We had been appealing to people since last March but they are showing carelessness," Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Friday. "Nobody wants lockdown but keeping in mind the manner in which cases are rising and creating pressure on the health infrastructure, some strict measures will have to be taken," Pednekar said making the announcement of Thackeray's address at night. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-in-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-address-state-at-830-pm-969396.html
02-04-2021||West||Goa tourism dept calls Marathas 'invaders', later apologises||The Goa tourism department on Friday referred to the Maratha warriors led by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj as "invaders", but deleted the tweet containing that reference soon after and also issued an apology. The opposition Congress slammed the BJP government in the state for "insulting" the Marathas, even as Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said an inquiry would be launched into the tweet. The tourism department's official Twitter handle @TourismGoa, while giving information about the Aguada Jail, which is a part of Aguada fort, referred to the Dutch and the Marathas as invaders. "The Aguada Jail is part of the beautiful Fort Aguada which was built in the year 1612. This fort which once defended Portuguese stronghold against the Dutch and Maratha invaders is divided into two parts- The upper and the lower fort," the tweet said. Soon after tweeting it, the department deleted the post and issued an apology. "In our post about Aguada fort, the word "invader" was meant to be used for the Dutch. It was intended to be read 'stronghold against Dutch invaders and Maratha rulers' instead of the erroneous reference. We regret the error and apologise," the department said in another tweet. In our post about Aguada fort, the word “invader” was meant to be used for the Dutch. It was intended to be read ”stronghold against Dutch invaders and Maratha rulers” instead of the erroneous reference. Ajgaonkar said this kind of error is unacceptable and he would initiate an inquiry into the incident. "This kind of tweet should not have happened. I will immediately inquire into the incident. This is unacceptable," the minister said. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, who shared both the tweets of the department, said, "The irresponsible @BJP4Goa Government INSULTS Maratha's led by Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj by calling the Great Warriors as INVADERS. @TourismGoa clarification makes propaganda of Salazars Portuguese Regime. Is this the MODIfied History @BJP4India now writing @goacm? @INCGoa." Aguada fort, located in North Goa, was built by the Portuguese in 1612. The Portuguese, who ruled Goa for over four centuries, had turned a part of the fort into a prison. The fort was built to guard and defend the Portuguese stronghold against the Dutch and the Marathas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-tourism-dept-calls-marathas-invaders-later-apologises-969400.html
02-04-2021||West||NCB flags Mumbai as India's cocaine capital: Report||According to NCB officials, investigations confirmed that no less than 300 kg of cocaine landed in Mumbai in December 2018 through a syndicate with links in India, Australia and Canada. Overall, as much as 2,499 kg of cocaine seized in the past two years in Sri Lanka, Port Elizabeth and Panana had India as its destination. The syndicate was uncovered after an Indian IP address was involved in the smuggling of 200 kg of methamphetamine from Canada to Australia. The address was traced to one Akshinder Singh Sodhi of Punjab, who was later arrested with 422 kg of cocaine in India, the report said. The investigation of 55 kg of cocaine concealed in a plasma cutting machine seized in Australia in June 2019 led the NCB to uncover the syndicate's bases in India. A probe revealed that the drug syndicate had floated fake companies for the drug to be smuggled and concealed at Rudrapur in Uttarakhand. A subsequent SIT operation, involving multiple raids in various places including those in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Delhi, led to the arrest of nine persons, including five Indians, one American, one Indonesian and two Nigerians. There is a rising suspicion that international drug cartels may be shifting cocaine processing from South America to India, owing to the country being one of the biggest manufacturers of potassium permanganate, the report said, citing pressure on the cartels from US, UK, Australian and Canadian intelligence agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-flags-mumbai-as-indias-cocaine-capital-report-969426.html
02-04-2021||West||Maharashtra: Plea seeks door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination for people above 75 years||A public interest litigation has been filed in the Bombay High Court seeking a direction to the Centre, Maharashtra government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to provide door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination for people above the age of 75 and those who are physically challenged or bed-ridden. The petition filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari on Friday stated that such persons may not be able to visit vaccination centres or may or may find it difficult to do so. "It is the need of the hour for the Union government to start door-to-door vaccination so that senior citizens and specially-abled (both physical and mental) citizens are able to get the vaccine without having to leave their house," the plea said. The authorities could fix charges of around Rs 500 to provide the door-to-door vaccination facility, it stated. The petitioners also referred to a letter written by the BMC to the state government seeking permission to take its vaccination drive door-to-door across Mumbai to increase the number of beneficiaries. "However, this request was declined on the ground that there is no such policy for door-to-door vaccination for Covid-19," the plea said. Senior citizens above the age of 75, who live alone, do not know how to register online and are unable to book appointments independently, the petition stated. Another hurdle that people face at vaccination centres is of long queues and people sometimes have to wait for over four hours for their turn, the petitioners said. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni is likely to hear the plea next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-plea-seeks-door-to-door-covid-19-vaccination-for-people-above-75-years-969443.html
02-04-2021||West||Have to coexist with virus for now: Multiplex, retail associations wary of lockdown in Maharashtra||Cinema, retail and shopping industries have just begun their recovery process and won't be able to bear another shutdown, according to industry associations who have urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to not impose a lockdown in Maharashtra where Covid-19 cases continue to rise. The Multiplex Association of India (MAI), Retail Association of India (RAI), and Shopping Centres Association of India have said they are following all the safety protocols mandated by the government and should not be the first casualty of such restrictions. Maharashtra, whose capital Mumbai is home to Hindi cinema, on Thursday reported 43,183 new Covid-19 cases, its highest one-day rise since the pandemic began, taking its cumulative caseload to 28,56,163 a health official said. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope recently said people should be ready for stringent measures in the coming days to curb the spread of Covid-19 and that imposing a lockdown is the last option for the state government. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday also hinted that some restrictions could be introduced in the city from Friday. Kamal Gianchandani, CEO PVR Pictures and president of MAI, said the cinema industry is mentally reconciled with the fact that they will have to "coexist with the virus for now". "There's a sense of deja vu for sure because we all have painful memories of the lockdown," he told PTI in an interview, emphasising the need for stricter enforcement of safety protocols and faster vaccination of people. Gianchandani said businesses should be permitted to function because that's the only way for them to sustain. "If we can't function, the whole cycle comes to a stop and then we cannot sustain ourselves. So, if at all, they're thinking of a second lockdown, we would urge them to reconsider their decision and take a much more long-term and pragmatic approach. "Businesses, the economy and the virus have to co-exist. You can't manage and contain one at the cost of the other. It's not an either-or situation anymore. It has to be an 'and' situation," he added. Several films like Haathi Mere Saathi (Hindi version), Bunty Aur Babli 2, and Chehre that were up for release in March and April have been pulled by the makers from the calendar due to uncertainty amid the pandemic. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO, RAI, told PTI that a lockdown would be a non-analytical and knee-jerk reaction. "Because it means we have given up hope that we can control the situation, that in the last one year, we have not learnt anything new. So, this is a really non-tenable situation." A lockdown will create a domino effect on businesses, supply chain as well as jobs, he warned. "When the businesses were at 30 or 40 per cent levels, a whole lot of MSME suppliers were impacted. More than the 20 per cent of the retail workforce got impacted. Thankfully, we were able to bring back some amount of economic activity and retailers went out of their way to ensure people got their jobs back. "But we cannot afford this kind of lockdown. Forty-six million people work in the retail sector across the country in various forms. A lockdown is going to cripple all of them," Rajagopalan warned. Mukesh Kumar, chairman and director on board, Shopping Centres Association of India, said the industry is already suffering because of the previous decisions such as mandatory testing for the malls and reducing the timings. "We are just recovering. We have reached almost 60 per cent of the footfall and 90 per cent of sales in March but then it started going downhill once the notification came about checking people coming to the mall and that they must have a negative RT PCR report... Then the second news came about reducing the timings, so these were all bad news. "Let's hope that this doesn't happen because we will not be able to take another lockdown. Another shut down will be discriminatory only for the malls, theatres and F&B," Kumar told PTI. According to SCAI, they cater to just one per cent of the population and follow stringent safety protocols with malls ensuring that they don't have more than one person per square foot. "If you look at the number of people in the mall, it is very limited. They are being monitored and you can't get a safer place than the mall where everything is controlled, monitored, reviewed and audited. You can't have this in markets, railway stations, airports or any other crowded place. In the event, any action is taken, the first casualty is the mall, theatres and the F&B," Kumar claimed. Despite the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Gianchandani is cautiously optimistic about the future provided theatres are allowed to operate in Maharastra, a crucial state for business. "I remain confident as at this point, there is no change of dates as we speak. Sooryavanshi is coming on April 30 and Radhe is scheduled for May 12 or 13, depending on the Eid. So as we speak, these films are releasing on the dates that they have announced, but at the same time, the cases continue to worsen, there would be concerns. "I do think that government machinery and administration in districts are doing everything possible to contain the spike in cases. And my sense is they would be able to show results fairly quickly. So we remain quite optimistic that these films will release on time," Gianchandani noted. Rajagopalan said instead of imposing restrictions, the government should be utilising resources like malls in the vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/have-to-coexist-with-virus-for-now-multiplex-retail-associations-wary-of-lockdown-in-maharashtra-969459.html
02-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Mumbai local trains won't be shut, says Maharashtra govt||Amid strict restrictions and SOPs in place to combat the Covid-19 pandemic in the city, the Maharashtra government on Friday clarified that the suburban local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) will not be shut for the public. “Covid-19 cases are growing. However, 80 per cent plus people are asymptomatic. We are reviewing the situation constantly,” Minister for Relief and Rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar said. According to Wadettiwar, several restrictions will be in place. The government had gradually imposed restrictions on the timings and on who can and cannot travel in which time period before the general public was allowed to take the local trains, he said. “The trains will not stop...we will have to come out with some strategy,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbai-local-trains-wont-be-shut-says-maharashtra-govt-969464.html
02-04-2021||West||Bombay HC to decide on maintainability of Param Bir Singh's PIL on Monday||The Bombay High Court on April 5 will pronounce its order on whether a PIL filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh seeking CBI probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh should be heard further. The public interest litigation also alleged corruption in police transfers and postings and political interference in probes. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni had on March 31 reserved its order on the issue of maintainability of the PIL (whether it should be taken up for final hearing or dismissed at the preliminary stage). The Maharashtra government's lawyer argued that the petition was not maintainable as Singh had vested interests and the plea was a result of his transfer from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to the low-key Homes Guards. The bench will on April 5 pronounce its order. The court will also give its ruling in three other petitions filed by lawyers Jayshri Patil and Ghanshyam Upadhyay and professor Mohan Bhide seeking independent probe into Singh's allegations against Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-to-decide-on-maintainability-of-param-bir-singhs-pil-on-monday-969496.html
02-04-2021||West||Maharashtra CM threatening people with lockdown, says BJP's Rane||BJP leader Narayan Rane on Friday said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had failed to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases and was "threatening" people with another lockdown. He said Maharashtra had seen 54,000 deaths due to the infection, the highest for any state in the country, but added that another lockdown was "unacceptable". Mocking the Uddhav Thackeray government's 'my family, my responsibility' anti-Covid-19 campaign, Rane said the CM's own family had contracted the infection. The CM's wife Rashmi and minister son Aaditya were detected with the infection recently. "In one year, the CM and his government have failed to improve the state's health infrastructure and are now threatening the people with another lockdown in case they do not conduct themselves with self-discipline," Rane claimed. "You have to talk to citizens with respect rather than issue threats. Another lockdown is unacceptable," he added. The former chief minister also criticised the CM for imposing night curfew amid the surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-threatening-people-with-lockdown-says-bjps-rane-969508.html
02-04-2021||West||Decision on complete lockdown in Maharashtra in 2 days: CM Uddhav Thackeray||As the daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra inched towards the 50,000-mark, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that a decision of a “complete lockdown” would be taken in the next couple of days after wide-ranging consultations and a situation update. “We will be closely observing the next two days. We expect people to be careful and follow whatever has been told... I cannot rule out the possibility of a lockdown if the current situation prevails,” Thackeray said in an address to the state on Friday night. “In the next two days, I will hold discussions with people across all segments and politicians, journalists on what are the other options available apart from lockdown. If there is no change, we may have to go in for a complete lockdown. Separate guidelines would be issued in the next couple of days,” he said. "Yes, lockdown is not a solution, but how can we break the chain? I am not announcing a lockdown but I am for sure indicating it. Let's together reverse the situation," he said, adding that for the last year India has been fighting the problem and will continue the war against the virus.  “Do not play with the lives of people,” Thackeray said, referring to the statements of politicians including Opposition party leaders on proposed lockdown. “I don’t want to name any party. I don’t want to bring in politics,” he said without referring to BJP leaders including its state unit president Chandrakant Patil who had threatened that the party would come to the streets if a lockdown is announced.  Without naming him, Thackeray slammed Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra, who said that the government should think of beefing up health infrastructure now instead of contemplating a lockdown. “That’s what we have been doing for the last one year. We have upgraded facilities. We are doing it and will continue to do so, but how do we bring in more doctors, more nurses, more healthcare workers, frontline workers, police and revenue officials?” he asked. He said that the same set of people are doing multiple things - they are managing Covid-19 patients, they are doing the job of ‘Testing, Tracking and Treating’ and also administering Covid-19 vaccine. “They are also human beings,” he said. Thackeray said that people have been complacent and have lowered their guards. “People are still not wearing masks. Not wearing masks is not bravery and wearing masks is not a matter of shame,” he said. This was an apparent reference to his estranged cousin and MNS president Raj Thackeray, who does not wear masks.  The Shiv Sena president said that he was "ready to be painted a villain"  if it meant protecting the lives of people.  "The situation is serious... 62 per cent of isolation beds are full, 48 per cent ICU beds are occupied and 25 per cent of the oxygen beds and 25 per cent of ventilator beds are occupied. In 15 days, the hospitals would be full," he said. Meanwhile, Mumbai on Friday reported 8,832 new Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Health Department data. About 5,352 persons recovered from the virus, taking total discharges to 3,61,043.  The financial capital now has 4,32,192 active coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/decision-on-complete-lockdown-in-maharashtra-in-2-days-cm-uddhav-thackeray-969563.html
02-04-2021||West||Congress ministers discuss Deshmukh controversy with AICC secretary||Congress ministers in the MVA government on Friday discussed the allegations of corruption against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in a meeting with AICC in-charge for the state H K Patil, sources said. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut's repeated remarks that NCP supremo Sharad Pawar should take over as UPA chairperson also came up during the discussion, sources added. The meeting in Mumbai with Patil, an All India Congress Committee secretary, was held for discussing the political situation in the state, sources said. "They talked about how the state government's image is being tarnished due to the allegations of corruption against NCP leader Deshmukh and how our party is getting maligned unnecessarily," said a Congress leader. Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged last month that Deshmukh had asked police officials to collect Rs 100 crore a month from bars and hotels, an allegations the latter denied. "The view in the meeting was that the NCP should have handled the Deshmukh issue in a better way," the leader added. Congress ministers also complained about Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut repeatedly stating that Pawar be made UPA chairperson by replacing Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The issue of development funds for constituencies of Congress ministers not being disbursed in time also came up, sources said. The Congress has 12 ministers in the Shiv Sena-led coalition government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-ministers-discuss-deshmukh-controversy-with-aicc-secretary-969570.html
02-04-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray warns of healthcare infrastructure shortage||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said the state may face a shortage of healthcare infrastructure shortage soon if the present "alarming situation" on coronavirus cases continued. Addressing people of the state on social media, Thackeray also said stricter curbs will be imposed in one or two days to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. "Till now, we have administered 65 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses, including three lakh vaccine doses yesterday," he said. Some people are getting infected even after vaccination because they stop wearing masks," Thackeray said. "I cannot rule out imposing a lockdown if the current situation prevails," he said. People have become complacent, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-warns-of-healthcare-infrastructure-shortage-969592.html
02-04-2021||West||Ambani security scare probe: NIA questions club owner||The National Investigation Agency which is probing the case related to a bomb scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here on Friday recorded the statement of the owner of a club, said an official. The agency had conducted searches at the 'social club' located inside a hotel in south Mumbai on Friday. The NIA is probing alleged links of its owner with cricket bookie Naresh Gor and suspended police constable Vinayak Shinde, the official said. The club owner was seen arriving at the NIA office around 11 am and left around 4.50 pm. Gor and Shinde, alleged associates of suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze, have been arrested in the businessman Mansukh Hiran murder case. Waze's former colleagues in the Mumbai crime branch assistant inspectors Riyazuddin Kazi and Prakash Howal also appeared before the NIA. Both have been questioned multiple times. The NIA, which is probing the recovery of an explosives-laden Scorpio near Ambani's residence here on February 25 and the murder of Hiran who had claimed that the vehicle had been stolen from his possession, has already arrested Waze.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-security-scare-probe-nia-questions-club-owner-969600.html
02-04-2021||West||Gujarat: Work on 7,700 km canal network in Narmada dam project incomplete||The Gujarat government has said that the work on around 7,700 km canal network, mainly including minor and sub-minor canals, in Narmada dam project is incomplete. In a written reply to a question on pending works of the Narmada dam project, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel informed the House that 92 per cent work, including laying of 62,000 km of canal network, has been completed. The construction of the dam was completed and it was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September 2017. The question was asked by Chotila Congress MLA Rutwik Makwana, who wanted to know about pending works in the project. "Around 92 per cent work on the Narmada dam project has been completed. This includes 62,000 km of canals, and work on a 7,700-km canal network, with minor and sub-minor canals, is pending," the House was told. The work on the main canal, branch canals and sub-branch canals is almost complete, it was stated. In a reply to another question by Makwana, Patel said that in 2019-20, 13.28 lakh hectares of land was irrigated in the state using Narmada canal waters. The state plans to irrigate 18.45 lakh hectares of land using the Narmada canal network once the project is completed, he said. The Narmada canal network has become Gujarat's lifeline, as it provides drinking water to many cities, towns and villages, besides irrigating a large chunk of land in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-work-on-7700-km-canal-network-in-narmada-dam-project-incomplete-969631.html
02-04-2021||West||Mumbai airport cuts RT-PCR test rate by 30% to Rs 600||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has reduced the price of the RT-PCR test by 30 per cent to Rs 600, amid Maharashtra witnessing a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. The revised charges, which are in line with the latest directives from the Maharashtra government, are effective from April 1, CSMIA said in a statement on Friday. Mumbai airport is offering the regular RT-PCR test at a reduced cost of Rs 600 as against Rs 850 earlier from April 1 to the passengers opting to avail the facility at the airport, it said. The state government had on Wednesday announced a reduction in RT-PCR, rapid antigen and antibody test charges. Following this, the RT-PCR test at a laboratory or hospital now costs Rs 600 from Rs 850 earlier, and Rs 150 for a rapid antigen test. CSMIA had introduced the RT-PCR test counters at the terminal last September and since then it has carried out over three lakh tests to date, it noted. Since the launch, the airport has added new facilities and explored various avenues to accommodate and reduce dwell time for passengers awaiting the reports, CSMIA said, adding it was the first Indian airport to launch a unique molecular testing technique. Currently, the airport hosts three facilities at Terminal 2. It has established over 30 counters of testing facilities at the terminal for international and domestic passengers, including those equipped with molecular testing facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-airport-cuts-rt-pcr-test-rate-by-30-to-rs-600-969650.html
