03-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||All eyes on Mallikarjun Khuba in Basavakalyan||All eyes are on former MLA and BJP leader Mallikarjun Khuba who contested as an independent candidate for the bypoll to Basavakalyan assembly seat as Saturday (April 3) is the last day to withdraw the nomination paper.  Raising the banner of revolt against the party for not considering him to field for the bypoll, he has filed his nomination paper as a rebel candidate.  Khuba, a lingayat, didn't relent despite the efforts made by the senior BJP leaders of the state to pacify him.  The BJP has fielded Kalaburagi-based Sharanu Salagar, also a lingayat. Local BJP leaders miffed at the party for not considering one of the 18 ticket aspirants for the by-election and many of them have not been seen with Sharanu during the poll campaign so for. The BJP is dependent on Lingayat and Maratha community votes to win the polls. If Khuba fails to withdraw the nomination paper today, it seems to be a multi-pronged battle in the Basavakalyan segment.  Former MLA MG Muley who is also in the fray as NCP is giving sleepless nights to BJP leaders who eyed Maratha community votes by setting up Maratha Development Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/all-eyes-on-mallikarjun-khuba-in-basavakalyan-969775.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two hostels on MU campus declared containment zones||Two hostels in Mangalore University campus at Mangalagangothri were declared as containment zones after 12 Covid-19 positive cases were reported there on Friday. Positive cases were reported from the girls' and boys' hostel. “The health officials have visited the university campus and have sought details of students staying in these hostels where positive cases have been reported,” said District Nodal Officer Dr Ashok. “Though several positive cases were reported in the university campus for the past few days, these cases were sporadic and not from a single block. The authorities decided to declare the hostels as containment zones as 12 cases were reported. We have asked authorities not to allow students to move outside,” he said. The health department has planned to collect swabs of all students on campus on Saturday. All primary contacts of the positive cases in the campus will undergo RT-PCR tests, Ashok said. 105 fresh cases The Covid-19 graph continued to move northwards in Dakshina Kannada district which registered 105 fresh cases on Friday. The total number of cases has increased to 35,832. As many as 65 patients, who had recovered, were discharged on Friday. The total number of discharges in the district has risen to 34,486. The district has 604 active cases with patients undergoing treatment in hospitals and home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-hostels-on-mu-campus-declared-containment-zones-969817.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 92.27 lakh seized at Mangaluru Airport||The Officers of Mangalore Air customs seized 1.993-kg gold worth Rs 92,27,590 from a passenger, arrived at Mangalore International Airport on Saturday. A team of officials intercepted a passenger Mohammed Ashif, 28, from Ullal on his arrival on an Air India flight from Dubai. He tried to smuggle gold by concealing in a specially designed inner garment, jeans trouser and knee pads. Further investigation is in progress. The operation was led by Deputy Commissioner Avinash Kiran Rongali. It may be recalled that the officials had seized gold worth Rs 18.75 lakh at the airport on March 29, gold worth 39.48 lakh on March 27 and 1.23 kg gold worth Rs 57.14 lakh on March 26 at the airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-9227-lakh-seized-at-mangaluru-airport-969820.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Srirangapatna: 12 more Morarji school students test positive for Covid-19||Another 12 students of Morarji Desai Residential School in Srirangapatna town, have tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. On Friday, 11 students of the same school had tested positive for Covid.   With the fresh cases, a total of 23 students of the school are infected with the virus. A total of 162 students are studying in the school, functioning on the premises of Taluk Agricultural Produce Co-operative Marketing Society (TAPCMS). Tahsildar M V Roopa, Block Education Officer (BEO) M R Anantraju and Health department officials visited the school. The Tahsildar said, “All remaining students of the school are stable and need not  worry. The health condition of the students will be monitored regularly.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/srirangapatna-12-more-morarji-school-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-969979.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||82 engineers appointed as Police Sub-Inspectors in Mysuru||Out of 199 probationary police sub-inspectors (PSIs) 82 are engineering graduates and five are MBA graduates. The officers participated in passing out parade after completing training from Karnataka Police Academy (KPA) here, on Saturday. K R Chintan bagged ‘All Round Best Probationer Cup’, CM trophy and Rs 3,000 cash prize and C Umadevi emerged as the best woman probationer and bagged Home Minister cup along with Rs 3,000 cash prize. Director General of Police, Training, Padam Kumar Garg, in his address, called the new officers to adopt goodness and to be loyal to their duty. The police officers must maintain calmness and should not be annoyed. An officer said that the police should be sensitive towards the people to understand their plaints and also suggested them to respond to common people hardship. KPA Director Vipul Kumar and Deputy Director Suman Pennekar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/82-engineers-appointed-as-police-sub-inspectors-in-mysuru-969982.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police revise traffic regulation guidelines in Mysuru||City Police Commissioner Chandragupta has issued a set of ‘Reformed Traffic Regulation Guidelines’ in Mysuru, with effect from April 1, in the wake of the recent public debate, on the police action against traffic violations. The guidelines would be beneficial not only for Mysureans, but also for tourists visiting the city. It has to be noted that tourists used to complain of ‘Police harassment’, under the guise of verification of documents. Those in the tourism and hospitality sector used to complain that the ‘Police harassment’ on tourists was the highest for any tourist destination, discouraging repeat visitors. The recent debate followed the mob violence after a mishap, in which a motorcycle rider died, as he allegedly took a ‘U’ to avoid intercepting police personnel near Hinkal junction of the Ring Road, on March 22. Mysuru City Police, later arrested 12 persons, in connection with the violence, in which three police personnel, including an assistant sub-inspector, were injured, while a Police Garuda vehicle was damaged. The police claimed that there was no relationship between the police inspection and the mishap. But, MLC A H Vishwanath criticised the police and a protest was lead by corporator K V Sridhar. “The provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act of 1988; Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act of 2019; and also notifications of the state government and the Police department are meant for the safety of road users. They should not be used for revenue generation. Penalising should only act as a deterrent against further violations,” said G Goverdhan, a retired government official. As per the ‘Reformed Traffic Regulation Guidelines’, 10 Voluntary Verification Centres have been set up at 10 junctions, under the jurisdiction of five traffic police stations — Atal Bihari Vajpayee Circle and Belavadi Junction (VV Puram station); Srirampura Junction, Ramaswamy Circle, Dr A P J Abdul Kalam Circle and Vivekananda Circle (KR Station); Devegowda Circle and S Linganna Circle (Siddhartha Nagar station); Chamaraja Wadiyar Circle (Devaraja station); and Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Circle (NR station). These centres will be open for a month, up to April 30. Road users can approach them and check for any pending cases against them and pay the applicable fine. It has to be recalled that, recently, the Commissioner, Chandragupta, had said that there are 36 lakh pending cases of traffic violation in Mysuru city. No vehicle will be intercepted only for verifying documents. But, for visible violations, like using mobile while riding or driving a vehicle, not wearing seat belt, drunken driving, transportation of passengers in goods vehicle, triple riding, signal jump, driving by minors, violation of one-way traffic, shrill horns, over-speeding and rash driving, vehicle will be intercepted and penalised. The guidelines stresses on transparency, while enforcing law. The verification team will not surprise road users, by appearing all of a sudden. The police personnel will not block the path of a moving vehicle, by pushing a barricade. The police personnel will not wield the cane at riders or drivers, will not snatch the keys of the vehicle. The police personnel will neither raise their voice nor use abusive language against vehicle users. They will not enter into an argument with road users. If the offenders behave in an unruly manner, his or her name and the number of the vehicle will be taken and a case will be filed for legal action. N C Dinesh, a marketing executive, said, "Penalising against violations is good. Penalising rash-driving is also welcome. All road users should follow the rules. But, penalising against over-speed is a bit odd on Indian roads. A road user can experience smooth-riding only on small stretches of a few roads." "Only in India, roads are both designed and also maintained badly, to discourage its use. Roads are meant for speedy transportation. But, our rules contradict the purpose. Our people are brave hearts, to use these roads, despite all odds. Will the police penalise the officials responsible for bad roads and unscientific speed-breakers that cause mishaps, injuries and deaths?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-revise-traffic-regulation-guidelines-in-mysuru-969984.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||15 lakh cloth bags to be distributed: Mysuru DC||In order to make the district plastic free, the district administration and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is enforcing strict enforcement of plastic ban from April 5. To sensitise the people in this regard, the officials will distribute 15 lakh cloth bags to 7 lakh houses in the district.   In a press conference, here, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, "The enforcement of plastic ban will be in place from April 5. The Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, is in place in order to reduce plastic. But, it was not implemented effectively. Thus, plastic menace still exists." Rampant use of plastic is affecting the environment. For effective implementation and to encourage the people to shun plastics, it is decided to give two cloth bags to each house, across the district. A total of 14,69,810 cloth bags will be distributed among 7,34,905 households. Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation will supply eco-friendly bags, the DC said. MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag said, "As per the Solid Waste Management Rules, there is a provision to impose fine against the violators. We can impose fine. But, the fine amount is very less. We are planning to revise the fine amount to check on the use of banned plastic. The MCC officials conduct raids regularly against bulk sellers. From now onwards, individuals and retailers will also be under scanner." "There are 2.09 lakh families and 10,500 houses in slum like areas in the city. Five and ten kg bags will be given to all houses to induce behavioural change among residents. Corporators, zonal commissioners, political leaders, volunteers and non-government organisations will be roped in for the purpose," the commissioner said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/15-lakh-cloth-bags-to-be-distributed-mysuru-dc-969985.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Photography, safari fee hiked in Bandipur reserve||The Forest department has hiked entry, safari and camera fee at Bandipur Tiger Reserve with effect from April 1. The entry fee has been increased to Rs 300 per person. A safari in the departmental vehicle costs Rs 300 while and safari in the department jeep or vehicle is Rs 3,500 per vehicle for Indians, Rs 5,000 for foreigners. The nine-seater vehicle costs Rs 5,000 and Rs 7,000 for Indians and foreigners respectively. The use of a zoom lens with range of 70 mm to 200 mm costs Rs 150 per trip and the lens above 200 mm costs Rs 750 per trip.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/photography-safari-fee-hiked-in-bandipur-reserve-969996.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Eshwarappa wrote to Governor in hope of becoming CM: Congress||KPCC Spokesperson K B Prasanna Kumar alleged that Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa submitted a formal complaint with Governor Vajubhai Vala against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to become chief minister, at least for short period. Speaking to media persons here on Friday, he said Eshwarappa was aware that he would not get the party ticket for 2023 Assembly polls. So, he did it to fulfill his desire of becoming chief minister. He demanded that either the chief minister resign from his post or Eshwarappa be sacked from the cabinet. Recalling the past, he said that the BJP had delayed issuing a ticket to Eshwarappa from Shivamogga Urban assembly constituency in 2018. Congress and JD(S) had announced their candidates, but BJP had not done it. Then, Eshwarpapa had alleged that Yediyurappa was responsible for it. So, there is discontent between them even now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/eshwarappa-wrote-to-governor-in-hope-of-becoming-cm-congress-969726.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM Yediyurappa should dismiss Eshwarappa, says D K Shivakumar||A senior minister in the Cabinet of CM B S Yediyurappa has written a letter to the Governor on the lapses in the administration of the government. If Yediyurappa feels that there were no lapses in his administration and continue as CM, then he should dismiss Minister K S Eshwarappa by evening, said KPCC President D K Shivakumar. He was speaking to a section of media persons at Mangalore International Airport before leaving for a campaign in Kerala. “Senior minister of the cabinet has stated that he has no confidence in the Chief Minister and has written a letter to the Governor, who is the Constitutional head. The administrative mechanism has collapsed completely in the state. Officials are unable to discharge their duties effectively and are frequently transferred,” he said. “In my political career, I have not seen any minister questioning the administration of the Chief Minister and complaining to the Governor. K S Eshwrappa has exposed lapses in the government. If the CM feels that he has been giving clean administration, then he should either dismiss Eshwarappa or Eshwarappa should tender resignation," said Shivakumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-yediyurappa-should-dismiss-eshwarappa-says-d-k-shivakumar-969801.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||After the assembly elections, Nadda to address Karnataka issue: Amit Shah||After Karnataka Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa's letter to Governor against Chief Minister  B S Yediyurappa brought rift within Cabinet to fore, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the BJP National President J P Nadda will look into the issue after the end of five Assembly elections.. "After five states election, the party president will look into what happened in Karnataka," Amit Shah told a private news channel during the election campaign in West Bengal. The party already pulled up Eshwarappa for writing a letter to the Governor instead of speaking to Chief Minister personally. BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh (in-charge Karnataka ), who will visit the state on his three-days tour from April 8, is likely to discuss with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Eshwarappa the differences between them, sources said. Though Singh's tour will be mainly to campaign for the by-polls, he will also address the issue to put an end to the letter controversy, sources said. Eshwarappa letter has brought focus on the brewing resentment against the CM in the cabinet and the growing discord against his style of functioning by a section of ministers. The BJP top brass worried that the letter controversy might damage the party candidates' prospects in the by-polls. Eshwarappa on Wednesday shot off a letter to Governor Vajubhai Vala and BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, in which the he accused Yediyurappa of direct interference in his ministry in violation of the Karnataka (Transaction of Business) Rules on division of power in the cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/after-the-assembly-elections-nadda-to-address-karnataka-issue-amit-shah-969890.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Won't yield to demand for resignation, portfolio change, says KS Eshwarappa||Karnataka Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, who submitted a formal complaint to Governor Vajubhai Vala accusing Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa of interfering in the affairs of his department, said that he would not budge over signature campaign against him in the party.  Speaking to mediapersons here on Saturday, he said that he would not yield to anything including demand for resignation or change in portfolio. The issue had been discussed and he has made his stand clear to the party high command. "The Central leadership has promised to resolve the issue. Henceforth, nobody from the BJP would make a statement on it in public. It is a closed chapter now," he added.   He said that the Opposition parties had no weapon to face the BJP with and hence, were using the issue for political gains. "We have minor administrative differences with each other," the minister said. He also made it clear that it would not have any adverse impact on assembly and Lok Sabha bye-elections. Referring to Congress Legislative Party leader Siddaramaiah's demand for resignation of the chief minister, he said that the Congress leader is dreaming of becoming the chief minister again and B S Yediyurappa would not step down from the top post. On MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal's open attack on the chief minister, he said that Yatnal was an ardent follower of Hindutva. "I don't know why he is speaking against the chief minister in public. I have told him not to repeat it. The central leadership will take a call on him," Eshwarappa said/||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/wont-yield-to-demand-for-resignation-portfolio-change-says-ks-eshwarappa-969918.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Nalin Kumar Kateel hits out at Kharge's 'poisonous' jibe||Hitting back at Opposition Leader in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge for his BJP and RSS poisonous ideology jibe, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Saturday said that Kharge himself had become 'poisonous' and that people of Kalaburagi defeated him after realising his true face. Speaking to reporters here, Kateel said, "Kharge needs some self-introspection. ...should know why people defeated in the 2019 Lok Sabha  election?"  On Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa's complaint to the Governor and MLA Basanagouda Yatnal's continued tirade against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, he admitted that there are differences of opinion in the party but there is no discontentment. The BJP, unlike Congress, has a system to sort out differences within the party, he added. The issues between Eshwarappa and Yediyurappa will be sorted out in two days and that it will have no bearing on the bypolls, Kateel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/nalin-kumar-kateel-hits-out-at-kharges-poisonous-jibe-969997.html
03-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar vs Ramesh Jarkiholi: A feud to remember||Political feuds are not uncommon, but the bad blood between Ramesh Jarkiholi of the BJP and the Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar has turned into one of the most distasteful personal rivalries in Karnataka.  A glimpse of the ill will came out recently when Ramesh, on live television, repeatedly used an expletive against Shivakumar. Ramesh has levelled direct allegations against the Congress president as having engineered the sex scandal that forced him to resign from Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet.   Both Ramesh and Shivakumar are career politicians. In fact, Ramesh was with the Congress for a long time before he jumped ship to the BJP in 2019. But, how did their relationship turn sour?  The first generation political families of Ramesh and Shivakumar hail from two different corners of the state: The Jarkiholi family is headquartered in Belagavi whereas Shivakumar has built his empire in Ramanagara and Bengaluru Rural districts. Members of both families are representatives in various elected bodies. Both are known to be ruthless, no-holds-barred politicians.  Apparently, Ramesh and Shivakumar had a bitter fallout over one particular relationship, followed by an innocuous Belagavi Primary Land Development Bank election in September 2018.  In this election, Congress MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar, backed by Shivakumar, succeeded in securing the victory of her supporters against those backed by the Jarkiholi brothers. This snowballed into a crisis and the Jarkiholi family - Ramesh, in particular - was in no mood to entertain Shivakumar’s alleged interference in Belagavi politics. Hebbalkar was earlier a close associate of Ramesh.  “It became a prestige issue for the Jarkiholis,” Belagavi-based political commentator Ashok Chandargi recalls.  According to Chandargi, Ramesh had vowed to avenge the slight caused by Shivakumar’s alleged interference in Belagavi politics.  In December 2018, Ramesh was dropped from the H D Kumaraswamy Cabinet. Ramesh, then, would go on to lead a rebellion against the Congress-JD(S) coalition.   What happened next was nothing short of a drama. With Shivakumar expected to helm the state Congress, Ramesh played a key role in bringing down the Kumaraswamy-led Congress-JD(S) coalition. The BJP came to power and Ramesh, now with the saffron party, demanded the Water Resources portfolio that his bete noire Shivakumar held.  “Not only did Ramesh demanded Shivakumar’s portfolio, he wanted the same office in Vidhana Soudha as that of his predecessor. Ramesh was out to prove a point, which he managed in the end,” Chandargi says.  Until that local Belagavi election, Ramesh and Shivakumar had good ties, according to one Congress leader. Ramesh’s brother Satish Jarkiholi, however, is identified as a loyalist of Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah, who is seen as having his own feud with Shivakumar.  “Their strife was a cause of concern for the Congress, and ultimately hurt the coalition government,” a Congress leader says.  Dwindling prospects? Sources claim that it was Ramesh’s spiraling ambition that allowed the sex scandal. “It is not rocket science that the controversy could have been avoided if the right people took the right decisions before the video leaked to the media,” one person aware of the developments says.  Ramesh had burnt his bridges with both the JD(S) and Congress as he was accused of cheating the coalition. The BJP government must have had an inkling on the possible leak, but it appears to have done little to stop it, sources say.  “There were strong rumours of Ramesh cosying up with the BJP camp that was opposed to Yediyurappa amid speculation of attempts to unseat the CM,” a source said, adding that this was the reason the ‘scandal’ was allowed to happen, forcing Ramesh to pay a heavy price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-vs-ramesh-jarkiholi-a-feud-to-remember-970004.html
03-04-2021||National||CBSE not to reduce syllabus for students of classes 9-12 for academic year 2021-22||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has decided not to reduce the syllabus for the students of classes 9 to 12 for the academic year 2021-22, according to the new curriculum. The CBSE had last year rationalised the syllabus by up to 30 per cent for classes 9 to 12 for the academic year 2020-21 to reduce the course load of students amid the Covid-19 crisis. The students who studied the reduced syllabus will appear in exams in May-June. According to the new syllabus released by the CBSE, the chapters and topics that were slashed in the last academic year have been restored in the official curriculum for the upcoming academic session, 2021-22. "The board already announced last year that the rationalisation exercise was a one-time initiative as teaching and learning through online mediums or alternative methods was fairly new then," a CBSE official said. Schools across the country were closed in March last year, ahead of a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The teaching and learning activities majorly moved online during the lockdown. While a few states allowed a partial reopening of the schools in October, several states are again resorting to online classes in the new academic session amid a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. In its syllabus-rationalisation exercise, the board had dropped the chapters on democracy and diversity, demonetisation, nationalism, secularism, India's relations with its neighbours and growth of local governments in the country, among others. The choice of the chapters dropped from the syllabus drew a backlash from opposition political parties and a section of academicians, who claimed that the move was "ideologically driven", while several school principals welcomed it as a relief to students. Last year, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had also announced a reduction of up to 25 per cent in the syllabus for the classes 10 and 12 board exams in 2021, taking into account the learning disruption due to the closure of schools during the lockdown. The CICSE is yet to announce its syllabus for the new academic session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-not-to-reduce-syllabus-for-students-of-classes-9-12-for-academic-year-2021-22-969733.html
03-04-2021||National||Pakistan never shied away from 'meaningful' talks with India: Foreign Office spokesman Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri||Pakistan said on Friday that it never shied away from "meaningful" talks with India but normalisation of ties was linked with India revisiting its 2019 decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Foreign Office spokesman Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri was asked about the Cabinet's decision to not allow import of cotton and sugar after it was approved by a high-level body. He said “the Federal Cabinet deferred the Economic Coordination Committee’s (ECC) decision to import sugar, cotton and cotton yarn from India” because “normalisation" of relations with India would not be possible without India revisiting its decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday rejected the proposal of the high-powered committee to import cotton from India, with Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi asserting that there can be no normalisation of ties until New Delhi reverses its decision in 2019 to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan's U-turn on Thursday came a day after ECC, under newly-appointed Finance Minister Hammad Azhar, recommended importing cotton and sugar from India, lifting a nearly two-year long ban on its import from the neighbouring country amidst tensions over the Kashmir issue. India has said that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility. India has also told Pakistan that “talks and terror” cannot go together and has asked Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India. The Foreign Office spokesman said there is no change in Pakistan’s "principled position" on the Jammu and Kashmir issue, however, Islamabad was not against "meaningful" talks to resolve the outstanding issues. “Pakistan has never shied away from talks and has always underscored the need for a ‘meaningful dialogue’ and peaceful resolution of all outstanding issues with India, including the core issue of Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. “Our desire for regional peace has been clearly spelled out by Prime Minister Imran Khan on a number of occasions stating that, ‘If India takes one step towards peace, Pakistan will take two’,” he said. He said the recent statements by Pakistani leadership showed Pakistan’s desire for peace and security in the region but the onus is on India to create a conducive environment for a meaningful and result-oriented dialogue. Ties between India and Pakistan nose-dived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in Pakistan. Subsequent attacks, including one on an Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship. The ties strained further after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in 2019 in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed. India's move to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad. Pakistan also snapped all air and land links with India and suspended trade and railway services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-never-shied-away-from-meaningful-talks-with-india-foreign-office-spokesman-zahid-hafeez-chaudhri-969739.html
03-04-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Decoding the SC ruling on permanent commission for women in army||The Supreme Court has described as "systemic discrimination" the evaluation criteria set by the Indian Army for granting permanent commission to women officers. The judgement, delivered on March 25, 2021, is the most important milestone in women's fight for a level-playing field in army jobs. Here's what you need to know: What does permanent commission mean? The army has two types of career options for officers: short service commission (SSC) and permanent commission. The short service commission is for five, 10 and 14 years while permanent commission allows officers to serve until they retire. In 2003, some women officers filed a writ petition in the Delhi High Court seeking a level-playing field in army recruitment. The court delivered its judgement on March 12, 2010, ruling in women's favour.  What happened then? The Defence Ministry went in for appeal in the Supreme Court. While the top court didn't stay the Delhi High Court order, the ministry kept the matter pending for another nine years. It was only on February 25, 2019, that the ministry allowed permanent commission to women officers in eight wings — Signals, Army Aviation, Army Air Defence, Electronics, Army Service Corps, Mechanical Engineering, Army Ordnance Corps and Intelligence — apart from two existing wings Judge Advocate General and Army Education Corps. A year later, on February 17, 2020, the top court directed giving permanent commission to women officers, rejecting the government's stand on their physiological limitations. But why did the matter reach the Supreme Court again? General instructions issued by the army on August 1, 2020, stipulated that a special selection board would be held for screening women officers applying for permanent commission "on the same terms and criteria as their male counterparts". This meant that out of 615 eligible women officers, only 277 were found fit on merit and medical criteria, and received permanent commission. Forty-two were found to be of temporary low medical category and 35 were rejected for not meeting the medical criteria. Women officers appealed to the Supreme Court. What has the Supreme Court declared now? The court held as "arbitrary and irrational" the benchmarking of women SSC officers with the officers lowest in merit in the corresponding male batch. The court ruled that all women officers who met the cut-off grade of 60% in the selection board held in September 2020 shall be entitled to permanent commission. While the medical criteria for women officers are not arbitrary per se, these must be modulated to account for the advancement of age. A reduction of medical fitness below the present norm as a consequence of age or the tribulations of service is not a necessary detriment to the army when similarly aged male officers with permanent commission (invariably granted in the fifth or tenth year of service) no longer have to meet these rigorous medical standards for continuing in service, the court ruled. So what's next? All serving female officers can now apply for permanent commission after serving in the army for the same number of years as male officers. Women officers who don’t want to be considered, or do not get permanent commission, can continue in service until their term ends, or until they reach the age of pensionable retirement. They would be entitled to all consequential benefits, including the grant of time-scale promotions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-decoding-the-sc-ruling-on-permanent-commission-for-women-in-army-969768.html
03-04-2021||National||In highest spike of 2021, India records 89,129 Covid-19 cases, 714 deaths||India on Saturday recorded 89,129 new Covid-19 cases in a day, the highest daily rise in around six-and-half-months, taking the nationwide tally of infections to over 1.23 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The death toll increased to 1,64,110 with 714 more fatalities in a day, also the highest since October 21. The jump in cases reported on Saturday was the highest since September 20 last year when 92,605 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. Corresponding to the rapid surge in cases, the number of active cases too have registered a steady increase for the 24th day in a row with the tally reaching 6,58,909, which is 5.32 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 93.36 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was the lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and comprised 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,15,69,241, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.32 per cent, the health ministry data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20. The one-crore mark was breached on December 19 last year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 24,69,59,192 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to April 2 with 10,46,605 of them being tested on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-highest-spike-of-2021-india-records-89129-covid-19-cases-714-deaths-969770.html
03-04-2021||National||No trade with India under current circumstances, says Pakistan PM Imran Khan||Prime Minister Imran Khan decided that Pakistan cannot go ahead with any trade with India under the current circumstances after holding consultations with key members of his Cabinet on importing cotton and sugar from the neighbouring country, a media report said on Saturday. The prime minister after consultations on Friday instructed the Ministry of Commerce and his economic team to immediately take steps to facilitate the relevant sectors, value added, apparel and sugar, by finding alternative cheap sources of import of the needed commodities, the Dawn newspaper quoted sources as saying. Various proposals have been presented to the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) which considers these suggestions from an economic and commercial point of view. After consideration by the ECC, its decisions are presented to the Cabinet for ratification and final approval, the report said. In the present case, a proposal was presented to the ECC to allow the import of cotton, cotton yarn and sugar from India keeping in view domestic requirements, it said. With regards to the ECC decision to allow import of sugar, cotton and cotton yarn from India, Khan held consultations with key members of his Cabinet on Friday and decided that Pakistan could not go ahead with any trade with India under the current circumstances, it said. The ECC had decided on commercial grounds to recommend these imports for the Cabinet’s consideration. While the decision was not on the formal agenda of the Cabinet meeting, the issue was brought up by Cabinet members and the prime minister instructed that the ECC's decision be deferred and immediately reviewed, the report said. The Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Khan on Thursday rejected the proposal of the high-powered committee to import cotton from India, with Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi asserting that there can be no normalisation of ties until New Delhi reverses its decision in 2019 to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan's U-turn on Thursday came a day after the ECC, under newly-appointed Finance Minister Hammad Azhar, recommended importing cotton and sugar from India, lifting a nearly two-year-long ban on its import from the neighbouring country amidst tensions over the Kashmir issue. India has said that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility, and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility. India has also told Pakistan that “talks and terror” cannot go together and has asked Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India. The ECC's decision had raised hopes of a partial revival of Pakistan-India bilateral trade relations, which were suspended after the August 5, 2019 decision of New Delhi to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. In May 2020, Pakistan lifted the ban on the import of medicines and raw material of essential drugs from India amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. India's move to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties and expelled the Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad. Pakistan also snapped all air and land links with India and suspended trade and railway services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-trade-with-india-under-current-circumstances-says-pakistan-pm-imran-khan-969802.html
03-04-2021||National||Days after testing Covid-19 positive, Farooq Abdullah hospitalised||Four days after testing positive for Covid-19, regional National Conference president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq Abdullah was hospitalised on Saturday. “Based on the advice of doctors to enable them to better monitor my father, he has been admitted to hospital in Srinagar,” his son Omar Abdullah tweeted. “Our family remains grateful to everyone for their messages of support & their prayers,” he added. Octogenarian Abdullah, who represents Srinagar Parliamentary seat in the Lok Sabha, tested positive on March 30 a month after receiving the first Covid-19 vaccine. Abdullah underwent a kidney transplant in 2014 when his wife Molly donated her kidney.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/days-after-testing-covid-19-positive-farooq-abdullah-hospitalised-969814.html
03-04-2021||National||Nandita Das receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Actor-director Nandita Das on Saturday received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine. The 51-year-old actor shared the news on Instagram, alongside a photo of hers. In the photo, the actor is flashing a thumbs-up sign while she getting the vaccine jab from a nurse at a centre. Das, who won accolades for her many performances in films like Fire, Earth, Bawandar, Kamli and Before The Rains, urged people to get vaccinated.  "Got my first shot. Do get yours. Benefits outweigh any apprehensions," she wrote.  Das joins the list of Indian celebrities who have been vaccinated including Amitabh Bachchan, Rohit Shetty, Salman Khan, Sanjay Dutt, Sharmila Tagore, Dharmendra, Hema Malini, Mohanlal, Jeetendra, Kamal Haasan, Nagarjuna, Neena Gupta, Rakesh Roshan and Johnny Lever.  Last week, the government had announced that from April 1, all people above 45 years of age would be eligible to get Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nandita-das-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-969816.html
03-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccines causing deaths? Experts say 'insufficient evidence': Report||With the inoculation process being successfully held in the country, there have also been reports of people dying a few days after taking the Covid-19 shot. “Three of the eight casualty assessed cases have been found to have a consistent causal association to vaccination, four cases have been found to have an inconsistent causal association to vaccination (coincidental) and one case was found unclassifiable. None have been found to be due to the Covid-19 vaccine,” said experts in the report. The country has administered a total of 7,06,18,026 vaccine doses till Friday, the Health Ministry said, adding that the number included 6,13,56,345 people who received its first dose. Out of more than 7 crore doses administered to date, ‘adverse event following immunisation’ (AEFI) has been reported in 0.028 per cent of cases or 19,250 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccines-causing-deaths-experts-say-insufficient-evidence-report-969823.html
03-04-2021||National||Part of St Stephen's College campus out of bounds after 13 students, 2 staffers test Covid positive||The St Stephen's College campus' "inner perimeter" has been rendered out of bounds after 13 resident students and two staffers tested Covid-19 positive, according to a notice issued by the institute's principal. The notice, issued on Friday, said that necessary and stringent measures have been put in place by the dean's office to ensure isolation and social distancing for "all residents". The dean of residence-cum-college chaplain and mass steward (security officer), both of whom have tested positive for the coronavirus, had taken a group of students, including hostellers, of the Delhi college for an educational trip to Dalhousie in Himachal Pradesh in the last week of March. "The inner perimeter of the college is out of bounds for all, unless specific clearance is given by the principal on a case by case basis. The outer perimeter of the college may be accessed by those with relevant and regular work after the due process at the security counter," the notice read. "Faculty who are scheduled to come to college may defer their coming till a notification informs them of an improvement in the condition," it read. On Friday, St Stephen's College governing body member Nandita Narain wrote to the college's principal, John Varghese, asking several questions related to the reports of students testing Covid-19 positive and the Dalhousie trip. In the letter, Narain also asked whether the college administration took permission from the University of Delhi and the state government for the trip or opening hostels and allowing "over 200" students to return in the last few months. "Why was this trip organised by the college officials in the times of Covid pandemic? Was the trip authorised by the principal? Was the consent of the parents of the students taken for going on this trip? Were the permission of the University of Delhi and the state government has taken for organising such a trip in pandemic times?" the governing body member asked. In his reply, Varghese, besides confirming the positive test reports of the students and the staff members, said the trip in question was authorised by him and that the consent of students' parents was also taken for the same. "As for the other questions, I shall answer them when I have a little more time to spare. You will agree that handling the situation is the priority now. Please be informed that the Dean's Office is aware of the situation and necessary steps have already been taken in consultation with medical and civic authorities," he wrote to Narain. The national capital has been seeing a surge in cases. Delhi recorded 3,594 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the highest daily count this year while 14 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the toll to 11,050, according to the health department. The positivity rate also mounted to 4.11 per cent from 3.57 per cent a day before, amid a massive surge in cases in the span of the last few weeks. In Himachal Pradesh, the cumulative cases stand at 60,026 and active cases at 3,338, while the death toll is 1,056, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/part-of-st-stephens-college-campus-out-of-bounds-after-13-students-2-staffers-test-covid-positive-969827.html
03-04-2021||National||Cricketer Axar Patel tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi Capitals' and India all-rounder Axar Patel has tested positive for Covid-19 and kept in isolation, the IPL franchise said on Saturday. Patel is the second IPL player to have returned a positive report after Nitish Rana. The left-handed Kolkata Knight Riders batsman had initially tested positive for Covid-19 but later returned a negative report. "Delhi Capitals all-rounder Axar Patel has tested positive for Covid-19. He had checked into the team hotel in Mumbai on March 28, 2021, with a negative report. His report from the second Covid test, came positive," the franchise said in a statement. "He is currently in isolation at a designated medical care facility. The Delhi Capitals medical team is in constant touch with Axar and ensuring his safety and well-being. We wish him a speedy recovery." Axar recently got 27 wickets in three Tests in his debut series against England. Meanwhile, a positive case has also emerged from Chennai Super Kings' media content team. The member isn't a part of the bio-bubble. The team's training schedule remains unaffected. PTI KHS AT AT||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cricketer-axar-patel-tests-positive-for-covid-19-969831.html
03-04-2021||National||Indian soldier eyes Guinness record, begins 4,300-km run to be completed within 50 days||Soldier Naik Velu P is all set to make his 30th birthday memorable as he left for a mission to enter the Guinness Book of World Records by running from Kashmir to Kanyakumari under 50 days. Last year in June, Naik Velu became the first Indian ultra-runner to complete 1,600 km in just 17 days, a feat which is in the process of being entered as an Asian record. "Naik Velu, serving as a nursing assistant in the 60 Para Field Hospital, is an ultra marathoner who is attempting a Guinness World Record by running from Kashmir to Kanyakumari covering a distance of about 4,300 km under 50 days," Udhampur-based Army Public Relations Officer (PRO) Lieutenant Colonel Abhinav Navneet said. To start this epic feat, he said Naik Velu, who is celebrating his 30th birthday on April 21, was flagged off from 92 Base Hospital in Srinagar on Friday with a heartwarming gathering of enthusiasts who accompanied him in his solo run for the initial five kilometres carrying the national flag and boosting his morale. "To cover this mammoth distance from Kashmir to Kanyakumari in 50 days, Velu would be running 70-100 km per day, crossing major towns, cities and states," Lt Col Navneet said. The PRO said Velu has already won many ultra-marathons, Tuffman runs and stadium runs across India. After covering 200 km from his starting point, Naik left Udhampur headquarters at 7 am on Saturday and was given a grand welcome by Brigadier K J Singh, Commandant and all ranks at 166 Military Hospital, Jammu later in the afternoon. “He is travelling with a message of 'Clean India- Green India' and also as an inspiration to the youth to be a strong contributor in 'Fit India' mission,” PRO Defence (Jammu) Lt Col Devender Anand said. Later, he was flagged off by Brigadier Singh for his journey to Samba district and further onwards. Born on April 21, 1991 in Krishnagiri (Tamil Nadu), he had earlier represented his state in athletics at the age of 13 and later joined the Army in December 2011. His first achievement in the Army was a gold medal in cross-country 12.5 km run in 2012. He subsequently shifted his interest to ultra-marathons and brought many laurels to the Army by making many such records. He represents the Indian team of Athletics Federation of India since 2016 and would be representing India in September for stadium run at the World Championship in Romania, for which he had won a trial run of 24-hour stadium running held in Bengaluru, Lt Col Navneet said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-soldier-eyes-guinness-record-begins-4300-km-run-to-be-completed-within-50-days-969836.html
03-04-2021||National||8 states witness steep rise in Covid-19 cases, account for 81.42% of single-day infections||Eight states, including Maharashtra and Karnataka, have witnessed a sharp rise in new Covid-19 cases, accounting for 81.42% of the total infections reported on Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said. Besides Maharashtra and Karnataka, the other states which reported high number of cases were Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. The country witnessed 89,129 new cases in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 47,913 followed by Karnataka with 4,991 and Chhattisgarh 4,174 new cases. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 47,913, followed by 4,991 in Karnataka and 4,174 in Chhattisgarh. According to the statistics, Maharashtra has shown a nine-fold jump, the maximum increase in the number of active cases in the last two months. In percentage terms, Punjab has reported the maximum increase in active cases. The total active case load has now touched 6,58,909. The Ministry data showed ten districts -- Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Thane, Nashik, Bengaluru Urban, Aurangabad, Delhi, Ahmednagar and Nanded -- had half of the total active cases of the country. On Friday, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired a high-level review meeting m with chief secretaries, directors general of police and health secretaries of all states. The meeting focussed on 11 states and Union Territories that have been reporting a very high rise in daily cases and fatality because of Covid-19 in the last two weeks. An official statement said these states and UTs "of grave concern" were advised to take up immediate and effective measures to ensure containment of active cases and daily deaths through enhanced testing, strict containment, prompt contact tracing and enforcement of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, and adherence to the standard clinical management protocol shared earlier with all states and UTs. The cumulative recoveries stand at 1,15,69,241 with 44,202 recoveries being registered in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-states-witness-steep-rise-in-covid-19-cases-account-for-8142-of-single-day-infections-969837.html
03-04-2021||National||Senior CPI-M leader Shridhar Deshpande dies at 82||Senior Communist Party of India - Marxist (CPI-M) leader Shridhar Deshpande died of a brief illness in Maharashtra's Nashik city on Saturday, family sources said. Deshpande, 82, breathed his last at a private hospital and his last rites were performed in the afternoon hours, they said. He is survived by his wife, son, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren. Deshpande was the president of the district unit of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and worked as the CPI-M's city unit secretary. He led the struggle of depositors from banks and co- operative credit societies in the district. He also participated in farmers' and workers' movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-cpi-m-leader-shridhar-deshpande-dies-at-82-969840.html
03-04-2021||National||Delhi Deputy CM Sisodia gets Covid vaccine shot||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia took the coronavirus vaccine jab at the Maulana Azad Medical College here on Saturday and requested the Centre to start the inoculation of people under the age of 45 years. He also said mass vaccination is key to defeat Covid-19. "We aim to vaccinate all the citizens of Delhi by May 3-4, once the Delhi government receives a good number of Covid-19 vaccine doses from the central government," Sisodia said in a statement. "I request the Government of India to increase the supply of Covid-19 vaccines in Delhi and begin the vaccination drive for citizens below the age of 45, if we want to stop the spread of the virus," he added. The only way to fight and overcome the virus is by vaccinating people of all ages, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said. Sisodia, who along with his spouse received the first dose of Covaxin, thanked doctors and scientists in a tweet. "Got vaccinated with my family today @HospitalLok! Thankful to our brilliant scientists, medical teams & everyone who worked tirelessly for making vaccines for us. Centre Govt should provide vaccine for all without age restrictions. Let's fight #Covid together!" he said. Thankful to our brilliant scientists, medical teams & everyone who worked tirelessly for making vaccines for us. Presently, people aged 45 years and above are being administered the Covid-19 vaccines in the country. "The only way to swiftly break the chain of the Covid-19 virus is to vaccinate people of all ages. Mass vaccination, and not full-lockdown, is the way to defeat this deadly virus," Sisodia said. He also appealed to the Delhiites aged 45 years and above to get vaccinated, saying it is the only way to fight the virus. Last month, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took the jab, along with his parents, at the government-run LNJP hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-deputy-cm-sisodia-gets-covid-vaccine-shot-969841.html
03-04-2021||National||FICCI urges govt to ramp up Covid-19 testing, open vaccinations to 18-45 age group||Industry body FICCI has urged the government to ramp up Covid testing across the states and open up the vaccination for the age group 18-45 years, while assuring it of the complete support of the industry in fighting the pandemic. "We are currently testing about 11 lakh samples a day, while we had reached the level of testing 15 lakh samples a day in January. Further, there is capacity of performing much more tests with 2,440 labs in the country operational for Covid testing, including more than 1,200 from the private sector," FICCI President Uday Shankar said in a letter to the Union Health & Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan. The states may be advised to utilise the facilities in the private sector to the maximum to achieve the desired testing capacity, he added. Shankar also urged the government to open up vaccination for the age group of 18-45 years, as this age group has been acting as the superspreaders of infection in the country. "Given that there is no shortage of vaccines and there is a huge scope of augmenting inoculation capacity through greater involvement of private sector, we urge you to open up vaccination for this age group to help subside the spread of infection as well as severity of cases in the country," he added. Shankar also assured the government of complete support and cooperation of the industry in fighting this crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ficci-urges-govt-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-open-vaccinations-to-18-45-age-group-969845.html
03-04-2021||National||President Kovind's health improving: Rashtrapati Bhavan||President Ram Nath Kovind's health condition is improving and he has been shifted from ICU to a special room in AIIMS, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Saturday. "President Kovind was shifted from the ICU to a special room in the AIIMS today. His health has been improving continuously. Doctors are constantly monitoring his condition and have advised him to take rest," the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovinds-health-improving-rashtrapati-bhavan-969854.html
03-04-2021||National||As Covid cases surge in India, 77% of people more willing to take vaccine: Report||As India is inching towards a possible second wave of coronavirus, the percentage of Indians willing to take the vaccine has increased to 77 per cent from 38 per cent in three months, according to a new study. The country on Saturday recorded 89,129 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily rise in around six-and-half-months, taking the nationwide tally of infections to over 1.23 crore. The study showed a steep rise among the people to take the vaccine. According to their findings, it went up from 38 per cent to 77 per cent in 75 days post the vaccination drive began in the country. It also stated that around 52% of people who took the vaccine did not have any side effects. The decline in the hesitancy started after the cases began to rise in the country around mid-March. Now, only 23 per cent are hesitant to take the coronavirus vaccine. Side-effects of vaccine The survey studied 9,501 respondents who took the vaccine, among them 52 per cent of citizens said that they ‘had absolutely no side effects’ and most of the others had mild symptoms like fever, body ache, and soreness in the arm. Only 2 per cent of the lot said that they had side effects more severe than others. Covaxin of Covishield? Though Indians have not been given an option to choose a vaccine. The LocalCircles found out that most people preferred Covaxin over Covishield. Among the 8,432 responses, people’s preference for Bharath Biotech’s vaccine is slightly more with 33 per cent, while 22 per cent opted for Oxford University and AstraZeneca developed Covishield. Further, 37 per cent of people said that they didn’t have any preference and only 5 per cent said that they would wait for another vaccine to come. The low preference for Covishield could be due to restrictions by other countries on the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-cases-surge-in-india-77-of-people-more-willing-to-take-vaccine-report-969864.html
03-04-2021||National||ISRO espionage case: High-level probe panel submits report to SC on Nambi Narayanan's illegal arrest||Former Supreme Court judge, Justice D K Jain headed panel has submitted its report to the apex court on taking erring cops to task for causing "tremendous harassment" and "immeasurable anguish" to ISRO scientist Dr Nambi Narayanan in the 1994 espionage case. The top court had on September 14, 2018 appointed the three-member panel while directing the Kerala government to pay Rs 50 lakh compensation for compelling Narayanan to undergo "immense humiliation". The scientist was arrested when the Congress was heading the government in Kerala. The panel, after investigation, submitted its report in a sealed cover to the apex court recently. The CBI, in its probe, had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan's illegal arrest. The case also had its political fallout, with a section in the Congress targeting the then Chief Minister late K Karunakaran over the issue, that eventually led to his resignation. Over a period of almost two-and-a-half years, the panel headed by Justice Jain examined the circumstances leading to the arrest. The espionage case, which had hit the headlines in 1994, pertained to allegations of transfer of certain confidential documents on India's space programme to foreign countries by two scientists and four others, including two Maldivian women. The 79-year-old former scientist, who was given a clean chit by the CBI, maintained that the Kerala Police had "fabricated" the case and the technology he was accused to have stolen and sold in the 1994 case did not even exist at that time. Narayanan had approached the apex court against a Kerala High Court judgement that said "no action needed to be taken" against former DGP Siby Mathews, who was then heading the SIT probe team, two retired superintendents of police, K K Joshua and S Vijayan, and the then Deputy Director, Intelligence Bureau, R B Shreekumar, who were later held responsible by the CBI for the scientist's illegal arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-espionage-case-high-level-probe-panel-submits-report-to-sc-on-nambi-narayanans-illegal-arrest-969866.html
03-04-2021||National||ED attaches Rs 3-crore assets of TMC leaders, others in Saradha case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has attached assets worth Rs 3 crore of TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, its MP Satabdi Roy and Debjani Mukherjee in the Saradha chit fund money laundering case. It said a provisional order for attachment of the movable and immovable properties has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The central probe agency said in a statement that the assets belong to "Kunal Ghosh, ex-Rajya Sabha MP from Trinamool Congress (CEO of Media Group Saradha), Satabdi Roy, Lok Sabha MP from TMC (brand ambassador in Saradha), and Debjani Mukherjee who is director in Saradha Group of companies in Saradha chit fund case." Assets worth Rs 600 crore have been attached in this case till now. The ED is probing the money laundering aspect of the alleged ponzi scam since April, 2013. The Saradha group allegedly cheated thousands of depositors, promising abnormally high returns on investments in its illegal schemes. Ghosh, who is out on bail in the case, was suspended from the TMC in 2013 for alleged anti-party activities. He has been questioned by the ED in this case apart from others. He was later reinstated as the party spokesperson. The former TMC MP headed a TV channel and a daily, which was funded by the now-defunct Saradha group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-rs-3-crore-assets-of-tmc-leaders-others-in-saradha-case-969877.html
03-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: India sees steep rise in Covid-19 cases||In your evening news brief, India on Saturday recorded 89,129 new Covid-19 cases in a day; Iran's government says it is opposed to any gradual easing of sanctions and a Taiwan court releases on bond the manager of a construction site whose truck authorities believe to have caused a train accident in the country.   With second wave of the pandemic rising, there have been a rise in the number of cases. Eight states witnessed a steep rise in daily new Covid-19 cases and accounted for 81.42 per cent of the infections reported on Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said. These eight states are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. Among prominent figures testing positive for the virus incluse indian cricketer Axar Patel and DMK MP Kanimozhi. Four days after testing positive for Covid-19, National Conference president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq Abdullah was hospitalised on Saturday. India on Saturday recorded 89,129 new Covid-19 cases in a day, the highest daily rise in around six-and-half-months, taking the nationwide tally of infections to over 1.23 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The death toll increased to 1,64,110 with 714 more fatalities in a day, also the highest since October 21. The jump in cases reported on Saturday was the highest since September 20 last year when 92,605 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. Iran's government wants the United States to lift all sanctions on its country and rejects any "step-by-step" easing of the restrictions, Iranian state broadcaster Press TV reported on Saturday. The two countries said on Friday they would hold indirect talks in Vienna from next week as part of broader negotiations to revive the 2015 nuclear deal between Tehran and global powers. The US State Department said the focus would be on "the nuclear steps that Iran would need to take in order to return to compliance" with that agreement. Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said on Saturday that Tehran was opposed to any gradual easing of sanctions. A Taiwan court on Saturday released on bond the manager of a construction site whose truck authorities believe to have caused a train accident that killed at least 50 people, but prosecutors vowed to appeal Friday's crash was Taiwan's worst rail accident in seven decades, when an express train hit the truck that had slid down a bank beside the track from the building site, whose manager is suspected of having failed to properly engage the brake. Source: DHNS/ PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-sees-steep-rise-in-covid-19-cases-969879.html
03-04-2021||National||5 jawans, 1 Naxal killed in Chhattisgarh encounter||Five security personnel were killed and 12 others injured on Saturday in an encounter with Naxals in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, police officials said. The body of a woman Maoist was also recovered from the encounter spot, they said. A senior police officer claimed, prima facie, Maoists have suffered a "huge loss" in the gunfight. "Separate joint teams of security forces, over 2,000 in number, had launched a major anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered as the Maoist stronghold, on Friday night," state's Deputy Inspector General (anti-Naxal operations) OP Pal said. The personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and the Special Task Force (STF) were involved in the operation launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (Bijapur) and Minpa and Narsapuram (Sukma), he said. "At around 12 noon on Saturday, an encounter broke out between the patrolling team that was dispatched from Tarrem and ultras belonging PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion of Maoists near Jonaguda village under Jagargunda police station area (in Sukma)," Pal said, adding the gunfight lasted for about three hours. As per the information received so far, five security personnel have been killed and 12 others injured, he said. "Of the martyred personnel, one belonged to the CoBRA unit and two each are from the DRG and the 'Bastariya' battalion of the CRPF," the DIG said. He said a woman Naxal was also gunned down in the encounter. Citing the "ground report", Pal claimed that Maoists have suffered a huge loss in the gunfight. "Reinforcements were rushed to the spot and the operation was underway to evacuate injured jawans as well as the bodies from the forest through helicopters," he said. State's Director General of Police DM Awasthi, Task Force Commander of IAF's Anti-Naxal Task Force (ANTF) and senior police officials monitored the rescue operation and the situation from the 'ops room' at the police headquarter, he said. On March 23, five DRG personnel were killed when Naxals blew up a bus carrying security personnel with an IED in Narayanpur district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-jawans-1-naxal-killed-in-chhattisgarh-encounter-969880.html
03-04-2021||National||Adopt good habits of tribal communities to keep Covid-19 at bay: Naidu||The tribal population in Odisha was largely untouched by the Covid-19 pandemic and their unique customary practices and traditions have helped them keep the infection at bay, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said here on Saturday while citing a study. The report by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute (SCSTRTI) noted that by habit, the tribal people maintain a reasonable distance from one another when they walk, he said. "Such safe distancing and hygiene norms, rooted in the tribal culture coupled with the natural food, have helped them stay safe during the pandemic," Naidu said addressing the 50th convocation of Utkal University here. Universities should focus on these positive aspects of tribal communities and include them in their curriculum, he said. His comment came at a time when India on Saturday recorded 89,129 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily rise in around six-and-half-months, taking the nationwide tally of infections to over 1.23 crore. Odisha is home to 62 tribal communities constituting 23 per cent of the state's total population. "The development and welfare of these tribal communities should be our priority. We should approach them with respect and sensitivity. A paternalistic attitude is wrong. "Truth is that we have a lot to learn from the tribal communities who live a simple life in harmony with nature," the Vice President said. He also urged institutions like Utkal University to take up research on issues faced by tribal people and actively contribute to policy formation for their development and well-being. Naidu also focused on the management of natural disasters that the coastal state faces regularly. "You have seen regular occurrence of cyclones, floods and droughts in the state. Therefore, it is imperative to make disaster management an integral part of our education from the early days. This would prepare us better to face any such calamity in future. I hope Utkal University will take a lead in this regard," he said. Naidu asked students to be sensitive to the needs of the excluded and said discipline, honesty and hard work are the keys to success in any field, including public life. "We have great economic potential and can improve the human development index on all counts. We can fight hunger, disease, ignorance and every other evil that retard our growth," Naidu said. Talking about the rich culture and history of Odisha, the Vice President said the great land of Kalinga taught the lesson of peace to Emperor Ashoka. He also lauded the daring seafaring merchants of Kalinga, who established trade links with various countries. "I want you (students) to take inspiration from their stories and imbibe the spirit of entrepreneurship and innovation. Our universities and educational institutions also have an important role in this. "They should equip the students with requisite skills so that they can emerge as job creators, not mere job seekers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adopt-good-habits-of-tribal-communities-to-keep-covid-19-at-bay-naidu-969882.html
03-04-2021||National||ED attaches assets worth over Rs 197 cr in connection with Unitech Group PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth over Rs 197 crore in connection with a money laundering case registered against real estate firm Unitech Group, the agency said on Saturday. A total of 10 properties, including a resort each in Sikkim (Gangtok) and Kerala (Alappuzha), have been provisionally attached under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). "The registered value of these immovable properties is Rs 197.34 crore and these immovable properties are owned by the various entities of Carnoustie Group," the ED said. "The Unitech Group had diverted proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs 325 crore to Carnoustie Group and in turn, the entities of Carnoustie Group purchased several immovable properties from these funds," the ED claimed in a statement. A few days ago, the agency had similarly attached assets worth Rs 152.48 crore of the Unitech Group. A criminal case was registered under various sections of the PMLA against the Unitech Group and its promoters over allegations that the owners -- Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra -- illegally diverted over Rs 2,000 crore to Cyprus and Cayman Island. Recently, the agency had also raided 35 premises in Delhi-NCR and Mumbai as part of a probe in the case. The PMLA case was registered by the agency after studying multiple FIRs filed by the Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) against the promoters and the company, including an instance where they allegedly failed to complete a housing project on time in Gurgaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-assets-worth-over-rs-197-cr-in-connection-with-unitech-group-pmla-case-969891.html
03-04-2021||National||Slippers, earphones & papers hurled targeting Speaker's podium in Odisha Assembly||Odisha Assembly on Saturday witnessed an unpleasant scene when some opposition BJP members allegedly hurled slippers, earphones and papers targeting the Speaker's podium. The incident took place when the House hurriedly passed the Odisha Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill within minutes without any discussion. Speaker S N Patro had earlier rejected a notice from Congress to conduct a discussion on alleged corruption in mining activities. Two senior BJP lawmakers - J N Mishra and B C Sethi were seen standing at their seats and hurling some materials towards the Speaker's podium as a mark of protest. The objects hurled by them were slippers, papers, pen, dustbin and earphone. However, the slippers and other materials did not reach the podium. While Sethi refused the allegation of throwing slippers towards the Speaker's podium, J N Mishra said: "I do not know what exactly I have thrown, but he (speaker) deserves this kind of behaviour. He does not function in a democratic manner". Government Chief Whip Pramila Mallick alleged that BJP members J N Mishra, B C Sethi hurled slippers and earphones while party whip Mohan Majhi threw the earphone. "They (BJP members) are doing so just to remain in the news", Mallick said. The speaker said: "I am examining the incident. The law will take its own course." Congress Legislature Party leader Narasingha Mishra condemned the incident and dubbed it as "unfortunate". He said the Congress had served a notice for a discussion on the mining activities, which has been rejected by the Speaker without any reason. "It is also unfortunate that bills are passed in the House without discussion. Bills should not be passed when the House is not in order," he said. Sethi said the BJP members were protesting over the Speaker's activities as he did not allow Leader of Opposition P K Naik to speak in the House. "We also wanted a discussion on illegal mining activities and farmers issues. But, the Speaker did not allow it. Is it democratic," he asked. J N Mishra alleged that the behaviour of the Speaker is not acceptable as he does not function in a "democratic manner". The House was adjourned till post-lunch session following the slipper hurling incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/slippers-earphones-papers-hurled-targeting-speakers-podium-in-odisha-assembly-969902.html
03-04-2021||National||Lawyer seeks Solicitor General's nod to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against Justice Katju||After Attorney General K K Venugopal recused himself from the case, Advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava on Saturday approached Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for his consent to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against former Supreme Court judge Justice Markandey Katju for "extremely contemptuous remarks" made in the Nirav Modi extradition case.  Srivastava has written to Mehta for his nod as per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, to commence proceedings against Justice Katju for his deposition that 50% of the judiciary is corrupt in India. He claimed that Justice Katju had deliberately and wilfully scandalised the Supreme Court and has lowered its authority, not only before a court of the United Kingdom but also before the public at large, by way of giving elaborate media briefing. Srivastava said that Justice Katju had also stated that the “Indian judiciary has largely surrendered before the political executive”.  In his letter to Mehta, the lawyer said that Justice Katju had stated that in recent years, the Supreme Court has “practically surrendered before the Indian Government and is doing its bidding and is not acting as an independent organ of the state protecting the rights of the people as it was supposed to be”. Thus, Justice Katju has brought the administration of justice disrepute in India and abroad. On March 30, the Attorney General recused himself by saying, “I have known Justice Katju for last about 16 years and we have been interacting with each other ever since. In this background, it is not appropriate that I deal with the matter." He, however, said the lawyer may approach Mehta for such consent. The UK court, which allowed India's request for extradition of Modi, termed Justice Katju's deposition as "astonishing, inappropriate and grossly insensitive", besides being "less than objective and reliable." Fugitive diamond merchant Modi is accused of duping banks of Rs 13,000 crore along with Mehul Choksi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyer-seeks-solicitor-generals-nod-to-initiate-criminal-contempt-proceedings-against-justice-katju-969912.html
03-04-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee calling BJP leaders outsiders insult to Netaji: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday slammed West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for branding BJP leaders as "outsiders" (Bohirgato) and said it is an insult to the inclusive ideology of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and principles of Indian Constitution. Asserting that Bengal's "Bhumiputra" (son of the soil) will take over as the Chief Minister after the BJP is voted to power on May 2, Modi said no Indian is an "outsider" in the state. "When the British tried to divide us, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose said - India is one, and the hopes and aspirations of every Indian are the same. Today, there is a lot of pain when instead of propagating the ideology of Netaji, TMC and Mamata Didi are talking about Bohirgato," he told an election rally at Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas district. Didi is talking about outsiders. We are all children of Mother India. No Indian is an outsider here. When BJP forms the government after May 2, a son of the soil will become the chief minister, he said. Calling TMC a "Taka Maar Company" (an enterprise that loots money), the prime minister asked Banerjee to control her "goons". "You keep your TMC goons under check. Explain to them - Modi is here! Their bullying will no longer be tolerated. Bengal doesn't want violence and terror. Bengal wants education for its daughters and protection, respect and justice for its mothers," he asserted. Referring to some TMC leaders' claim that Banerjee might contest elections from his Lok Sabha seat Varanasi in 2024, Modi mocked the TMC boss, saying this proves that Didi has accepted her defeat. "Didi is now looking for a place for herself outside Bengal. The people of Varanasi and Uttar Pradesh are as large-hearted as the people of Bengal. They won't call her an outsider," he said sarcastically. Claiming that Banerjee decided to contest Nandigram on impulse "tao mein", Modi said, sensing defeat at the prestigious seat, the TMC decided that Banerjee should enter the fray from another seat as well. "But some sensible people then told Didi it will be her second big mistake," he quipped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-calling-bjp-leaders-outsiders-insult-to-netaji-pm-modi-969914.html
03-04-2021||National||Attack on my convoy pre-planned by BJP workers: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait claimed on Saturday that the attack on his convoy of vehicles in Rajasthan's Alwar was "pre-planned by BJP workers" and said it should serve as a reminder to the farmers protesting against three new agriculture laws of the Centre about the travails and challenges they are going to face in the days to come. Addressing a "kisan mahapanchayat" at Bhaimalkheda village in this Uttar Pradesh district, Tikait said such attacks "are, in fact, strengthening our resolve to further intensify our struggle, which is a battle for our existence". Talking to reporters after the "mahapanchayat", he said, "We are mentally prepared for more such incidents." Addressing the "mahapanchayat" here, Tikait issued a call to the protesting farmers to be mentally prepared to continue with their agitation at least till the end of the year, when they would taste victory. He urged them to be mobile phone savvy so that they can be active on social media. Tikait, who held a "mahapanchayat" in Aligarh for the first time after the farmers' agitation was launched in November last year, alleged that corporates had fully entrenched themselves in the present ruling dispensation, including the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). He said how else can one explain the construction of huge grain depots and godowns in several parts of the country "even before the controversial farm laws came to existence". The BKU leader said this itself provides conclusive evidence of the government's intentions. He warned the farmers that even more draconian measures are on the anvil as far as the farm laws are concerned, including stringent regulations regarding crop seeds. Tikait alleged that under the proposed measures, farmers would be liable to be bound by pernicious terms and conditions, which would place them at the mercy of the seed-selling firms. He said the three laws would make it impossible for the farmers to enjoy the right to use the seeds of their choice and frustrate them to such an extent that they would be compelled to sell their land to corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attack-on-my-convoy-pre-planned-by-bjp-workers-rakesh-tikait-969947.html
03-04-2021||National||History will not pardon EC: Congress on reduction of campaigning ban on Himanta Biswa Sarma||The Congress on Saturday hit out at the Election Commission for reducing the campaigning ban on Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and said it is a dark day for parliamentary democracy and history will not pardon the panel. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said it was deplorable that the EC could not sustain its own order and accused the poll body of buckling under pressure of the Modi government by reducing the ban on Sarma from 48 hours to 24 hours. The Election Commission Friday had banned Sarma from all modes of campaigning for 48 hours for allegedly making threatening remarks against Bodoland People's Front (BPF) chief Hagrama Mohilary but reduced it to 24 hours this evening after the minister tendered an "unconditional apology" and assured the poll panel that he will abide by the provisions of the model code. "A dark day for Parliamentary democracy. ECI doesn't even have the guts to sustain its own order. Deplorable that EC buckles under Modi Government's pressure and reverses its own order of ban on Sh. Himanta Biswa Sarma. History will neither pardon ECI nor BJP for this sin," Surjewala said on Twitter. Questioning the EC, he asked why did it make this change of heart and why it did not seek the comments of the complainant. The Congress had complained to the EC against Sarma and demanded action against him for giving threats to Mohilary. "Will the ECI tell - Was this somersault taken suo moto or on a fresh plea by BJP/Himanta Sarma? If yes, why did EC then not call upon the complainant, BPF and Congress? If no, why this vexatious change of heart," Surjewala asked. "Does it now give a license to issue threat with impunity," he further asked. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the EC seems to have torn down the page of "impartiality" from its rulebook. "While we were awaiting strict action from the Election Commission in the case in which an EVM was found in the BJP leader's car, but another move of the Commission seems to suggest that it has torn down the page of impartiality from its rulebook," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "After all, under what pressure was the ban on BJP leader, who was giving threats, reduced from 48 hours to 24 hours," she asked. Another Congress leader Jaiveer Shergill said "By 'relaxing' the ban on Himanta Biswa Sarma, the EC itself has given the proof that they are involved in 'fixing' the election for BJP." "The EC must explain why sudden change of heart? Who in BJP called up to threaten them? EC shamelessly becoming BJP co-conspirator in hijacking democracy," he alleged. After the EC reduced the ban, Sarma became eligible to campaign from the evening. Canvassing for the third and final phase of Assam assembly elections comes to an end on the evening of April 4. The final phase of polling will be held on April 6. In his fresh representation to EC on Saturday, Sarma pleaded for reducing the ban to 24 hours on the ground that he is himself a candidate in the constituency which is scheduled to go for polls on Tuesday. He also sought an unconditional apology from the EC, which was considered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/history-will-not-pardon-ec-congress-on-reduction-of-campaigning-ban-on-himanta-biswa-sarma-969959.html
03-04-2021||National||Health Minister Vardhan approves National Policy for Rare Diseases, 2021||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan approved the 'National Policy for Rare Diseases 2021' which aims to lower the high cost of treatment for rare diseases, with increased focus on indigenous research and local production of medicines, an official statement said on Saturday. A provision for financial support up to Rs 20 lakh under the Umbrella Scheme of Rastriya Arogya Nidhi is proposed for the treatment of those rare diseases that require a one-time treatment (diseases listed under Group 1 in the rare disease policy). "Beneficiaries for such financial assistance will not be limited to BPL families, but the benefit will be extended to about 40 per cent of the population who are eligible under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana," the health ministry said in the statement. The financial support for the treatment of rare diseases is proposed under the Umbrella Scheme of Rastriya Arogya Nidhi (RAN) and not under the Ayushman Bharat PMJAY, it stated. Besides, the policy also envisages a crowd funding mechanism in which corporates and individuals will be encouraged to extend financial support through a robust IT platform for the treatment of rare diseases. Funds so collected will be utilised by Centres of Excellence (CoEs) for treatment of all three categories of rare diseases as first charge and then the balance financial resources could also be used for research, the statement said. “Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan approved the 'National Policy for Rare Diseases 2021' on March 30," the ministry said. "The Rare Diseases Policy aims to lower the high cost of treatment for rare diseases with increased focus on indigenous research with the help of a national consortium to be set up with the Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare as convenor," it said. The policy also talks about the creation of national hospital based registry of rare diseases so that adequate data is available for definition of such diseases and for research and development related to rare diseases within the country, it said. It also focuses on early screening and prevention through primary and secondary health care infrastructure such as Health and Wellness Centres and District Early Intervention Centres (DEICs) and through counselling for high-risk patients, the ministry said. Screening will also be supported by Nidan Kendras set up by the Department of Biotechnology. The policy aims to strengthen tertiary health care facilities for prevention and treatment of rare diseases through designating eight health facilities as ‘Centres of Excellence’ and these will also be provided one-time financial support of up to Rs 5 crore for upgradation of diagnostics facilities, it said. The Draft policy for Rare Diseases was put in public domain on January 13, 2020 on which comments/views were invited from stakeholders, general public, organisations and states and Union territories. All the comments received were examined in depth by an expert committee constituted by the health ministry. The field of rare diseases is very complex and heterogeneous, and the prevention, treatment and management of rare diseases has multiple challenges. There are also fundamental challenges in the research and development for the majority of rare diseases as relatively little is known about the pathophysiology or the natural history of these diseases, particularly in the Indian context, the statement said. Rare diseases are also difficult to research upon as the patients pool is very small and it often results in inadequate clinical experience. Availability and accessibility to medicines are also important to reduce morbidity and mortality associated with rare disease. Despite progress in recent years, there is a need to augment effective and safe treatment for rare diseases. The cost of treatment of rare diseases is prohibitively expensive. Various high courts and the Supreme Court have also expressed concern about lack of a national policy for rare diseases, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-vardhan-approves-national-policy-for-rare-diseases-2021-969970.html
03-04-2021||National||Healthcare workers can no longer register for Covid-19 vaccine: Centre||The Centre on Saturday directed the states and UTs that no fresh registrations of healthcare and frontline workers will be allowed since some ineligible beneficiaries were getting their names enlisted for vaccination against Covid-19, under this category, in violation of rules. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a letter, said registration of persons aged 45 years and above will continue to be permitted on Co-WIN portal, and asked the states/UTs to ensure universal vaccination of already registered healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) at the earliest. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with HCWs getting inoculated and the vaccination of FLWs started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. In the letter, Bhushan said all efforts have been made in close collaboration with states and UTs to saturate vaccination of HCWs and FLWs. While tracking the progress, the timeline for completing vaccination of all HCWs and FLWs with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine has been extended multiple times and was finally fixed at February 25 for HCWs and March 6 for FLWs, he stated. Around one month has elapsed since these timelines and even after starting the vaccination of the population above 60 years, provision was made to register and vaccinate HCWs and FLWs with a view to ensure optimal coverage, he underlined. "Various inputs have been received from different sources that in some of the Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs), some ineligible beneficiaries are being registered as HCWs and FLWs and are getting vaccinated in complete violation of the prescribed guidelines," Bhushan said. There has been 24 per cent increase in HCWs database in the past few days. "This issue was discussed with state representatives and domain knowledge experts in the NEGVAC meeting today, and as per the recommendation of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), it has been decided that no fresh registrations in categories of HCWs and FLWs will be allowed with immediate effect. Registrations of persons aged 45 years and above will continue to be permitted on the Co-WIN portal," he said in the letter. "I request you to kindly direct the officials concerned for wider dissemination of this policy decision for compliance. However, universal vaccination of already registered HCWs and FLWs should be ensured at the earliest," he added. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 7.44 crore, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-workers-can-no-longer-register-for-covid-19-vaccine-centre-969987.html
03-04-2021||National||Sacrifices of brave martyrs will never be forgotten: PM on security personnel's death in encounter||Condoling the death of security personnel in an encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said their sacrifices will never be forgotten. "My thoughts are with the families of those martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. The sacrifices of the brave martyrs will never be forgotten. May the injured recover at the earliest," Modi said in a tweet. Five security personnel were killed and 12 others injured in an encounter with Naxals in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts of Chhattisgarh on Saturday, police officials said. The body of a woman Maoist was also recovered from the encounter spot, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sacrifices-of-brave-martyrs-will-never-be-forgotten-pm-on-security-personnels-death-in-encounter-969993.html
03-04-2021||National||Over 7.44 crore people received Covid-19 vaccine doses||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 7.44 crore, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. A total of 7,44,42,267 vaccine doses have been given, according to a provisional report till 8 pm. These include 89,53,552 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 53,06,671 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 96,19,289 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 40,18,526 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 4,57,78,875  and 7,65,354 beneficiaries aged more than 45 have been administered the first and second dose respectively. "Total 13,00,146 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm on Saturday, the seventy-eighth day of nationwide Covid19 vaccination. Out of which 11,86,621 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 1,13,525 beneficiaries received 2nd dose of the vaccine as per the provisional report," the ministry said adding final reports would be completed for the day by late night. Besides, 1123851 and 78012 beneficiaries aged above 45 have been given the first and second dose on April 3. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.  India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-744-crore-people-received-covid-19-vaccine-doses-970000.html
03-04-2021||National||Magisterial probe ordered into Assam EVM row||A magisterial probe has been ordered to determine why a polling team in Assam carried an EVM in a vehicle owned by the wife of a BJP candidate, officials said on Saturday. Karimganj District Deputy Superintendent Anbamuthan MP issued an order on Friday night to probe the incident, which has snowballed into a huge controversy amid the ongoing Assam assembly elections, the last phase of which is slated for Tuesday. Additional District Magistrate Rajeshan Terang has been asked to conduct the inquiry and submit a detailed report within three days. "... This incident posed a threat to security of the polled EVMs and has an adverse effect on the law and order situation," the order said. The probe will also find out the circumstances leading to the poll party travelling in a private vehicle, and ascertain whether there was any lapse or conspiracy on the part of the authorities. Violence had broken out on the outskirts of Karimganj town on Thursday night after a crowd spotted a BJP candidate's vehicle being used to transport a polled EVM to the strong room, prompting the police to fire in the air to bring the situation under control. The poll team from Ratabari constituency claimed that its official vehicle broke down midway, forcing them to ask for a lift from a passing vehicle, which turned out to be that of the wife of BJP's Patharkandi candidate. Sitting MLA Krishnendu Paul is the BJP candidate from the Patharkandi seat, while Ratabari is currently represented by his party MLA Bijoy Malakar, who is contesting the election as well. Ratabari and Patharkandi constituencies went to the polls in the second phase on Thursday. The Election Commission has suspended four election officials and ordered repolling at the booth. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has also sought an inquiry by the commission. Meanwhile, police arrested at least six persons for allegedly live streaming the violence that had erupted after the incident, and inciting the mob to attack the private vehicle in which the poll party was travelling with three units of the EVM from 149 Indira MV School in Ratabari. "We are identifying the people who were seen attacking the vehicle in the videos... more arrests are likely," a senior police official said. Opposition Congress and the AIUDF have slammed the authorities for the incident, and alleged that the EVM was being "stolen". Demanding an explanation and immediate action, Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora said the party will consider boycotting the election if "this open loot and rigging of EVMs" does not stop immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/magisterial-probe-ordered-into-assam-evm-row-970012.html
03-04-2021||National||Weekly markets, gyms, pools to shut in Raipur district||Amid a surge in fresh Covid-19 cases in Chhattisgarh's Raipur district, the administration has ordered the closure of weekly markets, gyms, and swimming pools, beginning Sunday, an official said on Saturday. The administration also ordered that shops and business establishments in urban areas of the district will remain open in staggered timings while cinema halls and multiplexes will have to be shut by 8 pm. On Saturday, Raipur collector S Bharathi Dasan issued fresh guidelines which will come into effect in Raipur and Birgaon municipal corporations and other civic bodies of the district from Sunday, the public relations department official said. As per the order, the operation of all kinds of temporary and permanent shops, shopping malls, departmental stores, business establishments and food carts will be allowed to remain open from 6 am to 6 pm while restaurants, dhabas and hotels can function between 6 am and 8 pm. Earlier, the district administration had allowed shops to function till 9 pm and permitted restaurants, hotels and dhabas to remain open till 10 pm for indoor dining. "All weekly markets, gyms and swimming pools will remain closed till further orders. Cinema halls and multiplexes have been allowed to operate till 8 pm while liquor shops will be opened till 6 pm in the district," the order said. Petrol pumps and medicine stores have been exempted from the new set of restrictions, it said. All businessmen, their employees and customers will have to wear masks and ensure strict compliance with the social distancing protocol in the business premises. Violation of guidelines would result in the closure of concerned shops for 15 days and attract legal action, the order said. Raipur district's caseload stood at 68,404, including 930 deaths, until April 2. The number of active cases in the district stands at 8,437, as per the official data. The local administration had already imposed section 144 of the CrPc, which bans the assembly of four or more people, in several districts, including Raipur, Durg, Bastar, Rajnandgaon, Bilaspur and had also announced various restrictions to contain the spread of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/weekly-markets-gyms-pools-to-shut-in-raipur-district-970026.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi accuses BJP of 'wholesale capture' of country's institutional framework||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Friday that a "wholesale capture" of India's institutional framework by the ruling dispensation has changed the paradigm in which opposition parties operate post-2014 as the institutions that are supposed to support a fair political fight do not do so anymore. He also alleged that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is filling various institutions of the country with its people. In a conversation with Harvard University professor and former US undersecretary of state for political affairs Nicholas Burns, Gandhi said in order to fight elections, there is a need for institutional structures, protection by the judicial system, a reasonably free media, financial parity and a set of institutional structures that allow his party to operate as a political party, but all of this is not there. "In Assam, the gentleman who is running our campaign (for the Assembly polls) has been sending me videos of BJP candidates running around with voting machines in their cars. "He is screaming at the top his voice saying look, I have got a really serious problem here, but there is nothing going on in the national media," the former Congress chief said. There is a "wholesale capture" of the country's institutional framework, he alleged, adding that there is absolute financial and media dominance by the BJP and besides the Congress, other parties such as the BSP, the SP and the NCP are also not winning elections. "To fight elections, I need institutional structures, I need a judicial system that protects me, I need a media that is reasonably free, I need financial parity, I need a set of institutional structures that allow me to operate as a political party. I do not have them," Gandhi said. He said the way the BJP is behaving, a lot of people are getting discontented very fast and there is a need to bring them together. "We are no longer in the same paradigm we were before 2014, we are in a different paradigm. We are in a paradigm where the institutions that are supposed to protect us do not protect us anymore," the Congress leader said. The institutions that are supposed to support a fair political fight do not do so anymore, he alleged. Noting that India is essentially a "negotiation", Gandhi said the country's institutional framework basically allows it to manage that negotiation, but that framework is under attack. "So I worry that the negotiation will break down and if the negotiation breaks down in a country like India, then we are in very serious trouble," he said, adding that this gives the Congress a big opportunity and thus, "we have to redefine ourselves". On China, Gandhi said both the United States and India need to put together an economic strategy that can take the country on. "The Chinese are currently occupying our territory, their troops are in our territory and there is not a peep about it in our media. "Why they are able to do this is because they see a weakened India. They see an India that is internally divided, an India that is not acting strategically, an India that is not seeing the larger picture," he said, adding that the need of the hour is a strong and united India to take on China. "You need an economic strategy and a sound production strategy and not just a military strategy to take on China," he noted, adding that the Quad alliance between the US, India, Japan and Australia also needs to put up an economic strategy and a clear economic vision. Asked whether the current efforts to reduce tension between India and Pakistan would work, Gandhi said, "They are trying, but I do not think it is going to be easy. India and Pakistan are going to find it difficult to go beyond a point." Asked what would be his priority if he was the prime minister, he said he would move from a growth-centric idea to a job-centric idea of the economy. The only way to start the economy now is to jumpstart production and put a huge amount of money in the hands of people, he added. The former Congress chief noted that the growth of the economy is meaningless if it does not create enough jobs and that jobs creation and value addition need to be put on a "mission mode" in the country in the next few years. Asked by Burns about the farmer protests, he said it is again about how one runs the country. "I remember when we were in the government, we had constant feedback. What amazed me was how effective, quick and powerful it was.... The model that the government uses and some of the ideas that it projects have shot down that feedback. "You see it when Gauri Lankesh gets assassinated, you see it when people are beaten up, you see it when people are attacked...you are shutting down the feedback," he said. What has happened is that the government has shut the feedback route, so the farmers have no other way except to come out on the streets, Gandhi argued. "It is absolutely necessary to reform agriculture, but you cannot attack the foundation of the agriculture system and you certainly cannot do that without having a conversation, because they are going to react," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-accuses-bjp-of-wholesale-capture-of-countrys-institutional-framework-969731.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Timing is suspect in 'deserving honour' for Rajinikanth||By awarding the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke Award to Rajinikanth, the BJP has managed to bring the Tamil superstar back into the limelight just six days before Tamil Nadu votes to elect its 16th Assembly. The actor himself would have not liked this focus in the midst of the election season – he was away from the public glare since December last year following a short stay at Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad due to fluctuation in his blood pressure. Many argue Rajinikanth certainly deserves the recognition, but raise questions on the timing— Tamil Nadu votes on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-timing-is-suspect-in-deserving-honour-for-rajinikanth-969746.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Is Narendra Modi making the same huge economic mistake as Jawaharlal Nehru?||By Andy Mukherjee A critical component of the myth-making around Prime Minister Narendra Modi is to minimise the contribution of the country’s foundational figures. None has suffered more than Jawaharlal Nehru, the man who laid down the rails on which the republic has run for 74 years. Which makes it surprising that Modi is emulating a signature Nehru policy and, paradoxically, one that failed: self-sufficiency. Why is a 21st-century leader borrowing a discredited 1940s idea that was given up in the 1990s? The Harrow and Cambridge-educated Nehru, son of a wealthy lawyer, was an internationalist. But when it came to picking a developmental strategy, he never had much of a choice. Taking charge in 1947 of a newly independent nation ravaged by two centuries of British colonial plunder, he was forced to follow a closed-economy approach. For one thing, World War II had caused a huge global shortage in capital goods. The steel that could go into tractors had ended up in tanks. How to import any machines, or pay for them? Especially when India’s export advantage in cotton and jute was lost after partition, to West and East Pakistan, now Bangladesh.  Nehru’s other problem was the Soviets. By the mid-1950s, they had infiltrated the Indian planning process with their model of rapid, heavy industrialisation. The idea of producing one’s own steel to make machines to then manufacture bicycles was seductive, even if it meant not having enough trousers and toys, or shirts and shoes, to sell cheaply at home and globally and absorb surplus farm labour. This put India on a path of slower urbanization and growth than in East Asia’s tiger economies. Modi is approaching the problem from a different angle. A popular leader who came to politics on a platform of muscular nationalism, he dismantled Nehru’s planning apparatus shortly after becoming prime minister in 2014. Modi had none of Nehru’s class privileges. As a young boy, he helped his father sell tea at a small railway station in Gujarat, according to a 2013 biography. In his second five-year term as prime minister, Modi is relying on the same formula that won him success as chief minister of Gujarat state: highly capital-intensive industrialisation, supported by infrastructure and investor-friendly policies.  That’s the good part, one that has a shot at success in the current climate. Rising US-China tensions are forcing global firms to broaden their supply chains. Where Modi is going wrong — and repeating Nehru’s mistake — is in choosing self-sufficiency over openness.  East Asian countries like Taiwan and South Korea recognized fairly early that labour-intensive manufacturing was their natural advantage. They played to it. India didn’t. Nehru’s heavy-industry approach failed to create employment for the huddled masses. Perhaps the Soviets wanted the consequences of their model to creep up on India and lead to the collectivisation of farming under pressure from a growing, restive population that wasn’t really needed on the land but had few factory jobs to go to. Luckily for India, Nehru never went that far. The economy started opening up in the 1990s. Industrial licensing went away, tariffs began to fall. Led by computer software, skills-based exports grew rapidly, Yet the blunder of not exploiting cheap, unskilled labour never really stopped mattering. India was teeming with 500 million people at the time of Nehru’s death in 1964. Modi has to create jobs for a population of more than 1.3 billion that’s bulging with young people — and youth underemployment.   But to manufacture anything for the world, something needs to be imported. Take windbreakers. Indian suppliers appealed to the government for more than four years to remove the anti-dumping duty on purified terephthalic acid, a key raw material. It was pushing up costs across the value chain and making India uncompetitive in synthetic textiles. Finally, the duty went away last year. Modi may also evoke self-sufficiency to stave off India’s over-dependence on China. The industries India is betting on, from telecom gear to photovoltaic cells and active pharmaceutical ingredients, all import heavily from the People’s Republic. It’s a vulnerability. Territorial tensions dating from Nehru’s time remain a thorn in Modi’s side even now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-narendra-modi-making-the-same-huge-economic-mistake-as-jawaharlal-nehru-969808.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Centre writes to Punjab over survey suggesting labourers being given drugs to work longer: Report||The Centre has written to the Punjab government regarding a survey by the BSF that stated that migrant bonded labourers were being hired in the state's farms and were given drugs to make them work longer hours, a move which has miffed leaders of the five-month-long farmers' agitation in Delhi. This did not go down well with many farm leaders, including Jagmohan Singh, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) General Secretary and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member, who said it was an exercise to "malign the image of farmers". "After calling us Khalistani and terrorists, the Union Government is playing yet another communal card. This survey, as per the MHA, was done by BSF in 2019-20 and it is surprising that they sat on this report till now and wrote to the Punjab Government only when the farmers’ agitation is at its peak,” Singh is quoted as saying by the report. A Punjab Police officer told the publication that the letter was far-fetched. The report quoted the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), a former ally of NDA, as saying that the letter was based upon a "ridiculous assumption aimed purely at defaming farmers of the state". "During the course of questioning, it emerged that most of them were either mentally challenged or were in a feeble state of mind and have been working as bonded labourers with farmers in border villages of Punjab. The persons apprehended belong to poor family background and hail from remote areas of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,” the letter said, referring to the 58 apprehended people. The letter also said that human trafficking syndicates hire these labourers from their native place to bring to Punjab on "the promise of good salary".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-writes-to-punjab-over-survey-suggesting-labourers-being-given-drugs-to-work-longer-report-969815.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||PM Modi urges Assam militants to join mainstream||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a fervent appeal to militants in Assam who have not surrendered yet to return to the mainstream as they are needed to create an 'Atmanirbhar Assam'. Addressing an election rally here in Baksa district, the prime minister said people of the state have rejected violence for development, peace, unity and stability. The NDA government, he asserted, formulated policies that are non-discriminatory and for all sections of society. "It's unfortunate that those who divided society and threw crumbs of development at particular sections for their vote bank politics are said to be practising secularism while we, who ensure that development reaches all, are termed communal," Modi said, attacking the Congress over long years of violence in the state. "The NDA government has strived to holistically empower every section of society with our mantra 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas'. This game of secularism and communalism has hurt the nation a lot," he said. During the last five years, the "double engine" NDA governments at the Centre and in the state have resulted in "double benefit" for Assam, the prime minister said. He came down heavily on those claimimg what people who will form the next government will look like and wear. Modi was apparently referring to the comments by Abdur Rahim, the son of AIUDF founder and MP Badruddin Ajmal, a Congress ally, who Friday asserted "dadhi, topi and lungi wallahs" will form the next government in the state. "There cannot be a bigger insult to Assam. The people of Assam will not tolerate those who insult Assam's pride and identity and will give them a befitting reply through the ballot," he said. The people of the state have decided to vote the NDA to power again, he asserted. "I say this on the strength of the love, affection and enthusiam they have shown for the NDA in the two phases of polling already held. They are with development, stability, peace, harmony and unity," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-urges-assam-militants-to-join-mainstream-969818.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Reject the 'corrupt, dynastic' DMK-Congress combine, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday attacked the DMK-Congress combine over "corruption and dynasty" and said only the AIADMK-BJP alliance can "protect" those who believe in the culture of Tamil Nadu. Seeking votes for NDA candidates with a promise of all round development of the state, Shah said its top leaders, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, had grown from humble beginnings while those in the DMK and Congress are from "dynasty." "Only the AIADMK-BJP alliance can protect Tamil Nadu's fishermen, unemployed youth, women and all those having faith in Tamil Nadu's culture," he told reporters in Chennai. Single phase polling to 234 Assembly seats is scheduled on April 6. DMK President M K Stalin was worried about making his son Udhayanidhi Chief Minister, Shah later alleged at an election rally in Tirunelveli. "Stalin sir's anger and BP (blood pressure) goes up whenever I make a mention of Udhayanidhi and he ends up saying something about someone," Shah said. Keeping up his attack of family and dynasty politics against the two, Shah said Congress was "4G and DMK "3G", referring to the generation of leaders from the respective first families in politics. While the leaders of NDA, Modi and Palaniswami, started from humble beginnings, "on the other side is the DMK and Congress." "Congress' fourth generation is running--4g-- Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi (all late leaders) and now Rahul Gandhi," he said. "The DMK party--its 3g party--third generation-- M Karunanidhi, after him Stalin and now Stalin is risking the entire future of Tamil Nadu by trying hard to make Udhayanidhi chief minister," Shah said. The Maran family, Karunanidhi family and Gandhi family "are dynasty, family parties whereas BJP and AIADMK are parties that elevate grassroots workers to the posts of PM and CM," he added. While Modi was worried about Tamil Nadu's farmers, unemployed youth and fishermen, Stalin was keen on making Udhayanidhi chief minister. "People of Tamil Nadu should decide to go with whom-- with those who care for them or those who want their son to become chief minister," he said. Taking exception to some alleged controversial remarks made by Udhayanidhi against late BJP leaders Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley, Shah said "probably Stalin forgot" the Tamil culture of not making such statements against deceased people. He charged the DMK leaders in the past with making such remarks against the "great son of Tamil Nadu," late chief minister and Congress stalwart K Kamaraj, credited with ushering in educational reforms in the state. Taking on DMK leader A Raja, without naming him, Shah said "breaking all traditions, they made such remarks against the demised mother of chief minister Palaniswami. DMK should be ashamed of all of these." Raja had earlier courted controversy for making alleged disparaging remarks against Palaniswami's mother during an election rally, drawing criticism. Taking note of a complaint from the ruling AIADMK, the Election Commission had on Thursday barred Raja from campaigning for 48 hours and also removed him from his party's list of star campaigners for the April 6 Assembly polls. Holding the Modi and Palaniswami "understand the pains of common man," he recalled that is why the state government had twice waived off farm loans, while the Centre was implementing an income support scheme of Rs 6,000 annually to the ryots. He also listed out the various other welfare initiatives for Tamil people, including grouping seven communities under Devendra Kula Vellalar, setting up a Defence corridor and highlighted Modi's "special love" for Tamil which he had exhibited by recalling from verses during his speeches in foreign countries. On the bull-taming sport jallikattu, Shah said the Modi government had earlier allowed its resumption following a ban and expressed fears that Congress and DMK may stop if they are voted to power. Recalling the state Congress' 2016 poll manifesto that batted for ending the sport, Shah said "prince Rahul decided to ban it." "Only AIADMK, BJP and PMK can ensure the all round development of Tamil Nadu, not the corrupt DMK and Congress," he said. Earlier, Shah attended a roadshow in Chennai in support of BJP's Thousand Lights candidate Khushbu Sundar. The Home Minister lauded Chief Minister Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam for taking the state on the path of development and for the effective handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, saying Tamil Nadu has been at the 'forefront' of the fight against the contagion. "Tamil Nadu's growth is possible only when we defeat the corrupt and dynastic DMK and Congress," he said. The development initiatives launched by Modi across the country should come to Tamil Nadu to fulfill the dreams of the 'great' late CMs M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa, both AIADMK stalwarts, had for Tamil Nadu, he added. At the roadshow, Shah travelled atop an open van with Sundar and AIADMK candidates from nearby constituencies. Elections to 234 Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu are scheduled on April and the counting of votes will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/reject-the-corrupt-dynastic-dmk-congress-combine-says-amit-shah-969821.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Sangh teaches to attack, non-violent satyagraha makes farmers fearless, says Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday sharpened his attack on the BJP-RSS, saying that they will "take on the Sangh together" and not stop until the farm laws are repealed, a day after farmer leader Rakesh Tikait's convoy came under attack. "Their Sangh teaches them to attack, while non-violent satyagraha makes the farmers fearless. We will take on Sangh together -- we will only stop until the three anti-agriculture and anti-national laws are repealed," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. On Friday, stones were pelted at the convoy of Tikait in Rajasthan's Alwar district, damaging the rear windshield of his car. The BKU accused the BJP of being behind the attack. Police detained a student leader, who the Bhartiya Kisan Union claimed, belonged to BJP's students wing ABVP. A large number of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders since November 26 last year demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws. The Parliament had passed the bills last September during the Monsoon Session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sangh-teaches-to-attack-non-violent-satyagraha-makes-farmers-fearless-says-rahul-gandhi-969828.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||BJP engineering communal strife in Bengal to win polls, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday accused the BJP of engineering communal strife in the state to win the assembly elections. The TMC chief, while addressing an election rally in Raidighi in South 24 Parganas district, also called upon Muslims not to "fall in the trap of a BJP-aided party from Hyderabad and its Bengal ally that are out to polarise votes." Her jibe was apparently aimed at Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM and Abbas Siddiqui's ISF. Both Owaisi and Siddiqui had earlier denied the TMC's insinuations. The ISF is fighting the elections in alliance with the CPI(M) and Congress. The TMC supremo also urged Hindus to be on the guard against the BJP's attempts to "instigate communal clashes" and called upon them to chase away outsiders sent to foment trouble in their respective localities. Affirming her Hindu identity, in an apparent attempt to counter the minority appeasement charge against her, Banerjee said, "I am a devout Hindu who recites Chandi mantra every day before leaving home. But I believe in our tradition of giving respect to every religion." Taking a dig at BJP leaders having lunch at houses of Dalits, she said, "I am a Brahmin woman. But my all-time associate is a Scheduled Caste woman who takes care of all my needs. She also cooks food for me." "I need not advertise this as those bringing five-star hotel lunch to eat at the courtyard of a Dalit home are anti- Dalit, anti-backward caste and anti-minority in nature," she said. The TMC chief claimed that if elected to power in West Bengal, the BJP will implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens (NRC), forcing "many citizens to leave". "They will divide West Bengal and its people. Remember how they deleted the names of 14 lakh Bengalis and 2 lakh Biharis in the updated NRC in Assam," she said. Banerjee alleged that central forces are terrorising people at every home 48 hours before polling, asking them to vote for the BJP.  "Don't be intimidated. Mothers and sisters challenge them. We have no problems if the forces act impartially to ensure free and fair elections but if they act on behalf of a particular political party, we will protest," she said, The chief minister, who is contesting her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, alleged that there were attempts by "outsiders" to rig the elections in the constituency in Purba Medinipur district. "There were attempts by outsiders to rig the elections in Nandigram by visiting every house before polling. Still, I will win handsomely from the seat. One local goon was accompanied by outsider goons in Nandigram. This is their pattern," she said. Taking a dig at TMC turncoats, she said sitting Raidighi MLA and actor Debasree Roy joined the BJP after not getting a party ticket from the seat. "We don't involve such opportunists in our party," she said. Noting that the TMC is fighting the elections on the development plank, she said, "There has been infrastructural development in Sunderbans. The state government has taken an initiative to provide egg meal at Rs 5 and women involved in SHGs in the region are involved in it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-engineering-communal-strife-in-bengal-to-win-polls-says-mamata-banerjee-969835.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Those who tried to sabotage survival, growth of Kerala now speaking of development: Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday lashed out at the Congress and BJP, saying those who tried to sabotage the state's survival and growth in the last five years were now delivering speeches on development, which amounted to 'mocking' the people. Speaking at a press meet here, he alleged that the national leaders of the Congress and BJP, including the Prime Minister, were attempting to create a distorted image of Kerala. His remarks came a day after Modi said at a poll rally in Thiruvanthapuram that there was a "total hartal on governance" in Kerala. "Any move by the RSS for a communal divide has not been successful in Kerala, which is a stronghold of secularism. Those who tried to sabotage the survival and growth of the state in the last five years are now delivering speeches on development. This amounts to mocking the people of Kerala," he said. The Chief Minister said that just because the state was not 'surrendering to the communal agenda of the Sangh Parivar," they were trying to teach a lesson to Kerala and punish them Vijayan said everyone in the state was aware of the 'bhai- bhai relationship of the Congress and BJP and also the developmental activities carried out by the LDF government. "Modi compared Kerala to Somalia in the previous Assembly elections. The Sangh Parivar is interested only in portraying Kerala in such a bad light." The Chief Minister said Kerala faced the worst floods in a century and the central forces arrived in the state to help them. However, the Centre later sent the state a bill for the help rendered "Meanwhile, our own army..the fishermen, were engaged in selfless service and didn't take a single penny we offered," he said. Modi had said during a rally in the run-up to the polls in 2016 that the "infant mortality rate among the scheduled tribe community in Kerala is worse than Somalia". Somalia still has one of the highest rates of child malnutrition and infant mortality in the world, while Kerala has the lowest infant mortality rates in India. Scheduled Tribes are among India's most underprivileged citizens. Vijayan said the BJP is a party which is unsure whether it would get a single seat in the coming elections and may not be even able to maintain their previous vote share. "How many state governments were handed over to the BJP on a silver platter by the Congress party? Congress should not think that they can give Kerala to the saffron party. People will give a befitting reply in the election," he said. Vijayan was at his home district Kannur, where he was campaigning for the Left Front candidates for the April 6 Assembly polls. The results will be out on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-who-tried-to-sabotage-survival-growth-of-kerala-now-speaking-of-development-vijayan-969867.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Centre withheld funds meant for Maharashtra out of bias: Congress||The Congress in Maharashtra on Saturday accused the Centre of short-changing the Maharashtra government by withholding its "rightful dues" to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic and other disasters like cyclones and heavy rains that had hit the state last year. State Congress president Nana Patole also accused the BJP of acting irresponsibly amidst the pandemic, a day after Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that Maharashtra was the only state in the country that didn't provide any assistance to the people during the crisis. In his Facebook address on Friday night, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had referred to the stringent measures adopted by various countries to check the spread of coronavirus. He had also hinted that a lockdown was inevitable if new cases continue to go up. "....This is irresponsible behaviour. Fadnavis should have given information on the aid provided by the Central government to Maharashtra. For the last year, the state has been battling pandemic and natural disasters like cyclones, floods and heavy rains on its own. The MVA government is working hard to mitigate the hardships of the people. "However, the Centre had acted out of bias against the state by not parting the rightful share of funds to the state. Instead of contributing to the Chief Minister's relief fund, BJP leaders had donated to the PM Cares Fund for Covid-19. What has the state got from the Rs 20 lakh crore ('aatmanirbhar') package," Patole asked. He alleged the Centre used federal investigating agencies to malign the image of Maharashtra. "The unplanned lockdown last year had pushed the country on the brink of the economic crisis," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-withheld-funds-meant-for-maharashtra-out-of-bias-congress-969872.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||BJP targets Maharashtra govt on lockdown plans||Even as the Maharashtra government contemplates a lockdown to combat the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP while opposing the move said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is the only dispensation in the country that has not provided any relief to its citizens. “Many states too have given various kinds of assistance to the citizens. But Maharashtra is the only state which has not given any kind of assistance during Covid-19 pandemic. It has not given a package of single rupee. On top of it, they have troubled people, disconnected power supply,” leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday. According to him, prime minister Narendra Modi gave Rs 20 lakh crore AtmaNirbhar package. “They forgot this so quickly just to misguide the people,” he said, adding that the best way to tackle Covid-19 pandemic is to not criticise the opposition or experts, but to analyse on what we are doing and keep adding to efforts. On Friday night, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, while giving the example of Brazil and European countries said: “…a decision of a “complete lockdown” would be taken in the next couple of days' time after wide-ranging consultations and a situation update…we will be closely observing the next two days…we expect people to be careful and follow whatever has been told…I cannot rule out the possibility of a lockdown if the current situation prevails.” Reacting to Thackeray's statement, Fadnavis said: “If the chief minister wants to compare Maharashtra pandemic situation with other nations just to impose another lockdown, then we also need to look at what those Governments have done for their citizens.” If the MVA government wants another lockdown, then they must first plan on how to help Maharashtra citizens in such difficult times, he said. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said: “The government has zero planning and zero responsibility.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-targets-maharashtra-govt-on-lockdown-plans-969874.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Why does PM never say 'CPI(M) Mukt Bharat', asks Rahul Gandhi||Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his 'Congress-Mukt Bharat' jibe, Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the BJP leader seems to have issues only with the grand old party and not with the CPI(M). "Wherever the Prime Minister goes, he keeps saying Congress-Mukt Bharat (Congress Free India). When he gets up in the morning, he says Congres-Mukt Bharat and when he goes to sleep he says 'Congress-Mukt Bharat'. Why does the PM never say 'CPI(M) Mukt Bharat'?" Modi never says that. Somehow he does not have a problem with the Left front and has a problem with the Congress," the Wayanad MP, who reached Kerala on the final phase of campaigning for the April 6 assembly polls, said at a meeting here. While the Congress was a unifying force, the Left front was divisive, he said adding "wherever we go, we unify everybody. We are a unifying force. Wherever we go we identify everybody and unite them and make them strong". Taking on the RSS, he said they understand that the real threat to them comes from those who unite everybody. "And they understand very well, just like them, the Left front is also a divider of society. The Left front is also an ideology of violence and anger. Congress never spreads anger or hatred and only unites". Any division will weaken the country and the state, he said, adding the Congress' ideology is the belief that all Indians are equal and the country will progress only when it is united. "This ideology has delivered development for many decades now and will continue to do so for many decades to come. " "Whatever progress you see in India today, whatever institutions you see today have all come out of the congress ideology. The success of India so far has come as a result of the people of India and the Congress party", he said. Attacking the LDF for political violence in the state, he said the Left was time and again killing Congress workers. "Congress workers will, however, never kill anyone. That's the difference between us and them," he said. Reaching out to the fishing community, Gandhi said he understands their difficulties and said the LDF government had "back stabbed" them, referring to the controversial Rs 5,000 crore MoU signed by the government with US based firm EMCC over deep sea fishing, against which the opposition had levelled serious charges. The contract was later scrapped. Pointing out that unemployment was one of the biggest problems in Kerala, he said the UDF intends to create a skill development platform to retrain youth into an employable workforce. "We come with intelligent solutions. We don't look at Karl Marx's book to find these solutions. We look to you to find these solutions. We appeal not to the intelligence of one man, but to the intelligence of the people of Kerala", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-does-pm-never-say-cpim-mukt-bharat-asks-rahul-gandhi-969881.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||With 23 rallies so far, Modi spearheads BJP's campaign||Spearheading his party's campaign in the ongoing polls to elect five assemblies, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has addressed 23 rallies so far, 10 of them across four states over the last three days, including Saturday. With the BJP pulling out all the stops to oust Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from the government in West Bengal and to retain power in Assam, these two states have been the focus of Modi's campaign. He has addressed rallies in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the union territory of Puducherry too. The prime minister also travelled to Bangladesh recently for two days and attended a number of programmes, an exercise that was criticised by Banerjee alleging they were held with an eye on the polls in West Bengal, a charge rejected by the BJP. While driving his party's campaign, Modi has also kept a tab on the coronavirus situation and vaccination programme in the country, official sources noted. With assembly polls getting over in Puducherry and all states except West Bengal on April 6, Modi is expected to address a number of public meetings in the eastern state in the coming days and weeks as the BJP works to capture power there. The state will be left with five more phases of polls after April 6 with the last phase scheduled for April 29. Counting of votes for all five assembly elections will be held on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-23-rallies-so-far-modi-spearheads-bjps-campaign-969889.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Rahul faces flak over comments on 'silence of US' on 'wholesale capture' of Indian institutions||Rahul Gandhi's remarks questioning the silence of the US establishment for what is happening in India on Saturday triggered a backlash on social media, as the former Congress president received flak from several quarters. During his video interaction with Harvard University professor and former US undersecretary of state for political affairs Nicholas Burns, Rahul claimed that there was a "wholesale capture" of India's institutional framework by the ruling dispensation. He also alleged that the RSS was filling various institutions of the country with its people. "To fight elections, I need institutional structures, I need a judicial system that protects me, I need a media that is reasonably free, I need financial parity, I need a set of institutional structures that allow me to operate as a political party. I do not have them," Gandhi said. "We are no longer in the same paradigm we were before 2014, we are in a different paradigm. We are in a paradigm where the institutions that are supposed to protect us do not protect us anymore," he added. However, Rahul's remarks questioning the US silence over what is happening in India attracted criticism from people like former Foreign Secretary Kanwal Sibal. Sibal tweeted, "astonished he (Rahul) should goad US to take adverse note of state of democracy in India, take such hallowed view of American democracy while decrying our own and implicitly suggest India not worthy of invitation to summit of democracies Biden proposes. And what game Nick Burns is playing?" Sangh ideologue Gurumurthy was quoted by Republic TV as saying, "unwise act and makes Indian democracy underdog of the US democracy. Independent Indian Election Commission was made more independent by Seshan; this is what the US needs to do to make its Democracy equal to ours. Seven times US Democracy has got into crisis including 1860 civil war over presidential poll disputes." BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia also targeted Rahul saying he did not know the "'C' of 'Constitution' and 'D' of 'Democracy' of India". "I must say that Congress has this unique trait when that when they are in power, they destroy the constitutional institution of the country, but when it is not in power, the party tries to discredit the institution of India," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-faces-flak-over-comments-on-silence-of-us-on-wholesale-capture-of-indian-institutions-969935.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Nadda targets DMK for 'foul' language against Dalits||BJP Chief J P Nadda on Saturday targeted DMK leaders for allegedly using what he called 'foul language' against Dalits and dubbed the DMK and Congress as being 'synonymous' with corruption. Accusing DMK leaders of using 'foul' language recently against Dalits, late AIADMK matriarch 'Amma' and women, he said it was very unfortunate. One could understand what respect they have for Dalits and women, he said here, addressing a poll rally canvassing support for BJP's H Raja, who is contesting the April 6 Assembly polls from the Karaikudi Assembly segment. Such foul language was used while they were out of power and the way they would treat Dalits and women in the event of winning the polls is a 'million-dollar question,' he said. Earlier in Modakurichi, he said the statements of DMK leaders against Dalits and women were 'shameful' and the party has to be taught a lesson for it. DMK Rajya Sabha MP R S Bharathi allegedly made derogatory comments against Scheduled Castes last year, following which a case was filed against him by police, he was arrested and got bail. DMK's A Raja recently had spoken against Chief Minister K Palaniswami and over his 'birth', following which the Election Commission had taken his name off the list of that party's star campaigners and debarred him from campaigning for 48 hours. Raja apologised, but claimed that his words were taken out of context and that he did not make any derogatory comments. The DMK had strongly hit out at Jayalalithaa over various matters, including corruption issues in the past. The top BJP leader said no one should forget that both Congress and DMK are 'synonymous' with corruption. Dynastic and corrupt parties, the DMK and Congress were defeated twice in polls and they should be drubbed for the third time too, he said. While the DMK lost the Assembly polls in 2011 and 2016, Congress was defeated in the 2014 and the 2019 Lok Sabha election, he noted. Referring to the 'Karuppar Kootam' controversy of last year, he said it was his party and ally AIADMK that respected and took care of cultural values and people's sentiments. Kootam is a fringe group that denigrated a spiritual hymn in praise of Lord Muruga and those involved were arrested. Nadda said DMK chief M K Stalin never condemned that group, but following the success of his party's 'Vel yatra' last year, he was prompted to hold 'Vel' (weapon of Lord Muruga) and pose for pictures with it. Hailing the Tamil language, he said it is one of the oldest in the world. "It is a perfect language and has perfect grammar." In 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi recited Tamil poet Kaniyan Poonkundranar's 'Yaadum Oorey' verses that denote unity. Nadda accused the Congress of being 'opportunistic' and 'mentally bankrupt.' In Kerala, Congress fought against the CPI(M), while in West Bengal, the grand old party and the Left were 'hand in glove' to oppose the BJP, he said. "The same way the CPI(M) and Congress are fighting BJP in Assam. This is the mental bankruptcy and the ideological bankruptcy of the Congress party." The saffron party leader lashed out at Congress for 'joining hands with communal forces,' but falsely terming the BJP as communal.  The Congress has an alliance with the Muslim League in Kerala, 'Abbas Siddiqui' (Indian Secular Front) in Bengal and 'Badruddin Ajmal' (All India United Democratic Front) in Assam, he said. The 'corrupt' Congress party has to be eradicated 'lock, stock and barrel' in Tamil Nadu, he said. The UPA 'crushed' regional aspirations and people's sentiments by banning the bull-taming sport 'Jallikattu' in Tamil Nadu and Congress party's ally DMK 'kept quiet' and did not talk about people's aspirations at that time, he alleged. During the United Progressive Alliance regime at the Centre, there was none to take care of Tamil fishermen. But after Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister, 'firing' incidents against fishermen totally stopped, which showed the government's 'courage.' It was PM Modi who empathised with people's sentiments and gave 'permission' to facilitate the conduct of the sport, he claimed. Nadda recalled that Modi was the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Jaffna in Sri Lanka and he also facilitated welfare initiatives like housing for minority Tamils there. Also, Father Alexis Premkumar from TN was freed from the clutches of terrorists in Afghanistan and brought home safely due to the intervention of the Prime Minister, he said. Increased allocations were made by the Centre for Tamil Nadu and 11 new medical colleges, in addition to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Madurai, were coming up in the state, he said.  "PM Modi has taken care of TN to the maximum," Nadda added. Initiatives like the defence corridor would bring fresh job opportunities, he said. Nadda later held a colourful roadshow in Kanyakumari to seek support for his party's Pon Radhakrishnan, who is contesting the bypoll to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency and also for nominees for April 6 Assembly polls. The bypoll will also be held on the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nadda-targets-dmk-for-foul-language-against-dalits-969957.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||In veiled dig at AIMIM, Mamata urges Muslims not to be lured by 'BJP aided party from Hyderabad'||Alleging that the BJP was trying to fan communal tensions in Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Bbanerjee on Saturday said that Muslims should not get lured by Hyderabad based party and its ally in the state which aided by the saffron party. She was apparently taking a veiled dig at Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM and Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front (ISF). ISF is a part of Sanyukt Morcha along with the Left Front and the Congress. “You (Muslims) must not step into trap laid by the BJP aided party from Hyderabad and it’s ally in Bengal,” said Mamata. She was speaking at a rally at Raidighi in South 24 Parganas. The Chief Minister also urged the Hindus to foil the BJP’s attempts to “incite communal clashes” and drive away outsiders if they try to disrupt in their areas. Asserting her Hindu identity to counter the BJP’s allegation of “appeasement politics” against her, the TMC supremo said that even as she was a “devoted Hindu” she respects all religions. “I am a devoted Hindu. I don’t leave home before reciting Chandi path. But I respect all religion,” said Mamata. She pointed out that she was a Brahmin but her aide who takes care of her all day is Scheduled Caste women “But I don’t need to advertise such things like those bringing food from five star hotels to have lunch at the house of a Dalit are anti-Dalit and anti-minority,” said Mamata. The TMC supremo further alleged that if voted to power the BJP will implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Bengal and drive out legitimate citizens. “BJP will divide Bengal and its people. Don’t forget how they removed the names of 14 lakh Bengalis and two lakh Biharis from the NRC in Assam,” said Mamata. Accusing the Central forces of trying to intimidate voters so they vote for the BJP, Mamata said Mamata urged women to challenge them if they act partially. She further alleged that in “outsiders” tried to rig the election in Nandigram but asserted that she will win the seat comfortably.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-veiled-dig-at-aimim-mamata-urges-muslims-not-to-be-lured-by-bjp-aided-party-from-hyderabad-969963.html
03-04-2021||National Politics||Kerala polls: Shah describes Rahul as 'tourist politician' at poll rally in Kerala's Wayanad||Taking a dig at the Congress, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said Rahul Gandhi is a "tourist politician" who had represented Amethi for 15 years in Parliament, before shifting to Wayanad in Kerala. He alleged for the Congress and the Gandhi family, people are just a vote bank and the government a money bank. Shah also ridiculed the left and Congress for their poll pact in West Bengal and said the Communists and Congress need to merge and form a new party which can be called the 'Comrade Congress Party'. Launching his attack on Gandhi who was in neighbouring Kozhikode district for campaigning earlier in the day, Shah said: "This Wayanad is also the constituency of Rahul baba. He was representing Amethi for 15 years. Nothing changed there. Now he has come here." "I have never seen a tourist politician like Rahul baba. Sometimes he will be in Amethi, sometimes in Wayanad. He is here as a tourist and don't expect any development from his side," the union minister said. The UPA government was ruling for ten years. The people voted them to power for development. Instead, they engaged in corruption and scams worth Rs 12 lakh crore, Shah alleged, adding "for the Congress and the Gandhi family, people are just a vote bank and government is a money bank." Shah, who arrived here from neighbouring Tamil Nadu, was addressing party workers at Meenangadi in Wayanad campaigning for the BJP-NDA candidate C K Janu, a tribal leader who is contesting from Sultan Bathery. If BJP candidates are voted, Wayanad will be made the most developed district in the country, he said. Attacking the LDF and UDF, Shah said development has taken a back seat in Kerala since the last two decades. The state was once a favourite destination of tourists in the country, besides also being the most literate. But the LDF-UDF fronts, which have been ruling the state alternatively for several years, have stalled the state's development and was engaged in corruption, appeasement politics and political violence, the BJP leader alleged. "The UDF-LDF indulge in appeasement politics while the BJP-NDA is for development politics," he said. Attacking the Communists and the Congress, he said "they are confused." He pointed out that in Kerala, they were rivals and fight against each other, while in West Bengal they are allies and embrace each other. "I would like to ask the Congress and Communists if you are doing politics of ideology or politics of power. Congress and Communists begin with the letter 'C' and confusion also begins with the C." "They are confused about their policies, leadership and ideology and this will not help the state in any manner. They need to merge and form a new party which can be called 'Comrade Congress Party," Shah said, lacing his speech with sarcasm. The CPI(M) has links with the SDPI (Social Democratic Party of India), the political arm of the Popular Front of India (PFI), while the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League are allies, the Union minister said as he turned the heat on the LDF over the gold, dollar smuggling cases and the UDF in the Solar scam. The gold smuggling case relates to the seizure of around 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore from diplomatic baggage at the Thiruvananthapuram airport in July last year and the dollar scam pertains to alleged smuggling of USD 1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs 1.30 crore) by a former finance head of the UAE consulate. The Solar scandal, which hit the previous UDF government, relates to a couple cheating people of crores of rupees by promising to instal solar panels and offering franchise and jobs. Shah alleged that under the leadership of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, gold smuggling took place and if the Congress-UDF comes to power, they will appoint those involved in the solar scam as chief minister. He also repeated his questions with regard to the gold smuggling case to Vijayan and sought answers from him before the April 6 assembly polls.  On the Sabarimala issue, the union minister said when the state witnessed violent protests after the left government decided to implement the Supeme Court verdict, lathis were used against Ayyappa pilgrims, including women, mothers, children and the Congress remained silent. The BJP-NDA wants the temple administration to be handed over to devotees,Shah said. He claimed the communists were engaged in violent politics and have killed thousands of RSS workers. "The BJP cannot be threatened and will ensure that the Lotus blooms in the state," Shah said. The Union Home Minister later held a roadshow at Kozhikode for party candidate M T Ramesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-polls-shah-describes-rahul-as-tourist-politician-at-poll-rally-in-keralas-wayanad-970008.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Three arrested for role in harassment of nuns at UP's Jhansi||Three people have been arrested for breach of peace and misbehaviour in connection with the last month's alleged harassment of nuns here, police said on Friday. Two nuns and two postulants were taken off an express train and detained for questioning by the railway police in Jhansi on March 19 after local Bajrang Dal activists complained that two women were allegedly being taken forcibly for religious conversion. "On Thursday night, during patrolling on the station, GRP SHO Sunil Kumar Singh got information that two persons were arguing with policemen near the booking hall," Circle officer, Government Railway Police (GRP), Neem Khan Mansuri, said on Friday. They were threatening to launch an agitation, claiming that police did not act properly and let the nuns go, he said. No action had been taken against the two earlier in the case, Mansuri said. However, after this, Anchal Arjaria and Purukes Amraya, both members of a Hindu outfit, were arrested for breach of peace and their role in misbehaviour with the nuns, he said. Later, Ajay Shankar Tiwari, on whose complaint the nuns were taken off the train for questioning, was also arrested. All three were produced before the court of city magistrate from where they were shifted to a jail for 14 days. After the issue came to light last month, police had said there was no basis in the complaint by the Bajrang Dal activists and all four women took the next train to their destination in Odisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-arrested-for-role-in-harassment-of-nuns-at-ups-jhansi-969736.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Police officer accused of demanding sexual favours from rape survivor dismissed||Taking more harsh action against Kailash Bohra, who was given compulsory retirement from the Rajasthan Police Service (RPS) for demanding sexual favours from a rape survivor last month, the state government has ordered his dismissal. The order was issued on Friday after obtaining the approval from the governor. The state government had issued an order for Bohra's compulsory retirement on March 20. Bohra was arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) for allegedly demanding sexual favours from a rape survivor in lieu of taking action in cases lodged on the basis of her complaints. He was posted as the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) at the special investigation unit for crimes against women in the DCP East office and was arrested by the ACB team from his office on March 14. Bohra had first demanded money from the woman, who had got three cases, including one of rape, lodged. Subsequently, he began demanding sexual favours from her for taking action in the cases. The officer was investigating the cases. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) raised the issue in the Assembly and expressed dissatisfaction over mere suspension. However, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal assured the House that Bohra will be terminated from service. On March 20, Principal Secretary, Home Abhay Kumar issued the order of Bohra's (52) compulsory retirement in public interest, in accordance with the recommendation of the high-level standing committee of the administrative reforms department. However, the government took the final decision to punish Bohra with dismissal from service under Article 311(2) of the Constitution after the governor's approval, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-officer-accused-of-demanding-sexual-favours-from-rape-survivor-dismissed-969790.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Gunfight breaks out between militants, security forces in J&K's Shopian||A gunfight broke out between militants and security forces in a forest belt known as Choor Ki Gali in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Saturday. A police official said the gun battle erupted after a joint team of army, CRPF and Jammu & Kashmir police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in a forest area of Choor Ki Gali in Herpora, Shopian on specific information about the presence of militants in the area. He said that as the joint team of forces approached the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, a retaliation of which triggering a gunfight. “As the gun battle is going on in a forest area, it may take some time to get a clear picture,” he added. A local news gathering agency KNO quoting unknown sources said four to five militants are believed to be trapped in the area. On March 27, two militants and an army soldier were killed in an encounter in Wangam village of Shopian. Prior to that on March 22, four militants were killed in a similar gun battle in Manihal area of the same district. A top police officer said Shopian was on the radar of security agencies to ensure that top leadership of militants is wiped out. “During summers, dense apple orchards and nearby forests give militants an advantage as they often give a slip to security forces when CASOs are launched,” he said. However, the officer said that with new strategies of security forces in recent years, militants are finding it hard to survive in Shopian now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gunfight-breaks-out-between-militants-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-969809.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Rifle snatching bid foiled in Shopian, one held||A rifle snatching bid by suspected militants was foiled at a branch of Jammu and Kashmir in southern Shopian district on Saturday. One among the accused involved in the act has been arrested by the police on the spot. A police official said that unidentified militants tried to snatch a 12 bore rifle from a guard of J&K Bank branch, Imam Sahib in Shopian. However, he said, the guard entered into a scuffle with the assailants following which one among them was arrested on the spot. He said security forces have rushed to the spot and a search operation has been launched to nab the other accussed. "Police is examining the CCTV footage of the bank to identify and nab the culprits,” the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rifle-snatching-bid-foiled-in-shopian-one-held-969822.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Local BJP leader shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur; 3 detained||A 52-year-old local BJP leader, a contestant in the panchayat elections in Narayanpur in Uttar Pradesh, was shot dead while he was returning home after attending a public meeting, police said on Saturday. Three people were detained following the killing of Brijesh Singh on Friday night in the Moglaha area. The fourth accused is at large, they said. Singh was shot around 11 pm and was rushed to the BRD Medical College, where doctors declared him dead, police said. Based on a complaint from Singh's family members, a case was registered at the Gulriha police station and Sunil Srivastav, Vinay Srivastav and Ramsamujh were detained on Saturday, they said, adding that teams have been formed to nab Pawan Srivastav. Panchayat elections will be held across Uttar Pradesh in four phases on April 15, April 19, April 26 and April 29. Counting of votes will be done on May 2. On the probe into the case, Gorakhpur Senior Superintendent of Police Dinesh Kumar P on Saturday said, "It is very early to say anything, but police have started investigating the matter and are collecting clues, and very soon the case will be solved." The officer also said that there are no previous instances of Singh filing a complaint against those detained. Singh had suffered bullet injuries to his head and chest, police said. Singh was the sector in-charge of the BJP and also a former village head of Narayanpur. He was contesting the elections for the post of village head as the seat was declared unreserved this year. Following the killing, the BJP leaders family members and relatives staged a protest, demanding the immediate arrest of the assailants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/local-bjp-leader-shot-dead-in-uttar-pradeshs-gorakhpur-3-detained-969846.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Minor SC girl dies by suicide after gang-rape in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut||A minor girl, belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC), died by suicide allegedly after she was gang-raped by four youths in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut district. According to the police sources here, the minor, a 10th standard student at a local school, was on her way home after her tuition classes when she was kidnapped by four youths, one of whom was her classmate, on Friday. The victim was taken to an abandoned house in the village where she was gang-raped by them, sources said. The minor narrated the incident to her parents on reaching home and later locked herself in a room before allegedly consuming some poisonous substance She was rushed to the hospital where she died a little later, sources said. Police said that she has left a suicide note in which she named two of the four accused. ''Both the named accused have been arrested...we are trying to trace the other two, who are absconding,'' said a senior police official in Meerut. The family members, however, claimed that the victim was 'poisoned' by the culprits. The police said that the suicide note purportedly written by the victim would be examined by the experts to ascertain if it was her handwriting. The incident triggered sharp reactions from the Opposition parties, which accused the Yogi Adityanath government of failing to control crimes against women in the state. ''This government has failed completely on the law and order front...incidents of crimes against women have risen sharply under this regime,'' said senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Sunil Singh Sajan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-sc-girl-dies-by-suicide-after-gang-rape-in-uttar-pradeshs-meerut-969848.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Congress MLA's son booked for alleged rape in Madhya Pradesh||Police here have registered a case of rape against the son of a Congress MLA in Madhya Pradesh after a woman Youth Congress leader accused him of sexually assaulting her on the pretext of marriage, an official said on Saturday. While the legislator termed the complaint against his son as false, the state unit of the Youth Congress has formed a committee to probe the woman's allegations. "The FIR against the Congress MLA's son was registered on Friday evening after a 28-year-old woman lodged a complaint against him," an official of Women's Police Station in Indore said. "The complainant, who is associated with the Youth Congress, alleged that the accused raped her in February this year on the pretext of marrying her," the official said. The woman leader's allegations against the MLA's son are being investigated and a search for the accused is underway, the official added. When contacted, the MLA said, "The woman leader has filed a false case of rape against my son. She has been trying to extort money from him since long." "My son was already apprehensive that the woman leader might file a false case of rape against him. Therefore, he had written to the office of Indore Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police on April 1 (Thursday), expressing apprehensions about it," he said. When asked about it, DIG Manish Kapuriya said, "Police are also looking into the apprehensions expressed by the MLA's son against the woman leader. Appropriate legal action will be taken on the basis of facts during the course of probe." Meanwhile, state Youth Congress president Vikrant Bhuria told PTI that he has formed a three-member committee to conduct an internal investigation at the organisation level in this alleged rape case and sought a report within a week. "Two women leaders and one male leader are part of this committee, which will investigate all the aspects sensitively," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mlas-son-booked-for-alleged-rape-in-madhya-pradesh-969850.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Busy on phone, nurse vaccinates woman twice within 5 minutes||A nurse, who was allegedly busy talking to someone on a phone, vaccinated a woman against coronavirus twice within a span of five minutes in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur Dehat district, about 125 kilometres from Lucknow, on Saturday. The incident happened at a Covid Vaccination Centre at Marauli in the district, according to the sources. Sources said that the woman, a resident of a nearby village was about to be vaccinated by the Auxiliary Nursing Midwife (ANM) when the latter's mobile phone started ringing. The ANM, while speaking on the phone, vaccinated the woman and went back to bring another dose apparently for the next person. The woman, however, kept sitting there as she had not been asked to go, sources said. The ANM returned with a fresh dose and without realising that it was the same woman, whom she had vaccinated earlier, inoculated her again. She was still talking on the phone. The ANM realised her mistake, when the woman asked her about the second dose. The woman was kept under observation for a few hours before being allowed to leave, the officials said. The district administration has ordered a probe into the matter. The CMO of the district said that stern action would be taken against the ANM if she was found to be lax. The administration has also barred the vaccination duty employees from carrying mobile phones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/busy-on-phone-nurse-vaccinates-woman-twice-within-5-minutes-969885.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Farmers protesting against Haryana CM lathi-charged; Khattar's chopper landing site shifted||Farmers on Saturday held a protest against Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Rohtak, resulting in a lathi-charge by police and prompting the authorities to shift the site for the landing of his chopper. According to an official, a police personnel was injured in the incident. The protesters said an elderly farmer was also injured in the melee. Farmers had gathered outside a private university where the CM’s chopper was to land. Khattar was to attend a condolence meet in memory of Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma’s father. Heavy police security arrangements were made outside the university with barricades put up to stop protesters, said officials. Farmers were adamant on heading towards the university and tried to force their way through police barricades, resulting in a mild lathi-charge by police. Police personnel were pelted with stones. One of the police personnel was injured in the incident, said an official. An elderly farmer was also injured in the lathi-charge by police, the protesting farmers claimed. Khattar's chopper landed at an alternate helipad at the Police Lines in Rohtak, the official further said. Farmers have been opposing leaders of the BJP and its alliance partner JJP over the Centre's three farm laws. Farmers had on Thursday held a protest against Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala outside the Hisar airport. Later, protesting against the lathi-charge, farmers at Jind’s Kandela village blocked the Jind-Chandigarh National Highway. The blockade was lifted by them on being convinced by area police officials. The farmers alleged that the government is deliberately targeting their leaders. Om Prakash, a former sarpanch, said farmers have decided to oppose public programmes of ruling coalition leaders till their demands are not met. He said farmers were peacefully protesting against the chief minister when they were lathi-charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protesting-against-haryana-cm-lathi-charged-khattars-chopper-landing-site-shifted-969900.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Union Home Ministry slams reports linking its letter on human trafficking to 'unrelated' issue of farmers' stir||The Union Home Ministry on Saturday termed media reports linking its letter to the Punjab government on the plight of 58 “bonded labourers” rescued in the state to the farmers' agitation "distorted" and "misleading" and said no motive should be ascribed to a routine communication over law and order issues. The ministry said a section of media has erroneously reported that the ministry has written the letter to Punjab levelling “grave charges” against the farmers of the state. “These news reports are misleading and present a distorted and highly editorialised opinion of a simple observation about a socioeconomic problem emerging from four sensitive border districts of Punjab over a period of two years, which has been brought to the attention of this ministry by the concerned Central Armed Police Force,” the home ministry said in a statement. The home ministry said, “Firstly, no motive can be ascribed to a letter issued by this ministry to a particular state or states as this is part of routine communication over law and order issues”. The ministry said the letter has also been forwarded to the Secretary, Union Ministry of Labour and Employment with a request to carry out a sensitisation exercise in all states to check the duping of vulnerable victims at the hands of unscrupulous elements. “Secondly, some of the news reports about the letter have juxtaposed in a totally unrelated context to conclude that the MHA has framed 'grave charges' against the farmers of Punjab and has also connected this with the ongoing farmers' agitation,” the statement said. Farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting on the borders of Delhi against three central agri laws since late November, with the deadlock persisting even after several rounds of talks. The home ministry said the letter clearly and only states that “human trafficking syndicates” hire such labourers and they are “exploited, paid poorly and meted out inhuman treatment” besides luring them with drugs to extract more labour, affecting their “physical and mental health”. “Keeping in view the multi-dimensional and overwhelming enormity of the problem, this ministry has only requested the state government(s) to take suitable measures to address this serious problem,” the statement said. In its communication dated March 17, the home ministry has conveyed to the Punjab government that 58 mentally challenged people belonging to Bihar and UP were found to be working as "bonded labourers" in the border districts of the state and asked it to take appropriate action to deal with the "serious" problem. In the letter to the Chief Secretary of Punjab, the home ministry said the Border Security Force (BSF) has found that these 58 people, who were brought to Punjab with the promise of good salary but exploited, were given drugs and forced to work in inhuman conditions once they reached Punjab. The home ministry said the BSF has informed that these labourers were apprehended from the border areas of Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Abohar in Punjab in 2019 and 2020. The Opposition Shiromani Akali Dal, which had snapped ties with the BJP-led NDA over the issue of agri laws, had on Friday questioned the Centre's missive, alleging it was an attempt to defame the farmers of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-home-ministry-slams-reports-linking-its-letter-on-human-trafficking-to-unrelated-issue-of-farmers-stir-969906.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Angry at God, vagabond throws stones at temple in Delhi; arrested||Holding a grudge against God for giving him a life of vagabond, a 28-year-old man allegedly threw stones and bricks at a temple in west Delhi's Punjabi Bagh on Saturday, police said. The man identified as Vicky Mal has been arrested, they said. Ranjeet Pathak, the priest at Vaishno Mata Mandir, found that two statues of Lord Shiva, which were kept in an open area of the temple, were broken Saturday morning. Stones and brick pieces were also found lying inside the temple premises, police said. During investigation, police analysed CCTV footage and found that Mal, who worked as a ragpicker, was behind the incident. The accused used to work with his father before the coronavirus lockdown. His father later went back to Motihari in Bihar. Mal started holding grudge against God for giving him the life of a vagabond, a police officer said. An FIR was registered against the accused under IPC sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), he said, adding that further investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/angry-at-god-vagabond-throws-stones-at-temple-in-delhi-arrested-969908.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Girl sets herself ablaze after repeated molestation by minor, dies: Police||A 15-year-old girl who had set herself ablaze in a village under Sumerpur police station area after allegedly being molested by a boy, succumbed to her injuries in a Kanpur hospital on Saturday, police said. The girl had been rushed to the Kanpur hospital for specialised treatment as she had received severe burn injuries on Tuesday, they said. Hamirpur Superintendent of Police Narendra Kumar Singh said the class IX student had set herself on fire on Tuesday over repeated harassment and molestation by a 16-year-old boy. On the complaint of the victim's family, a case was registered against the minor boy, who was held on Thursday and produced before a juvenile court which sent him to a juvenile home, the SP said. Following the girl’s death, an additional section of murder would be included in the case against him, the SP said. The girl's family had earlier alleged that the boy often used to tease and harass her and had done the same on Monday. They had also accused the police of letting the boy go only after warning him. Disturbed by repeated harassments and molestation, the girl had sprinkled kerosene on herself around 8 am on Tuesday and set herself ablaze, the girl’s family members said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/girl-sets-herself-ablaze-after-repeated-molestation-by-minor-dies-police-969909.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||2 illegal arms factories unearthed in Mathura ahead of panchayat polls, 2 held||Ahead of panchayat polls in the state, the Uttar Pradesh Police has unearthed two illegal arms factories here and arrested their owners, officials said on Saturday. The factories were being run a father–son duo, residents of Jarela village under Barsana Police Station, but they had set up the illegal units in a forested area in nearby Hathia village to avoid getting caught by police, they said. “Acting on a tip off, the police team raided the factories and arrested the duo,” Superintendent of Police (Rural) Shrish Chandra told reporters. Guns, pistols, cartridges and instruments used to prepare illegal arms were seized from the factories, officials said. A hunt has been launched to catch others involved in the racket, they said. The panchayat elections will be held across Uttar Pradesh in four phases on April 15, 19, 26 and 29. Counting of votes will be done on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-illegal-arms-factories-unearthed-in-mathura-ahead-of-panchayat-polls-2-held-969929.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||SAD to hold statewide protests against Punjab govt on April 5||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday said it will hold protests against the Congress-led Punjab government across the state on April 5 over rising power tariffs, higher taxes on fuel and law and order situation. The decision was taken by the party in a meeting of its core committee, the highest decision taking body of the SAD. Party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal presided over the meeting. “The protests will focus on the back-breaking hike in power tariffs from Rs 5 to Rs 10 per unit, unbearable state taxes accounting for the bulk of the hike in the prices of diesel and petrol and the denial of post-matric scholarship to SC students,” said a party statement. The protests will also focus on the “total breakdown” of the law and order machinery in the state, it said. Badal's principal advisor Harcharan Bains said the party condemned the alleged attack on farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and sought a judicial probe into it. Some people on Friday had thrown stones at a cavalcade of Tikait, damaging his car's rear windshield when he was going to address a rally in Rajasthan's Alwar district. Bains said the party’s core committee slammed the Centre for its missive to the Punjab government over the use of bonded labour in its border villages. A resolution describing it as "an attempt to defame state farmers" was also passed. The party also condemned Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for maintaining a “conspiratorial silence over the Home Ministry's malicious communication”. A resolution was also passed, accusing the chief minister of “abdicating his constitutional obligations for the maintenance of peace, communal harmony and law and order”. The SAD core committee also delegated full powers and authority to the party president to take all decisions with regard to the forthcoming elections of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-to-hold-statewide-protests-against-punjab-govt-on-april-5-969952.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Former J&K bank chairman arrested in illegal allotment of tender case||Former chairman of J&K Bank Parvez Ahmad Nengroo was arrested on Saturday in connection with a case of illegal allotment of tenders for housekeeping that led to a loss of crores of rupees to the bank, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) said. The ACB had registered a case in October last year against a private firm and three former bank officials, including Ahmad, for allegedly causing a Rs 6.92-crore loss to the bank by not following tendering rules.    “Nengroo has been arrested by ACB in connection with the investigation of a case that pertains to illegal allotment of tenders by Jammu and Kashmir Bank regarding housekeeping, to a Mumbai based Company (M/S SILA Solutions Pvt. Ltd) by not following proper tendering norms as provided in the contract,” the ACB said in a statement here.      The statement said due to not following the proper tendering processes, improper ATM cleaning, undue addition of the Management Fee and other omissions and commissions detected during the investigation, the J&K Bank suffered losses worth crores of rupees from the date of award of the contract.     Besides this case,  the ACB said charge sheets in connection with another case registered a year earlier have already been filed before the Anti-Corruption Court against Nengroo.     The case relates to illegal appointments in J&K bank which suffered a loss of more than Rs 250 crore on account of salary paid to these illegal employees over the period.       Besides Nengroo, the ACB has named Sahil Vora and Rishabh Vora, directors, SILA Solutions Pvt Ltd, Surjeet Singh Seghal, the then executive president of J&K Bank (now retired) and Feroz Ahmad, the then assistant vice-president, in the tendering fraud||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-jk-bank-chairman-arrested-in-illegal-allotment-of-tender-case-969964.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||52 IIT Jodhpur students test positive for Covid-19 during the week||A total of 52 IIT-Jodhpur students have tested positive for coronavirus infection over the last week following their return to the institute to attend practical classes, an official said on Saturday. The students, most of them from Gujarat and Odisha, had returned to the institute to attend their mandatory laboratory sessions after undergoing online classes in their home towns, he added. All these Covid-positive students have been quarantined and made to stay in one of the hostels on the IIT campus, an IIT spokesperson said, adding all anti-Covid precautions are being taken. Two hostel buildings have been reserved for keeping the students and staff, both academic and non-academic, after the contact-tracing of the positive students, spokesperson Amardeep Sharma said. He said with the coronavirus infection again on the rise, the IIT administration started taking utmost precaution to keep the campus free from the infection amid the students returning to the campus. “We ensured that every student coming from home went to a designated isolation ward directly from the main gate, where the swab samples of students with symptoms were taken and sent to AIIMS for the tests,” said Sharma. “If the samples tested positive, we sent the student directly to the super-isolation ward from the isolation ward for the next 14 days,” he added. Considering the seriousness of the situation, Jodhpur Divisional Commissioner Rajesh Sharma and Deputy Director (Medical & Health) Sunil Kumar Bisht visited the campus on Saturday afternoon and reviewed the situation and arrangements undertaken by the IIT administration. “We have asked for a mandatory 10-day quarantine for every student coming from home and have also given directions for random sampling of the staff,” said Sharma. He said as the students from hostels have been reported positive, directions of contact tracing have also been issued to the IIT administration. IIT, Jodhpur has 11 hostel buildings on its campus and with students coming in hoards for practical sessions, the administration has been taking every possible measure to keep the situation under control, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/52-iit-jodhpur-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-during-the-week-969965.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi records over 3,500 Covid-19 cases for second day in a row, 10 deaths||Delhi recorded over 3,500 coronavirus cases for the second consecutive day on Saturday, while the positivity rate rose to 4.48 percent, according to the health department. With the new infections, the number of cumulative cases rose to 6,72,381, while 10 more deaths took the toll to 11,060. The city had reported 3,594 cases on Friday, the highest daily count this year. The positivity rate rose to 4.48 percent from 4.11 per cent a day before, amid a massive surge in cases recorded over the past few weeks. On December 3, the city had recorded 3,734 cases while on December 4 the count was 4,067, according to official data. Delhi had reported 2,790 cases on Thursday, 1,819 on Wednesday, 992 on Tuesday, 1,904 cases on Monday and 1,881 cases on Sunday. It had reported 1,558 cases on Saturday, 1,534 cases last Friday, 1,515 cases last Thursday, 1,254 cases a day before that and 1,101 cases last Tuesday, when it had crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time since December 24. The number of active cases rose to 12,647 from 11,994 a day before. A total of 79,617 tests, including 57,296 RT-PCR tests, were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said. The number of people under home isolation rose to 6,569 from 6,106 a day ago. The containment zones rose to 2,618 from 2,338 on Friday, it said. The number of cumulative cases as on January 1 had stood at over 6.25 lakh and the total fatalities were 10,557. The number of daily cases had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. However, the daily cases began to rise again in March and have been steadily increasing since then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-over-3500-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row-10-deaths-969971.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||All journalists in Uttarakhand can now get Covid-19 vaccine||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Saturday declared journalists as frontline workers and allowed Covid-19 vaccination of all journalists without any age restrictions. Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat declares journalists as frontline workers, allows COVID-19 vaccination of all journalists without any age restrictions: State govt More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-journalists-in-uttarakhand-can-now-get-covid-19-vaccine-969975.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||PFI case: Chargesheet filed against eight for sedition and other offences||Eight people linked to Popular Front of India, including its students' wing leader K A Rauf Sherif and Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, were chargesheeted by Uttar Pradesh police's Special Task Force in a court here for sedition, criminal conspiracy, funding of terror activities and other offences. Five of the accused -- Campus Front of India's (CFI) national general secretary Sherif, CFI national treasurer Atikur Rahman, Delhi CFI general secretary Masud Ahmed, Kappan and Mohammed Alam, who is a member of the CFI and the PFI, were present in the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Anil Kumar Pandey. Two other accused-- Anshad Badruddin and Firoz Khan -- attended the hearing through video conferencing. “The STF has also filed a chargesheet against accused Danish," district government counsel Shiv Ram Singh said. Defence counsel Madhuban Dutt said that the 5,000-page chargesheet has been filed against the eight accused and they will consider moving the high court after going through it. The accused have been chargesheeted under Indian Penal Code sections of 153 (A) (Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 124(A) (sedition), 295 (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings...) and 120(B) (criminal conspiracy), according to the defence counsel. They have also been charged with sections 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) related to raising funds for terror acts and various sections of the IT Act. The court has fixed the next hearing on May 1. Kappan along with Rahman, Masud Ahmed and Alam was arrested in October last year while they were heading to Hathras where a 19-year old Dalit woman had allegedly been gang-raped and murdered. The Enforcement Directorate had in February filed its first chargesheet against the PFI members on money laundering charges, claiming they wanted to "incite communal riots and spread terror" in the aftermath of the Hathras gang rape case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pfi-case-chargesheet-filed-against-eight-for-sedition-and-other-offences-969980.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Vaccinate everyone above 45 years in Punjab by end of April: Chief secretary||Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday directed the health department to vaccinate all persons above 45 years of age within this month aimed at containing the further spread of the second wave of Covid-19 in the state. She directed the administrative secretary in-charge of each district to oversee the planning and response system. Chairing a meeting to review the Covid vaccination and management in the state here, the chief secretary directed all deputy commissioners, police commissioners and district police chiefs to focus on reducing the mortality rate and make efforts to increase the contact tracing, testing as well as to enhance the vaccination drive exponentially to take Punjab out of the present critical situation. Mahajan stressed that the Covid norms should be strictly enforced to contain the number of cases, which increased exponentially in the past week in Punjab, according to an official statement. She expressed concern on the reports that the majority of people were still not wearing masks at social, political and religious gatherings, which could turn the Covid situation more disastrous in the state. Mahajan was informed that approximately 10 lakh people have been inoculated so far and the state's plans were to vaccinate 32 lakh citizens in the coming two weeks. She instructed the state machinery to increase testing capacity to 60,000 tests per day so that the Covid situation could be brought under control. Mahajan directed the district administrations to collect samples of Covid-19 affected patients at the earliest and provide results as soon as possible so that the positive patients should make themselves quarantined immediately. She desired that the doctors and health workers should visit the patients in isolation and proper guidance should be provided to the patients whether there was a need for any medication and further investigations. The chief secretary asked all the district administrations to rope in non-governmental organisations and other civil society groups for motivating the people to take the jab without any hesitancy. Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal, said the doctors were directed to upload the sample and vaccination data on the Covid portal on a real-time basis and the messages should be sent to the beneficiaries so that they could reach the vaccination sites in time. He unveiled the six pillars -- containment and surveillance, testing, treatment, vaccination, citizen communication and information management to win the battle against Covid-19. He disclosed that around 80 per cent of Covid cases in Punjab in the second wave have been found infected with the UK strain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccinate-everyone-above-45-years-in-punjab-by-end-of-april-chief-secretary-969981.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||Tulip Garden in J&K reverberates with music as six-day festival begins||Sandwiched between Zabarwan Hills and the picturesque Dal lake, Asia's largest Tulip Garden here reverberated with music as famous singers, including rapper Badshah, mesmerised the audience with some popular numbers on Saturday at the beginning of a six-day festival. The 'Tulip Festival' was thrown open by Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha in presence of Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan at the majestic Tulip Garden which was opened for visitors last month after two years. Hundreds of visitors, locals as well as tourists, flocked the garden on the first day of the festival amid an almost full bloom of the tulip bulbs to be a part of the festival organised by Tourism and Floriculture departments. The 30 hectare-garden presented a colourful look as 15 lakh tulip bulbs of various colours and 62 varieties captivated the visitors. Several singers, including local ones, from the Union Territory performed some of the famous numbers, enthralling the audience. But it was singer and rapper Badshah who stole the show and hearts. Badshah treated the audience to many of his numbers, including his famous track "abhi toh party shuru hui hai", drawing a huge applause and whistles from them. For many visitors it was a double treat – to visit Asia's largest Tulip Garden and to see one of their favourites perform. "It is such a treat for us. We knew there was some festival, but we never imagined we would see Badshah perform in front of us,” Gauri, a tourist, said. The tourist said the festival made their visit to Kashmir special. "I will cherish this visit for long. It was a dream to come here and seeing all this beauty and being a part of this celebration is something I will remember and cherish for long,” she said. Another tourist, Mahi from Dehradun, said she had heard a lot about the tulip garden but found it better than her expectations. "This is such a beautiful place. We have enjoyed it a lot,” she said, adding that the festival was an added bonus. A host of activities, including cultural activities, musical evenings, will be held during the festival, officials said. On the sidelines of the festival, various stalls have been set up to display and promote the rich traditions, culture, cuisines and crafts of the valley, they said. This has been done so that the tourists become familiar with the valley's rich culture and values, the officials said. They said the festival presents a unique opportunity to display the diverse culture and cuisine of Jammu and Kashmir. Speaking on the occasion, the Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor said his administration is taking several steps to increase the footfall of tourists to the Union Territory. He said more plants and varieties would be added to the garden in the coming year to extend the duration for which the garden remains open. Sinha said many new destinations are being opened up for tourists to extend their stay in Jammu and Kashmir. Appealing to the tourists and filmmakers to visit and shoot in the valley, Sinha assured them of a secure environment and all the support. Kerala Governor Khan said not only is Kashmir the most beautiful place in the world, people, their thoughts and their vision is beautiful as well. "This is the people's legacy which they have inherited from the great Reshis as the valley is the land of Sufi Reshis who have given Kashmiri people a rich culture, tradition and ethos,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tulip-garden-in-jk-reverberates-with-music-as-six-day-festival-begins-969992.html
03-04-2021||North and Central||AAP, BJP spar over parking rate hike proposal by SDMC||The AAP Saturday alleged the BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation is "looting people" by proposing to raise parking rates, a claim the saffron party termed "misleading". Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson and MLA Atishi claimed the SDMC wants to increase the parking rate from Rs 20 to Rs 40 per hour, exhibiting how they are repeatedly coming up with policies to unnecessarily increase tax rates. "In the last one year, the BJP-ruled South MCD has brought such proposals to increase parking rate for the 10th time to loot money from the public," Atishi said. She charged the BJP is doing so as it knows they have just one year left in office to "loot public money and indulge in corruption" before they are ousted from power in the next civic body polls. "The Aam Aadmi Party demands that the South MCD immediately withdraw the proposal to double the rate of parking and stop looting the public," she said. Reacting to the charges, Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor asked Atishi to stop "misleading" people on the issue of parking charges as they have not been increased in general by SDMC. "A multi-level parking has been constructed by the SDMC near the Green Park Market and to encourage its use, the rates of parking on the Green Park Road have been increased, and that too as per Hon'ble Supreme Court's directive. "Parking on roads is a menace in Delhi which apart from creating jams often causes street fights. To end these problems, MCDs despite financial constraints are working on plans to construct more & more multi-level parkings,” Kapoor said. It is the need of the hour that wherever multi-level parkings are constructed parking of vehicles on roads be discouraged and only emergency vehicles and those of public utility like auto-rickshaws and cabs be allowed to park, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-bjp-spar-over-parking-rate-hike-proposal-by-sdmc-970022.html
03-04-2021||Opinion||How pandemics change the course of history||By Stephen Mihm When Covid-19 first arrived last year, everyone’s go-to historical parallel was the 1918 influenza pandemic. Precisely because it was so fleeting, it’s hard to find evidence that it caused a sweeping reorientation of everyday life. In its wake, most people simply forgot what happened. Other global pathogens stayed longer and had much bigger impacts on society.Consider what followed the double-shot of diseases that hit the Roman Empire: the Antonine Plague, which raged between the years of 165 and 180, and the Cyprian Plague, which hit in 249 and lingered into the 260s. At least one or both of these are believed to be ancestors of modern-day variola virus, better known as smallpox. When these plagues arrived, Christianity was a fringe religion. The sociologist and religious scholar Rodney Stark has argued that the response to the outbreak among this small sect helped propel Christianity to dominance, destroying the older, pagan faiths along the way. Stark contends that unlike pagans, who fled, Christians responded to the disease with religious charity. They nursed the sick, pagan and Christian alike. They offered a compelling case for a better religion by proselytizing while providing the kind of palliative care – food, water and basic comforts – that often made the difference between living and dying. Stark’s research suggests that the Christians – especially younger, childbearing women -- basically outlived their pagan counterparts; they also converted many of the survivors. Consider the fact that state-sanctioned religions basically left people to die, and the reasons for the meteoric rise of Christianity in this period becomes all the more clear. The Black Death, or bubonic plague, killed off a quarter of Europe’s population in the 1300s, making it one of the worst outbreaks in human history. It also unleashed unspeakable violence against Jews. Many survivors fled to what is now Poland and other parts of Eastern Europe, setting in motion the next stage of the Jewish diaspora. This plague left behind more positive legacies, too. Though historians argue about the precise impact, the pandemic left feudal Europe with a serious shortage of peasant labor, elevating the bargaining power of the survivors. This had all manner of unanticipated effects, with the first minimum wage established in the pandemic’s wake as well as far more consequential challenges to the social order. Approximately a decade after the first wave of bubonic plague, popular revolts swept Europe. A recent study by medievalist Samuel Cohn found that these disturbances were not the work of people protesting food shortages or working conditions. Rather, the survivors’ demands were political, targeting the strictures of feudal life. The plague, he argues, begot what he calls “a new confidence on the part of peasants, artisans, and workers that they too could change the world.” More recent outbreaks of disease have been less catastrophic, but consequential nonetheless. Consider cholera, a bacterial disease that attacked the intestinal system, often killing victims in the space of hours. Though it originated in India, it did the most damage to industrial cities in the West, thriving in sewage-contaminated drinking water. Initially, public health officials didn’t understand the connection, thinking it was spread in the air by a mysterious “miasma.” In London, site of some of the worst cholera outbreaks, the oppressive smell of fetid sewage prompted the construction of an elaborate system of sewers to vent human waste from the city. As the new system took shape, the British physician John Snow figured out that cholera came from polluted drinking water, lending scientific imprimatur to the new sanitary system. As Snow’s theory gained currency, modern sewers became essential in the battle against the disease, and cities around the world began getting rid of their waste instead of letting it leech into their drinking water. If cholera gave us modern plumbing, tuberculosis inspired the building of “sunrooms” in residential homes across the U.S. Doctors prescribed “heliotherapy” as a way to “disinfect” the body, so Americans found ways to increase their UV exposure. This was also when tans became a mark of health and beauty – and when basking in the sun became a common pastime. Ironically, it was precisely the new emphasis on hygiene and sanitation that may have given rise to yet another epidemic disease: polio. When this disease began crippling and killing children in the early twentieth century, doctors noticed something odd: white, wealthy children tended to have the worst cases. One theory is that infants in poorer (and dirtier) environments encountered the polio virus while they were still protected by maternal antibodies – and got a very mild case. Kids growing up in super clean homes designed to protect them from germs like tuberculosis typically encountered polio later, when they had no maternal immunity. This theory has been challenged in recent years, but it highlights the degree to which the consequences of our encounters with microbes is neither predictable nor easily understood. In the case of Covid, it’s still far too early to grasp the full implications. If we’re lucky, historians in the twenty-fifth century will point to our encounter with Covid to explain the inexplicable demise of handshakes and the rise of elbow-bumping – or the fact it fueled the rise of a mysterious new religion known simply as “Zoom.” And if we’re not so lucky? Think of the Romans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-pandemics-change-the-course-of-history-969977.html
03-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls: Will 10.5% internal quota help AIADMK break DMK's bastion?||Ruling AIADMK's last-minute decision to provide 10.5 per cent internal reservation to Vanniyars, one of the most dominant communities in north Tamil Nadu, has turned the contest intense and interesting at the same time in the region. Though the decision has almost back-fired for the AIADMK in southern Tamil Nadu where many communities, including Piramalai Kallars are up in arms, the ruling party still believes it can reap electoral benefits in the northern region comprising 64 assembly constituencies spread across 11 districts. AIADMK coordinator and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, whose constituency Bodinayakanur is dominated by Piramalai Kallars, has reiterated once again that the 10.5 per cent reservation was “temporary in nature” and will be altered once data from the caste census is available.    There is a reason for AIADMK to believe that it can make inroads into the traditional DMK bastion – its alliance with PMK, an influential party among Vanniyars. The ruling party is pinning all its hopes on the vote transfer from PMK, which has a committed vote bank of around 5 per cent, to win seats in the region. Add to these, the perceived vote split by AMMK led by T T V Dhinakaran that has tied up with DMDK of actor Vijayakanth, which is influential in pockets. Quota counter-productive? However, things do not seem good for the ruling alliance. The quota issue has opened a Pandora's Box leading to potential counter-consolidation of other castes in the region that could threaten the AIADMK alliance's prospects despite PMK being on its side and Vanniyars overwhelmingly welcoming the internal reservation move. Even the PMK that never misses a chance to take credit is unusually silent. Its leaders are now seeking votes on the “achievements” of the AIADMK government and the humble background of the state's first “farmer CM.” But, PMK is working silently to ensure Vanniyars consolidate behind the alliance for the “historic decision,” but a counter-consolidation, which many say is inevitable, could negate any such gains. “The quota issue has led to counter-consolidation of other castes against Vanniyars in northern Tamil Nadu. The move to provide internal reservation to Vanniyars was bound to backfire and I feel it is causing much damage to the AIADMK-PMK alliance,” Prof. Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH. Lack of affirmation on the implementation of the internal reservation as reflected in statements by Panneerselvam has also created confusion among the people, Manivannan added. The quota politics and DMK's 2016 performance Writer and researcher Aazhi Senthilnathan opined that the quota issue might not help reap electoral gains for AIADMK alliance due to mishandling of the issue. “To begin with, the way the law was brought itself is wrong. The bill was introduced and passed in the Assembly only keeping in mind vote bank politics. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami took only the PMK into consideration while ignoring all other factors. They could have at least waited till the caste census was over,” writer and researcher Aazhi Senthilnathan told DH. Northern Tamil Nadu had mostly favoured DMK with the alliance led by the Opposition party winning 34 of the total 64 seats at the stake in the region, pushing the AIADMK with 29 seats to second position in 2016 assembly polls. Besides its traditional votes, the presence of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) in the alliance could result in Dalit consolidation behind the DMK – it did happen in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. VCK and PMK have had a long history of animosity and both parties do not see eye-to-eye. DMK has gone all out to project the quota as an “eyewash” by arguing that Vanniyars would lose many opportunities due to the internal reservation rather than any additional benefits. How will the region vote? DMK has also fielded the daughter and son-in-law of late PMK leader 'Kaduvetti' Guru against the PMK's father-son duo of Dr S Ramadoss, and Anbumani Ramadoss. Though their campaign has gained traction, it remains to be seen whether it will convert into votes for the DMK. Though AMMK is not “strong” in the region, the T T V Dhinakaran-led party could play the spoilsport in select constituencies due to “formidable candidates.” Its alliance partner, DMDK, wields influence in pockets in the region. These are other factors that could derail AIADMK's prospects. In districts like Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, and Ranipet, the DMK is banking on its traditional votes, while the potential counter-polarisation could work in its favour in Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Villupuram and Kallakurichi. In the Vanniyar and PMK bastion of Dharmapuri, the DMK has made the fight very intense with PMK president G K Mani sweating it out in Pennagaram, despite the 10.5 per cent reservation issue. In Kanchipuram, Kallakurichi, Dharmapuri, and Tiruvannamalai, the protests against Salem-Chennai Eight-way express lane could work in favour of the DMK, which has already promised it will not implement the project if it came to power. Farmers who refused to part with their land for the controversial “Green Corridor” project are campaigning against the ruling AIADMK. The region also has a sizeable Muslim population especially in Ranipet, Vellore, and Tiruppathur districts and their votes are likely to fall into the DMK's kitty – AIMIM of Asaduddin Owaisi could get a chunk of the Urdu-speaking Muslim votes in the Vaniyambadi assembly segment. In districts like Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, and Chengalpattu, located in proximity to Chennai, livelihood issues take the centre stage. Covid-19 lockdown and the government's “refusal” to help small businesses might work against the AIADMK regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-will-105-internal-quota-help-aiadmk-break-dmks-bastion-969748.html
03-04-2021||South||DMK to form next government in Tamil Nadu?||The Opposition alliance led by DMK is likely to form the next government in Tamil Nadu, an opinion poll by Thanthi TV, owned by the Daily Thanthi group, has shown. The opinion poll, final results of which were aired on Friday night, said DMK and its alliance partners are best suited to win 124 seats, leaving 52 to the ruling AIADMK combine. However, the poll said that there was an intense contest in 58 constituencies in the state, and did not project any winner for these seats. The poll, which was conducted between March 5 and March 28 in all 234 constituencies, also showed DMK President M K Stalin emerging as the top choice to hold the Chief Minister's post with 46 per cent voting for him. Incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami stood second with 40 per cent. According to the opinion poll, the DMK alliance is likely to win a majority of the seats in Chennai, South, and Central regions, while there was a “tough fight” between DMK and AIADMK in North and West regions. The poll projected bigwigs of AIADMK and DMK like Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam, and M K Stalin winning from their respective seats. It also showed AMMK chief T T V Dhinakaran, and MNM's Kamal Haasan engaged in an intense fight in Kovilpatti and Coimbatore (South). Several opinion polls have shown the DMK-led alliance winning the April 6 assembly polls in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-to-form-next-government-in-tamil-nadu-969794.html
03-04-2021||South||Centre approves four-laning of Tumakuru-Shivamogga highway||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has approved a revised estimate of a four-laning project of the Tumakuru-Shivamogga national highway (NH-206) with the cost of Rs 6398.02 crore. The Ministry has made four packages for the execution of four-laning works of the highways. The widening of the highway will be taken up under Bharatmala Pariyojana and it will be implemented as per Hybrid Annuity Mode (HAM) package, Union Road Transport and Highways  Minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted. Malandra to Karadi section estimated Rs 1364.14 crore (package 1), Karadi to Banavara section estimated Rs 1505.85 crore (package 2), Banavara to Bettadahalli Rs 1444.5 crore (package 3) and Bettadahalli to Shivamogga section four-laning works will be executed with the investment of Rs 2082.98 crore (package four). In the HAM model, National Highway Authority on India ( NHAI) will provide 40% of the total project cost. The balance of 60% is arranged by the developer. Toll-fee collection from the highways projects developed under the HAM model is the responsibility of the NHAI. Now in the country, most of the highways were built under the HAM model to expedite its execution, said an official in the Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-approves-four-laning-of-tumakuru-shivamogga-highway-969804.html
03-04-2021||South||Minors trashed, force-fed cow dung over suspicion of 'mango theft' in Telengana: Report||Two minor boys were brutally trashed by a group of men in Telengana on Thursday for allegedly breaking into their orchard for stealing mangoes. The minors were tied up, trashed, and forced to eat cow dung by the men who also filmed the violence. Two men were arrested on Friday after policed registered a complaint on Thursday night from one of the minor's mothers. It was a 'straightforward assault case' as per the Superintendent of Mahabubabad district, N Koti Reddy, reported The Indian Express. “We are verifying the role of two others who were present apart from the two who beat up the boys. These two persons have videographed the incident,” he added. The two guards who beat up the teenagers, Banoth Yakku and Banoth Ramulu, were arrested, confirmed the circle inspector of Thorrur town police station N Karunakar. “Assuming that the boys entered the orchard for stealing mangoes, the guards there tied them and beat them up. They forced them to eat cow dung and applied it to their body. They took the video of the boys and shared it. We are investigating the case,” he said. Charges slapped on the accused include section 342 (wrongful confinement), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the IPC, and section 75 (cruelty to a child) of the Juvenile Justice Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minors-trashed-force-fed-cow-dung-over-suspicion-of-mango-theft-in-telengana-report-969807.html
03-04-2021||South||DMK leader Kanimozhi tests positive for Covid-19||DMK Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to a hospital here, party sources said. Kanimozhi, who has been actively campaigning for the April 6 Assembly polls, has cancelled her programmes after testing positive for the virus, the sources said. Also the party's women's wing secretary, Kanimozhi has been admitted to a hospital here, they said. On Friday, she had toured southern regions, including Tirunelveli and Tenkasi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-leader-kanimozhi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-969810.html
03-04-2021||South||These women highlight social causes over politics in Kerala polls||A 40-year old woman hailing from a weak background taking on none other than Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at his home turf of Dharmadom in Kannur district is one among the three women in the Kerala Assembly electoral fray sending stronger social messages than political. While the mother of two minor sisters is contesting against the Chief Minister to protest against the alleged denial of justice by the government in the mysterious death following sexual assault of her daughters, K K Rema, who is contesting at Vadakara in Kozhikode, reminds society of political violence as her husband T P Chandrasekhar was brutally killed by a gang involving CPM local leaders to settle political vengeance. The mother of the sexual assault victim sisters hails from Walayar in Palakkad district of Kerala. The Dalit sisters aged 13 and nine were found hanging in their one-room thatched house in a gap of around 50 days on January 13 and March 4, 2017. Medical reports of the deceased indicated sexual assault. The accused included local CPM workers. Even as a POCSO case acquitted the accused, the Kerala High Court scrapped it and the case is now under CBI investigation. The mother has been demanding action against police officials who allegedly scuttled the probe. She had even tonsured her head as a mark of protest recently. “I am a very ordinary woman hailing from a weak background. I do not have any political ambitions. My decision to contest was just to get an opportunity to tell the society about the denial of justice to me,” she told DH. She also opted frock as her election symbol as a symbolic gesture to remind of her minor daughters. Some rights activists are actively backing her. Though the Congress considered backing her, the party later fielded a local leader.  Hardly 25 kilomteres from Dharmadom is Vadakara, where Revolutionary Marxist Party leader K K Rema is contesting, with the backing of the Congress. Her husband Chandrasekharan, who was a dissident CPM worker, was brutally murdered in 2012 by a gang involving CPM local leaders, allegedly with the knowledge of party top leaders, owing to political vengeance. She is taking on LDF candidate Manayath Chandran of the Loktantrik Janata Dal, and Rajesh Kumar of BJP. Rema had unsuccessfully contested in 2016 Assembly polls and secured over 20,500 votes. Lathika Subhash decided to contest as an independent candidate at Ettumannoor in Kottayam district after she was denied a seat by the Congress, even as Mahila Congress presidents were often given seats. Subash’s tonsuring of head in front of Kerala PCC office in Thiruvananthapuram as a mark of protest had caused much embarrassment to the Congress and the party came under criticism for allegedly sidelining women. She is reportedly gaining adequate support, which indeed is posing a threat to UDF candidate Prince Lukose of the Kerala Congress (Joseph). Meanwhile, the state is also witnessing the Indian Union Muslim League fielding a woman candidate after a gap of 25 years. Noorbeena Rasheed is contesting as IUML candidate at Kozhikode South constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/these-women-highlight-social-causes-over-politics-in-kerala-polls-969851.html
03-04-2021||South||2nd wave of Covid-19 spreading fast in Puducherry: Health official||An appeal was on Saturday made by the Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar to the people to adhere to safety protocols as, he said, the second wave of coronavirus is spreading fast here. In his video address, Kumar said the virus was spreading at an alarmingly large scale and people should not lower their guard. Basic measures such as wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distance should be followed. Kumar said a free Covid-19 vaccination camp was inaugurated earlier in the day by Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at the Venkateswara Medical College at Ariyur on the Puducherry-Villupuram route. As many as 1,000 people received the first dose of vaccine within three hours of commencement of the camp at 8 AM, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2nd-wave-of-covid-19-spreading-fast-in-puducherry-health-official-969869.html
03-04-2021||South||At 41.6 degrees Celsius Chennai reports hottest day this summer||For the month of April, the average temperature in Chennai is 34.5 degrees Celsius. However, at about 1.15 pm on Friday, the city's Nungambakkam automatic weather station reported a scorching 41.6 degrees Celsius. It was the first time this summer that the temperature in Chennai exceeded 40 degrees during the day. The rise in temperature, according to weather blogger Pradeep John, was caused by hot winds blowing from the Cuddapah, Rayalseema, and Anantapur belt. Also, strong offshore winds are delaying the arrival of the sea breeze in coastal areas such as Chennai, resulting in longer heating times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/at-416-degrees-celsius-chennai-reports-hottest-day-this-summer-969870.html
03-04-2021||South||Kerala polls: Battle heats up for ‘Gujarat of Kerala’ Nemom||BJP leaders hail Nemom as the "Gujarat of Kerala" and the party's iron fortress in a state where it is still trying to find its feet. The constituency of Nemom, a suburb located in Thiruvananthapuram district, is currently the lone seat of the BJP in the Kerala Assembly. BJP veteran and former Union Minister O Rajagopal had won the seat in the 2016 Assembly polls with 67,813 votes by defeating CPI(M)-LDF's V Sivankutty who had secured 59,142 votes. United Democratic Front candidate V Surendran Pillai (JD-S) had finished in a distant third position with 13,860 votes. To guard its bastion in Kerala, the saffron party has fielded senior leader and former Mizoram Governor Kummanam Rajasekharan this time around. The CPI(M) has announced its former MLA V Sivankutty as the candidate in Nemom. In 2011, Sivankutty had won with a margin of around 6,400 votes, beating Rajagopal who had secured 43,661 votes.  What makes the battle triangular this time is the Congress fielding Vatakara MP and son of veteran Congress leader K Karunakaran, K Muraleedharan from Nemom. Interestingly, Muraleedharan had defeated Rajasekharan from the Vattiyoorkavu constituency in the 2016 Assembly elections by a margin of over 7,400 votes. The constituency has been a disappointment for the Congress in the last two Assembly elections in 2016 and 2011 where votes secured by candidates of the Congress-led UDF stood at a distant third position. This had triggered allegations that the UDF had helped the BJP secure the seat. “The BJP won because we fielded a weak candidate from a party with no roots here. But things are different this time,” Muraleedharan told the publication. While the BJP is latching onto the ‘Gujarat of Kerala’ narrative for the constituency, the same hasn’t gone down well with its LDF and UDF rivals.  “We will not allow the BJP to convert Nemom into Gujarat, which is known for all the wrong reasons as opposed to Kerala that stands for progressive values,” said Congress’s Muraleedharan. “We all know what the BJP did to Muslims in Gujarat. Malayalis will never allow him (Rajasekaran) to fulfill his Gujarat dream in Nemom,” said CPI(M) candidate Sivankutty.  Kerala is set to go to polls on April 6 with the results being declared on May 2. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-battle-heats-up-for-gujarat-of-kerala-nemom-969876.html
03-04-2021||South||BJP, AIADMK workers held for distributing cash to voters||A total of 14 workers of two political parties were arrested for allegedly distributing cash to voters in two areas here on Saturday, police said. Based on information, the police went to an area in Coimbatore south constituency where they caught 12 BJP workers distributing the money to residents. A sum of Rs 46,000 was seized from them and six two-wheelers were impounded, the police said. In another incident, two AIADMK workers were held for distributing money in an area coming under Coimbatore north constituency, they said. A total of Rs 24,500 in cash was seized from their possession, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-aiadmk-workers-held-for-distributing-cash-to-voters-969901.html
03-04-2021||South||3 Kerala constituencies bordering Tamil Nadu to be sealed on polling day||The Election Commission on Saturday informed the Kerala High Court that three Assembly constituencies bordering Tamil Nadu will be sealed on the day of the state assembly elections on April 6. The EC said central forces would also be deployed in problematic booths in the three constituencies--Udumbanchola, Peerumedu and Devikulam Assembly seats in Idukki district. A submission in this regard was made when the court considered the petition filed by UDF candidates of these constituencies, seeking a direction to the Commission to seal the entry points of the constituencies through which vehicles enter through Tamil Nadu border and deploy central forces for protection in the problematic booths there. In their pleas, the candidates expressed apprehension that those people who have their names in electoral rolls in Tamil Nadu and Kerala may cast ballots in two states. In response to another plea filed by the UDF Candidate in Aroor Constituency (Alappuzha district), seeking videography of voting to detect bogus voting, the poll panel also informed the court that the same would be done on the day of voting. Considering the assurances given by the Election Commission, Justice N Nagaresh disposed of the petitions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-kerala-constituencies-bordering-tamil-nadu-to-be-sealed-on-polling-day-969904.html
03-04-2021||South||TN to intensify restrictions based on requirement to contain pandemic: Chief Secretary||The Tamil Nadu government said on Saturday it would implement necessary restrictions as per requirement following a spike in Covid-19 cases. Tamil Nadu, since March 5, has been witnessing a rise in fresh coronavirus cases and on April 2, the state had recorded 3,290 new infections, pushing the tally to 8,92,780 and deaths to 12,750. Chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan took part in a review meeting chaired by union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba along with senior officials on Friday. In an official release, Ranjan said the government was following all the steps as per the guidelines framed by the Centre towards controlling the spread of the virus. The impact of the virus was closely monitored on a daily basis and restrictions would be intensified as per the requirement, he said. Ranjan said the cabinet secretary during the review meeting issued necessary guidelines to 11 States which had reported a surge in new Covid-19 infections. Accordingly, it was decided in the meeting to bring down the Covid-19 positivity rate in states which had reported over 5 per cent. In Tamil Nadu, though the positivity rate has been below 5 per cent, it was decided to adopt 'increased and aggressive testing' in places which report higher Covid-19 infections. Steps are being taken to identify those people who were in contact with primary contacts and treat them in isolation if they had contracted the contagion, he said. Noting that residential complexes reporting more than three cases were declared as 'micro containment zones', he said till April 2 there were 846 such zones in the state. He said there was sufficient amount of beds, ventilators, medicines and personal protective equipment gear. To treat a Covid-19 patient without any delay, services of '108' ambulances was also utilised, he said,adding people should adhere to the Covid-19 protocol laid down by the government. Since March 16 the state has collected Rs 2.58 crore as penalties from people violating the protocol. On vaccination, Ranjan said those eligible (above 45) should get vaccinated. Till April 2, as many as 31.75 lakh people, including healthcare and frontline workers besides those engaged in poll related works and above 45, were vaccinated. Tamil Nadu has received 54.74 lakh vaccine doses from the Centre as of today, he said. On deaths caused by the virus, Ranjan said measures were taken to ensure that Covid-19 fatalities remain less in Tamil Nadu. The government has issued a circular to both government and private run hospitals to follow the 'treatment procedures' as suggested by an expert committee, comprising medical experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, towards reducing the deaths caused by Covid-19, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-to-intensify-restrictions-based-on-requirement-to-contain-pandemic-chief-secretary-969911.html
03-04-2021||South||Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll acid test for TRS, BJP, Cong in Telangana||The Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll would be an acid test for the ruling TRS, resurgent BJP and Congress-- with all three keen to prove their might as a win or defeat may script the strategy to be adopted by them for the Assembly polls in 2023. Though candidates from other parties and independents are in the fray for the Assembly segment which would go to the polls on April 17, the contest would be mainly between the three parties. The bypoll for the constituency was necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narsimhaiah who passed away in December last. The BJP, which won the Dubbak bypoll and a good chunk of divisions in the recently held Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls, is gearing up to show its strength by winning the Nagarjuna Sagar seat, while the ruling TRS is confident of retaining it. The saffron party has put up P Ravi Kumar as its candidate for the bypoll. The Congress announced the candidature of senior leader K Jana Reddy, who had served as Leader of Opposition in the previous Legislative Assembly, as its candidate.He lost from the same constituency in the 2018 Assembly polls. Jana Reddy is a seven time MLA from this segment. A win in the bypoll would act as a tonic for rejuvenation of the Congress which otherwise is in lacklustre state after successive defeats in the 2018 Assembly polls, Dubbak bypoll and GHMC elections. The TRS has announced Nomula Bhagat Kumarson of Narasimhaiah as its candidate. Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has already addressed a public meeting in the constituency on February 10. He launched several irrigation projects on that day in Nalgonda district under which the Nagarjuna Sagar segment falls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nagarjuna-sagar-bypoll-acid-test-for-trs-bjp-cong-in-telangana-969949.html
03-04-2021||South||Parishad polls boycott: TDP Chief Chandrababu Naidu faces dissent within party||Dissent is brewing in the Opposition TDP over party chief Chandrababu Naidu's decision to boycott the Zilla and Mandal Parishad polls scheduled on April 8. While senior leaders expressed their disagreement publicly, in many places the local leaders and candidates are said to be keen to remain in the fray. Soon after Naidu's “drastic decision,” former union minister and TDP politburo member Ashok Gajapathi Raju opined that the leadership “should have engaged in wider consultations with the party cadre before taking the call.” Vizianagaram district TDP leaders, including Raju's daughter Aditi Gajapathi Raju, reportedly said the party candidates would contest anyway. In East Godavari district, party Vice President Jyothula Nehru resigned from the post. “I am strongly in favour of contesting the polls. Such a boycott would weaken the party on the ground,” Nehru, a former MLA said while adding that he would however remain in the party. Though the TDP politburo had left the decision to Naidu, some of the senior leaders like former Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu are supposedly against the idea of shunning the polls altogether. The TDP, Janasena and other parties are demanding a fresh notification for the local body polls, alleging that the ruling YSRCP had resorted to violence and widespread intimidation disallowing other party candidates from filing nominations in March last year. The TDP complained to the SEC that an unusually high number of seats was thus marked as unanimously elected. The Janasena had moved the Andhra Pradesh High Court seeking a fresh notification. Nevertheless, Sawhney issued the poll schedule late Thursday, the day she took charge as the SEC. On Saturday, the state election commission filed a counter affidavit in the case in the high court, stating that the poll process was resumed as per the rules. The notification for the Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituencies and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies polls was issued in March last year and nominations were also filed. However, the polls could not be held at that time due to Covid-19. Barring the seats unanimously elected, polls are scheduled on April 8 for about 7,800 MPTC and ZPTC seats across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/parishad-polls-boycott-tdp-chief-chandrababu-naidu-faces-dissent-within-party-969950.html
03-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu elections: Will DMK hold on to its Chennai fort?||This metropolis was DMK's citadel even when AIADMK was helmed by late matinee idol M G Ramachandran until it was breached by J Jayalalithaa in 1991 and later in 2011. Riding on people's anger in the aftermath of the 2015 floods, the DMK put up an impressive show by winning 10 of the 16 seats at stake in the city, against its 2011 tally of two. And with no Jayalalithaa around, the DMK is working overtime to get back its bastion by fielding candidates in 15 seats, allotting only one constituency – Velachery – to ally Congress. DMK has much stakes in Chennai for some of the star candidates of the party like its President M K Stalin, and his son Udhayanidhi have entered the fray from here. While Stalin is seeking re-election from Kolathur, Udhayanidhi is testing his electoral fortunes from Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni, a constituency his grandfather and late DMK chief M Karunanidhi represented thrice in the Assembly. Thousand Lights is another constituency where BJP's Khushbu Sundar is taking on DMK's formidable Dr N Ezhilan, physician of Karunanidhi and a strong proponent of social justice, in the minority-dominated constituency. BJP has attached importance to Thousand Lights and Harbour, where the party has fielded candidates, with leaders like Amit Shah and J P Nadda campaigning. Livelihood issues have taken centre stage in Chennai this election with street vendors and small businesses taking a severe hit during the Covid-19 lockdown. Auto drivers and those who depend on daily wages to eke out a living feel the government did not do enough to help them during the pandemic. “My auto was lying idle for three months, and even when I began riding it, I did not make much money for a few months. All we got from the government was Rs 1,000 per month. We found the lockdown very difficult and the government's help was very minimal,” Arumugam, an autorickshaw driver in T. Nagar, said. Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) is also hoping to make inroads in the city as it feels young urban voters would support the party which scored more than 90,000 votes in all three Lok Sabha seats in 2019 polls. “Chennai will go back into the lap of the DMK. It was pretty clear even from the manner the ruling party gave away constituencies in the city to BJP and PMK, knowing fully aware that they will lose,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. While Stalin, former mayor Ma. Subramanian (Saidapet), Udhayanidhi, P K Sekar Babu (Harbour), and M K Mohan (Anna Nagar) look comfortable, there is intense fight in constituencies like R K Nagar, Royapuram, Virugambakkam, Mylapore, and T. Nagar. R K Nagar and Royapuram are strongholds of the AIADMK with Jayalalithaa herself representing the former in 2015 and 2016. Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar is banking on his “good image” and “welfare schemes” of the AIADMK government to get elected from Royapuram for the sixth time. In Mylapore, dominated by middle-class, AIADMK's incumbent R Natraj, retired DGP, is putting up a tough fight against the DMK nominee. AIADMK is pinning its hopes on T. Nagar as incumbent B Sathyanarayana is taking on J Karunanidhi, brother of DMK MLA J Anbazhagan who died of Covid-19..||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-elections-will-dmk-hold-on-to-its-chennai-fort-969976.html
03-04-2021||South||Row over SDPI support to UDF in Kerala's Manjeswaram||A controversy has erupted in Kerala over the decision of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), a political offshoot of Islamist outfit Popular Front of India (PFI), to support the Congress-led UDF in the Manjeswaram Assembly seat where BJP leader K Surendran is considered to be a top contender in the April 6 polls. Attacking the Congress, the BJP has asked the opposition party to reveal its stand on the issue. The saffron party threatened that the decision of the Congress to accept the support of the SDPI would have its echo in the Assembly polls in Assam. Addressing a poll meeting here seeking votes for Surendran in the segment bordering Karnataka, Union Minister Smriti Irani said the national leadership of the Congress will have to explain to the people of poll-bound Assam how it can take the support of an outfit which "waged a battle against the people of Northeast" in the Kerala election. The Congress and the UDF have not reacted to the development which unfolded after the SDPI said today it would support the candidate fielded by the UDF to ensure the defeat of BJP state president Surendran in the April 6 polls. Hitting out at the Congress, Irani said in 2012 the state government had informed the Kerala high court that "they (PFI) are the enemies of the state". She wondered how the Congress party could accept the support of such outfits in elections. "The Congress has to explain how a party which has launched a battle against the people of Assam and Northeast has become its friend," Irani said, apparently referring to the alleged role of the PFI in the violence that erupted in Assam during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in late 2019. SDPI state president Abdul Majeed Faizy said the party decided to support UDF candidate AKM Ashraf of the Muslim League to ensure the defeat of the BJP in the elections. Talking to PTI, he said a survey carried out by the SDPI in the constituency had revealed that extending support to the UDF candidate will ensure the defeat of Surendran in the constituency. "We have a very strong presence in Manjeswaram. Our party is active in 83 wards in the constituency. We contested only in 26 wards in Manjeswaram in the civic polls held last December and secured over 7800 votes from 26 wards," he said.  Faizy said despite having a growth in the area, the SDPI did not field its candidate in the Assembly elections to make sure that the BJP is defeated. When contacted, UDF Kasargod district convener and IUML leader C T Ahamed Ali said he was not aware of the development. Manjeswaram is one of the few constituencies in the state where a tight fight between the UDF and BJP is being witnessed. Congress ally IUML has fielded AKM Ashraf, who hails from the constituency, as the UDF candidate, while CPI(M) leader V V Rameshan is the LDF candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-sdpi-support-to-udf-in-keralas-manjeswaram-969983.html
03-04-2021||South||Poll campaign to stop in Puducherry at 7 pm on April 4||Campaign for the April 6 Assembly elections here should stop at 7 pm on Sunday, said the District Magistrate Purva Garg on Saturday. An order under section 144 Cr PC has been promulgated in this regard. However, there is no ban on door-to-door campaigns during the restricted period. This order has been given in keeping with the instructions of the Election Commission and the model code of conduct to ensure free and fair elections. Among other restrictions, there is a ban on unlawful assembly and movement, holding of public meetings, carrying of weapons, banners and placards by any person or parties. The Union Territory goes to single-phase election on April 6 simultaneously in all the 30 constituencies spread over Puducherry (23), Karaikal (5) and Mahe and Yanam regions (having one constituency each). A total of 324 candidates, who are either party-sponsored nominees or independents, are in the fray. The Union Territory has a total strength of 10,03,681 voters with 1,588 polling booths in Puducherry and the outlying regions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/poll-campaign-to-stop-in-puducherry-at-7-pm-on-april-4-969998.html
03-04-2021||South||Cong, CPI(M) not reacting on Sabarimala issue as they need votes, says Union Minister Pralhad Joshi||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday asked the CPI(M) and the Congress to make clear their stand on the Sabarimala issue and claimed there was total confusion among them over the matter and the two parties were not reacting as they need the votes. Joshi, who was in the state capital as part of the saffron party's electioneering, told the media that in the Sabarimala matter, the state and the national leadership of the Congress are on opposite sides. "Annie Raja of the CPI had stated that they stand by the action taken by the CPI(M) government. Means allowing the women is concerned, they will support it.This is what she has said." "And they are part of the government. What does Congress say on this? What does the CPI(M) government, who is leading the government, what do they say?" Joshi said. He said both the parties are totally confused. "They want the votes and don't want to react...In the Sabarimala matter, the KPCC and the national leadership of the Congress are on two sides. There is factionalism in the UDF and the LDF. In this scenario, the BJP has become the alternative for bringing development in the state," he said. He also attacked Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and said the communist leader was yet to answer the questions raised by Union Home Minister Amit Shah at a recent poll rally. Shah had asked Vijayan to explain whether the prime accused in the gold smuggling case was working in his office or not. Shah repeated the questions today at a poll rally in Wayanad district. Vijayan had said the people knew the answers to Shah's questions and asked why those who had sent the gold through diplomatic baggage was not arrested even after nine months. "The silence of the chief minister to the questions posed by the union home minister can be considered as the confession by him. The chief minister is unable to explain about the prime accused in the gold smuggling case. The people are expecting a reply from the CM. I demand Pinarayi Vijayan to reply," Joshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cong-cpim-not-reacting-on-sabarimala-issue-as-they-need-votes-says-union-minister-pralhad-joshi-970005.html
03-04-2021||South||Village priest planning to fight panchayat polls in UP goes missing: Police||A 60-year-old priest, planning to fight the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Panchayat elections, has gone missing from his village temple in the Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Saturday. They said the matter is also being investigated from the angle if he was abducted by his rivals. Muzaffarnagar Superintendent of Police (Rural) A K Shrivastava said priest Baba Hari Giri Maharaj of Shiv Temple in Sarnawali village under the Phugana police station area has gone missing since Saturday morning. He was in the temple last night but was nowhere to be found on Saturday morning, he said, adding the police have registered a "missing person" case and are investigating it. Deputy Superintendent of Police Sharad Chandra Sharma told PTI that the priest was also planning to file his nomination for the post of village head (gram Pradhan) in the upcoming panchayat elections. The police are also trying to ascertain if he was abducted due to his intention to fight the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/village-priest-planning-to-fight-panchayat-polls-in-up-goes-missing-police-970011.html
03-04-2021||State||Cyclist clocks 1 lakh km in 7 years||Anil Shet, who begun cycling as a way to keep himself fit, achieved a rare feat by covering one-lakh kilometre on his bicycle in past seven years. Shet says he never thought that his obsession to remain fighting fit will turn into a passion and bring him so far. “I purchased my first bicycle on January 15, 2014. Though I wanted to ride six kms initially, I ended up riding 20 kms with cyclist Shabari on Day One. Though I had fever on the day one, the body pain subsided over a period of time and I rode 50 kms within 10 days. From then one, the journey continued,” he added. He had purchased the bicycle to fight blood pressure and border line diabetes on the advice of his wife Dr Ramya, who is a dentist by profession. “Within six months of cycling my blood pressure came to normal,” he said. The passion of cycling also helped him to reduce his weight. With the help of Godfrey Pinto, he joined MACC (Mangalore Cycling Club). The regular morning rides and long rides on weekends, helped him in achieving this target. Bhaveesh had accompanied him on rides lasting more than 40,000 km and Dheeraj Hejmadi supported in all Club activities. He rode his bicycle to Kanyakumari and returned back with Shamlal in February 2018. In another feat, he rode 600-km non stop with Shivanand Rao, in 33 hours, which made him a ‘Super Randonneur’ in February 2018. “When I took the new bike home I never thought I would achieve this target of one lakh kilometers. When I completed 20,000 km in 2016, this was still a distant dream. I completed 50,000 kms in 2018 and 75,000 kms in December 2019 but I never thought I would achieve it so soon. Going forward, I will like to do relaxed rides of 20 kms to 30 kms per day in country side and guide more youngsters,” Shet said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cyclist-clocks-1-lakh-km-in-7-years-969718.html
03-04-2021||State||BEL pays second interim dividend of Rs 174 crore to Centre||Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) has paid a second interim dividend of 140% on its paid-up capital to the Government of India for the financial year 2020-21. M V Gowtama, chairman and managing director, BEL, presented the second interim dividend cheque for Rs 174,43,63,569.20, payable on the shares held by the President of India, to the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in New Delhi on March 30.  BEL has declared 140% per cent as the second interim dividend (Rs 1.40 per share) to its shareholders for the financial year 2020– 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bel-pays-second-interim-dividend-of-rs-174-crore-to-centre-969750.html
03-04-2021||State||Excise rakes in revenue of Rs 23,000 crore for 2020-21 fiscal||At a time when the government has been cash-strapped, the Excise department has been able to rake in a revenue of Rs 23,131 crore, which is over Rs 400 crore more than its revenue target for the year 2020-21. The budget had envisaged a revenue of Rs 22,700 crore for the fiscal as against Rs 21,583 crore revenue generated for the previous 2019-20 fiscal. A total of 583 lakh carton boxes of Indian made liquor (IML) and 237 lakh carton boxes of beer were sold across the state in 2020-21.    According to data available with the excise department, while the sales were low in the first half of 2020 owing to the lockdown, there was an increase in sales post-June. The department has seen an average revenue of about Rs 2,000 crore a month in the second half of the year. The government has fixed a revenue collection target of Rs 24,580 crore for the excise department for 2021-22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/excise-rakes-in-revenue-of-rs-23000-crore-for-2020-21-fiscal-969752.html
03-04-2021||State||Farmer dead in wild elephant attack in Sakleshpur||A farmer died in a wild elephant attack at Halekere village in the taluk late on Friday. The deceased is identified as Shivanna.  He was returning to the village from Jamnahalli, a nearby village, after attending the final rites of one of his relatives. According to the authorities, the elephant attacked him at 5 pm but the incident came to light on Saturday morning. Shivanna’s legs were broken in the attack. It has to be noted that man-animal conflict is rampant in the taluk and several people have lost lives. The villagers staged a protest demanding a permanent solution for the conflict. The villagers also demanded Rs 25 lakh compensation to the family members of the deceased. MLA H K Kumaraswamy issued a cheque of Rs 2 lakh to the family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmer-dead-in-wild-elephant-attack-in-sakleshpur-969907.html
03-04-2021||State||Notorious inter-district dacoit gang busted; 9 arrested||A gang of inter-district dacoits was busted and nine men involved in dacoity, robbery cases were arrested on Friday. With their arrest, police had cracked as many as 12 cases committed by them in different parts of the state including in Moodbidri, Bajpe, and Mulki police station limits. Police seized vehicles, valuables worth Rs 32.22 lakh from the dacoits, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police  N Shashi Kumar told mediapersons at Commissioners hall on Saturday. The seized properties included one MUV, two cars, one autorickshaw, 11 mobile phones, four two-wheelers, one air gun, 250 grams gold ornaments, two talwar, one iron rod, one iron lever, knife, chilly powder packet and wooden sticks. The arrested men were identified as Ravoof, Ramamurthy, Ashraf, Santhosh, Siddiq, Suman, Ramananda Shetty, Alokoya and Naveed. They would hire a vehicle and then project it as being stolen. By changing the nameplate of the vehicle, they used to commit dacoity, robbery, HBTs (House Break-in and Theft). After committing the offence, they used to flee with the vehicle. As they were in desperate need of money, they carried out series of offences in three police station jurisdictions, the Commissioner said. During interrogation, the men had revealed that after Covid-19 induced lockdown, they could not carry out HBTs as before. Inmates often stayed at home. The Commissioner said some of the accused men were ganja addicts and led a lavish lifestyle by visiting different tourist destinations. The majority of members in the gang were working as drivers, arranging visas for those who wish to travel abroad. The gang also had stolen a licensed revolver during a theft at a house in Arehalli and the revolver is yet to be seized. The airgun which was seized was stolen from a house in Poonjalkatte police station jurisdiction, explained the Commissioner. The arrested confessed to committing crimes in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Shivamogga districts. In fact, they had also carried out robbery cases in estates, godowns, in Bhadravathi, Shikaripura and Sagar, suspecting that black money was stashed in godowns.  The arrested were also involved in dacoity cases reported at Moodbidri, Karkala, Uppinangady, HBTs in Arehalli, Poonjalkatte and Vijayanagara police station jurisdiction last year. Four prime accused along with more than 20 people are yet to be arrested by the police. They would have taken part in more than 15 to 20 more cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/notorious-inter-district-dacoit-gang-busted-9-arrested-969922.html
03-04-2021||State||Hubballi's world’s longest railway platform waits for PM’s date for inauguration||South Western Railway officials are waiting for a date from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the world’s longest railway platform, construction of which has been completed at Shri Siddharoodha Swamiji Railway Station in Hubballi. Built at an estimated cost of Rs 115 crore, the 1505 metres-long platform 1 at the Hubballi station will take over the title of longest railway platform from Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur Railway Station (1366 meters) in the North Eastern Railway Zone. While the civic, electrical and signalling work on the longest platform has been completed, officials are racing against the time to give the final touches for the inauguration. “We are waiting for a response from the Prime Minister’s office for the virtual inauguration of the platform. From our side, we are fully ready to operate the longest platform, which can accommodate two trains at a time,” said SWR Zonal Chief Public Relation Officer Aneesh Hegde and added that the longest platform will be ‘divided’ into two (platform 1 and 8). While the SWR officials have sent applications to Limca books of record to add platform one as the longest railway platform in the world, they have so far not received official acknowledgment from the record keepers.  Nearly 400 labourers worked day-in and day-out to complete the Hubballi yard remodelling, which includes the extension of platform one from 550 meters to 1.5km and construction of additional two platforms. SWR Hubballi division is also constructing a third entry/exit point on Mantur Road to ensure that passengers access the sixth, seventh and eighth platforms. Sources said that work on the longest platform would not have missed the deadline (January 2021) had the pandemic not forced labourers from northern India to return home. The entire project of laying a new 7 km line, construction of three platforms, aligning of 62 new crossing points and others was completed in a record time of six months. The railway station had to be expanded vertically (not latterly like in many other places), as the Hubballi railway station is landlocked from all the sides and clearing of encroachments would have escalated the cost of the project several folds. Remodelling of the yard has meant that the Hubballi railway station has not only increased the possibility of operating on new routes but also decrease the ‘holding’ of trains outside the station. Sources said that till recently the Hubballi station used to operate on 350 routes and now it can theoretically operate on 502 routes. The SWR officials have also completed the doubling of railway tracks on all three sides: Davangere/Bengaluru, Dharwad/Belagavi and Gadag/Hosapete. “Doubling of railway track on three sides has meant that the station can either receive or dispatch six trains at a time,” he said and with completion of by-pass for goods train, the Hubballi railway station can also increase the handling of the passenger trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballis-world-s-longest-railway-platform-waits-for-pm-s-date-for-inauguration-969945.html
03-04-2021||State||30 candidates in the fray for for bypolls to 2 assembly and 1 Lok Sabha seat in Karnataka||A total of 30 candidates are in the fray for the April 17 by polls to Belgaum Lok Sabha, and Maski and Basavakalyan assembly segments, after 12 people withdrew their papers on Saturday, the last day to do so, poll officials said. The ruling BJP faces rebellion in Basavakalyan, with former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba in the fray as an independent candidate. According to information shared by the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka, 10 out of the 30 candidates are from Belgaum, 12 from Basavakalyan and Maski 8. Among the 12 who have withdrawn their papers, eight are from Belgaum and two each from Basavakalyan and Maski. The 30 candidates include three each from BJP and Congress (one each from all three constituencies), one JD(S) candidate from Basavakalyan, 14 independents. The others are all from registered unrecognised parties. While 26 contesting candidates are men, among four women candidates include two are from Basavakalyan and one each from Belgaum and Maski. By-polls to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan Assembly seats were necessitated following the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi and MLA B Narayan Rao respectively due to COVID-19 in September last year. Maski seat fell vacant following the disqualification of MLA Prathapagouda Patil, who had won in 2018 from Congress and is now with the BJP. Counting of votes will take place on May 2. The ruling BJP has fielded Mangala Suresh Angadi, the wife of late Suresh Angadi, from Belgaum Lok Sabha seat. Pratapagouda Patil, who quit Congress and joined the party is its candidate in Maski assembly segment, while youth leader Sharanu Salagar has been fielded in Basavakalyan. BJP rebel and former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba is in the fray as an independent from Basavakalyan. He is said to have not relented despite the efforts made by senior state BJP leaders to pacify him and may threaten the prospects of the saffron party's official candidate Sharanu Salagar, sources said. The Congress has fielded its state working president Satish Jarkiholi, who is currently the MLA of Yamkanmaradi assembly segment, from Belgaum. Mallamma, the wife of late legislator B Narayan Rao, is the grand old party's candidate from Basavakalyan seat, while Basanagouda Turvihal, who recently joined the party, has been fielded in Maski segment. JD(S) has named Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, who was with the Congress earlier, as its candidate from Basavakalyan. The party has not fielded anyone from Maski and Belgaum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/30-candidates-in-the-fray-for-for-bypolls-to-2-assembly-and-1-lok-sabha-seat-in-karnataka-969960.html
03-04-2021||State||Marutirao Muley withdraws nomination in Basavakalyan||NCP candidate and former MLA Marutirao Muley who gave BJP the shivers by contesting the by-election from Basavakalyan assembly constituency has withdrawn his nomination paper on Saturday but BJP rebel candidate and former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba remained in the fray.  While the saffron party succeeded in convincing Muley into withdrawing the nomination, it failed to cajole Mallikarjun Khuba, the rebel candidate, into withdrawing his paper as an independent candidate. BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, deputy chief minister Lakshman Savadi and home minister Basavaraj Bommai held prolonged talks with Muley. Housing minister V Somanna too contacted him over the phone.  Muley is said to have told them that the BJP has failed to protect the interest of the Maratha community and he has no faith in BJP leaders. He has contested as an NCP candidate as the community leaders pressured him. The BJP leaders finally made Muley speak directly to the chief minister. The BJP leaders said Yediyurappa has assured him of fulfilling their demands including appointing a chairman to Maratha Development Corporation and including the community in 2 A category. After which, Muley agreed to support the BJP.  However, former MLA and BJP leader Mallikarjun Khuba who is miffed at the party for not fielding him for the bypolls, has remained in the fray. As soon as he got wind of information that the BJP leaders will be visiting him, to convince into withdrawing the nomination, a board saying 'the entry of BJP leaders' is prohibited has been hung in front of his house. Due to this, the BJP leaders had to face embarrassment. Nalin Kumar Kateel, Lakshman Savadi and Basavaraj Bommai made a futile bid to contact Khuba till noon.  Khuba sent the message through his supporters that he has already filed his nomination paper and will step into the campaign once the Election Commission allots him a symbol. Hence no one should come to him requesting to withdraw the nomination. The BJP leaders then dropped their last-minute efforts to take Khuba into their kitty. Independent candidate Eranna Hadapad also took back his nomination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/marutirao-muley-withdraws-nomination-in-basavakalyan-969972.html
03-04-2021||State||50% cap in cinema halls in Karnataka from April 7||Bowing to the pressure of filmmakers and the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC), the state government on Saturday issued an order making the guideline of permitting a maximum of 50% occupancy in cinema halls effective from April 7. Following tweets by actors Pueenth Rajkumar, Shivarajkumar, Yash, Sudeep and Rakshit Shetty, a warning by Puneeth Rajkumar’s fans and submission of a memorandum to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa by the KFCC, an order was issued to enforce the guideline from April 7. In the order, P Ravikumar, chief secretary and chairperson, State Executive Committee, SDMA, stated that the decision was taken to enforce the guideline from April 7 in the wake of a request by KFCC that the online bookings had been made because of the non-receipt of the advance notice. “The KFCC is thankful to the chief minister as he quickly responded to our demand. It helps the industry,” KFCC president Jairaj told DH. “We thank the CM, the State government and fans for the government’s support,” Puneeth Rajkumar said. During a meeting with Yediyurappa earlier in the day, Jairaj had stated that more than Rs 40 crore had been invested on Puneeth Rajkumar-starrer ‘Yuvarathnaa’ released on April 1. The exhibitors and producers would not be able to recover losses due to the norm, he said.  He had told the CM that the new releases would have to be stalled had the government informed its decision in advance. The films released recently had been running successfully and the restriction would impact the producers. It would be difficult to refund for tickets that had already been booked, he said. Yediyurappa had expressed helplessness on the ground that the government was compelled to introduce the guideline due to instructions from the Centre suddenly. He had assured that he would scrap the guideline if the fresh cases of Covid-19 decreased in the state. Puneeth Rajkumar’s fans had staged a protest in front of the KFCC and had even threatened to protest in front of the CM’s residence if the norm was not scrapped. The new guideline is applicable to about 220 theatres in eight districts where fresh Covid-19 cases are on the rise. According to K V Chandrashekhar, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association, the online booking was halted on Friday itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/50-cap-in-cinema-halls-in-karnataka-from-april-7-970006.html
03-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No relaxation in new Covid-19 guidelines: Karnataka Health Minister Sudhakar||Hinting at no relaxation in the new set of guidelines issued by the state government, amid pressure from various sectors, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said it was inevitable to take certain strict measures so that things don't go out of control. He said the guidelines have been issued on the advice of the technical advisory committee consisting of experts, after examining the situation, and if things are under control by April 20, activities will be allowed to resume. "The government is not happy by restricting activities. I have been requesting through the media for the last one month that a second wave is at our doorstep and if we don't understand and take precautionary measures, the government will have no other options and may have to take serious measures," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said Karnataka was the first state to resume all the business activities, but the state is today reporting about 5,000 cases per day and 3,500 of them are from Bengaluru alone. "The technical advisory committee has said this will be there for another two months, till the May end and the graph will start declining from June first week. If we don't take measures and something untoward happens, won't it be the government's responsibility?" he asked. Aimed at curbing Covid-19 with the spike in cases, the government on Friday in a new set of guidelines had ordered the closure of gyms and swimming pools while capping the seating capacity in theatres at 50 per cent in certain districts. It has also ordered apartment complexes to shut common facilities such as party halls and clubhouses. The new restrictions imposed by the government through the guidelines will be in force till April 20. Noting that the government has issued guidelines after getting several reports from the technical advisory committee, and after consulting senior officials and ministers, Sudhakar said it was not done at one go. "People from several sectors are saying their activities should not be restricted and should go on freely. Yes, we (govt) too understand, but things should not go out of our control, so it was inevitable for the government to take certain strict measures. We request for cooperation from everyone," he said. The Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce has decided to meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to bring to his notice about the impact of capping the seating capacity in theatres at 50 per cent, on the industry, and is likely to seek relaxation so that it doesn't impact films that have just been released. Also, gym owners have demanded the government to reconsider the decision or allow them to operate with 50 per cent capacity or announce a package so that they can make payment for staff and use it for maintenance. There is pressure from some private schools to allow them to function, similar is the demand from gym, swimming pool and club owners, also people want to hold marriages with large gatherings, the Minister said. "These measures are not permanent, let's follow these temporary measures for some days... I'm not saying it (Covid- 19 spread) can be controlled 100 per cent by these measures, but we can try to bring things under control," he said. Responding to a question, the Minister said there are guidelines for elections, and religious places too, there is no concession for any sector or activities. "The government is only trying to control this pandemic that's all, there is no politics or any malicious intent behind this," he said, as he evaded questions on night curfew or weekend lockdown stating that he doesn't want to speak on what measures will be taken in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-relaxation-in-new-covid-19-guidelines-karnataka-health-minister-sudhakar-969857.html
03-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||4,373 fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 19 deaths||Karnataka logged 4,373 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 related fatalities, taking the total caseload to 10.10 lakh and the toll to 12,610, the Health department said on Saturday. The day also saw 1,959 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 4,373 fresh cases reported on Saturday, 3,002 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. Cumulatively 10,10,602 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,610 deaths and 9,61,359 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. Out of 36,614 active cases, 36,287 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals, while 327 are in Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru each accounted for six deaths, Hassan 3, Mandya 2, and one each from Kalaburagi and Tumakuru. Bengaluru Urban also topped the list of districts from where new cases were reported with 3,002 infections, Bidar had 172, Mysuru 171, Tumakuru 167, Kalaburagi 151, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,44,244, followed by Mysuru 56,264 and Ballari 39,913. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 4,13,058, followed by Mysuru 54,331 and Ballari 38,969. A total of over 2,17,69,721 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,23,830 were on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4373-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-19-deaths-969930.html
03-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru-Hubballi flight diverted to Mangaluru Airport over bad weather||An IndiGo flight (6E 7227) between Bengaluru and Hubballi was diverted to the Mangaluru Airport due to bad weather at Hubballi Airport on Saturday. According to Hubballi Airport Director Pramod Kumar Thakre, the flight had to change its route due to low clouds at the Hubballi Airport. The IndiGo flight, which took off from the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru at 6:00 am, was supposed to land at the Hubballi Airport at 7:20 am. However, due to tick low clouds, the flight hovered in Hubballi skies for more than 20 minutes before the flight captain decided to divert it to Mangaluru. The flight returned to Hubballi Airport at around 10:00 am after conditions were conducive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-hubballi-flight-diverted-to-mangaluru-airport-over-bad-weather-969967.html
03-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Panelists bat for vaccination drives for underprivileged in Karnataka||There is an urgent need to address waning vaccine coverage among the lesser privileged and an even pressing need to conduct special camps for the differently-abled and immobile patients, concluded 20 panelists at a discussion held on the occasion of World Health Day here on Saturday. The discussion was organised by DH Brandspot, in association with Manipal Hospital's doctors, and over a dozen apartment complex representatives from across the city. Dr Manish Rai, hospital director, Manipal Hospitals, said the group would soon be undertaking special vaccination drives for the underprivileged. "There is a need to hold special vaccination camps for differently-abled and immobile patients, who are more vulnerable, and Manipal Hospitals will soon be addressing this by conducting special camps for such groups." Poornima Shetty, president, Rustambagh Welfare Association, raised the point about caring for domestic workers, security guards, house-helps and cooks. "We need to take up vaccination in a phased manner for such groups," she said. Dr Archana Agarwal, infertility specialist, Mannat Fertility Clinic, Marathahalli, mentioned that the infection spread among house-helps is higher due to the fact that they have to share washrooms, sometimes four or five live together. "They are scared of sharing the fact that they're experiencing symptoms and are unwilling to get tested as they're scared of losing their wages," she said. Dr Sartaj Khan, associate prof and head, Al-Ameen Arts, Science and Commerce College, pointed out that not everyone lives in an apartment complex and that we need to take the community together as the scourge of Covid spares none. Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, HoD & consultant- Interventional Pulmonology & Lung Transplant Physician, said, "Despite treating Covid patients, I haven't contracted Covid. This is because I wore personal protective equipment. This is evidence to the fact that we can protect ourselves by simply following Covid appropriate behaviour - of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing." The team from Manipal consisting of Deepak Venugopalan, the regional COO Bangalore & TN cluster of MHEPL, and Arnab Mondal the hospital director, Manipal Hospital Whitefield, among others spoke about the promises to the community, the Dos & Don'ts and precautions to be taken keeping in mind the surge in Covid-19 infections. Vikram Rai, general secretary, Bangalore Apartment Federation (BAF), who was also part of the panel, said that the RWAs had been playing a very important role in this drive. 'Rapid surge in cases' Satish Rao, member and Covid in-charge, I Change Indiranagar, said, "When we compare the number of cases from January to March 31, last year, with this year during the same period, we will find that there is an increase by 7.6 times this year. Also, when we compare the rise in cases from March 1 to March 31 reported this year and the cases reported last year during the same time, the rise is by 16.7 times this year. Ask people who don't mask up to do so. The community will stand behind you."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panelists-bat-for-vaccination-drives-for-underprivileged-in-karnataka-970009.html
03-04-2021||West||Gold bangle from Shivaji-era found in Raigad Fort||A gold bangle possibly belonging to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj era — the legendary Maratha warrior — has been excavated at the Raigad Fort. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the Raigad Development Authority (RDA) are coordinating the excavation in the hill-top fort complex located at Mahad, nearly 160 km from Mumbai. After the news of the discovery of the gold bangle came, Shri Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendent of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, visited the fort and had a closer look at the artefact. “This will help us understand the lifestyle, culture and architecture of the time period contemporary to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. I would like to appreciate ASI for their efforts on Raigad excavation and conservation work,” said Sambhaji Chhatrapati, who belongs to the royal family of Kolhapur and a President-nominated Rajya Sabha member. “A gold ornament (gold bangle) was discovered during excavation. It is possible that such invaluable objects can be found during future excavation,” said Sambhaji Chhatrapati, the chairperson of RDA. “Till date many ornaments, vessels, contemporary things used in construction, coins etc has been discovered through excavation,”  he said. In 1674, Shivaji Maharaj made Raigad Fort his capital. Earlier known as Rairi, Shivaji Maharaj seized the fort from Chandraraoji More, the king of Jawli and a descendant of Chandragupta Maurya, in 1656. For over a decade, it was renovated and strengthened. The villages of Pachad and Raigadwadi are located at the base of the fort. After the death of Shivaji and thereafter the killing of his son Sambhajil Maharaj in 1689, the fort was captured by Mughals under Aurangzeb and in 1818, it was the target of an armed expedition of the British East India Company. Located 820 meters (2,700 feet) above sea level in the Sahyadri mountain ranges, the fort can be accessed by a single pathway comprising 1737 steps. Surrounded by deep green valleys, the fort has several gateways that enthral its visitors, namely, the Mena Darwaja, Nagarkhana Darwaja, Palkhi Darwaja, and the majestic Maha Darwaja which is the main entrance to the imperial structure. There are 21 villages around the Raigad Fort. The Fort stands as a silent reminder of Maharashtra's glorious past though the sound of trumpets and drums or the clang of clashing swords and shields are heard no more at this historic monument, which is identified as 'durgaraj' (king of forts). The Britishers had named it "Gibraltar of the East'' as the well-fortified structure atop the hill was extremely difficult to access, leave alone conquer. Various landmarks have lent it the credo of 'Shiva-teerth'. The fort has attained the status of a holy shrine for the devotees of Lord Shiva as hundreds and thousands of people visit the fort every day not alone for its heritage character and it being a specimen of perfect defence architecture but also for being the seat of their role model, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, who is well known for valour, courage, administrative acumen,  benevolence and patriotism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gold-bangle-from-shivaji-era-found-in-raigad-fort-969800.html
03-04-2021||West||Congress leaders seek review of CMP during meeting with Maharashtra CM||A delegation of Congress leaders on Saturday met Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and sought a review of the implementation of the Common Minimum Programme (CMP) based on which the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance was formed in November 2019. The delegation led by All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary H K Patil also discussed the political situation and the Covid-19 management in the state with the chief minister said Revenue Minister and senior Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat. The delegation told the CM that all decisions should be taken unitedly by the constituents of the MVA, he said. The MVA is battling controversies including the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh against state home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. The Opposition BJP had accused the state government of failing to manage the pandemic effectively and also alleged corruption in the transfer of police officials. "HK Patil met Uddhav Thackeray for the first time. The meeting was held at the official residence of the chief minister and lasted for an hour. It was held in a very cordial manner," Thorat said. We told Thackeray that it has been a year-and-half now since the MVA government was formed and the implementation of the CMP needs to be reviewed, he said. State Congress president Nana Patole and PWD Minister Ashok Chavan were also part of the delegation. "We also reminded the chief minister about the letter written to him by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on the need for having the uninterrupted budgetary allocation for the welfare schemes meant for the tribalsand poor," Thorat added. Thorat said leaders of the Congress also conveyed to the CM "the feeling of injustice among our ministers and legislators regarding the allocation of funds". He said the issue of empowering ministers of state was also discussed. On Friday, ministers of the Congress met Patil to discuss the prevailing political situation in the state, including the allegations against Anil Deshmukh. The leaders had said the image of the MVA government and that of the Congress was "unnecessarily" getting maligned amidst this controversy. There are reports of a rift among the constituents of the MVA- Sena, NCP and Congress- in the wake of certain statements made by Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut. Congress leaders in the state are especially upset with Sanjay Raut who recently said that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should head the UPA bloc. The Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' had also called Deshmukh as an "accidental home minister" In her letter to CM Thackeray in December last year, Sonia Gandhi reminding him of the CMP and urged him to ensure the development of Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-leaders-seek-review-of-cmp-during-meeting-with-maharashtra-cm-969853.html
03-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra promotes students from class 1 to 8 without exam||As the Covid-19 pandemic crisis keeps worsening in Maharashtra, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has decided to promote all students from class 1 to 8 to the next class. The decision about class 9 and 11 will be taken later. “In view of the ongoing situation due to Covid-19, all state board students across Maharashtra state from class 1st to class 8th will be promoted to the next class without any examinations,” state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said. Meanwhile, board exams for class 10 and 12 are scheduled to start later this month and end in May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-promotes-students-from-class-1-to-8-without-exam-969871.html
03-04-2021||West||Man arrested for killing MNS leader in Maharashtra's Thane||A man was arrested here on Saturday for allegedly killing a Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader in November 2020, police said. MNS leader and RTI activist Jameel Ahmed Sheikh was killed in Thane district of Maharashtra on November 23, 2020, the Uttar Pradesh Police's Special Task Force said in a statement issued here. Irfan Sonu Sheikh Mansuri, the accused, alleged that the attack was carried out at the behest of a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader in Maharashtra. Acting on a tip-off, the STF arrested Mansuri near Kathauta lake. The accused told the STF that a person named Osama had offered him Rs 2 lakh for killing Sheikh. Mansuri, a resident of Gorakhpur, was handed over to the crime branch of the Maharashtra Police after completing all the formalities, the STF said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-arrested-for-killing-mns-leader-in-maharashtras-thane-969873.html
03-04-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Sachin Vaze's NIA custody extended till April 7||A special Mumbai court on Saturday extended the custody of Sachin Vaze for four days even as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) continued to mount evidence against the suspended police officer and join the dots between the Antilia-Scorpio planting case and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran. The NIA will now produce all the three accused – Vaze, a suspended assistant police inspector, Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie and Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed police constable, on Wednesday. A mystery woman who had been spotted with Vaze in CCTV footage continued to be grilled by the NIA. Meanwhile, the federal investigation agency seized a white Mercedes which was used by Vaze. The NIA has taken the custody of Scorpio, which was abandoned near Antilia, and seized a number of cars/SUVs - an Innova which was used by the Crime Intelligence Unit of Mumbai Crime Branch-CID, 2 black Mercedes Benz, a black Volvo, a LandCruiser Prado, a white Mitsubishi Outlander. The mystery woman, whose rented accommodation in Mira Road suburbs was raided, has become crucial for the investigations. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the woman was engaged in converting black money into white. The woman had been spotted along with Vaze in the CCTV footage of 5-star hotel Trident with a cash counting machine. The footage showed that as many as 5 bags were checked in at hotel Trident on February 16, nine days before an abandoned gelatine sticks-laden Scorpio was recovered near Mukesh Ambani’s skyscraper mansion Antilia on Carmichael Road in south Mumbai. The CCTV footage examined by the NIA showed Vaze had entered a five-star hotel first and then the lady followed him. The mystery woman had reportedly stayed in the hotel for two days. Vaze, the investigations have revealed, had stayed at the same five-star hotel for five days. The woman was also spotted carrying the currency counting machine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-sachin-vazes-nia-custody-extended-till-april-7-969878.html
03-04-2021||West||Congress delegation meets Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Amid the political developments over the last couple of months in Maharashtra, a delegation of the Congress met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and sought a review on the implementation of the Common Minimum Programme (CMP) on Saturday. The delegation included AICC secretary H K Patil, MPCC president Nana Patole, state Revenue Minister and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Balasaheb Thorat and Public Works Department minister Ashok Chavan. Incidentally, this was the first meeting between Patil, the AICC in-charge of Maharashtra, and Thackeray. The meeting assumes significance in the wake of a series of developments involving the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. The emerging second wave of Covid-19 too has affected the government and it plans to undertake a lockdown. The over one-hour-long meeting was held at Varsha, the official residence of the chief minister at Malabar Hill. “We reminded the chief minister of the letter written to him by Congress president Sonia Gandhi regarding having uninterrupted budgetary allocation for welfare schemes of tribals and poor.  Similarly, we also conveyed to the chief minister the feeling of injustice among our ministers and legislators regarding fund allocation,” said Thorat. According to him, the Congress was also of the view that all decisions in the MVA should be taken unitedly. The delegation felt that the MVA and Congress were unnecessarily being targeted by the Opposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-delegation-meets-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-969898.html
03-04-2021||West||Mumbai sees record spike with 9,090 new Covid-19 cases||With 9,090 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai on Saturday reported the biggest spike since the outbreak of the pandemic. Meanwhile, with 49,447 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra reported the biggest-ever spike, taking the progressive total to 29,53,523. The state reported 277 deaths taking the overall toll to 55,656. The MMR reported 15,989 cases and 58 deaths taking the progressive total to 9,35,371 and 20,578, respectively. The total active cases in the state stand at 4,01,172 – the highest so far. During the day, 37,821 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 24,95,315. Thackeray, in back-to-back meetings, has been telling the citizens about the stress on the health infrastructure. “Around 62 per cent of isolation beds and 48 per cent ICU beds are occupied. Nearly 25 per cent of beds with oxygen facilities and around 25 per cent of the beds with ventilators are occupied,” he said. With the demand for oxygen surging, the state Public Health Department had last month directed oxygen manufacturers to divert 80 per cent of their stocks for medical use and retain the rest 20 per cent for industrial purposes. On Saturday, Thackeray said the state government is considering diverting even that 20 per cent for medical use because of the surge in cases and the alarming situation in the state. The government is also considering steps like opening e-ICUs and increased use of telemedicine to tackle the rush of patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-sees-record-spike-with-9090-new-covid-19-cases-969919.html
03-04-2021||West||Maharashtra may divert all oxygen supply for medical use: Uddhav Thackeray||With Maharashtra recording over half of the daily coronavirus cases in India, the state government is considering diverting all industrial use oxygen supply for medical use, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. In an online interaction with newspaper owners, editors and distributors, Thackeray said a decision on imposing stringent measures to tackle the pandemic will be taken soon but did not confirm if there will be a statewide lockdown. Maharashtra on Friday reported 47,827 new cases, the highest daily rise in around six-and-a-half-months, and a big chunk of the 89,129 new cases in a day recorded in India. With the demand for oxygen surging, the state public health department had last month directed oxygen manufacturers to divert 80 per cent of their stocks for medical use and retain the rest 20 per cent for industrial purposes. Thackeray said the state government is considering diverting even that 20 per cent for medical use, because of the surge in cases and the "alarming" situation in the state. The daily demand for oxygen in Maharashtra has touched 700 metric tonnes against the state's production capacity of over 1200 metric tonnes, an official said. A notification stating 80 per cent of capping for medical use was issued on Tuesday. It said that the rule would apply to all of Maharashtra and stay in force till June 30. Thackeray said the state government is increasing testing and also not keeping "even a single positive" case under wraps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-may-divert-all-oxygen-supply-for-medical-use-uddhav-thackeray-969921.html
03-04-2021||West||Rs 26.50 lakh withdrawn from Sachin Vaze's joint account after arrest: NIA||The NIA has found that an amount of Rs 26.50 lakh was withdrawn from the joint bank account of Sachin Vaze and his aide on March 18, five days after the Mumbai police officer was arrested for his alleged role in planting an explosives-laden SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's home on February 25, the court was told on Saturday. Without naming Vaze's accomplice, the National Investigation Agency said certain "incriminating material" was also taken out by someone from the joint locker of Vaze and his aide, who is a suspect in the case, from a bank located in Versova area in Mumbai. The special court extended the custody of Vaze till April 7 after the investigating agency told the court that it had recovered "incriminating material" including laptops, DVRs (Digital Video Recorders), a CPU etc, in a damaged condition, during the probe and they need to be examined. The NIA is also probing the murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, the purported owner of the Scorpio SUV which was found parked near Ambani's south Mumbai residence 'Antilia'. The NIA told the court that Vaze was seen moving near the "scene of the crime" on March 4, a day before Hiren's body was found (in the creek in Mumbra in Thane district). The NIA told the court that a Mercedes car was seized on April 2. The agency had also recovered a diaryfrom a club in south Mumbai mentioning that a huge amount had been paid to Vaze. The agency told the court it had found the passport of an unknown person at Vaze's house and needs his further custody to identify that person. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the court Vaze held a joint bank account and a joint locker with his accomplice. The bank account had Rs 26.50 lakh on the day of Vaze's arrest on March 13. However, the cash was found to be withdrawn on March 18, Singh told the court, adding that some "incriminating material" was also found to be taken out from the bank locker. Seeking Vaze's custody for another six days, Singh said the NIA needs to trace the incriminating material that went missing from the bank locker and also wants to find out who was using the Mercedes car seized on April 2 and under whose instructions. Some incriminating material was also seized during the search conducted at the house of former policeman and co- accused Vinayak Shinde, Singh said, adding the NIA will confront Vaze with the recovered evidence. The NIA also needs to examine the CCTV footage data it had seized during the investigation and needs to confront Vaze and other accused with it. Opposing the NIA's plea, Vaze's lawyer Abad Ponda said the NIA can seek remand of the accused under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention (UAPA) Act after the lapse of 15 days. However, the NIA has not mentioned a single ground seeking the extension of Vaze's custody under the UAPA in its remand application, he said. Ponda rejected the NIA's contention that Vaze held a joint account in the bank in Versova. He demanded that the NIA show the bank account opening form with the name and signature of the accused,which the agency rejected. Referring to the recovery of electronic devices from the Mithi river in Mumbai by the NIA, Ponda said as it is a huge river, anyone can dump anything into it. He said the NIA had planted these devices into the river, which it later showed as being recovered during the investigation. He said Vaze had nothing to do with these materials recovered by the NIA. "The recovery is based on their skill and volition and completely foisted upon me (Vaze)," Ponda added. Meanwhile, Vaze told the court that he was suffering from some cardiac issues and had suffered a stroke on Sunday. Vaze had demanded his examination by a cardiologist. Vaze's lawyer submitted in court that the police officer has a blockage in his heart that can be treated only by angiography and angioplasty. However, the NIA said they had run diagnostics and found that Vaze's heart was functioning normally. "We did ECG and blood test, 2D Echo..His heart is working normally. Doctors had advised him a bypass (surgery) in 2019, but he didn't do it then," the NIA said, adding Vaze was being provided the required treatment and that his health was being monitored. The court then directed the NIA to submit a detailed report on the next day on whether Vaze needs a specific treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rs-2650-lakh-withdrawn-from-sachin-vazes-joint-account-after-arrest-nia-969923.html
03-04-2021||West||Maharashtra sees biggest-ever spike in Covid-19 cases||With 49,447 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra on Saturday reported the biggest-ever spike, taking the progressive total to 29,53,523.  The state reported 277 deaths taking the overall toll to 55,656. Mumbai reported 9,108 cases and 27 deaths during the day taking the total to 4,41,475 and 11,754, respectively. The MMR reported 15,989 cases and 58 deaths taking the progressive total to 9,35,371 and 20,578, respectively. The total active cases in the state stand at 4,01,172 – the highest so far. During the day, 37,821 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 24,95,315. Thackeray, in back-to-back meetings, has been telling the citizens about the stress on the health infrastructure. “Around 62 per cent of isolation beds and 48 per cent ICU beds are occupied. Nearly 25 per cent of beds with oxygen facilities and around 25 per cent of the beds with ventilators are occupied,” he said. With the demand for oxygen surging, the state Public Health Department had last month directed oxygen manufacturers to divert 80 per cent of their stocks for medical use and retain the rest 20 per cent for industrial purposes. On Saturday, Thackeray said the state government is considering diverting even that 20 per cent for medical use because of the surge in cases and the alarming situation in the state. The government is also considering steps like opening e-ICUs and increased use of telemedicine to tackle the rush of patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-biggest-ever-spike-in-covid-19-cases-969941.html
03-04-2021||West||Mumbai: Drugs seized in NCB raid at TV actor's home||A Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) team conducted a raid at the residence of television actor Gaurav Dixit in Andheri's Lokhandwala area and allegedly seized a huge quantity of drugs, an official said on Saturday. The raid was carried out on Friday evening by the Mumbai unit of the NCB after it received a specific input, he said. Dixit's name cropped up in the interrogation of actor and former Bigg Boss contestant Ejaz Khan, who was arrested earlier, he added. Dixit, and a foreign national woman who lived with him, left the residence minutes before the raid, and a hunt was on for both of them, the NCB official informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-drugs-seized-in-ncb-raid-at-tv-actors-home-969944.html
03-04-2021||West||Spot fine of Rs 1,000 at Mumbai airport for violating Covid-19 norms||Mumbai airport has started imposing a spot fine of Rs 1,000 from April 1 on the passengers violating the mandatory Covid-19 safety protocol in the wake of aviation regulator director DGCA warning last week amid an increasing number of coronavirus infection cases in Maharashtra and some other states, according to a statement on Saturday. After it found passengers at some airports flouting the mandatory Covid-19 safety protocols during the routine surveillance, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had advised airports to explore the option of taking stricter actions, such as slapping fine on the people violating such rules at the premises. “Basis the directive issued by the DGCA, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will levy a fine on any individual found violating the mandatory Covid-19 safety protocols at the airport with effect from April 1. A fine of Rs 1000 will be issued to individuals who refuse to comply with Covid safety norms such as wearing face masks that covers the nose and mouth and maintaining social distancing amongst others at the airport,” the private airport operator said in the statement. As part of its SOP for the resumption of domestic flights in May last year, CSMIA had placed guidelines on safety practices across the airport in the form of physical and digital boards. Besides this, regular announcements are made through the airport PA system as well as by on-ground marshals encouraging passengers to follow safety precautions during their journey through the airport, it said. With the latest directive from the DGCA, these marshals will now levy fines on any individual who refuses to comply with requests to follow safety protocols established in the wake of the pandemic. In the event of further non-compliance, the violator will be handed over to the authorities for further action, CSMIA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/spot-fine-of-rs-1000-at-mumbai-airport-for-violating-covid-19-norms-969954.html
03-04-2021||West||CM Uddhav Thackeray initiates discussions on lockdown as active Covid-19 cases cross 4 lakh in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday initiated wide-ranging consultation over the proposed lockdown as the state’s active Covid-19 patients crossed the four-lakh mark posing a big challenge for state’s health infrastructure. The progressive total Covid-19 infections in the state since the pandemic broke out in March last year is close to 30 lakh. On Saturday, the financial capital of Mumbai, the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Maharashtra witnessed a record spike in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra reported 49,447 new cases and 277 deaths taking the progressive total to 29,53,523 and 55,656, respectively. Mumbai reported 9,108 cases and 27 deaths during the day taking the total to 4,41,475 and 11,754, respectively. The MMR reported 15,989 cases and 58 deaths taking the progressive total to 9,35,371 and 20,578, respectively. The total active cases in the state stand at 4,01,172 – the highest so far. During the day, 37,821 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 24,95,315. Thackeray, in back-to-back meetings, has been telling the citizens about the stress on the health infrastructure. “Around 62 per cent of isolation beds and 48 per cent ICU beds are occupied. Nearly 25 per cent of beds with oxygen facilities and around 25 per cent of the beds with ventilators are occupied,” he said. With the demand for oxygen surging, the state Public Health Department had last month directed oxygen manufacturers to divert 80 per cent of their stocks for medical use and retain the rest 20 per cent for industrial purposes. On Saturday, Thackeray said the state government is considering diverting even that 20 per cent for medical use because of the surge in cases and the alarming situation in the state. The government is also considering steps like opening e-ICUs and increased use of telemedicine to tackle the rush of patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-uddhav-thackeray-initiates-discussions-on-lockdown-as-active-covid-19-cases-cross-4-lakh-in-maharashtra-969961.html
03-04-2021||West||Pune's Covid-19 curfew begins, BJP demands bus services||The BJP held a protest on Saturday demanding resumption of municipal transport bus services as a 6 pm to 6 am curfew began in Pune in a bid to tackle a recent surge in Covid-19 cases. Pune BJP MP Girish Bapat and Pune BJP president Jagdish Mulik led the party's protest in front of the PMPML bus depot at Swargate, police said, adding that they were detained and released some time later. "The decision to not run Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited's buses will impact people who work in factories, banks, hospitals etc. The state government must not misuse its power to impose such restrictions in the name of tackling Covid-19," Bapat said. The decision to impose a 6 pm to 6 am curfew in Pune from April 3 for seven days was taken a after review meeting chaired by state Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday. The Covid-19 tally in Pune increased by a record 9,086 in a 24-hour period ending Friday, taking the district's tally to 5,51,508.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/punes-covid-19-curfew-begins-bjp-demands-bus-services-969966.html
03-04-2021||West||Gujarat schools for classes 1-9 shut amid Covid-19 surge||Schools for classes 1 to 9 were directed to be shut for an indefinite period in Gujarat from Monday amid a rise in Covid-19 cases, officials said. However, as per the decision taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday, classroom teaching for standards 9 to 12 as well as colleges would continue, they added. "All offline classes of standard 1 to 9 in government and private schools will be closed down for an indefinite period from Monday. Online education will be encouraged. The decision was taken keeping in mind safety of students when Covid-19 cases have surged in the state," a release from the CM's office said. Schools and colleges in the state, which were closed since March last year after a lockdown was imposed to tackle the outbreak, were reopened in phased manner from January this year. School for classes 9 to 12 as well as lectures for undergraduate and postgraduate courses in colleges resumed on January 11, which was followed by resumption of classes 9  and 11 from February 8. Gujarat, on Friday, reported 2640 cases, the highest single-day addition, as well as 11 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-schools-for-classes-1-9-shut-amid-covid-19-surge-969974.html
03-04-2021||West||Sharad Pawar discharged from hospital, condition stable: Malik||NCP Chief Sharad Pawar, who recently underwent a procedure for a gall bladder issue, was discharged from a hospital here on Saturday, a party leader said. "Pawar (80) is in good health and is recuperating at home," said NCP spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik. Earlier in the day, a team of doctors checked Pawar and concluded that his condition was stable. Malik said doctors have advised seven-day rest for Pawar. "If his health parameters remain stable after the next 15 days, a surgery of his gall bladder will be performed," he added. Pawar underwent an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct on March 30 at the Breach Candy Hospital. He was admitted to the hospital on March 30 after he experienced abdominal pain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-discharged-from-hospital-condition-stable-malik-969988.html
03-04-2021||West||Bombay High Court bench to revert to virtual hearings from Apr 5 amid Covid-19 surge||A division bench of the Bombay High Court on Saturday decided to revert to virtual hearings from April 5 in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. The bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale will take up their judicial assignment through video-conferencing instead of physical hearings, a notice issued V R Kachare, Registrar Judicial said. "As a precautionary measure in view of Covid-19, the hearing of matters will be conducted via video conferencing," the notice said. Apart from this bench, a single bench of Justice Gautam Patel conducts hearings in a hybrid system, with both physical and video-conferencing options available to lawyers and litigants to argue their case. All other benches of the High Court are hearing matters physically. Earlier this month, the Nagpur and Aurangabad benches of the High Court reverted to virtual hearing of cases owing to the rise in Covid-19 cases. Following the nationwide lockdown imposed in March last year, all benches of the Bombay High Court had stopped physical hearings, and were conducting hearings for urgent cases through video-conferencing. However, in December last year, the principal bench at Mumbai resumed physical hearings for all cases on four out of the five working days of a week. On Fridays, a few designated courts hear such matters through video-conferencing where lawyers or parties are not based in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-bench-to-revert-to-virtual-hearings-from-apr-5-amid-covid-19-surge-969989.html
03-04-2021||West||Gujarat minister Pradeepsinh Jadeja tests positive for Covid-19||Gujarat Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja has tested positive for coronavirus. The minister himself informed about his condition on Twitter on Saturday. Notably, Jadeja had tabled the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) bill in the state Legislative Assembly on April 1, discussion on which was held for the entire day before its passage by a majority vote. "I have tested positive for Covid-19 in the tests conducted on me after I had some symptoms of the disease. I am getting myself admitted to a hospital as a precautionary measure," he tweeted. Jadeja said those who came in contact with him during the last few days should take care of their health. At least eight MLAs, a minister, and several officials had tested positive for coronavirus during the over one-month long Budget session of the state Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-minister-pradeepsinh-jadeja-tests-positive-for-covid-19-969990.html
