04-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Six burnt alive in Kodagu as drunk man sets room afire over family dispute||Six people, including four children, were burnt alive after a man in an inebriated state set fire to the room in which they were sleeping after dousing it with petrol, at Mugutageri in Ponnampet on Saturday.  The man committed the crime following a dispute with his wife, the police said. Three of the victims were charred to death while the rest succumbed to injuries in a hospital in Mysuru. The suspect, identified as Eravara Boja (45), is related to the victims. He allegedly set fire to the room in a house belonging to coffee grower Kolera Chityappa when the victims were asleep. He is said to have used a ladder to reach the roof and pour petrol into the room after removing the tiles. He then shut its windows and door before setting it on fire. As the fire spread fast, the sleeping victims were trapped. He is said to have targeted the room in which his wife Baby was sleeping.  After committing the crime, he fled the spot.    Among those charred to death are Boja's wife Baby (40) and his relatives Pani Eravara Seethe (45) and Prarthana (6). The couple’s grandchildren Prakash (6) and Vishwas (3) and another relative Vishwas (7), who suffered serious burn injuries, were rushed to the Community Health Centre in Gonikoppa and later to a hospital in Mysuru, where they died.  Baby’s son-in-law Manju and her relative Tola escaped unhurt as they were sleeping in another room. IGP southern range Praveen Madhukumar visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-burnt-alive-in-kodagu-as-drunk-man-sets-room-afire-over-family-dispute-970059.html
04-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||This Mangaluru museum brings back glory of bygone era||From the traditional ‘village kitchen’ to traditional farm implements, old watches, musical instruments, radio, clocks... All find prominence in this museum at Jeppu. The St Antony’s Home Museum is set up at the orphanage St Antony Ashram in Jeppu. An old printing machine, huge paintings on St Antony, along with an old pulpit, welcome visitors stepping inside an old house that hosts the museum. The idea of setting up a museum was conceived by Fr Onil D’Souza, director of St Antony Ashram. Fr Onil told DH that the house in which the museum was located is also about 100 years old.  John V Tauro, who had served in the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and with the Kuwait government, had collected all the antiques in his unique home museum at Shivabhagh. John had collected these valuable artifacts during his visits to different countries across the world. “I try to collect memorabilia from each country and try to preserve them for future generations,” he adds with a smile.  He donated his collections to the museum, which was set up in an Ashram in September 2020. “After the museum was set up, people from in and around Mangaluru began contributing antiques in their possession to the Ashram museum,” says Fr Onil and adds that there are plans to develop the museum by including more antiques to the vast collection. An old telephone, not older than 80 years, iron boxes, different kinds of clocks, watches, including an Arabic watch, cameras and other such articles, are arranged in one room. The museum has over 5,000 rare artifacts. “Earlier, the Ashram used to get many visitors, including students from different schools, on a daily basis. But due to Covid-19, the number of visitors has dropped,” says Fr Onil. Musical instruments The museum has a wide range of musical instruments, including harmonium and mandolin. Old transistors and a vintage gramophone with treasured LP (long play) records also find a place in the museum. There is a table dedicated to pens that will take you back in time. Picking one of the ink pens, John said, it was the first pen he used in the school. Also displayed on the walls are pictures of vintage and modern cars. Even key chains, cigarette lighters, old mobile phones, pager, projector, fax machine, candle stands of the bygone era, weighing scale, chemical weapon face mask used by the people during the Iraq war, lantern used in horse-carts, toys and contemporary art are displayed in the museum. Farm equipment A room in the museum is dedicated to farm equipment and other related antiques that were used by people in the coastal area. The metallic traditional game — chennemane rests on the floor. The ‘korambu,’ ‘muttale,’ ‘kalasha,’ ‘akki mudi,’ ‘kudupu,’ wooden plough, preservative pots, well water puller, grocery scaling machine, postal scaling machine, wooden masala container, are sure to leave visitors nostalgic. Another room in the museum dedicated to ‘village kitchen’, has different types of local traditional implements and utensils made of wood, copper, brass, bronze and cane — that were in vogue in the past. To create awareness on the Covid-19 pandemic and the precautionary measures, a PPE kit, masks and gloves have also been placed in the museum. In keeping with old customs, vegetables like sambar cucumber, ash gourd hang from the ceiling as in past. In addition, the museum has an entire set of the Encyclopaedia Britannica and the National Geographic books.  A modified rickshaw of John Tauro, Bajaj Chetak 1992 model, Yezdi 2 stroke of 1987 model, belonging to Sanjay and self-driven gravity vehicle of John D’Souza, installed outside, grabs the attention of the visitors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-mangaluru-museum-brings-back-glory-of-bygone-era-970173.html
04-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Muslim man builds temple, performs puja in Karnataka||A Muslim man has been performing rituals and praying at a Koragajja temple he built beside his house at Kavatharu village near Mulki in the communally sensitive Dakshina Kannada district for the last 19 years, spreading the message of harmony. P Qasim, 65, a native of Chittalancheri in Palakkad district of Kerala, had migrated to Mulki three decades ago. Qasim says he built the temple for Koragajja, the 'Daiva' (spirit god) worshipped in Tulunadu region, on the advice of a priest whom he approached when he faced a difficult phase in life. The priest told him that the earlier inhabitants of his house used to worship Koragajja, the 'Daiva' believed to help people overcome obstacles and fulfill their desires. He found the spot near his house and built a temple there. Now, around 50 people in the village, belonging to different religions, come and pray there, he says. Qasim performs daily rituals at the temple, special poojas on occasions and distributes sandal paste as 'prasadam' to the devotees. The temple also conducts the 'Kolotsava' festival every two years like other Koragajja temples in the district. Qasim says he turned vegetarian the day he started performing rituals at the temple. Qasim also stopped going to the masjid as he had a 'darshan' of Koragajja, he said. His children, however, go to the masjid, but also have strong faith in Koragajja, Qasim says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muslim-man-builds-temple-performs-puja-in-karnataka-970212.html
04-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||12-year-old from Mangaluru brutally murdered; family suspect PUBG rivalry||A 12-year-old boy who went missing from his house on Saturday night, was found dead with severe injuries on his face, at K C Road in Ullal police station jurisdiction, on Sunday. According to City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar, the deceased, a sixth grade student went out of his house speaking over the phone to meet his friends around 8.40 pm. When he failed to return at 10 pm, the family members began searched for him but failed to trace him. His body was later found in the ground behind a school, situated 500 meters away from the house at 6 am on Sunday. In a complaint, the victim's father, Mohammed Haneef said that his son was playing PUBG on his phone along with friends and suspected that he was murdered over the game.Haneef further said that when family members questioned one of his friends on Saturday night, he did not give satisfactory answer. Haneef urged the police to initiate action against those involved in the murder of Akeef. A case has been registered in Ullal Police Station and investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/12-year-old-from-mangaluru-brutally-murdered-family-suspect-pubg-rivalry-970250.html
04-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||120 Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings released into sea||Around 120 Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings, which were conserved by local fishermen along the shore near Kasarkod Tonka in Honnavar taluk, were released into the sea on Sunday. The eggs of these Olive Ridley turtles had been found while the local people were protesting against the under-construction commercial port at Tonka. The protesters had argued that the Tonka seashore was a sensitive zone where the rare Olive Ridley turtles breed, and constructing a port there would disturb the marine bio-diversity. "Since there were no turtle hatcheries in Kasarkod like the one set up in Haladipur and other places by the Forest Department, some local people had sought permission for conserving these eggs. On Sunday, these hatchlings emerged from their eggs and as per information, some 120 turtles were released into the sea," said Range Forest Officials Sharat Shetty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/120-olive-ridley-turtle-hatchlings-released-into-sea-970361.html
04-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||1 dead, 2 hurt after gelatin sticks explode in Hassan||One person was killed and two others sustained serious injuries when the gelatin sticks exploded at Chakenahalli Katte in Holenarsipur taluk of Hassan district on Sunday. Sampath (27) of Bettadahalli in Shravanabelagola hobli died on the spot while two others - Nataraj and Ravikumar - suffered injuries in the incident. Ravikumar has been shifted to a hospital in Bengaluru and is said to be in critical condition. Nataraj is being treated at the district hospital. According to sources, Nagesh, who has a license to store and sell explosives, had stored gelatin sticks at his godown. The gelatin sticks exploded when the victims were about to transfer them on two-wheelers from the godown. The impact of the explosion was such that all three victims were thrown to a distance of 300 metres. Two motorbikes were completely gutted. Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel visited the spot. The incident comes close on the heels of twin gelatin explosions at quarry sites in Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur districts, two months back, in which 12 workers were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1-dead-2-hurt-after-gelatin-sticks-explode-in-hassan-970390.html
04-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Jarkiholi brothers stay away from campaigning for bypolls||The Jarkiholi brothers have preferred to stay away from campaigning for the bypoll to Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency after the big brother of the clan got embroiled in sex scandal. The clout of the five Jarkiholi brothers - Ramesh, Satish, Balchandra, Bhimsi and Lakhan - is hard to ignore in Belagavi politics. Gokak and Arabhai Assembly constituencies, represented by BJP MLAs Ramesh and Balachandra, fall under Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency. But the legislators have not plunged into campaigning for party candidate Mangala Angadi. Ramesh Jarkiholi has not stepped out of his Gokak residence nor held any poll meetings after the CD, in which he purportedly featured along with a woman, was released.  Balchandra too is busy trying to bail his brother out of the case. He had held several meetings before the announcement of bypoll date at his constituency. But has remained quiet after the poll schedule was out. Both the leaders have not even sent any ‘message’ to their supporters. This despite the request by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to the Jarkiholi brothers to involve themselves in the campaigning. On the other hand, Lakhan Jarkiholi, who had unsuccessfully contested against his brother Ramesh on Congress ticket in 2018, is not seeking votes in favour of his brother and Congress candidate Satish Jarkiholi. In fact, Satish stood firmly behind Lakhan when the latter contested the 2018 polls. Lakhan had openly rebelled against the party president D K Shivakumar, believing that the Kanakapura strongman and bete noire of Ramesh, behind the release of sleaze CD. He had demanded the Congress high command to sack Shivakumar. A Congress leader from Gokak, on the condition of anonymity, told DH, “Congress workers in Gokak are in confusion. They are in no mood to seek votes for Satish in the constituency. Many leaders and workers have openly said that they would campaign for party workers if Shivakumar resigns as KPCC president.” With only few days left for the polling, both the BJP and the Congress want Jarkiholi brothers in their camps to campaign and sway votes in favour of their candidates in Gokak and Arabhavi segments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jarkiholi-brothers-stay-away-from-campaigning-for-bypolls-970348.html
04-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) workers hold stir outside Zameer Ahmed’s house over remarks on H D Kumaraswamy||JD(S) workers staged a protest against Congress legislator Zameer Ahmed on Sunday, criticising the MLA’s remarks against former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy. Zameer had recently levelled serious allegations against Kumaraswamy over JD(S) fielding a minority community candidate for the Basavakalyan byelection. He had reportedly made disparaging comments regarding the former chief minister’s skin tone. The protesters demanded an apology from Zameer. They also urged the authorities to book the MLA for his ‘racist’remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-workers-hold-stir-outside-zameer-ahmed-s-house-over-remarks-on-h-d-kumaraswamy-970353.html
04-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM B S Yediyurappa, K S Eshwarappa share dais at Harihar event, but keep to themselves||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, on Sunday, shared the dais at an event in Harihar taluk for the first time since their latest feud. Eshwarappa had recently complained against the chief minister to the high command and the governor over the CM’s alleged interference in his department.     The leaders did not even exchange pleasantries but acknowledged each other’s presence in their speeches. The occasion was the inauguration of the students hostel, community hall and the 5th anniversary of Kaginele Kanaka Mahasamsthan branch mutt at Belludi in Harihar taluk of the district. Though the two leaders shared the dais at the event that lasted more than two hours, they did not greet each other.  Eshwarappa arrived at the venue with his son K E Kantesh, a member of the Shivamogga zilla panchayat. Yediyurappa arrived a little while later. They went to the Hora Beeradevara temple on the premises of the mutt and offered prayers together. But they did not make eye contact. Kaginele Kanaka Gurupeetha pontiff Niranjananandapuri Swami was seated between the two. Eshwarappa, however, had a chat with the seer and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai during the programme that lasted for more than two hours. Eshwarappa, in his speech, hailed the chief minister for declaring a public holiday for Kanaka Jayanthi and releasing funds for the development of Baada, the birthplace of Kanakadasa in Haveri district during his earlier tenure. Yediyurappa mentioned Eshwarappa’s name in his brief speech and left the venue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-k-s-eshwarappa-share-dais-at-harihar-event-but-keep-to-themselves-970357.html
04-04-2021||National||Why India's vaccination drive faces many hurdles||The clock is ticking on India's Covid-19 vaccination drive. The world's second-most populous nation has to inoculate 35 crore citizens in the shortest possible time after it threw open jabs to everyone above 45 years. The race against time gets more testing due to the hurdles ahead, and some that persist from the previous phases. First, vaccinators are short-handed, which compounds the poor healthcare infrastructure. Second, the private sector is dragging its feet, posing a big challenge to scaling up operations. The lack of engagement with people from the lower socio-economic background isn't helping the already slow exercise. Over and above all these obstacles, vaccine hesitancy continues even among the urban and educated. Nearly 80 days after rolling out the Covid-19 vaccination, India has vaccinated less than one crore individuals with the required two doses to protect them from the rampaging pandemic. What makes the task even more daunting is an overwhelming sense of urgency because of a rapidly ballooning second surge. The vaccination centres have been asked to keep open till 9 pm every day in April to administer as many shots as possible irrespective of whether the beneficiaries are pre-registered or not. "The battle is on in every state as the virus has penetrated our defence,” said V K Paul, NITI Aayog member. “We need to vaccinate as many as possible while staging the process to prioritise vulnerable individuals who are likely to get very sick if infected,” noted K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). But it’s easier said than done. From getting enough vaccinators to overcoming hesitancy, the challenges are numerous. With the disease striking many smaller towns hard, time is at a premium. “It may be best to provide vaccines in an unrestricted manner just to curb the fast growth of cases at this time. Prioritising the elderly and those who are immuno-compromised or have preexisting conditions should still remain a priority but preventing the pandemic from getting out of hand and overwhelming the public and private health systems, as we saw in Brazil, is also important,” said Gautam Menon, senior biologist at the Ashoka University. One of the biggest challenges would be reaching out to the marginalised and vulnerable, who are likely to be left out in the current vaccination scheme. “The current system (Co-WIN platform-based) is harsh on the poor and vulnerable as there is no element of outreach and engagement by the government,” observed T Sundararaman, former executive director at the Delhi-based National Health Systems Resources Centre. Others agreed on the need to reach out to those in a much more proactive manner. “The existing system is a pull model, rather than a push one,” said Oommen John, senior public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi. “There has to be a completely bottom-up approach to increase vaccine uptake,” said health economist Rijo John, a former consultant to the World Health Organisation. In Pune, one of the Covid hotspots, Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said the administration would undertake a “carpet bombing” type vaccination in the most-affected localities. The Union Health Ministry asked 11 states and union territories to identify many such localities to start extensive jab sessions since the key to winning the battle with SARS-CoV-2 is to quickly protect the vulnerable with vaccine cover. Bottleneck But as the states begin to plan for such exercises, they face the second bottleneck — finding adequate manpower. The public health system has over 3,00,000 qualified front line workers capable of administering the injection. But all of them will not be available for Covid shots all the time. “What we need is a carefully crafted micro plan to organise session sites nearer to the population settings,” suggested Giridhar Babu, epidemiologist at the PHFI and an advisor to the Karnataka government. In Karnataka, vaccination centres have been given instructions to wrap up the drive for people in the 45-59 age group without comorbidities by four weeks. This would be a daunting target considering that 1.66 crore people in the state fall under this category, said health commissioner Dr K V Thrilok Chandra. With the health department facing a staff shortage since last year, the state has done away with the targets for individual vaccination sites. Instead, the advice is to conduct as many jabs per day as possible. The first two days after opening up saw more than 30 lakh people getting the shots on two consecutive days. Since the numbers are expected to rise further, the need is to find more hands. “With more India-manufactured vaccines likely to get regulatory approval, the challenges will revolve around increasing vaccination centres and teams, while reducing vaccine hesitancy,” said Reddy. The manpower problem can be addressed to some extent by roping in the private sector in a large way but that has not happened so far. Till last week, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had approved only 44 private hospitals for vaccination, whereas there are more than 1,000 private hospitals/nursing homes in Mumbai. The BMC has now given permission to 59 hospitals to conduct the vaccination, said Girdhar Gyani, director-general of the Association of Healthcare Providers (India) - AHPI. Out of 460 hospitals empanelled with the Centre's flagship Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, only 55 are registered with Co-WIN to administer the vaccines. In the Mumbai suburbs of Vasai, there is hardly any vaccine available in the private sector. Gyani said that AHPI, on behalf of private providers, was ready to coordinate with governments for identifying private hospitals and nursing homes with adequate infrastructure, but several public health experts told DH that in many states, private hospitals were simply not interested because of the low margin. Out of the Rs 250 a patient pays for a dose, the private hospital gets only Rs 100. Prasanna H M, president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said the private sector was ready to join the vaccination programme in strength, provided adequate supplies were provided. The association complains that supplies are being doled out piecemeal daily to the hospitals which are obligated to collect them from municipal bodies. Instead, the vaccines should be provided in bulk for an entire week. Vaccine confidence Another big worry for Karnataka and many other parts of the country is vaccine hesitancy, though a section of experts says that with the expansion of the scheme, it would fade. Barring the last two days, more than 30 lakh doses have been administered only once in the last two and a half months. While experts say that India needs to give 50-60 lakh doses daily, on an average, the number of daily doses remained stuck at 20 lakh-plus. Reddy said the government should create vaccine confidence through local community networks. “One clear strategy to improve confidence in the currently available vaccines is to demonstrate real-world effectiveness, which entails the introduction of the vaccine at mass scale in high transmission districts and evaluating how the disease transmission is reduced. This will help boost confidence and encourage overcome vaccine hesitancy,” suggested John. At the moment, the availability of doses from Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India doesn’t seem to be an issue, with the central government firmly assuring a steady supply. Maintaining cold chain logistics even in summer would also not be a problem because of a well-oiled existing system, thanks to India's universal immunisation programme. “Protecting the vulnerable is more important as they are at risk of having severe illness or death. Once they are protected faster, the expansion for other age groups can be planned expeditiously,” noted Babu. (With inputs from Akhil Kadidal in Bengaluru and Mrityunjay Bose in Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-indias-vaccination-drive-faces-many-hurdles-970073.html
04-04-2021||National||DH Toon | When the Constituent Assembly debated regulating interplanetary travel||When they debated India’s Constitution, members of the Constituent Assembly did not just concern themselves with the matters of their time -- they were also shaping the nation’s future. Not just the immediate future but also far into it. Long before Star Trek was a glint in Gene Roddenberry’s eyes and science fiction taken seriously, a member of the Constituent Assembly sought a debate to make laws to regulate interplanetary space travel! The topic was kicked off in unexpected circumstances. As the entries to List I of the Seventh Schedule (which lists out the topics on which Parliament alone could make laws) were being debated, an amendment was proposed by H V Kamath suggesting that among the topics, Parliament should also be specifically empowered to make laws regulating “interplanetary travel.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-when-the-constituent-assembly-debated-regulating-interplanetary-travel-970097.html
04-04-2021||National||PM Modi greets people on Easter||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted people on the occasion of Easter on Sunday.  "Greetings on Easter! On this day, we remember the pious teachings of Jesus Christ. His emphasis on social empowerment inspires millions across the world," he tweeted.  Greetings on Easter! On this day, we remember the pious teachings of Jesus Christ. His emphasis on social empowerment inspires millions across the world.   Easter is celebrated by Christians all over the world in the belief of the resurrection of Jesus Christ.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-people-on-easter-970133.html
04-04-2021||National||India records 93,249 new Covid-19 cases, highest in over six months||India on Sunday recorded 93,249 new coronavirus infections, the highest single-day rise so far this year, which took the total Covid-19 cases to 1,24,85,509, according to Union health ministry data. This is the biggest daily rise in cases since September 19, when 93,337 fresh infections were recorded. The death toll climbed to 1,64,623 on Sunday with 513 new fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 25th straight day, the number of active cases surged to 6,91,597, accounting for 5.54 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 93.14 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12, comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease increased to 1,16,29,289, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, according to the data.   India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 24,81,25,908 samples had been tested up to April 3 with 11,66,716 being tested on Saturday. The 513 new fatalities include 277 from Maharashtra, 49 from Punjab, 36 from Chhattisgarh, 19 from Karnataka, 15 from Madhya Pradesh, 14 from Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, 13 from Gujarat, 12 from Kerala and 10 each from Delhi and Haryana. A total of 1,64,623 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 55,656 from Maharashtra, 12,764 from Tamil Nadu, 12,610 from Karnataka, 11,060 from Delhi, 10,340 from West Bengal, 8,850 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,234 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,032 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-93249-new-covid-19-cases-highest-in-over-six-months-970135.html
04-04-2021||National||Govt will continue fight against enemies of peace: Amit Shah on Chhattisgarh encounter||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday condoled the death of security personnel in an encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh and said their valour will never be forgotten. Shah also said that the government will continue its fight against such enemies of peace and progress. "I bow to the sacrifices of our brave security personnel martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Nation will never forget their valour. My condolences are with their families. We will continue our fight against these enemies of peace & progress. May injured recover soon," he said in a tweet. I bow to the sacrifices of our brave security personnel martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Nation will never forget their valour. My condolences are with their families. We will continue our fight against these enemies of peace & progress. May injured recover soon. At least five security personnel were killed and 30 others injured on Saturday in the encounter with Naxals in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-will-continue-fight-against-enemies-of-peace-amit-shah-on-chhattisgarh-encounter-970136.html
04-04-2021||National||PM Modi chairs high-level meet to review Covid situation as cases surge||Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting on Sunday to review the COVID-19 situation and the vaccination programme amid a surge in coronavirus cases. Sources said top officials, including cabinet secretary, principal secretary to the prime minister, health secretary and NITI Aayog member Vinod Paul, attended the meeting. India on Sunday recorded 93,249 new coronavirus infections, the highest single-day rise so far this year, which took the total COVID-19 cases to 1,24,85,509, according to Union health ministry data. This is the biggest daily rise in cases since September 19, when 93,337 fresh infections were recorded. The death toll climbed to 1,64,623 on Sunday with 513 new fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-chairs-high-level-meet-to-review-covid-situation-as-cases-surge-970152.html
04-04-2021||National||Vedanta Resources says contributed over Rs 34K cr to Indian exchequer in FY20||Diversified natural resources firm Vedanta Resources has said it contributed $4.66 billion (Rs 34,018 crore) to the public exchequer in India during the 2019-20 fiscal. Its overall contributions to public exchequers of various countries stood at $4.7 billion (Rs 34,310 crore) during the fiscal year, Vedanta Resources said in its latest report. "Consistent with our commitment to building on transparency, we present our fifth tax transparency report. During FY2019-20, our contribution to exchequer was $4.7 billion, which accounts for 40 per cent of our consolidated turnover," Vedanta Resources Chairman Anil Agarwal said. Most of this amount goes to the Indian exchequer as majority of the groups business operations are located in India. The company paid $1,398 million (Rs 10,205 crore) towards royalties to the state governments of Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Karnataka based on extraction of bauxite, lead-zinc, iron ore, crude oil and natural gas. Vedanta has also formed an internal 'Tax Council' which acts as an overarching governing body to the tax function as a whole. The company has adopted guiding tax principle to maintain high standards of integrity with respect to tax compliance and reporting. In the last seven years, Vedanta has contributed $46.4 billion (Rs 3,38,720 crore) to the exchequer which constitutes to around 39 per cent of the company’s consolidated turnover. It is the highest contribution to the exchequer made by any corporate so far in the last seven years under the present government regime. The company said that Vedanta is the 'only' corporate in the country to come out with such a report that breaks down key components like economic value generated, taxes paid and contribution by each of the businesses, the company said. In terms of direct taxes, the company’s contribution to the exchequer is amongst the top companies in the private sector, it said. "The direct economic value of $12,475 million (Rs 91,067 crore) has been generated during the year," it said. Vedanta Resources Ltd is a diversified natural resource company engaged in exploring, extracting and processing minerals and oil and gas. The group engages in the exploration, production and sale of zinc, lead, silver, copper, aluminium, iron ore and oil & gas and has its presence across India, South Africa, Namibia, Ireland, Australia, Liberia and UAE. The group is also in the business of commercial power generation, steel manufacturing and port operations in India and manufacturing of glass substrate in South Korea and Taiwan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vedanta-resources-says-contributed-over-rs-34k-cr-to-indian-exchequer-in-fy20-970167.html
04-04-2021||National||17 more bodies of security personnel recovered after Chhattisgarh encounter, Kannadiga among injured||Bullet-ridden bodies of 17 more security personnel killed in a fierce gunbattle with Maoists in Chhattisgarh were recovered on Sunday with Union Home Minister Amit Shah assuring that their sacrifice will not go in vain. With this, the total toll of security personnel has risen to 22 while 31 others were injured and one is still missing. One of the injured is Yallappa Sammesh, a CoBRA commando who hails from Karnataka and presently undergoing treatment in Bijapur district hospital. Officials said the deceased included personnel from the CRPF, its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) and the District Reserve Guard (DRG) while some of their weapons were also missing. Around 2,000 security personnel had launched a joint anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests on Friday night. Out of the total 22 fatalities, eight were from CRPF — seven from CoBRA unit and another from the Bastariya battalion. When the patrolling team that was dispatched from Tarrem was advancing through the forest near Jonaguda, located around 500 km away from the state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by cadres of PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion of Maoists that led to gun-battle. Sources said around 400 Maoists had ambushed the security personnel. Most wanted Maoist commander and leader of the self-styled 'People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) battalion no 1' -- Hidma -- and his associate Sujatha are suspected to be behind the attack. Maoists used light machine guns (LMGs) and low-intensity improvised explosive devices (IEDs) to target the personnel. Sources said Maoists carried around a dozen of their dead operatives on tractor trolleys. Maoists are said to have encircled the security personnel from three sides and a heavy gun battle ensued in the jungle which are devoid of any foliage at present. "The rescue choppers could not land in the ambush area around 2 PM when they were sent for a casualty evacuation mission as a heavy exchange of firing was taking place. The helicopter landed only around 5 PM to pick up the casualties," PTI quoted a security official as saying. Citing the "ground report", Chhattisgarh's Deputy Inspector General (anti-Naxal operation) O P Pal had claimed that Maoists suffered a huge loss in the gunfight, but the body of only one woman Naxal could be recovered from the spot amid the heavy exchange of fire. Shah spoke to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Bhagel and took stock of the situation after the encounter in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh. He also directed Central Reserve Police Force Director General Kuldiep Singh to visit Chhattisgarh to assess the situation. "Both sides have suffered losses. Our jawans have lost their lives. I want to assure their families that their sacrifice will not go in vain,"  Shah said in Guwahati where he was on an election campaign. He cut short his Assam visit and returned to the national capital. I bow to the sacrifices of our brave security personnel martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Nation will never forget their valour. My condolences are with their families. We will continue our fight against these enemies of peace & progress. May injured recover soon. Separately, he tweeted, "I bow to the sacrifices of our brave security personnel martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Nation will never forget their valour. My condolences are with their families. We will continue our fight against these enemies of peace and progress. May injured recover soon." Expressing sadness over the incident, President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted, "the killing of the security personnel while battling Maoist insurgency in Chhattisgarh is a matter of deep anguish. My condolences to the bereaved families. The nation shares their pain and will never forget this sacrifice." The killing of the security personnel while battling Maoist insurgency in Chhattisgarh is a matter of deep anguish. My condolences to the bereaved families. The nation shares their pain and will never forget this sacrifice. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also expressed grief over the death of the security personnel.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17-more-bodies-of-security-personnel-recovered-after-chhattisgarh-encounter-kannadiga-among-injured-970185.html
04-04-2021||National||Burning of Mahua tree leaves may have led to fire: MP minister By Lemuel Lall||Burning of leaves to collect Mahua flowers, lighting a fire to keep wild elephants away or a burning cigarette butt left by someone may have caused the recent blaze in Madhya Pradesh's Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve, state Forest Minister Vijay Shah said on Sunday. The fire has caused a lot of damage in the Bandhavgarh forest and the state government would request the Centre to acquire modern firefighting aircraft to tackle such incidents, Shah told PTI. The wildfire was reported a few days back in parts of the Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve (BTR) located in the Umaria district and was doused on Wednesday, forest officials earlier said. The blaze reduced to ashes parts of one of the largest biosphere reserves in India, they said. A day after visiting the BTR, Shah said fortunately, no death of human or wild animal was reported and everyone worked hard to put out the blaze. He said there may be three causes that led to the fire in the tiger reserve. Firstly, people burn and clean up an area of leaves beneath Mahua trees to easily collect flowers fallen from the trees, he said. Secondly, it is possible that people living in the reserve and its buffer area might have lit a fire to keep away wild elephants that have entered the reserve from neighbouring Chhattisgarh, he said. Lastly, someone might have left a burning cigarette butt or a 'bidi' that led to the blaze, Shah said, adding that fire usually breaks out in forests during summers. "The fire has caused quite a lot of damage to the Bandhavgarh forest and modern equipment are desperately needed to douse such ablaze. A meeting in this regard will take place on April 6 or 7," Shah said. He noted that firefighter aircraft are used to douse big fires in the developed countries. "Our country has such big forests. We are going to request the central government to buy such an aircraft that costs about Rs 235 crore," Shah said. He said such an aircraft has the capacity to store a huge amount of water. "In such incidents of fire, the aircraft can fly to Bandhavgarh and Kanha (another tiger reserve in MP) in two hours (from Delhi)," the minister said. The Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve (BTR) is spread over an area of 1,536.93 sq km. There were 104 adult tigers in the BTR, as per the animal count. It is one of the densely populated habitats of the striped animal in the country, BTR's field director Vincent Raheem said. According to a forest official, the fire had broken out in some reserve buffer zones and engulfed parts of the BTR's core area in 15 to 20 places. A panel comprising the BTR's deputy director and assistant director are conducting a probe into the cause of the blaze and assessing the damage caused by it, Raheem said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/burning-of-mahua-tree-leaves-may-have-led-to-fire-mp-minister-by-lemuel-lall-970186.html
04-04-2021||National||5 states account for over 43% of total Covid-19 vaccinations||As India races to contain the second wave of Covid-19, five states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal have carried out over 43 per cent of the total vaccinations in the country, according to the Health Ministry data. Of the total 7,59,79,651 vaccinations carried out till now, 3,33,10,437 were carried out in these five states. Out of the 3,33,10,437 jabs administered in these five states -- 2,91,54,577 were first doses and 41,55,860 were second doses, according to the data till 7 am on Sunday. In Maharashtra, 73,54,244 vaccinations have been carried out which alone accounts for 9.68 per cent of the total vaccinations in the country. A total of 69,23,008 vaccinations have been carried out in Gujarat which alone accounts for 9.11 per cent of the total vaccinations in the country. In Uttar Pradesh, 66,43,096 vaccinations have been carried out which alone accounts for 8.74 per cent of the total vaccinations in the country. A total of 64,31,601 vaccinations have been carried out in Rajasthan which alone accounts for 8.46 per cent of the total vaccinations in the country. In West Bengal, 59,58,488 vaccinations have been carried out which alone accounts for 7.84 per cent of the total vaccinations in the country. Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh are also among the states that are reporting high numbers of new Covid-19 cases.   Maharashtra on Saturday reported 49,447 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest rise in a day so far, taking the tally to 29,53,523 while 277 fatalities pushed the toll to 55,656. Uttar Pradesh Saturday reported 14 coronavirus deaths as 3,290 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state's infection count to 6,25,923. Officials have said that the high number of vaccinations can be attributed to the high number of cases being reported in some of these states. But the availability of resources, high population and awareness are other reasons for these states to carry out high numbers of vaccinations, a senior official said. Samiran Panda, director of ICMR National AIDS Research Institute, said the number of vaccinations should also be seen in terms of population of a state. "Clearly, if states are covering priority groups then there will be vaccine-induced herd immunity in these groups. The good performing states have actually saturated and achieved 70 or 80 per cent vaccination of priority groups then they can expect to report lesser cases in coming times," he told PTI. Panda added that the indirect benefit of increased number of vaccinations is reduced transmission of the infection. India is racing against time to contain a second wave of the coronavirus which continues to batter the country. The country recorded 93,249 new coronavirus infections on Sunday, the highest single-day rise since September, which took the total Covid-19 cases to 1,24,85,509, according to the health ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-states-account-for-over-43-of-total-covid-19-vaccinations-970192.html
04-04-2021||National||Doctors' forum urges govt not to impose lockdown as it can harm the poor||A forum of scientists and doctors on Sunday urged the government not to impose a lockdown or any other measures which can be harmful and life-threatening to the poor amid a resurgence in coronavirus cases. It appealed to authorities to ramp up healthcare services, including the number of hospitals, beds and human resources to globally accepted norms. "Organisation of huge political gatherings and religious congregation by several political leaders, and at the same time warning of another lockdown defies logic, confuses the people, and conveys utter lack of sincerity of purpose," the president of the Progressive Medicos and Scientist Forum, Dr Harjit Singh, Bhatti said. The forum said all coronavirus-related healthcare and vaccination should be guided by "sound scientific principles, and provided totally free of cost to all Indians irrespective of socio-economic status". Bhatti also stressed on the need to abolish contractual posts in the healthcare system, regularise all staffers and ending privatisation of health care in the country. "The government should not impose lockdowns or any other draconian measures which do not have any scientific basis and are extremely harmful and life-threatening to the poor," the forum added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-forum-urges-govt-not-to-impose-lockdown-as-it-can-harm-the-poor-970202.html
04-04-2021||National||PM Modi icon of our constitutional commitment to secularism: Naqvi||Alleging that for Congress, secularism is a "vote-hijacking machine", Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday said the BJP is the most secular party and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the "icon of our constitutional commitment to secularism". The Minority Affairs Minister also claimed that Muslims' "strong support" for Prime Minister Modi is visible in the assembly elections and slowly they are aligning with the BJP. In an interview with PTI, Naqvi said the Congress' alliance with Badruddin Ajmal's All India United Democratic Front in Assam, Indian Secular Front in West Bengal and the Indian Union Muslim League in Kerala has "exposed" the party's "secular tag on communal bag" policy. "For the Congress, secularism is a vote-hijacking machine, while for us it is a commitment to inclusive development. Congress is, therefore, now getting isolated as it neither has anything to say nor any achievement to show," Naqvi alleged. Asserting that there can be no party more secular than the BJP, Naqvi said, "Prime Minister Modi is the icon of our constitutional commitment to secularism." Naqvi said Modi is a PM who after coming to power bowed before the Constitution ahead of taking oath and said that those who voted for us and those who did not are equal for us. There cannot be a better example of inclusive mentality and secular thinking, Naqvi added. He said secularism for the BJP and the Modi government is a constitutional mission and resolve, while for "pseudo secularists", it is a means to hijack votes. Claiming that the BJP would form the government in West Bengal, return to power in Assam and come up with a strong performance in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, Naqvi said that sensing defeat, the Opposition parties have already started making excuses by questioning EVMs and making "attacks" on the Election Commission. "They are writing letters for unity, they have tried that earlier also to align but failed miserably," he said in an obvious reference to TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's letter to non-BJP leaders in which she said the time has come for a "united and effective" struggle against the BJP's alleged attacks on democracy and the Constitution. Asked about Badruddin Ajmal's allegation that the BJP is trying to polarise voters by highlighting his beard and skull cap, Naqvi said in this country nobody needs to fear "topi or tilak". This country is of inclusive thought and its DNA is one of taking every section of the society along, he asserted. By saying all this they want to impress their voters and get sympathy, he added. "These days it is a trend to seek sympathy, somebody will get their leg broken, somebody will say my 'dadhi' (beard), 'topi' (cap) is getting affected, somebody will start chanting mantras, someone will wear a topi indoors while sport a tilak outside, this is nothing but 'electoral buffoonery'," Naqvi said. Asked about the BJP raising the issue of illegal immigrants in the Assam polls, the minister said the issue was not a communal one but a national one. The illegal immigrants are the most harmful to the Muslims of that state as they usurp their rights, he argued. Naqvi also dismissed suggestions that the BJP was on the back foot on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Assam, saying "we are not on the back foot, our government worked for five years there and we are talking about the work we have done for the people". "Ajmal sahab used to think of himself as a kingmaker and used to say he has the key to power, now he is worried that he has lost that key," Naqvi said. On the BJP giving some tickets to Muslim candidates in the Assembly polls, he said Muslims have always been given tickets by the BJP, but the basis was always winnability. "We are a political party and take everyone along, we don't believe in leaving out any section of the society," he said. Elections in Assam are being conducted in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6, while polling in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will take place in a single phase on April 6. Elections for the West Bengal assembly are being held in eight phases which began with polling for 30 seats on March 27. Counting for all the seats will be held on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-icon-of-our-constitutional-commitment-to-secularism-naqvi-970227.html
04-04-2021||National||28 shops gutted after fire breaks out in market in J&K's Baramulla||Over two dozen shops were gutted in a massive fire that broke out in a market in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday night, officials said. The fire started in a shop at Baba Reshi market in Tangmarg area of the north Kashmir district, the officials said on Sunday. It spread rapidly, engulfing the nearby shops in the market. Twenty-eight shops were gutted in the fire, they said. Fire tenders and police personnel helped douse the flames, the officials said. The cause of the fire is not known yet, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/28-shops-gutted-after-fire-breaks-out-in-market-in-jks-baramulla-970231.html
04-04-2021||National||West Bengal elections: ISF might make things difficult for TMC in bastion South 24 Parganas||The Indian Secular Front (ISF) floated by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui is likely to become a cause of concern for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in South 24 Parganas district, a bastion of the ruling party in West Bengal. Despite the BJP’s rise in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the TMC led in all of the 31 Assembly constituencies in the district. It also won 29 out of the 31 seats in the district in the 2016 Assembly elections. However, the ISF may make it difficult for the TMC to maintain its electoral dominance in the district, especially in constituencies with a large Muslim population. Muslim voters are the determining factor in 11 Assembly constituencies in the district. According to the 2011 Census, Muslims comprise 35.57% of the district’s population. Considering Siddiqui’s popularity among a considerable section of Muslims in the district, it looks like the ISF may eat into the TMC’s minority support base. Moreover, the emergence of the ISF may lead to a consolidation of Hindu votes in favour of the BJP. For instance, the Bhangar Assembly constituency, which has a nearly 70% Muslim population, presents a tricky situation to the TMC. It was in Bhangar that, in late 2019, Siddiqui started to show his hold over the Muslims in the district. Despite winning the seat in 2016, the TMC is plagued with infighting in Bhangar with at least six opposing factions. Locals said that in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the TMC led in Bhangar with 68.40% votes mainly because of the consolidation of Muslim votes against the BJP. But this time, with the ISF fielding its chairperson Naushad Siddiqui from Bhangar, it is likely to make a dent in the TMC’s Muslim votes. “It's not just South 24 Parganas, but in several parts of the state. The TMC will be no match to the ISF. Its days of exploiting Muslims as a vote bank are over,” Naushad told DH. Although the ISF does not have much organizational presence in the Canning East constituency in the district which has a Muslim population of about 60%, Siddiqui’s entry into politics has proven to be a shot in the arm for the CPI(M). The Left Front's cadre in the constituency considers Siddiqui to be the person who can give a befitting response to the TMC and its sitting MLA Saokat Molla’s alleged strong-arm tactics. The ISF, an alliance partner of the Left Front and the Congress, is contesting in 26 seats. A similar situation is prevailing in the minority-dominated constituencies of Magrahat East and Magrahat West both of which have more than 50% Muslim population. As for the Canning West seat, which has a Hindu population of about 47% and a Muslim population of about 35%, Siddiqui’s influence seems to be leading towards a consolidation of Hindu votes which may help the BJP in the Assembly elections. Four seats of South 24 Parganas went to polls in the second phase while 16 and 11 seats will go to polls in the third and fourth phase on April 6 and April 10 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-elections-isf-might-make-things-difficult-for-tmc-in-bastion-south-24-parganas-970241.html
04-04-2021||National||Centre orders deployment of NDRF teams, helicopters in Uttarakhand to tackle forest fires||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the government has ordered the deployment of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams and helicopters in Uttarakhand to tackle forest fires in the state. The home minister also spoke to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat and took stock of the situation arising out of the forest fires. "I have spoken to Uttarakhand Chief Minister @TIRATHSRAWAT and inquired about the forest fires. To overcome fires and prevent loss of life and property, the central government has issued orders for immediately making available teams of @NDRFHQ and helicopters to the government of Uttarakhand," Shah said in a tweet in Hindi. There have been reports of forest fires in several districts of Uttarakhand in last few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-orders-deployment-of-ndrf-teams-helicopters-in-uttarakhand-to-tackle-forest-fires-970246.html
04-04-2021||National||UP Police forms SIT to probe fake papers of ambulance that ferried Mukhtar Ansari to court||A special investigation team (SIT) has been set up by the Uttar Pradesh Police to further probe into the issue of fake documents of the ambulance which was used to ferry gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari from a Punjab jail to a Mohali court recently. Barabanki Superintendent of Police Yamuna Prasad on Sunday said the SIT has been constituted under the additional superintendent of police (north). "Some members of the SIT, under the SHO of Haidargarh, have been sent to Punjab. Others have been sent to Mau (in Uttar Pradesh). They will deliberate on various points and will also speak to Dr Alka Rai, whose name was given for the registration of the ambulance. "The SIT will also try to look for the ambulance and its driver. Efforts will also be made to ascertain as to under whose orders the ambulance ferried Ansari from the jail," the superintendent of police said. Amid a row over this issue, a Punjab police official has clarified that an inmate can be transported in a private ambulance on medical grounds and the cost of conveyance has to be borne by the prisoner. On April 2, a case was registered in Barabanki after the documents of the ambulance bearing UP registration number were found to be fake. Ansari, the BSP MLA from Mau, who is wanted in Uttar Pradesh for various cases, was on March 31 produced before the Mohali court in connection with an alleged 2019 extortion matter. Amid tight security arrangements, Ansari was taken to court in a wheelchair. He was sent back to Punjab's Rupnagar jail, where he is lodged since January 2019, in an ambulance after the appearance. "After an initial probe, the name and address given for the registration of the ambulance were found to be false. An FIR in this regard has been registered by an additional road transport officer against Dr Alka Rai, whose name was given for the registration of the ambulance," a senior police official said in Barabanki. An FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 420 (forgery), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using documents as genuine), 467 (forgery of valuable security) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating). SP Yamuna Prasad had said that acting on media reports that Ansari was produced in a court in Punjab on an ambulance with the registration number of Barabanki, police teams probed the matter and found that documents such as PAN, electoral photo id card and others were fake. The address on which these documents were made was also found to be wrong, he said. However, the Punjab police official had said that if an inmate has any medical condition, then he can be taken in a private ambulance subject to due diligence by the security in-charge. The cost of conveyance has to be borne by the prisoner, he had said. According to the Punjab Prisoners (Attendance in Court) Rules, 1969, the police team can allow a private vehicle on the request of a prisoner, the official added. It was also clarified that ambulance in which Ansari was taken to the court on March 31, was not a bullet-proof vehicle. The Supreme Court had recently directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of Ansari to the Uttar Pradesh Police, saying it was being denied on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues. The apex court had also said that a convict or an undertrial prisoner, who disobeys the law of the land, cannot oppose his transfer from one prison to another and the courts are not to be helpless bystanders when the rule of law is being challenged with impunity. The court had said the custody of Ansari, a BSP MLA from the Mau constituency, be handed over to Uttar Pradesh within two weeks so as to lodge him in Banda district jail in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-police-forms-sit-to-probe-fake-papers-of-ambulance-that-ferried-mukhtar-ansari-to-court-970249.html
04-04-2021||National||Gita Press president Radheshyam Khemka passes away at 87||The president of Gita Press, Radheshyam Khemka, passed away here following a brief illness, his family members said on Sunday. He was 87. Khemka died on Saturday afternoon and his last rites were performed at the Harishchandra Ghat, they said. He was under treatment at a private hospital in Ravindrapuri. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death Khemka, noting he remained active in various social services throughout his life. Modi noted that Khemka took Sanatan literature to the masses. The prime minister said his condolences are with Khemka's family and admirers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gita-press-president-radheshyam-khemka-passes-away-at-87-970256.html
04-04-2021||National||TN polls: Will Leaves rule the roost or will it be the return of the Sun?||Will it be a hat-trick of wins or a political upheaval in Tamil Nadu when the results are out on May 2? With voters slated to write their verdict in a few hours from Sunday, on polling day of April 6, respective political blocs headed by the AIADMK, DMK, AMMK and newbie Makkal Needhi Maiam, are sweating it out, billing themselves as the best choice before the electorate. The ruling AIADMK, steered by Chief Minister K Palaniswami, is keen to ensure continuation of 'Amma aatchi' (Amma's rule) for an unprecedented third time while DMK president M K Stalin has invested all his resources to upset his rival's hopes and reverse the wheel of fortune. The DMK, ousted in 2011 following a dismal show due to a number of factors including the severe power cuts, put up a more spirited performance five years later, getting elevated as the principal opposition party. In the first assembly election fought in the absence of towering late leaders J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi, the BJP is also putting up a good fight, hoping to romp home with the blessings of Lord Muruga. A virtual non-player in the past elections which it faced on its own, the BJP, in alliance with the AIADMK, this time is harping on several issues including Tamil culture and pride, after taking on those who allegedly denigrated 'kandasashti kavacham', a hymn sung in praise of Tamil God Murugan (Lord Muruga). MNM leader, actor Kamal Haasan is making his electoral debut in 2021, seeking his fortunes from Coimbatore South, part of the western region often hailed as AIADMK's fortress. Comprising the districts of Coimbatore, Erode, Tirupur Salem and Namakkal, among others, the western region has generally stood behind the ruling party, returning a large chunk of MLAs, including Palaniswami from his home turf Edapadi in Salem in the outgoing assembly. Stalin has demonstrated his keenness to make inroads in these districts and is leaving no stone unturned to achieve the goal. The DMK is also banking on its alliance's win in all the Lok Sabha seats in the western parts in 2019 to recreate the performance at a more micro level to sweep the assembly segments as well. Its allies include the Congress and Left. While a number of pre-poll surveys have indicated a DMK win, some a sweep, the AIADMK is not willing to buy them. Leaders including Palaniswami have dismissed any kind of anti-incumbency of ten years, calling them a creation of the DMK and insist that the party's pro-people initiatives will take it beyond the finish line comfortably. AIADMK functionaries insist that the ground reality is different. The party's assurances like free washing machines, six free cylinders a year and houses will convince even the undecided voter to choose their candidates. Having faced the 2016 elections by its own, under the late Jayalalithaa, AIADMK has aligned with the BJP and PMK and some other local outfits. The party then won 135 seats. The alliance is being described as a combination of Leaves, Flower and Fruit,alluding to their respective symbols. The AIADMK's symbol is Two Leaves, Lotus being that of the BJP and Mango is the PMK's election symbol. The ruling side is also confident that its two reservation proposals---the 7.5 per cent quota in medical edcuation for government school students clearing NEET and the 10.5 per cent internal reservation for Vanniyar community, whose interests the PMK claims to represent, will also help it. A PMK leader told PTI that the Vanniyars will rally behind the AIADMK and by no chance would vote for the DMK. But, the reservation offering seems to have led to some murmurs in the southern parts, another AIADMK bastion, among the other local dominant castes. The DMK, on the other hand, is counting on its umbrella combine to recreate the 2019 magic, where it won 38 of the 39 Lok Sabha seats, and is riding high on the various surveys giving it the edge. However, Stalin has cautioned partymen against any complacency. He has trained his guns against the AIADMK, especially for aligning with BJP, which is still finding it hard to get a firm footing in the Dravidian land. However, the BJP has managed to push its own narrative, managing to bring to the fore the issue of faith and 'Hindu renaissance,' something the rationalist DMK could not ignore. Faith, generally, has not been an election topic in Tamil Nadu but the controversy surrounding 'Karuppar Koottam', an atheist group with alleged DMK links accused of denigrating 'kandasashti kavacham', prompted the BJP to launch a Vel Yatra, combining the issue with Tamil pride. Party stalwarts-- Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, among others, did not miss an opportunity to strike the right chord, commencing their rallies with the cry "Vetrivel Veeravel," dedicated to Lord Muruga, and often intertwining the issue with Tamil pride and culture. DMK, known for its rationalist ideology, came under such severe attack from the BJP, AIADMK and right wing groups that Stalin had to clarify his party was not against any particular faith and cited his wife visiting temples and many DMK functionaries sporting vermilion and sacred ash on their forehead. The DMK is also facing backlash over its leader A Raja's alleged offensive remarks against Palaniswami's mother, which prompted the EC to bar him from campaigning in the last phase of election. This election, after a long time, sees a new player, actor Kamal Haasan, who has jumped into the fray with a centrist agenda, all though he has his critics on either side of the political spectrum. Many left and Periyarist leaders question his secular credentials while the right wing claims he is an ardent left sympathiser combined with a Dravidian agenda. He is fighting the battle from Coimbatore South, from a city that has returned both AIADMK and BJP MPs in the past and his rivals are BJP women's wing leader Vanathi Srinivasan and Congress' Mayrua Jayakumar, both local faces. Actor-director Seeman's Naam Tamizhar Katchi is also in the fray, making it a multi-cornered fight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-polls-will-leaves-rule-the-roost-or-will-it-be-the-return-of-the-sun-970264.html
04-04-2021||National||Renowned Gujarati poet Khalil Dhantejvi passes away, PM Modi expresses grief||Noted Gujarati poet and ghazal maestro Khalil Dhantejvi died in Vadodara on Sunday due to age related issues, those close to him said. He was 82. The poet, who was born Khalil Ismail, but adopted 'Dhantejvi' from the name of his village Dhantej in Vadodara, had written many poems, ghazals and was a much sought-after personality at mushairas (poetic symposium). He started off his career as a journalist. In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. "I am pained at death of famous Gujarati poet, writer and ghazal exponent Khalil Dhantejvi. His contributions will always be remembered for making Gujarati ghazal interesting. Condolences to family members and his fans."  ગુજરાતના પ્રખ્યાત કવિ, લેખક અને ગઝલકાર ખલીલ ધનતેજવીના અવસાનથી દુઃખ અનુભવું છું. ગુજરાતી ગઝલને રસપ્રદબનાવવામાં તેમનું યોગદાન હંમેશા યાદગાર રહેશે. શોકગ્રસ્ત પરિવાર અને એમના વિશાળ ગઝલપ્રેમી ચાહકવર્ગને સાંત્વના..! ઓમ શાંતિ...!!!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renowned-gujarati-poet-khalil-dhantejvi-passes-away-pm-modi-expresses-grief-970265.html
04-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Toll rises in Chhattisgarh Naxal attack||In your evening news brief, bodies of 17 more security personnel killed in an encounter with Maoists recovered; Rahul Gandhi promising that every poor person in Kerala will get Rs 6,000 every month "without fail" and the UK is to trial a system of "Covid status certification" at events including football matches.  Bodies of 17 more security personnel killed in an encounter with Maoists in Chhattisgarh were recovered on Sunday with Union Home Minister Amit Shah assuring that their sacrifice will not go in vain. With this, the total toll of security personnel has risen to 22. Officials said the deceased included personnel from the CRPF, its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) and the District Reserve Guard (DRG) while some of their weapons were also missing.  Shah spoke to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Bhagel and took stock of the situation after the encounter in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh.   As the campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls draws to a close, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday gave a further push to his 'Nyuntam Aay Yojana' (NYAY) to reach out to the voters, promising that every poor person in the State will get Rs 6,000 every month "without fail", if the UDF is voted to power. "The UDF is proposing something revolutionary. Something that has never been tried in any Indian state before," Gandhi told a UDF meeting organised at Vellamunda in Mananthavady.   Britain is to trial a system of "Covid status certification" at events including football matches in the coming weeks as a possible way out of virus restrictions, the government said late Saturday. The Downing Street statement confirmed that Britain plans to issue identification showing whether people are vaccinated, have antibodies or have tested negative, despite opposition from lawmakers in Prime Minister Boris Johnson's own party. The government is to announce Monday that the system will be tested at events from mid-April including the FA Cup Semi-Final and Final at Wembley Stadium, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-toll-rises-in-chhattisgarh-naxal-attack-970268.html
04-04-2021||National||Vaze case: NIA seizes documents suggesting month-wise 'bribes' paid to 'govt officials'||The ongoing probe into the security scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house and the alleged murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren has led the NIA to documents that show some payments, suspected to be bribe money, being made to officials in the Mumbai Police and the administration, officials said here. They said the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is scrutinising the documents unearthed during a raid Thursday on a club at Girgaum in South Mumbai to probe further the role of now-suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, who is in the custody of the National Investigation Agency till April 7. One of the documents shows the name of the office as well as officers by designation and there was an amount mentioned against their names, and the same had been tabulated month-wise, the officials said. The officials suspect that the amounts mentioned against office and officers could be the bribe money paid every month. Before sharing further details, the NIA is likely to seek an explanation from the club-owner and others about the documents. The officials said that if needed the documents would be shared with Income Tax or CBI authorities for further probe as the NIA is mandated to probe anti-terror cases only. They said the club was frequented by Vaze who had even got Naresh Gor and co-accused Vinayak Shinde employed there. Both of them are in the NIA custody at present. The NIA had Thursday also recovered documents pertaining to SIM cards procured through Gor for his personal use. Gor is alleged to have procured the SIM cards from Ahmedabad in Gujarat and these were handed over to Vaze through Shinde, the officials said. One of these SIM cards was used by Vaze to give a call to Hiren, which turned out to be the last call before the businessman was killed. The body of Hiren, who was in possession of the SUV used in the security scare incident, was found in a creek in the Mumbra town of the neighbouring Thane district on March 5. Hiren was allegedly killed by Vaze after reports started surfacing that the case may be handed over to the central agency for probe. Initial investigations suggested that Hiran was called to a place where he was made unconscious with the help of some drugs before being smothered to death. His vehicle was found outside Ambani's house in Mumbai on February 25 with gelatin sticks and a threat note. The NIA has said in the court that Vaze had taken the car from Hiren before allegedly planting the explosives and parking it outside Ambani's house on February 25. Vaze was arrested on March 15 by the NIA and is at present in the custody of the agency till April 7. The Maharashtra ATS, which was initially probing the Hiren murder case, had arrested Gor and Shinde. This case was also taken over by the NIA and the duo are in the custody of the agency till April 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaze-case-nia-seizes-documents-suggesting-month-wise-bribes-paid-to-govt-officials-970287.html
04-04-2021||National||PM Modi reviews Covid-19 situation amid 'alarming rate of growth' in cases, deaths||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed the Covid-19 situation and vaccination exercise in the country amid an "alarming rate of growth" in infections and deaths, with 10 states contributing to more than 91 per cent of them. Modi said the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination if implemented with utmost seriousness and commitment would be effective in curbing the pandemic's spread, according to an official statement. The reasons for the sharp rise in cases could be mainly attributed to the severe decline in compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially in the use of masks and social distancing, pandemic fatigue and lack of effective implementation of containment measures at the field level, it said. "A detailed presentation was made which highlighted that there is an alarming rate of growth of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the country with 10 states contributing to more than 91 per cent of cases and deaths due to Covid," it said. It was noted in the meeting that vaccine manufacturers are ramping up their production capacity and are also in discussion with other domestic and offshore companies to augment the same. Noting that the situation in Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh is of serious concern, a presentation in the meeting highlighted that the western state has contributed 57 per cent of the total cases and 47 per cent of deaths in the country in the last 14 days. In Maharashtra, the total number of new cases per day has touched 47,913 which is more than double its earlier peak. Punjab has contributed 4.5 per cent of the total cases in the country in the same period but has accounted for 16.3 per cent of the total deaths, a matter of serious concern, the statement said. Similarly, though Chhattisgarh has contributed 4.3 per cent of the total cases nationwide in the last 14 days, its contribution in total deaths has exceeded seven per cent during the same period. The 10 high burden states and UTs are contributing 91.4 per cent of the total cases and 90.9 per cent of the total deaths in the country. Modi directed that central teams consisting of public health specialists and clinicians be sent to Maharashtra in view of its high caseload and deaths, and to Punjab and Chhattisgarh as well because of the disproportionate number of deaths there, the statement said.  For sustainable Covid-19 management, awareness of the community and its involvement is paramount, Modi said, adding that and there is a need to continue 'Jan Bhagidari' and 'Jan Andolan'. A special campaign for Covid-appropriate behaviour with emphasis on 100 per cent mask usage, personal hygiene and sanitation at public places, workplaces and health facilities will be organised between April 6-14, the statement said. In the meeting, a brief presentation on the performance of the Covid-19 inoculation drive was also made, and the details of the coverage of vaccination in various groups, performance with respect to other countries and analysis of states' performance were deliberated. It was suggested that a daily analysis of performance should be shared with states and UTs as feedback for corrective actions, the statement said. Research and development of vaccines were also discussed along with the production capacity of existing manufacturers and the capacity of vaccines that are under trial. "It was highlighted that all efforts are underway to secure adequate quantities of vaccines to meet the rising domestic requirements as well as to meet the genuine needs of other countries in the spirit of ‘Vasudhaiv Kutumbkam’," it said. The principal secretary to the prime minister, cabinet secretary, home secretary, chairperson (Empowered group on Vaccine Administration) and health secretary besides other senior officials attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-covid-19-situation-amid-alarming-rate-of-growth-in-cases-deaths-970295.html
04-04-2021||National||Bairagi camp at Kumbh Mela catches fire, several huts gutted||Several huts in the Kumbh Mela area here were burnt to ashes Sunday as the Bairagi camp caught fire, officials said. confirming second such incident within 10 days. The gusty winds during the day helped the blaze spread fast and it engulfed several huts in no time, Circle Officer Abhay Pratap Singh said. Six fire engines were pressed into service to control the blaze, he said, adding no one was injured in the incident. The cause of the fire is being ascertained, he said. A fire had broken out at Bairagi camp 10 days ago too, burning down several huts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bairagi-camp-at-kumbh-mela-catches-fire-several-huts-gutted-970297.html
04-04-2021||National||Sub-standard law colleges a worrying trend: Justice N V Ramana||The next Chief Justice of India, Justice N V Ramana on Sunday expressed his concern over many sub-standard law Colleges, imparting legal education in the country, saying that it was a "very worrying trend", which also contributed to overall pendency of cases. "The Judiciary has taken a note of this, and is attempting to correct the same. One of the consequences of the poor quality of legal education in the country is the exploding pendency in the country," he said. There are nearly 3.8 crore cases pending in all the courts in India despite the large number of advocates in the country. Of course, this number must be seen in the context of the around 130 crore population of India, he added in virtual address in convocation of Visakhapatnam-based, Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University. He pointed out that there are more than 1500 law colleges and law schools in the country and nearly 1.50 lakh students graduate from these Universities including the 23 National Law Universities. "This is a truly astounding number. This demonstrates that the concept that the legal profession is a rich man’s profession is coming to an end, and people from all walks of life are now entering the profession because of the number of opportunities and increasing availability of legal education in the country," he said. Justice Ramana stressed at making a collective effort to revamp the educational system to ensure that students can have the right outlook to their career and life outside. "The education system is currently not equipped to build the character of our students, to develop a social consciousness and responsibility. Students are often caught in the “rat race”," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sub-standard-law-colleges-a-worrying-trend-justice-n-v-ramana-970304.html
04-04-2021||National||Chhattisgarh Naxal attack: Union Home Minister Amit Shah holds high-level security meeting||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday evening chaired a high-level meeting on the Chhattisgarh Maoist attack in which at least 22 security personnel were killed, soon after he returned from Assam where he was conducting the election campaign.   Top officials of the Ministry of Home Affairs, including Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, and Intelligence Bureau Director Arvind Kumar attended the meeting. Earlier in the day, Shah directed CRPF Director General Kuldiep Singh to rush to Chhattisgarh besides holding a telephonic discussion with Chief Minister Bhupesh Bhagel on the situation. Singh, who reached Chhattisgarh, said Maoists are "frustrated" because security camps have been set up in remote areas of the state and this process will be speeded up now to launch more serious operations against them. He said, "lessons are learnt" from every incident and they will analyse "what changes have been brought by the Maoist" in their strategy. "They think that if they mount heavy casualties on us they can deter us and we may not establish new camps. But this does not happen...there have been many casualties in the past too... and as per government policy the force keeps moving forward," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-naxal-attack-union-home-minister-amit-shah-holds-high-level-security-meeting-970317.html
04-04-2021||National||PMO blames people's lax attitude as daily Covid-19 cases cross 93,000||People’s lax attitude towards wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, coupled with pandemic fatigue and poor implementation of containment measures led to the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the second wave, the Prime Minister’s Office said on Sunday, asking the states to improve behavioural compliance and reduce mortality. With India reporting more than 93,000 new cases and 500 plus Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, the PMO in a statement noted that 10 states are contributing to more than 90 per cent of cases and deaths. Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh are the three states of serious concern. As of date, Maharashtra has contributed 57 per cent of total cases and 47 per cent of deaths in the past two weeks. The number of daily new cases has crossed 50,000 mark which is more than double the earlier peak recorded in Maharashtra last year. Punjab, on the other hand, contributed 4.5 per cent of the total number of cases in the past 14 days but accounted for 16.3 per cent of the number of deaths, which is a matter of serious concern. Similarly, though Chhattisgarh has contributed 4.3 per cent of total cases in the country over the past 14 days, its contribution in total death has exceeded 7 per cent during the same period. Particularly worrying is the situation in the Durg district, which announced a lockdown earlier this week because of a rising number of cases. In another worrying trend, the Covid-19 doubling time dropped from 504 days on March 1 to 139 days on March 31 and further dropped to 115 days on April 4. Modi asked the states to avoid mortality by augmenting healthcare infrastructure and improving the availability of oxygen and ventilators. Moreover, the states would have to ensure that clinical management protocols are followed across all hospitals as well as for those in-home care. A special week-long campaign for Covid appropriate behaviour would be launched on April 6 with emphasis on 100 per cent mask usage, personal hygiene and sanitation at public places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmo-blames-peoples-lax-attitude-as-daily-covid-19-cases-cross-93000-970319.html
04-04-2021||National||Sealing borders, curbs on travellers: States gear up to tackle Covid-19 surge||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the government of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab have stepped up measures such as sealing of borders, curbs on travellers and stepping up vaccinations to control the spread of the infectious disease. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot chaired a meeting late Saturday evening with public health experts, senior officials to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. The review meeting was telecast live on Youtube and Facebook to let the people know the actual status of the pandemic in the state. After the meeting, Gehlot announced that some strict decisions would be taken for the next fortnight and detailed guidelines and standard operating procedures would be announced soon. In Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was planning to restrict the movement of people from neighbouring Chhattisgarh, which reported 5,818 fresh cases on Saturday, the highest single-day surge for the state. “I do not want a longer lockdown. There will be limited lockdowns, but not across the state,” he said adding that limited lockdown was already in place in Chhindwara, Ratlam, Khargone and Betul. Chouhan said the state government had already put restrictions on the movement of people from Maharashtra, which reported over 57,000 fresh cases on Sunday. “There are only three ways to stop this pandemic without a lockdown— wear a mask, maintain physical distancing and vaccination,” he said adding that the government was working on all these fronts. Chouhan said the state government was also increasing the number of hospital beds to treat Covid-19 patients and beefing up health infrastructure. In Punjab, the government had issued orders to step up the vaccination drive and administer vaccines to all persons over 45 years within this month. Punjab had administered vaccine doses to 10 lakh people and plans to inoculate 32 lakh beneficiaries in the next two weeks. In Uttarakhand, where Kumbh Mela is underway in Haridwar, the state government had asked travellers from 12 states – Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan — visiting the state by road, air and train to carry a negative RT-PCR test report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sealing-borders-curbs-on-travellers-states-gear-up-to-tackle-covid-19-surge-970326.html
04-04-2021||National||Out at 49, batsman nearly kills fielder who took catch||A 23-year-old batsman who was approaching 50 runs in a cricket match in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh hit a fielder with his bat after the latter took a catch and got him out, police said on Sunday. The fielder, identified as Sachin Parashar (23), had to be rushed to a government hospital in a critical condition and the batsman, Sanjay Paliya, was charged with attempt to murder, City Superintendent of Police Ramnaresh Pachouri said. The incident took place on Saturday during a game being played on Mela Ground under Gola Ka Mandir police station limits, the CSP added. "Paliya got angry after Parashar took his catch and got him out on 49, just one run short of a half century. Paliya rushed towards Parashar and started hitting him on the head with his bat. Other players tried to stop Paliya. Parashar continues to be unconscious in hospital," Pachouri said. Paliya absconded from the place and efforts were on to nab him, the CSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/out-at-49-batsman-nearly-kills-fielder-who-took-catch-970335.html
04-04-2021||National||Farmers haven't left protest sites near Delhi: Rakesh Tikait||Refuting claims that farmers have left protest sites along the Delhi border, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said they had gone to the fields to work and would return when the Central government was "free from West Bengal elections". Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, have been protesting at the Delhi border for over 4 months now against the Centre's three agri marketing laws, and have demanded its repeal along with a legal guarantee on the minimum support price mechanism. Tikait, who reached Gujarat to drum up support for the stir, began his two-day visit by praying at the Ambaji Temple in Banaskantha district and then addressing groups in Ambaji and Palanpur. At a meeting held in Palanpur, a black flag was shown to Tikait by a youth, following which he was thrashed by supporters of the farmer leader. The youth was then taken away by police personnel. Later, Tikait said, "Let them show black flags, it does not matter. I have come here to make the people of Gujarat, the media, farmers, and the youth free. Let farmers and the youth join the agitation". Tikait told the gathering that the three laws were enacted to help businessmen and not farmers, and the latter had decided to not move from the protest sites till victory, that is acceptance of all their demands, was achieved. "All reports that farmers have left the agitation sites are wrong. Farmers come and go. At present, they have gone to work in their fields. We have told them to come back once the government is free from (West) Bengal elections. The entire government is camping in Bengal. Once the government returns, we will start negotiations with it," Tikait claimed. He said farmers from Gujarat must also join the protest in large numbers so that the country feels confident that cultivators from the state from where some of the big leaders hail, a possible reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, are also against the new laws. Exhorting farmers from Gujarat to use tractors to protest, Tikait said these vehicles are the "tanks of farmers" and were put to good use in Delhi to remove police barricades. While former Gujarat chief minister Shankarsinh Vaghela accompanied Tikait in his rally from Ambaji to Palanpur, Congress MLA Geniben Thakor welcomed the BKU leader when he entered the state earlier in the day. Incidentally, Tikait had taken a swipe at the BJP government in Gujarat earlier in the day by showing his passport to reporters while entering the state after alighting from a train in Abu Road in neighbouring Rajasthan. Asked about whether he was carrying a Covid-19 negative certificate, which is mandatory while travelling to Gujarat, Tikait showed his passport and said, "I have all the documents with me. This is my passport if it is required to enter Gujarat". Tikait will visit Sabarmati Ashram on Monday and go to Bardoli on the second day of his Gujarat visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-havent-left-protest-sites-near-delhi-rakesh-tikait-970343.html
04-04-2021||National||Delhi Police probes removal of Sai Baba idol from Hauz Khas temple||The Delhi Police is investigating the removal of a Sai Baba idol from a temple in south Delhi's Hauz Khas after some devotees filed a complaint alleging it was demolished, officials said on Sunday. Locals said the idol has been replaced with a Lord Ganesha idol. Police said while no formal case has been registered in the matter yet, the temple authorities will be called for an enquiry. The complaining devotees approached the police after a purported video of the removal incident surfaced on social media. In the video, a man supervising the removal of the idol could be seen arguing as to what religion the idol represented. According to police, on March 25, a Sai Baba idol was removed from the temple of Shahpur Jat, Hauz Khas, by the temple committee and local residents as the idol was about 10 years old. "This idol was set up by temple committee member Padam Panwar. And now the Padam Panwar along with other committee members such as Bharat Panwar, Jiya Panwar, Satyanarayan, Naresh, Mohan Panwar and Pandit ji have decided to setup new idol with the consent of local residents," a senior police officer said. The officer, however, said the matter is under enquiry. "We have received a complaint. The matter is being looked into and appropriate legal action will be taken accordingly," said Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). No case has been registered yet and the temple authorities will be called for an enquiry in connection with the incident, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-probes-removal-of-sai-baba-idol-from-hauz-khas-temple-970366.html
04-04-2021||National||Stand-off should not be repeated, says Chinese envoy||The lesson from the China-India military stand-off is “profound” and it should not be repeated, Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi Sun Weidong said, even as the two sides could not yet reach an agreement for the complete withdrawal of front-line troops from all the face-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). However, he argued that the boundary row was “not the whole story of China-India relations”. China’s ambassador to India recently had a virtual discussion with eminent columnist Sudheendra Kulkarni, who had served as an aide to late and former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee and had accompanied him on his visit to the communist country in 2003. “China-India relations are multi-faceted. It should be viewed in a comprehensive way rather than limited to one part,” Sun said when Kulkarni asked him if the resolution of the boundary dispute should now be on the top of the agenda for the two neighbouring nations. “The boundary question is not the whole story of China-India relations and should be put at a proper place in the overall bilateral relations. We should not allow differences to become disputes,” he said. Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi said the “past experiences” of the two nations had repeatedly indicated that highlighting differences would not help solve problems but erode the foundation of mutual trust. He added that a sound bilateral relationship was conducive to enhancing political mutual trust and creating favourable conditions and atmosphere for the settlement of the boundary question. He also reiterated China’s position that its boundary dispute with India was “a historical burden: imposed on the two nations by the western colonists. “It (the dispute over boundary) is very sensitive and complex. Border disputes are reality to both of us.” The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) last month withdrew frontline troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. The mutual disengagement from both banks of the lake raised hope for an early end to the military stand-off, which had started in late April and early May in 2020 and had taken the bilateral relations to a new low over the past 11 months. Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi said disengagement of frontline troops by both sides in the Pangong Tso area was “conducive to building mutual trust and further easing the situation on the ground”. “Against this backdrop, we should implement the consensus reached by the two leaders and strictly abide by the existing agreements, step up dialogue and communication, and improve the border management and control mechanisms to further ease, stabilize and control the border situation, avoid relapse and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” Kulkarni referred to the June 15, 2020, violent clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley and noted that the time had come to ensure that no more military stand-off could take place along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stand-off-should-not-be-repeated-says-chinese-envoy-970396.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||HM Shah speaks to Chhattisgarh CM; directs CRPF DG to visit state over Naxal attack||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday spoke to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and took stock of the situation following the killing of five security personnel in an encounter with Naxals in the state, officials said. Shah also directed the Director-General of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Kuldeep Singh to visit Chhattisgarh to assess the situation. The home minister spoke to the Chhattisgarh chief minister and took stock of the situation arising after the encounter, a home ministry official said. The chief minister is believed to have briefed the home minister about the steps taken by the state government after the incident, another official said. At least five security personnel were killed and 30 others injured on Saturday in the encounter with Naxals in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh. Earlier, Shah said in a tweet that the valour of the security personnel who laid down their lives fighting the extremists will never be forgotten. The home minister also said that the government will continue its fight against such enemies of peace and progress. "I bow to the sacrifices of our brave security personnel martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Nation will never forget their valour. My condolences are with their families. We will continue our fight against these enemies of peace & progress. May injured recover soon," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hm-shah-speaks-to-chhattisgarh-cm-directs-crpf-dg-to-visit-state-over-naxal-attack-970158.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu's freebie culture is not new, but is it sustainable?||From washing machines and gas stoves to free bus travel, parties in Tamil Nadu are offering loads of freebies in their manifestos ahead of the state's Assembly elections. The state is known to spend an inordinate amount of funds on sops and often the political motive behind and efficacy of freebies is questioned when it comes to garnering votes. Most political parties in the states resort to populist agenda-driven manifestos and the doles of freebies given out is often debated and questioned by economists and political scientists. With late DMK chief M Karunanidhi's 'hero' manifesto of 2006 that had promised free colour TV sets, among others, virtually setting the trend for similar races in the future, Tamil Nadu has seen it all--- free laptops, milch cows, mixer-grinder and gold for thali (mangal sutra) among others. Kamal Haasan was the first to promise what he called in December last 'payment' to homemakers for their work. Outlining his party's manifesto, Haasan said facilitation is proposed to be made for homemakers to get suitable opportunities to earn and it does not mean doles from government treasury.    Interestingly, this phenomenon is not new in the state and Karunanidhi was not the first to come up with the idea of giving out freebies. The tradition of promising freebies in manifestos can be traced back to DMK's founder C N Annadurai. In 1967, he introduced a scheme to provide 4.5 kg of rice for just Re 1. AIADMK and DMK's offer of freebies this time around is being questioned due to the state's financial status that has been battered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Both parties have promised phased prohibition in a state whose coffers are largely filled by liquor sales, even as DMK's ally Congress promised to implement the dry regime soon after the 'new government', apparently headed by DMK, is installed post polls. However, on the economic front, experts feel the new government will inherit the mantle of huge fiscal debt and the onus of balancing developmental programmes and sourcing new funds for poll assurances. As of March 31, 2020, the state's debt stood at Rs 4.87 lakh crore. It is expected that the state would have a debt of about Rs 5.7 lakh crore in March 2022. With a growing debt burden, economists question how sustainable doling out freebies can be. "Recurring expenditure in the form of implementing the populist schemes may require huge volume of funds and could leave the government hardly any time and resources to devote to other development activities," said K R Shanmugam, director and professor of Madras School of Economics. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadus-freebie-culture-is-not-new-but-is-it-sustainable-970191.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Assam Assembly Polls: Amit Shah accuses Congress of having no agenda for development||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday accused the Congress party of having no discernible agenda for Assam's development, and asserted NDA's 'double- engine' government will continue to ensure the state's growth. Addressing an election rally here in Barpeta district, on the last day of campaigning for the third and final phase of polls in Assam, Shah accused the Congress of dividing people to rule over them, while the BJP follows the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas' (with all, development for all and belief in all). ''The Congress cannot solve any problem and their leader Rahul Gandhi comes as a tourist to the state. They have no vision for development'', the home minister claimed. 'I had come to you five years ago and urged you to repose faith in the Prime Minister and promised we will end violence and agitations. The BJP government in the state and Modiji has ensured this during the last five years and now the state is moving in the path of progress and development'', he said. In the next term, the NDA is committed to make the state flood-free and the Prime Minister has already initiated the process, he said. Shah said that two phases of elections are already over in the state and claimed ''we are confident that in these two phases alone, BJP has achieved majority to form the next government''. ''Let me share another good news with you. Elections are being held in West Bengal too and 'didi ja rahi hain aur BJP aah rahi hain (Didi, referring to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, is going and BJP is coming). The BJP will win more than 200 seats in the neighbouring state'', he also claimed. Highlighting the achievements of the BJP government, Shah said that during the last five years, the historic Bodo accord was signed and more than 2000 youths have surrendered and returned to the mainstream. ''Do you want a government that spreads violence or a double-engine government that spreads development'', he rhetorically asked. He also accused the Congress of giving a free hand to poachers in Kaziranga National Park and ''if their government had continued, rhinoceros, Assam's pride, would have become a thing of the past. It is the BJP government under Sarbananda Sonowal that has ensured that poachers have been thrown and the animal saved from extinction''. A Sattra Land Protection Task Force would also be set up to free all lands of Vaishnav monasteries from encroachers and ''we will take the message of Vaishnav saints Srimanta Sankardeva and Madhavdeva not only to other parts of the country but also across the world, he said. He also assured that Guwahati would be developed as a 'Start-up capital' of Southeast Asia paving the way for youths to become self-reliant. Shah is scheduled to address two more rallies at Bhabanipur and Sualkuchi constituencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assam-assembly-polls-amit-shah-accuses-congress-of-having-no-agenda-for-development-970197.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||'Is he God or superhuman?' Mamata attacks PM Modi for predicting BJP's victory in West Bengal||Lashing out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for predicting the BJP’s victory in the West Bengal Assembly elections, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday asked whether he was God or a superhuman to make such a claim. “Do you (Modi) think that you are God or a superhuman? What do you think of yourself?” asked Mamata during a rally in the Khanakul area of Hooghly district. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo’s comments come a day after Modi said that he would attend the oath-taking ceremony of the BJP government in Bengal and request the said government to implement the Centre’s PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme at the earliest. The Prime Minister had also taken potshots at Mamata by referring to some TMC leaders saying that she might contest from Varanasi in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. He said that it shows that Mamata had accepted her defeat. Without directly mentioning the Indian Secular Front (ISF) and its founder Abbas Siddiqui, the TMC supremo alleged that the BJP was “paying a person” to eat into Muslim votes. “There is a new person who is getting paid by the BJP to split the minority votes. He makes communal remarks but will not be successful,” said Mamata.  She further alleged that the Election Commission was transferring police officers in Bengal under the instructions of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Speaking at another rally in Pursuarah in the district, the TMC supremo warned the BJP against thinking that she can be easily ousted from power. “BJP, be absolutely clear about it. Unless I decide to leave, it is not that easy to oust me,” said Mamata. She mocked the BJP for its slogan of “ashol parivartan” (real change) and said that “parivartan” is actually the TMC’a slogan. “The BJP is saying that there is no development in Bengal and hence ‘parivartan’ is necessary here. Let me remind you, ‘parivartan’ is our slogan,” said Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-he-god-or-superhuman-mamata-attacks-pm-modi-for-predicting-bjps-victory-in-west-bengal-970204.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi condoles loss of lives in Naxal encounter||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday expressed grief over the killing of security personnel in an encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh. "My condolences to the families of the martyrs who sacrificed their lives in combat in Chhattisgarh," he said on Twitter. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the news of martyrdom of 22 jawans is devastating. He also paid homage to their martyrdom and condolences to the family. "Sadly, Prime Minister and Home Minister Amit Shah are too busy electioneering to take on the menace of Naxalism. TV proclamations ain't enough. We need to put a decisive strategy and blueprint," he said in a tweet. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also saluted the martyrdom of the brave soldiers while fighting the Naxalites in Chhattisgarh. "The entire country is sad and angry at this incident. The country will always remember the martyrdom of our brave soldiers. May God support the families of the martyred soldiers in this hour of grief and good health to the injured," she said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-naxal-encounter-970208.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Softening of Himanta's punishment raises 'big question' on ECI's neutrality: CPI(M)||Coming down heavily on Election Commission's relaxation on campaign ban of BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Sunday said there is a "big question" on the neutrality of the poll panel and it should clear the air on the issue. Addressing a press conference here, the veteran communist leader claimed the Congress-led Grand Alliance, of which CPI (M) is a constituent, is coming to power in Assam with huge majority and a common minimum programme will be finalised after the formation of the government. "There is a big question on Election Commission of India's neutrality. We want the ECI to remove this question. It is not only the poll panel's duty, but a responsibility to the Constitution of India," Yechury told reporters. He asserted that Sarma should have been disqualified for making the threatening statements against Bodoland People's Front chief Hagrama Mohilary, but instead 48-hour ban on him from campaigning was reduced to 24 hours on Saturday. The ECI reduced the ban duration of Sarma after he tendered an "unconditional apology" and assured the poll panel that he would abide by the provisions of the model code. The Congress had approached the ECI demanding action against Sarma for his remark that Mohilary would be sent to jail through central probe agency NIA if he indulges in "extremism" with rebel leader M Batha. Yechury also slammed another BJP minister Pijush Hazarika, who allegedly threatened two journalists of dire consequences on the day of the second phase of polling on April 1 for reporting controversial campaign speech of his wife, and wondered why the ECI is not taking any action. "There was a decision during all-party meeting with the ECI that media should not be under pressure. During the course of election, media must be protected from undue pressure and it should be allowed to work naturally," he added. Like Model Code of Conduct, which is not a law but an understanding between the parties and ECI, this agreement of safety of media should also be strictly enforced, he said. Hazarika is contesting from the Jagiroad constituency. In an audio clip telecast by Assamese news channel Pratidin Time, he was heard talking to the channel's journalist Nazrul Islam and threatened him and another scribe Tulsi Manta of dragging them out of their homes, break their legs and make them "vanish". Police registered two FIRs filed by the two concerned journalists and merged them into one. The BJP minister has been issued a notice to appear before police and his call recordings have been sent to forensic lab after seizing his mobile phone. Talking about the poll prospects in Assam, Yechury said: "There is huge response to the 'Mahajot'. We are seeing tremendous enthusiasm and spontaneity on the ground. It is now sure that Mahajot is forming the next government here." When asked about the Common Minimum Programme (CMP) of the 10-party opposition grouping, the CPI(M) leader said it will be finalised once the Grand Alliance is voted to power. The CPI(M) which has no legislator in Assam at present is contesting on two seats, which will go to vote in the final phase on April 6. Yechury also attacked the BJP for doing "communal politics" and appealed to the people to vote against the ruling front in the remaining 40 seats of the third phase on Tuesday. "The BJP's communal politics will affect Assam for coming several decades. It needs to be defeated at any cost. If we cannot defeat such politics, then the balance and harmony of Assam will be distorted forever," he warned. Claiming that most of the 19 lakh people excluded from the National Register of Citizens in Assam are Hindus, Yechury questioned why the BJP is silent on them if the party is really concerned for the community. "They (BJP) just want to create a binary. I do not think the people of Assam will fall for this trap of Hindu-Muslim binary. I fully believe that BJP is going to face a big surprise in this election," he said. The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, has formed a Grand Alliance with AIUDF, BPF, CPI (M), CPI, CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), RJD, Adivasi National Party (ANP) and Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP) to fight the Assembly election against the BJP-led NDA. The grouping has "guaranteed" that if it is voted to power, then a law will be brought in to nullify the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, five lakh government jobs will be given, 200 units of electricity will be free for all, housewives will get Rs 2,000 per month and minimum wages of tea garden workers will be raised to Rs 365.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/softening-of-himantas-punishment-raises-big-question-on-ecis-neutrality-cpim-970210.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||States where opposition faced central agencies' grilling this Assembly election||Four states and a union territory — Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry — are either in the middle of their multi-phased Assembly elections or gearing up for elections. Apart from top leaders' rallies, roadshows and colourful speeches, these states also seem to be attracting the attention of central agencies. Whether in the run-up to Lok Sabha polls or Assembly polls, it can be seen that leaders from parties rivalling the BJP in the respective states are paid a visit from central agencies including Enforcement Directorate (ED), CBI or the Income Tax Department. Here's a look at the poll-bound states and their dalliance with the probe agencies. West Bengal Swipes of dynastic politics from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister Amit Shah were not the only concern of TMC's Abhishek Banerjee. The CBI questioned Abhishek's wife Rujira Banerjee in an alleged coal scam in February, along with her father-in-law Pawan Arora. In March, the Enforcement Directorate had issued summons for state minister Partha Chatterjee and former minister Madan Mitra, both of whom are contesting in the ongoing elections, in cases related to chit funds. TMC's Vivek Gupta, fielded from Jorasanko, was questioned by the ED for hours in relation to the Saradha scam. Kerala The Kerala government was in trouble with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) regarding the gold smuggling case, which continues to follow the ruling Left Democratic Front throughout its campaign in the state. The NIA had questioned M Sivasankar, principal secretary to the CM, who was later arrested by the ED. Kicking up a political storm in Kerala, the Customs had claimed weeks ahead of the elections that prime accused Swapna Suresh has made "shocking revelations" against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and some ministers on dollar "smuggling" involving UAE consulate officials. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had lashed out at the central agency, alleging it was being used for carrying out a campaign for the BJP and Congress in the poll-bound state. The ED summoned two top officials of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) last month to appear before it in connection with its probe into the state-owned agency's external borrowings through "Masala Bonds". Notices have been issued to the KIIFB Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and deputy CEO. Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of former Kerala CPI(M) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was interrogated for four days by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug case in November and was remanded to judicial custody later. Tamil Nadu The Income Tax Department raided DMK chief M K Stalin's daughter Senthamarai and others last week to check "political cash distribution" in poll-bound Tamil Nadu. The DMK condemned the Centre for this action and alleged that it had a "political objective". In September last year, DMK functionary Poonjolai Srinivasan was booked in a case of corruption by the CBI. In this case, Rs 11 crore were earlier recovered from an I-T raid before the 2019 polls in Vellore. In a case of multiple forex law violations, the ED had seized assets of DMK MP S Jagathrakshakan and his family, worth Rs 89 crore. Another DMK MP Gautham Sigamani was later raided in the same case. Raiding the opposition is BJP’s coping mechanism when facing electoral defeat. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condemned the BJP for these raids, saying this is the party's 'coping mechanism'. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/states-where-opposition-faced-central-agencies-grilling-this-assembly-election-970211.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Narendra Modi eyes West Bengal, Rahul Gandhi focuses on Tamil Nadu, Kerala in Assembly polls||Spearheading the Bhartiya Janata Party’s (BJP) campaign in the four states and one union territory, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been on a trail to solidify BJP’s standing in the poll-bound states.  The ongoing elections, which began on March 27, are going to be crucial for the BJP as well as the Congress. Until now, PM Modi has addressed 24 rallies since the election dates were announced on February 26. A quick glance at the number of rallies Modi has addressed in the poll-bound states reveals that the focus of his campaign is more inclined towards West Bengal and Assam. He has addressed over nine rallies in West Bengal and seven in Assam. The Prime Minister seems very keen on taking on CM Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal as he has been accusing her of corruption, appeasement, and favouring her nephew. Recently in a rally in Bengal, he alleged that the "obstructionist mindset" of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and that her TMC deprived West Bengal of industries and jobs. Apart from Modi, a handful of Union ministers have also been visiting the two states to expand the party's presence. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP President JP Nadda, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh have already addressed multiple rallies in West Bengal and Assam. On the other hand, if we take a look at the Congress, leaders like Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadhra have been mostly campaigning in the southern states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Interestingly, Rahul hasn’t made a single visit to West Bengal so far. Till April 3, Rahul had visited Kerala five times and been to Tamil Nadu 10 times to campaign for the ongoing elections. He has been mostly reaching out to the fishing community in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Recently at a rally in Kerala, Gandhi said that he understands their difficulties and that the LDF government had "backstabbed" them, referring to the controversial Rs 5,000-crore MoU signed by the government with US-based firm EMCC over deep-sea fishing, against which the Opposition had levelled serious charges. The contract was later scrapped. The party has largely made its presence felt in Assam and was heading the state until the BJP took over in 2016.  As for the ongoing polls, Rahul has held 8 rallies in the state till now with sister Priyanka addressing 7 rallies and mostly focusing on the tea plantation workers in the state. It may be noted that the BJP has always been a marginal force in the southern states and that could be a reason why the party is keener on winning the other two states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-eyes-west-bengal-rahul-gandhi-focuses-on-tamil-nadu-kerala-in-assembly-polls-970214.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Centre's onslaught against people of J-K has to be taken head on collectively: Mehbooba||Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti Sunday dismissed speculations that the PAGD, an alliance of six mainstream parties, was headed for a break-up, stressing there is no alternative to staying together as the Centre's "onslaught" against the people of Jammu and Kashmir has to be taken "head on collectively". "A coalition of this kind will take time to settle down," the People's Democratic Party (PDP) chief told PTI, terming the recent rumblings in the alliance expected "teething troubles". Her comments come in the backdrop of the exit of one of the PAGD constituents, the Peoples Conference, and suggestions by some of her party men that she should also reconsider the PDP's relations with the National Conference and whether staying in PAGD remains pertinent. The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a grouping of the National Conference, the PDP, the People's Conference, the CPI-M, the CPI, the Awami National Conference and the JKPM, was formed last October ahead of the District Development Council elections. "...teething problems were expected as far as the PAGD is concerned. We have been traditional rivals. A coalition of this kind will take time to settle down. But seeing the Central government's onslaught against the people of Jammu and Kashmir, there is no other alternative but to take them head on collectively as a unit," she said. Talking about some PDP leaders quitting the party in recent times including its founder member Muzzafar Hussain Baigh, the 61-year-old PDP chief said it was a "loss". "But then these are challenging times for all of Jammu and Kashmir and the PDP is no different. But I am sure we will rise above these challenges and emerge stronger. Inshallah (God willing)." The PDP leader also spoke about the deterioration of her relations with the BJP, with which her party had an alliance from 2015-2018 in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. "It is not about my relations with them. Anyone who raises his or her voice against their punitive actions is labelled anti-national," she said. Pointing out the ongoing farmers' agitation and arrests of some students, activists, journalists, politicians and others, she said, "Everyone has to pay a price for being vocal against their (the BJP's) anti-people decisions. This country is no more run in accordance with the constitution of India, but on their (Centre's) whims and fancies. "They are using their brute majority to bulldoze both the Constitution and Parliament with anti-people laws. So, my being vocal on the unconstitutional scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, which was again granted to us under this very Constitution, has made me anti-national and thus threat to the security of India," she said. Mehbooba, who was detained in August 2019 hours before the operative provisions of Article 370 were scrapped and J&K was divided into two union territories, spoke about her recent questioning by the Enforcement Directorate and reports about alleged misuse of the Chief Minister's discretionary funds during her tenure. "No surprises either. Since 2018, this government was frantically trying to pin a case of financial impropriety or misappropriation against me. This wild goose chase has finally culminated in them clutching at straws and accusing me of the most bizarre allegations. "This is an attempt to malign my reputation by ensuring that these lies are circulated through" a section of media which has become a "mouthpiece" of this regime, she said. On her being denied a fresh passport following an adverse report by the police, she said, "An adverse report has also been filed against my mother who is in her seventies. According to the government, her holding a passport is detrimental to the security of India. "As shocking as this may sound, it's very much expected from a regime that has jailed an 85-year-old social activist (Stan Swamy) who suffers from Parkinson's, and spitefully denied him a straw and sipper for months on end. "This government not only lacks long-term vision but empathy as well. It's also their deep paranoia caused by their wrong and illegal actions on 5th August 2019 in Jammu and Kashmir that has resulted in such vindictive actions," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-onslaught-against-people-of-j-k-has-to-be-taken-head-on-collectively-mehbooba-970226.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||TMC goons to be in jail within a month of BJP coming to power in Bengal, says Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asserted that "goons sheltered by the Trinamool Congress" will be tracked and sent behind bars within a month of the BJP forming government in West Bengal. He said the "murdered BJP karyakartas (workers)" including Sudarshan Pramanik from Hooghly district, will get justice once the saffron party comes to power in the state. "TMC goons, listen carefully. After the counting of votes, we will teach you a lesson. Similar things happened in Uttar Pradesh four years back after we formed the government there. "We imprisoned the tormentors of people. In Bengal, we will punish those who are a part of the syndicate raj and demand cut money (commission)," Adityanath said. Accusing the TMC supremo of pursuing politics of appeasement during her 10-year rule, he said Banerjee created hurdles in Durga puja, Saraswati puja and Holi celebrations in Bengal, something that never happens in Uttar Pradesh. "Elect the BJP to ensure you are not stopped from taking part in festivals," he said. Banerjee's UP counterpart also said she is "allergic" to the chanting of 'Jai Shri Ram'. "Just like the way she doesn't allow Durga Puja here, she is opposed to building of the Ram temple in Ayodhya." He said decisions like giving the go-ahead for construction of the Ram temple and scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir are examples of BJP fulfilling its poll promises of 2019. "In my state, 1.30 crore people have been provided electricity free of cost, every poor family got free ration, everyone is covered under Ayushman Bharat. "In contrast, people of Bengal are deprived of the benefits of central projects, and farmers did not get Rs 6,000 under the PM Kisan Nidhi Yojana. Around 1,000 farmers committed suicide in the past 10 years," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-goons-to-be-in-jail-within-a-month-of-bjp-coming-to-power-in-bengal-says-adityanath-970238.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Leaked audio tapes 'reveal' Mamata's nephew Abhishek Banerjee's alleged involvement in corruption||In a big development, some audio tapes have come out in public that suggest West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee's nephew and TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee was involved in major corruption in the state. Although the authenticity of the tapes is not verified, this development has stirred a massive political uproar as BJP soon fired salvo at the Mamata-led state government. Citing the leaked audiotapes, he said that such activities are sponsored by the TMC-led state government. "The facts that have come out is a definite proof that the complaints we and others have made are true. Many facts centering the Chief Minister's nephew have come to the fore," he said. He alleged that the corruption started around 2012-13 in coal, sand scam and cow smuggling and that TMC leader Vinay Mishra transferred a sum of Rs 950 crore to Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee. Mishra was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate recently.  "I have complained many times that coal mafia, Anup Madri aka Lala, runs this racket. A portion of the police that are posted by 'bhaipo' (nephew) through the help of her aunt, those police officials are connected with the coal and sand scam and cow smuggling. Many people from TMC have avoided all questions on Vinay Mishra and this racket," he said. He added that the audio tapes prove that malpractice and corruption was sponsored by the TMC government. He also alleged that Abhishek Banerjee was the main architect of corrupt practices. BJP leader Dinesh Trivedi in his address to the media said that the tip of the iceberg is that corruption is institutionalised as there are no jobs. "Each kid knows the extent of corruption in Bengal. People are scared due to tolabaazi (extortion), violence and bribery," he said. "When people are aware of this situation, the Chief Minister cannot become Dhritarashtra, and I am not ready to believe that the CM was not aware of it," he added. BJP's IT cell head said that Mamata Banerjee cannot evade responsibility for what is happening 'under her nose'. "We would be naive to believe that Abhishek Banerjee was presiding over these syndicates and Mamata Banerjee did not know about it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/leaked-audio-tapes-reveal-mamatas-nephew-abhishek-banerjees-alleged-involvement-in-corruption-970262.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||BJP-led Centre punishing AAP govt in Delhi for supporting farmers' agitation: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday alleged that the BJP-led Centre was trying to “punish” his government for supporting the farmers' agitation by creating hurdles in its functioning with the new law that gives primacy to the Lieutenant Governor. Addressing a farmers' 'mahapanchayat' in Haryana's Jind district, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener asserted that he is ready to “make any sacrifice” for the sake of farmers who are agitating against the three central agri laws. He went on to say that anyone who opposes the farmers' stir is a "traitor". “They (BJP) have brought a Bill in Parliament to punish Kejriwal. We bore the brunt. They are punishing us for supporting farmers' agitation,” said Kejriwal, while lashing out at the Centre for the enactment of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill in March. The chief minister said all powers will now be with the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi. “What kind of law is this,” he said, adding that his party despite winning 62 seats would have no power. He claimed that each member of the BJP had said in Parliament that Kejriwal was “punished” for supporting farmers' agitation. “I want to tell them that our 300 farmers have laid down their lives. For the sake of this agitation, even if Kejriwal dies we are not scared of your punishment,” he said. He said he was ready for any sacrifice for the farmers' agitation. “Today farmers are seeing us as their well-wisher. Whatever punishment the central government wants to give me, I do not care,” he said. Kejriwal said that it is the responsibility of every Indian who loves his country to support the farmers. “Any person who is with this agitation is a patriot and the one who is against the farmers' agitation is a traitor,” he said. He said that his government in the national capital carried out various development works be it setting up schools and hospitals, free water, etc in the last six years and alleged that the BJP was putting stumbling blocks to disrupt the works that were being done for the Delhi people. He claimed the BJP, despite being the most powerful party in the country, has failed to deliver in the areas of education and health, while his government has made significant progress. “I want to tell the BJP that for building schools and colleges and serving people, there is no need for power. There is a need for intent. You have so many powers but your intention is wrong,” he said. "Kejriwal does not have power and but our intent is clear,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-led-centre-punishing-aap-govt-in-delhi-for-supporting-farmers-agitation-kejriwal-970269.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||PM Modi insulting women of Bengal by mockingly addressing Mamata: TMC||Three Trinamool Congress women leaders, including West Bengal minister Sashi Panja, on Sunday accused the prime minister of showing disrespect to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee by way of his "mocking tone" of addressing her at election rallies. Panja told reporters at Trinamool Bhavan here that Narendra Modi, through his sarcastic "didi o didi" (listen elder sister) exclamations at public meetings, "insults not only Banerjee, but the women of Bengal in particular." "This is another glaring instance of the numerous ways our CM is being harassed and heckled by the BJP. This behaviour of the PM is anti-woman, akin to harassment. We will leave it to the people of West Bengal to give a befitting reply to Modi and (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah," she said. TMC leader Ananya Chakraborty said the PM shows his patriarchal mindset by addressing a woman leader in such a manner as they are "soft targets". Reacting to the TMC charge, BJP Mohila Morcha state president Agnimitra Paul said Banerjee should introspect on the language she uses while speaking about the PM and Shah. "How does our honourable CM address PM Modi and Amit Shahji at poll rallies? How had she addressed J P Nadda (BJP national president)?" Paul said. She said having no other issue to talk about, the TMC is wrongfully targeting Modi and his way of speaking at public meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-insulting-women-of-bengal-by-mockingly-addressing-mamata-tmc-970274.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||TMC fighting hard to retain hold over Diamond Harbour||The Trinamool Congress is fighting hard to retain the seven assembly segments in Diamond Harbour constituency, represented by TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee in the Lok Sabha. Apart from a surge in BJP's support base, allegations of corruption in Amphan relief seemed to be a cause of concern for the TMC, despite the fact that Banerjee, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew had won the 2019 Lok Sabha elections by more than 3.2 lakh votes. The Left front led-Sanjukta Morcha's emergence as a third force has also queered the pitch as young CPM and ISF workers have been fanning out seeking support for their candidates. Out of the seven assembly segments in Diamond Harbour constituency, Banerjee had a huge lead in Muslim-dominated Metiaburuz and Budge Budge assembly segments, while he was ahead by a handsome margin in Maheshtala, Bishnupur, Satgachia, Falta and Diamond Harbour, all of which also have a sizeable minority population. While the CPI(M) is contesting Diamond Harbour, Satgachia, Bishnupur and Maheshtala, the Congress is fighting from Budge Budge and Falta, while the ISF has put up its candidate in Metiabruz, which is situated in the south-western outskirts of Kolkata. Allegations of irregularities in distribution of relief to those affected by the Amphan cyclone, in May last year have rocked the state government with the Calcutta High Court ordering an audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). The BJP top leadership have raked up the allegations in almost every election meeting, while the chief minister Banerjee has asserted that all affected have been given relief with the exception of a few possible glitches. There are 17,18,454 voters in the seven segments, with 8,32,059 being female and 8,86,339 male, while there are 56 from the third gender. With the Election Commission holding elections in the 31 assembly segments in South 24 Parganas district in an unprecedented three phases, four seats in Diamond Harbour - Falta, Satgachia, Bishnupur and Diamond Harbour will go for polls on April 6 while the voters in Maheshtala, Budge Budge and Metiaburuz will exercise their franchise on April 10. "We have got everything, our MLA Dilip Mondal has done a lot of work and we have electricity and good roads, there is peace in the area," Basudeb Mondal, a local TMC leader at Companypukur village in Bishnupur assembly segment claimed. While the infrastructure does indeed look good with smooth roads replacing the older bumpy, pot-holed roads in the area, an undercurrent of discontent is discernible among a section of voters, who complain of partisan relief distribution and lack of jobs even as they also speak of infrastructural development. However, many others said that relief and dole had flowed without hitches. Habibullah Sheikh, a vegetable seller, said his family received funds from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 'Rupashri' scheme for his sister's marriage. TMC flags flutter in most places, but nearby flags with BJP's lotus symbol, vie to catch the passerby's eye. The CPM's hammer and sickle however are few and far between. Said 25-year-old Palash Mondal, 25, an unemployed youth, "the tradition of having one party rule Bengal for decades should not continue as that breeds corruption and hampers development." "Those who want jobs want a change," added Mondal, a graduate. Discontent against local party leaders seems to have forced TMC to replace four-time MLA Sonali Guha as its candidate in Satgachia, prompting her to join the BJP. While this has led to confusion among voters it has also meant the party is a divided house. Auto-rickshaw driver Tulsi Pal claimed "many people could not vote in the panchayat elections, hope this time it will be different." Falta, which has a sizable number of factories in the Special Economic Zone there, appeared peaceful with not much political sloganeering on. TMC worker Ranjit Das claimed the ruling party is sure of a win there. The TMC has fielded rookie Shankar Kumar Naskar from Falta following the death of three-time party MLA Tamonash Ghosh, who did not hide his uncomfortable relationship with the local MP, during the pandemic. At Chandnagar village, the air is full of optimism among TMC workers as many feel candidate Pannalal Halder will win handsomely from Diamond Harbour seat, while admitting that the BJP has emerged as the main opponent this time around. TMC's sitting MLA Dipak Halder, who left the party to join the BJP and was nominated by it as its candidate from the seat, was at the receiving end of an attack allegedly by his former colleagues while campaigning at Haridevpur village on Friday. The ruling party has denied any role in the assault. Busy putting up posters of Mamata Banerjee on roadside walls with "Bangla nijer meyeke chai (Bengal wants its own daughter) written on the posters, Mir Alam Laskar of the TMC charged BJP and its leadership with dividing the riverine community on religious lines. "It is because of the saffron party that such things are happening."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-fighting-hard-to-retain-hold-over-diamond-harbour-970296.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Chhattisgarh Naxal attack: Congress calls for decisive action, slams Modi govt over deaths of 22 security personnel||The Congress on Sunday called for a decisive strategy to deal with the menace of Naxalism and slammed the Modi government for the deaths of 22 security personnel in an ambush set up by Naxalites in Chhattisgarh. “I salute the martyrdom of the brave soldier who went down fighting Naxalites in Chhattisgarh. The entire nation is sad and angry at this incident,” senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said. Congress’ chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah saying they were “too busy electioneering to take on the menace of Naxalism.” “TV proclamations ain’t enough. We need to put a decisive strategy and blueprint,” Surjewala said. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, who was on a campaign trail in Kerala, called for “decisive action” to locate and rescue the missing jawans. “I appeal to the state government to ensure the best care for a speedy recovery of the injured,” Rahul said. Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi recalled former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s observations that Naxalism was the greatest internal threat to the nation. “We certainly need something like Operation Green Hunt to hunt down the enemies of the country,” Singhvi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chhattisgarh-naxal-attack-congress-calls-for-decisive-action-slams-modi-govt-over-deaths-of-22-security-personnel-970300.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Congress trying to tide over pro-CPI(M) wave in Kerala; BJP could play spoilsport||As the campaign for the April 6 Kerala Assembly elections came to an end by Sunday evening, a pro-CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front trend that prevailed in the state during the initial days of the campaign seems to have suffered a setback owing to fresh corruption charges as well as simmering internal resentments in the CPI(M), even as the left camps are hopeful for creating history with a consecutive second term. The Congress-led United Democratic Front and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance managed to have an upper hand in the election campaign by roping in national leaders. While NDA had a host of national leaders ranging from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Congress mainly cashed in on the popularity and legacy being enjoyed by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. Of the 140 seat Kerala Assembly, at least a dozen are now witnessing a triangular fight with the BJP emerging as a key player with candidates like 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan. Even as BJP's winnability chances at its lone and maiden sitting seat Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram is even hanging in balance after the Congress fielded a much popular leader, the Congress camps are quite concerned that the BJP may eat into its vote banks, especially the Hindu community that constitute 55 per cent of Kerala population (as per 2011 census) as well as the anti-incumbency votes against the LDF government. This electioneering witnessed religious cards being used openly, especially over the Sabarimala women entry issue, with even the Prime Minister using Sabarimala Ayyappa chants in his election speeches. The CPI(M), which was already in the defensive over the Sabarimala issue, invited more embarrassment with Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran expressing regret over the tensions caused at Sabarimala, while CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury finding no reason to regret. The CPI(M) seems to be making a counter move to woo the minority communities, especially the Muslim community that constitutes 27 per cent of Kerala's population. The strongly-worded statements of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan against BJP, terming Home Minister Amit Shah as 'epitome of communalism'  and alleging of Congress-BJP nexus could be seen as efforts in this regard. Another crucial factor that Kerala witnessed is BJP's bid to make inroads into the Christian vote banks which already suffered a crack following the spit in the UDF's long term ally Kerala Congress (M) that enjoys considerable support from the Christian vote banks. With the faction led by Jose K Mani of Kerala Congress joining the LDF, the left camps also hope to get a slice of the Christian vote banks of central Kerala. BJP's national leaders have been in constant touch with Christian leaders assuring to address various long-term concerns like inadequate scholarship. Among a series of allegations that came up against the LDF government recently, the one over the moves to allow a US firm to develop deep-sea trawlers may adversely affect the LDF's poll prospects in the 50 odd constituencies in the coastal areas. Representatives of the fishermen community as well as heads of various churches openly slammed the government's move. Free ration supply during Covid-19 lockdown and enhanced social welfare pensions have been USPs of the LDF government. This indeed had gone down very well for the LDF across the state and may benefit electorally as well. During the initial days of the campaigning, the CPI(M) used take swipes at the Congress for groupism. But towards the end of the campaign, internal feuds are allegedly simmering in the CPI(M) over denying seats to senior leaders like Industry Minister E P Jayarajan and Finance Minister Thomas Isaac by enforcing a maximum two-consecutive term norm. Critical remarks of party leaders against terming Vijayan as 'Captain' by supporters could be seen as outcome of the simmering resentment. Entry of a corporate-backed forum, Twenty20, in the Assembly election fray is also a serious aspect of this election. The forum formed by Kitex Garments won four panchayats in Ernakulam district in the recent elections by highlighting the welfare measures initiated at the Kizhakambalam panchayat in which it was in power since 2015. The mainstream political parties have been triggering a campaign against the entry of a corporate managed forum to electoral politics in a democratic setup.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-trying-to-tide-over-pro-cpim-wave-in-kerala-bjp-could-play-spoilsport-970308.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||AAP govt in Delhi didn't build any hospital, flyover between 2015-2019: BJP||The BJP on Sunday hit out at the ruling-AAP in Delhi alleging that it did not build any hospital and flyover during its rule between 2015 and 2019. Citing replies to two RTI queries filed in 2019 by Tejpal Singh, a city resident seeking information about healthcare and infrastructure initiatives by the Delhi government, the BJP's national media in-charge and chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said, that by making "false" claims about development works, the AAP has cheated people of the national capital. "It (RTI replies) exposes the false claims of the AAP government and brings its bitter reality in front of the people that it even didn't initiate construction of a single hospital or flyover during the tenure of its government in the national capital." According to Bulani, the Directorate of Health Services, Delhi, said that "according to information available in Hospital cell of DGHS, it is informed that no new hospital has been commissioned under Delhi government, during the period from April 2015 to 31st March 2019." In another reply, the Public Works Department of Delhi government said it has not undertaken any flyover construction work in the national capital between April 1, 2015, to 31st March, 2019, the BJP leader said. The AAP has won two successive assembly elections in Delhi with massive majority, decimating both the BJP and Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-govt-in-delhi-didnt-build-any-hospital-flyover-between-2015-2019-bjp-970313.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Congress lost the plot, faces imminent defeat in Assam: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh Sunday said the Congress has lost the plot and it is faced with the prospect of an imminent defeat in Assam as its leaders are in "a state of confusion and disarray". Winding up the last day of the election campaign here, he said, while each of the BJP workers has been on the ground and among the people continuously and constantly for the last three months, the Congress leaders came like tourists and left even before their presence could be felt. "The election result of May 2nd will also be an endorsement of the fact that the voter today, particularly the youth voter, is in favour of prioritisation of development agenda carried out by the BJP under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and rejects the politics of division on the basis of religion as propagated by the Congress," Singh told PTI. He said a BJP victory and the formation of its government for a second time in Assam is a foregone conclusion. "This is also a reaffirmation of the new norms of work and commitment established under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi and carried up to the grassroots level by Home Minister Amit Shah. For the Congress party, it is difficult either to understand or to live up to these new norms," said Singh, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office. Singh, the BJP's co-incharge for Assam, said the Congress has lost the plot and it is faced with the prospect of imminent defeat as its leaders are in a state of confusion and disarray. The third and last phase of polling will be held in Assam on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-lost-the-plot-faces-imminent-defeat-in-assam-union-minister-jitendra-singh-970323.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||MHA letter: Amarinder Singh slams Centre for spreading ‘misinformation’ about Punjab farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday slammed the Centre for allegedly spreading “misinformation” about the state's farmers with its recent letter on the plight of “bonded labourers”. He said it was “yet another conspiracy to defame Punjab's farmers", whom the central government and the BJP have been "persistently trying to malign by dubbing them as terrorists, urban naxals and goons” to derail their agitation against the new central farm laws. The chief minister was responding to the letter sent by the Ministry of Home Affairs to the Punjab government on the plight of 58 “bonded labourers” rescued in the northern state. He castigated the Centre over its "unwarranted charges" of farmers using people as bonded labourers in Punjab and also termed the letter a “bundle of lies”. “An analysis of the whole episode reveals that highly sensitive information pertaining to national security regarding the arrest of some suspicious persons, apprehended by the Border Security Force (BSF) from close to the volatile Indo-Pak border, has been unscrupulously twisted on baseless conjectures to malign and tarnish the farmer community,” Singh said in a statement. “This reality has been further substantiated by the fact that a selective leakage of the contents of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) letter to some leading newspapers and media houses has been done without waiting for an appropriate response from the state government,” he said. Asserting that his government and the state police are competent to safeguard the human rights of the poor and the downtrodden, the CM said suitable action has already been initiated in each case and most of the people are residing with their families. “If anything comes to notice at any stage, suitable legal action will be initiated against the culprits,” he said. In the March 17 letter to the Chief Secretary of Punjab, the home ministry had said the BSF found that these 58 people, who were brought to Punjab with the promise of good salary but exploited, were given drugs and forced to work in inhuman conditions once they reached the state. The home ministry said the BSF had informed that these labourers were apprehended from the border areas of Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Abohar in Punjab in 2019 and 2020. Rejecting the letter as "totally unwarranted” and “factually incorrect'', the Punjab chief minister alleged that neither the data nor the reports submitted by BSF were in tune with the content of the letter. “... it is not the job of the BSF to investigate such matters, and they are only responsible for detaining any person found to be roaming along the border in suspicious circumstances, and handing them over to the local police,” he said in the statement. The Congress leader also asserted that all the 58 cases alleged by the Centre have been investigated thoroughly and nothing of this kind had been found. Giving further details, he said, of the 58 detainees, four belong to different areas of Punjab and were found roaming near the Indo-Pak border by the BSF, while three were found to be intellectually disabled. One Paramjit Singh, a resident of Patiala who was apprehended near Pathankot, has been mentally disabled from the last more than 20 years. He had left his home about two months before his detention, the CM said. "Roorh Singh, a resident of Gurdaspur, had to be admitted to the Institute of Mental Health, Amritsar on the day of his apprehension. Another person namely Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of SBS Nagar, was also facing mental health issues. "Subsequently, all these three people were handed over to their family members on the same day after verification by the local police," he said. Further, 16 of the 58 detainees were found to be intellectually disabled, of whom four were suffering from the disorder since childhood, he said. "One Babu Singh, a resident of Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh, was undergoing psychiatric treatment from Agra. He was handed over to his family members on the production of his medical record," the chief minister noted. The identity of three other persons apprehended by BSF could not be established due to their mental health conditions, Singh said. "It has also come to light that 14 persons had come to Punjab only a few days/weeks prior to their apprehension, hence the conclusion that they were working as bonded labourers since long is totally refuted,” he said, adding that none of the persons apprehended has made any allegation of being forcibly kept as farm labourers under inhuman conditions even before the courts. The CM also refuted the charges that they were given drugs and made to work for long hours. “Nothing on record suggests that these persons were forcibly infused drugs to keep them working for long hours, and moreover, it is incorrect to conclude that the intellectual disability of these persons is drug induced. "Most of them were medically examined with the help of the BSF and police, and nothing on record suggested that they were hooked to any habit-forming drugs," he added. The home ministry had on Saturday termed as "distorted" and "misleading" media reports linking its letter to the farmers' agitation and said no motive should be ascribed to a routine communication over law and order issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mha-letter-amarinder-singh-slams-centre-for-spreading-misinformation-about-punjab-farmers-970327.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||NEET issue: Tamil Nadu minister deletes doctored video after outrage||Politics over National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in Tamil Nadu took an ugly turn on Sunday with an AIADMK minister posting a “doctored” video featuring a voice similar to that of S Anitha, a medical aspirant who died by suicide after she failed to make it despite scoring distinction in plus two exams, asking students to “vote against” DMK. As the video containing file shots of Anitha talking to media with a voice similar to that of hers went viral and the girl's family knocked at the doors of a police station, Tamil Development Minister 'MaFoi' K Pandiarajan deleted the tweet and feigned ignorance. Pandiarajan is contesting April 6 elections from Avadi near Chennai. “I do not know how the video made it to my timeline. I did not upload the video. I am complaining to the police to find out who did this,” he said in a video after removing his tweet. Anitha, then 17, died by suicide in September 2017 after she failed to make it to a medical college despite scoring 1176 out of 1200 in plus-two exams. She could not clear NEET. More than 12 students died by suicide in the past three years due to NEET making it a political issue. S Manirathnam, brother of Anitha, also lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer seeking Pandiarajan's disqualification from the election process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/neet-issue-tamil-nadu-minister-deletes-doctored-video-after-outrage-970336.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi rides auto to campaign venue at Nemom||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took an autorickshaw ride at two places in Kerala, on the last day of the campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls, to highlight the rising fuel prices under the BJP-NDA rule. Gandhi, who addressed a campaign meeting at Nemom, here in the evening, took an autorickshaw to the venue, catching everyone by surprise. K Muraleedharan, MP, is the Congress-led UDF candidate at Nemom, the lone seat won by the BJP in the 2016 assembly polls. The constituency is witnessing a fierce triangular fight between the LDF, UDF and the BJP. Addressing party workers at Nemom, Gandhi, who also took out a roadshow, said he came in an autorickshaw. The driver of the vehicle said he was not able to make a livelihood as all his earnings go to pay for fuel. "The BJP keeps raising the petrol and diesel prices and giving their money to their friends. How dare they come here and ask you for votes?", an angry Gandhi asked. The Gandhi scion also took an auto ride on his way to the helipad at Kalpettain his constituency Wayanad earlier in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-rides-auto-to-campaign-venue-at-nemom-970339.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||BJP chief J P Nadda hits out at Congress over taking on Naxalites||BJP chief J P Nadda on Sunday hit out at the Congress party over Naxalism saying there have been 'questions' of it taking a soft line with Naxalites. Condemning the killing of jawans in Chhattisgarh by Naxals and condoling their deaths, the top Saffron party leader asserted that the Centre would stand by the families of the soldiers. Addressing a press conference here, Nadda said his party always followed a policy of 'zero tolerance' towards Naxalism and this stand has been the BJP's 'forte.' He was answering a question on Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala's criticism that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were too busy electioneering to take on the menace of Naxalism. Nadda alleged, "but I would also like to say, that there have been questions of being soft to the Naxalites by the Congress party..." He asserted that support from the Central government 'is always there.' Bodies of 17 of the 18 jawans 'missing' after the encounter in Chhattishgarh were recovered on Sunday, taking the death toll to 22. Shah said in Guwahati that a befitting reply would be given to the Naxal attack in Chhattisgarh at an appropriate time. Asked about the allegations by DMK-Congress leaders that some BJP candidates did not even use the pictures of Modi and Shah in their campaign trail, he said, "we do not decide politics over two photos less or two photos more." The allegation is that BJP nominees rather highlighted AIADMK icons like "Amma (late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa)." Nadda accused the Congress party of being 'divisive' while his party was all about cohesion adding the photographs of both Modi and Shah were featured everywhere in Tamil Nadu. The BJP respected regional sentiments and regional leadership as well, he said. To a question on All India Institute of Medical Sciences project at Madurai, he said there were some issues including those related to the designing of the building, land and soil testing and due to such aspects, the project got delayed. The work for the facility would start very soon, he said. When his attention was drawn to DMK claiming in its campaign that Citizenship Amendment Act would not be implemented in Tamil Nadu and on that party raising the matter of a law against the triple talaq, he said a Central legislation cannot be bypassed by state legislation or by state government. "This speaks volumes about their wisdom." On triple talaq, he said even Muslim nations do not allow it and Muslim women appreciated and supported the law to ban that practice. He expressed confidence that under AIADMK's leadership, BJP and other allies were progressing towards success in TN. The people of West Bengal have clearly decided to reject 'corruption, autocracy and criminalisation' of administration of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and people supported his party, he claimed. The Trinamool Congress has 'lost mental balance,' and the way Mamata Banerjee is doing politics is not Bengal's culture, he said. The Prime Minister always gave due respect to her and addressed her respectfully, he said. In Assam, his party led government has done good work and stood for development, peace and protection of culture. He expressed confidence that his party and its allies would emerge victorious in the polls to four states including Tamil Nadu and the union territory of Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-hits-out-at-congress-over-taking-on-naxalites-970345.html
04-04-2021||National Politics||Which way will the wind blow in a 'wave-less' Tamil Nadu election?||Finally it's curtains on probably the longest election campaign in the state's history, lasting four months, for the control of Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government. The April 6 poll will not just elect the state's 16th assembly but also seal the fate of new generation leaders from DMK and AIADMK who are sweating it out to carve a niche for themselves in the political arena. Ruling AIADMK led by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, considered a lightweight when he was thrust into the limelight in 2017 just three months after J Jayalalithaa's death, is being challenged by a resurgent DMK now helmed by M K Stalin, the chosen successor of party patriarch M Karunanidhi. What is at stake for MKS and EPS? The election is an acid test for both Palaniswami and Stalin. DMK has been out of power for 10 years and a hat-trick defeat could not just demolish the morale of the cadre, but also lead to questions about his leadership. For Palaniswami, only retaining power could help avoid the party slipping from his hands as his former boss V K Sasikala has just “stepped aside” from politics and not quit.     Though the 2021 election ground has other players too – actor Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), T T V Dhinakaran's Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) and Tamil nationalist outfit Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) – the fight has narrowed down much like other previous elections between DMK and AIADMK. Though opinion polls have predicted the return of DMK after a decade, the ruling party made a last-ditch effort on Sunday, the last day of campaigning, by splashing a four-page advertisement in major newspapers highlighting the “dark rule” of DMK from 2006 to 2011. Stalin hit back at the AIADMK, terming the advertisement as nothing but a desperate act from a party “staring at defeat.” It is irattai ilai illana suriyan (it is either two leaves (AIADMK) or DMK's Rising Sun), that still holds sway across Tamil Nadu while NTK is the preferred party for those in the hinterland looking for an alternative. In urban areas, the favourite “change agent”, especially among youngsters, is MNM with Kamal Haasan himself entering the fray from Coimbatore, the Manchester of South India. In their pursuit to chart their own course and truly emerge from the shadows of their respective leaders, Stalin and Palaniswami began their campaign too early in the day – in December 2020, three months before the election schedule was out. Fatigue and talk of change in a 'wave-less' election In a “wave-less” election in which political pundits say the anti-incumbency is "largely missing”, the fatigue among voters for a 10-year-old government is visible on the ground, across regions with unemployment being flagged as the biggest problem in cities and towns alike. “People get bored with a government in five years. But voters gave Amma a second chance in the last elections, but unfortunately, she died. I think people are moving towards change this election,” Ravichandran told DH as he handed over lemon soda to a customer in Vridhachalam in northern Tamil Nadu. Miles away, Dhandapani, who runs a snack bar in Karur in western Tamil Nadu, expressed almost what Ravichandran said. “Ten years is a long time. Let there be change,” he said. BJP the focal point of DMK's campaign For the second consecutive election, the DMK made the BJP the “focal point” of its campaign and taking the electoral line as far as to dub every vote cast in favour of AIADMK goes to the saffron party, which is still not liked by many in Tamil Nadu. At the fag end of the gruelling campaign, DMK candidates even mocked BJP's unpopularity by asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to campaign for candidates of the AIADMK alliance to “widen their margin.” Even BJP candidates refrained from using pictures of Modi, and Amit Shah in their propaganda material and graffiti instead projected them as nominees who have the "blessings" of late M G Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa. When Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath campaigned in Coimbatore, memes on his visit ruled social media.  The anti-BJP sentiment cannot be brushed aside as a social media phenomenon for it reflects very much on the ground. A farmer in the Tiruvarur district in the Cauvery Delta region put it simply. "AIADMK's friends are not good,” he opined.  Out of power for a decade now, DMK has projected the April 6 elections as a “fight between Tamil Nadu versus Delhi (read Centre)” in an attempt to paint the AIADMK and its ally BJP with the same brush. Social justice, Hindi imposition, state autonomy, and BJP “remote controlling” AIADMK government are issues that resonated in DMK's campaign. The campaign hit a rough road after senior leader A Raja made controversial remarks against Palaniswami that prompted the Election Commission to debar him from campaigning for 48 hours. The party was also forced to explain that it was not “anti-Hindu” and give an assurance that law and order will be under control in its regime.  From projecting its 10-year “achievements” to the “good image” of Palaniswami, the AIADMK finally sought refuge in its favourite topic of accusing the DMK of “dynastic politics”, pointing fingers at the rise of Stalin's son Udhayanidhi. However, some of Udhayanidhi's campaign speeches, especially his showing a brick and sarcastically calling it AIIMS, Madurai to drive home his point that nothing has moved on the ground even two years after the foundation stone was laid for the institute, went viral on social media, AIADMK, which was found wanting to explain its alliance with BJP, could lose a sizable chunk of votes to its splinter group, AMMK. Besides anti-incumbency, the government's last-minute decision to provide 10.5 per cent internal reservation to Vanniyars within the 20 per cent MBC quota, support to controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and farm laws could affect the AIADMK's prospects. How did the two parties run their campaign? During the campaign, DMK came across as a “cohesive unit” with Stalin being assisted by his sister Kanimozhi, son Udhayanidhi and other senior leaders, who crisscrossed the state. The party fanned out MPs and senior leaders across the state, especially to the Kongu belt, to enhance the party's prospects. Alliance party leaders too pitched in to do their bit.  But the same was not the case with AIADMK. Palaniswami was forced to take the entire load of campaigning on his shoulders – the CM addressed a minimum of 10 meetings a day, with no support from his second-rung leaders. Palaniswami's deputy O Panneerselvam was not forthcoming to share the burden and chose to spend maximum time in his home constituency of Bodinayakanur in the Theni district. Many of AIADMK ministers were “boxed” in their own segments with the DMK taking the fight into their bastions by fielding strong candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/which-way-will-the-wind-blow-in-a-wave-less-tamil-nadu-election-970347.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||J&K LG Manoj Sinha e-inaugurates 17 power projects worth over Rs 118 crore||In a major push to strengthen power infrastructure in Jammu and Kashmir, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday e-inaugurated 17 power projects worth Rs 118.91 crore. The e-inauguration took place at Delina in north Kashmir's Baramulla district. Speaking on the occasion, the Lt Governor said the inauguration of new projects is another step towards developing better power distribution and efficient power transmission system in the region. To realise the vision of making Jammu and Kashmir power surplus, Rs 54,000 crore worth power projects have been approved which would generate 3500 megawatt in three to four years, the Lt Governor said. Sinha said determined efforts are being made to reach out to all the unconnected habitations, besides providing 24x7 quality electricity to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. He said the administration is taking many short, medium and long term measures to provide the people with quality power supply round the clock in the coming two years. The power sector now has an increased budget of Rs 120 crore, taking the total to Rs 2,728 crore and new projects are being completed and added to the existing grid, he said. Several bottlenecks causing delays in the timely completion of augmentation and restoration works of various power projects and creating power crisis in the winter season are being identified and subsequently eliminated, he said. Responsibilities are being fixed and experts from power sector have been roped in to provide vital inputs for mitigation of power related issues, he added. Addressing the welfare issues of the field functionaries, the Lt Governor said social security is being provided to the field functionaries of power development department who are prone to vulnerability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-lg-manoj-sinha-e-inaugurates-17-power-projects-worth-over-rs-118-crore-970081.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||13 labourers injured in Sonbhadra power plant accident||Thirteen labourers were injured when a scaffolding collapsed in Uttar Pradesh's Sonbhadra district in the early hours of Sunday, the company which had employed them for maintenance work said. In a letter addressed to the district magistrate and Superintendent of Police of Sonbhadra, factory manager of Lanco Anpara Power Ltd SK Dwivedi said the accident took place around 2.45 am when the iron structure fell during maintenance work. While eight labourers were discharged after treatment, another five are in a serious condition and have been admitted to a government hospital, he said.   Of the five labourers, three got head injuries, one suffered a broken hand and another fractured his leg, Dwivedi said, adding, "All are out of danger". Dismissing reports in a section of the media about a boiler blast at the plant, Dwivedi told PTI, "The unit was closed for maintenance since March 22, and the maintenance work is of around one month duration. The scaffolding on which the labourers were working suddenly came down. Luckily, there were no labourers standing below them, and they were wearing a helmet." Dwivedi also said that an internal inquiry of the company will be conducted to ascertain the reasons behind the accident. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has taken cognisance of the incident and directed the Additional Chief Secretary (Energy) to probe the matter. Adityanath also said the probe should fix the responsibility for the incident, and effective action should be taken at the earliest. He also directed the local administration to ensure that the injured get adequate treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-labourers-injured-in-sonbhadra-power-plant-accident-970160.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||J&K L-G Sinha visits hospital to enquire about Farooq Abdullah's health||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha visited the SKIMS hospital here on Sunday to enquire about the health of National Conference (NC) president and MP Farooq Abdullah, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Sinha, who met Abdullah's son and NC vice president Omar Abdullah at the hospital, instructed the doctors at the SKIMS to provide the best treatment to the MP from Srinagar. "In Srinagar, I met Omar Abdullah at SKIMS Hospital, Soura. Enquired about Farooq Sahab's health and instructed the doctors to provide best treatment. I pray for his long and healthy life," the L-G's office tweeted. The L-G also offered to shift the senior Abdullah to another facility or hospital for better monitoring and care. "I have also offered to shift Farooq Sahab, who is admitted at SKIMS, to another facility or hospital for better monitoring and care," the L-G's office said. I have also offered to shift Farooq Sahab, who is admitted at SKIMS, to another facility or hospital for better monitoring and care. Omar Abdullah expressed gratitude to Sinha for visiting the hospital and offering to shift his father, and said the NC president is getting the best possible care at the SKIMS. "Thank you for your visit to enquire after my father @manojsinha_ ji. We are grateful for the offer to shift my father, the doctors & other medical staff at SKIMS Srinagar are amongst the best anywhere & my father is getting the best possible care," he wrote on Twitter. The 85-year-old NC president tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was kept in home isolation initially, but doctors on Saturday decided to shift him to a hospital for better medical care. "Based on the advice of doctors to enable them to better monitor my father, he has been admitted to hospital in Srinagar. Our family remains grateful to everyone for their messages of support & their prayers," Omar Abdullah tweeted on Saturday.  Based on the advice of doctors to enable them to better monitor my father, he has been admitted to hospital in Srinagar. Our family remains grateful to everyone for their messages of support & their prayers||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-l-g-sinha-visits-hospital-to-enquire-about-farooq-abdullahs-health-970177.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Schools closed in J&K as Covid-19 cases witness surge||Amid a huge rise in Covid-19 cases in recent days, Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday decided to close all schools for two weeks in the Union Territory (UT). While schools up to 9th standard will remain closed for two weeks from April 5, students of class 10th, 11th and 12th will stay away from schools for one week from tomorrow. “In view of the rising trend in Covid-9 cases in J&K and the likelihood of young children getting infected and transmitting infections in large numbers, all classes up to and including class 9 in schools will be closed for two weeks beginning Monday, April 5 till April 18 in J&K. Classes 10, 11 and 12 will also be closed for one week in all schools from Monday till April 11 in entire J&K,” office of J&K LG announced on its official Twitter handle. Besides, all gatherings for social and customary functions have been restricted to 200 only after following guidelines and Covid-19 SOPs. Schools in Kashmir valley almost remained closed for the 19-months, first on account of lockdown imposed after revocation of J&K’s special status in August 2019 and subsequently due to Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. Schools had reopened only in a phased manner from March 1. For the past few days, there had been a surge in Covid positive cases in schools across Kashmir forcing the administration to take a call to close the educational institutions yet again. The spike in the Covid-19 cases reported from schools had made parents anxious about the safety of the students attending classes in schools. On Saturday, J&K recorded over 500 Covid-19 positive cases for the second consecutive day in a row. The number of cases is rising at a rapid pace. In just four days into the month of April J&K has recorded close to 1800 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-closed-in-jk-as-covid-19-cases-witness-surge-970178.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Militancy, its supporters have no place in Jammu and Kashmir: L-G Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha Sunday asserted that there was no place for militancy and its supporters in the Union Territory (UT). “Let me clarify here that there is no place for militancy in J&K. Its supporters will not be forgiven,” he said while addressing a function, to felicitate the next of kin of slain policemen and soldiers. The L-G said he had no words to pay tributes to the policemen and soldiers who sacrificed their lives either fighting militancy or protecting borders. “It is because of their great sacrifices, we are breathing in free air today,” he said while saluting all the brave men from the police and the army who were martyred in the line of duty. Sinha further said that the Jammu and Kashmir government was working on a new educational policy to incorporate contributions made by the heroes of J&K police and the Indian army who have made 'supreme sacrifices' fighting militants and enemy, in the school curriculum. “We are doing this so that our children come to know about their supreme sacrifices. Our children should know that it is because of them, they are reaping peace dividends in the UT,” he said. The L-G added J&K has received a huge budget for the current financial year and not a single penny will be misused. “Anyone who is found misusing the budget money will face serious action,” he vowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militancy-its-supporters-have-no-place-in-jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-manoj-sinha-970195.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||JNU issues fresh directions to prevent spread of Covid-19 on campus||In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the Jawaharlal Nehru University on Sunday issued fresh directions for students and staff members, including mandatory thermal screening and wearing of face mask at hostels and inside all buildings on campus. Delhi recorded 3,567 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and the positive rate continued to rise to 4.48 per cent from 4.11 per cent a day ago while 10 more people succumbed to the deadly virus. The national capital has seen an increase in cases with 3,594 cases being reported on Friday, the highest daily count this year, 2,790 cases on Thursday, 1,819 cases on Wednesday and 992 cases on Tuesday, according to official data. In a circular, the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) said face masks will be mandatory for students and employees across the campus, including at hostels, library, administrative buildings and on the road. "Students and employees will be allowed in hostels, administrative buildings, school buildings and the Dr B R Ambedkar Central Library and other buildings and public spaces, including shopping complexes and walking on the road, if they are found wearing the mask," it said. JNU instructed faculty and staff members to use face masks at all times "to set an example" with regard to observing Covid-19 protocols. Shopkeepers and canteen staff have also been instructed to wear face masks. The circular said that "any violation would attract closure of shop or canteen for two days initially, and further violation will be dealt with strictly as per guidelines and norms of the government of India, the Delhi government and the University notification, etc". Hand sanitisation and thermal screening have been made mandatory at all key points, including at schools, special centres, hostels, the administration building and the central library, it said. "Vendors visiting science schools, the Advanced Instrumentation Research Facility (AIRF), special centres, administration building and other establishments will not be allowed to visit the labs unless authorised by the relevant respective offices," the circular said. The university may review guidelines for reopening, if cases "rise exponentially", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-issues-fresh-directions-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19-on-campus-970203.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Take custody of Mukhtar Ansari by April 8: Punjab to UP govt||Punjab's home department has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take custody of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari from the Rupnagar jail on April 8, with BSP MP Afzal Ansari on Sunday saying that his brother's "safety" is now the responsibility of the judiciary and the Yogi Adityanath dispensation. Mukhtar Ansari, who is wanted in various cases in Uttar Pradesh, has been lodged in the Rupnagar district jail in Punjab since January 2019 in connection with an alleged extortion case. In a letter to the Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary (Home), the home department of Punjab asked for suitable arrangements to be made for the transfer of under-trial prisoner Mukhtar Ansari. "The said handover is to be made at district jail Rupnagar on/before April 8," the letter stated. It also said that Mukhtar Ansari suffers from certain medical conditions and the same may be kept in mind while making arrangements for his transport from Rupnagar jail to Banda jail in Uttar Pradesh. Afzal Ansari, who is the MP from Ghazipur, told PTI: "The safety of Mukhtar after he comes to the Uttar Pradesh jail is that of the judiciary and of the Yogi Adityanath government. The court should monitor the safety and medical facilities given to Mukhtar." He also said that the safety of life of any citizen is the responsibility of the government. "This duty increases by twice when the prisoner is in judicial custody and by four times, when the state government files a petition in the Supreme Court saying that the hearing of the case is getting affected," the MP said. In its letter, the Punjab home department referred to the March 26 Supreme Court order that had directed the state government to transfer the BSP's MLA from Mau, Mukhtar Ansari, to Uttar Pradesh's Banda jail in two weeks. Delivering the order, the apex court had also noted that Mukhtar Ansari was allegedly involved in various cases of attempt to murder, murder, cheating and conspiracy apart from offences under the Gangsters Act, lodged in Uttar Pradesh and 10 of these cases are at different stages of trial. The Uttar Pradesh Police, officials said on Sunday, has set up a special investigation team (SIT) to further probe into the issue of fake documents of the ambulance which was used to ferry Mukhtar Ansari from the Rupnagar jail to a Mohali court recently. Barabanki Superintendent of Police Yamuna Prasad on Sunday said the SIT has been constituted under the additional superintendent of police (north). BSP MP Afzal Ansari said his brother had nothing to do with the ambulance case. "The reports of Mukhtar purchasing the ambulance using his MLA funds is false. Had it been the case, it could have been ascertained by going through the government documents," he said. On April 2, a case was registered in Barabanki after the documents of the ambulance bearing a Uttar Pradesh registration number were found to be fake. Mukhtar Ansari was on March 31 produced before the Mohali court in connection with the alleged 2019 extortion matter. Amid tight security arrangements, Ansari was taken into the court in a wheelchair. He was sent back to the Rupnagar jail in the ambulance after the appearance. "After an initial probe, the name and address given for the registration of the ambulance were found to be false. An FIR in this regard has been registered by an additional road transport officer against Dr Alka Rai, whose name was given for the registration of the ambulance," a senior police official said in Barabanki. The FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 420 (forgery), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using documents as genuine), 467 (forgery of valuable security) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating). SP Yamuna Prasad had said that acting on media reports that Ansari was produced in a court in Punjab on an ambulance with the registration number of Barabanki, police teams probed the matter and found that documents such as PAN, electoral photo id card and others were fake. The address on which these documents were made was also found to be wrong, he said. Amid a row over the issue, a Punjab police official had clarified that an inmate can be transported in a private ambulance on medical grounds and the cost of conveyance has to be borne by the prisoner. According to the Punjab Prisoners (Attendance in Court) Rules, 1969, the police team can allow a private vehicle on the request of a prisoner, the official added. It was also clarified that ambulance in which Mukhtar Ansari was taken to the court on March 31, was not a bullet-proof vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/take-custody-of-mukhtar-ansari-by-april-8-punjab-to-up-govt-970216.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out in Ujjain hospital, patients moved out||A fire broke out in a private hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain city on Sunday following which patients lodged there were shifted to other medical facilities, police said. No casualty was reported so far, Additional Superintendent of Police Amrendra Singh said. The fire broke out in the Patidar Hospital around noon and it was later brought under control, he said. Some patients felt uneasy because of smoke in the premises due to the blaze and they were taken to other nearby hospitals, the official said, without specifying the number of patients moved out. The patients who were critical were shifted to the Intensive Care Units (ICUs) of other hospitals, he said. The cause of the fire was not yet known, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-ujjain-hospital-patients-moved-out-970229.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Sadhu battered to death in Ayodhya, one held||A sadhu was battered to death at his 'ashram' (mutt) in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya town, about 150 kilometres from here. Police sources here said that the sadhu, identified as Mahant Kanahiya Das, who was associated with the famous Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya, was battered to death with stones late on Saturday night. The body of the sadhu was found lying in a pool of blood on Sunday morning, police said. Golu Das, a 'guru bhai' (a person, who is taught by the same guru) of Kanahiya Das, has been arrested in this connection, police said. According to sources, Golu Das and Kanahiya were engaged in a legal battle over a piece of land and a house in Ayodhya for the past several years. A large number of 'naga sadhus' (a group of sadhus, who are Shaivites and carry tridents and either naked or scantily dressed) assembled at the 'ashram' of Kanahiya Das on hearing about his killing, sources said. Kanahiya Das was also a 'naga' ascetic. The sadhus demanded stern action against the alleged culprit. Police said that a case had been registered in this connection and the matter was being investigated. "We have taken into custody one person...we are trying to ascertain the motive behind the killing," said a senior police official in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sadhu-battered-to-death-in-ayodhya-one-held-970237.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Government plans to construct Ram Van Gaman Marg in Uttar Pradesh||To retrace the route believed to have been taken by Lord Ram on his way to exile with Sita and Lakshman, the Union Road Transport Ministry is working on to construct Ram Van Gaman Marg in the country. In the first phase, the Ministry is planning to build 210 km Ram Van Gaman Marg in Uttar Pradesh, a highway from Ayodhya to Chitrakoot, a religious place in Madhya Pradesh boarding Uttar Pradesh. "The proposed 210 km long Ram Van Gaman Marg (path travelled by Ram while going to forest) connects Ayodhya to Chitrakoot via Faizabad, Sultanpur, Pratapgarh, Jethwara, Shringverpur, Manjhanpur and Rajapur in Uttar Pradesh," said blueprint prepared by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. The proposed alignment passes through NH-28, NH-96, NH-731A besides a greenfield alignment with bridge at river Ganga at Shrinverpur. “The first phase of the project will be built in Uttar Pradesh connecting eight of the selected places in the state falling on the forest route taken by Lord Ram will be developed as tourist destinations at a cost of Rs 137.45 crore," said the official in the Ministry. As per the entire Ram Path project plan, in the subsequent phases, the highway will connect from Chitrakoot in Madhya Pradesh to Sharda Shaktipeet (Maihar temple) located between Satna and Katni. Later, the route will also pass through Badhwar (Katni), Panna, Ramghat (Jabalpur), Shahdol, Dindori, Ram Mandir Talab, Amarkantak in Anuppur, and Ramnagar Mandla. The government also planned that the same highway will be extended to Chattisgarh which will connect 8 sites where Ram is believed to have visited during his exile. These are Shivrinarayan (Janjgir Champa), Turturiya (Balodabazaar Bhatapaara), Chandrakhuri (Raipur), Rajim (Gariaband), Sihava (Dhamtari) and Jagdalpur(Bastar), Sitamarhi-Harchouka(Koria district) and Ramgarh(Surguja). "The very plan to construct Ram Van Gaman Path to connect all religious places linked to Lord Ram, to make them as popular tourism destinations" said the official. In 2018, Indian Railways had introduce tourist train ‘Shri Ramayana Express covered all destinations, which are associated with the life of Lord Shri Ram including Ayodhya, Hanuman Garhi Ramkot, Janakpur, Varanasi, Nandigram, Hampi, Kanak Bhawan temple, Sitamarhi, Prayag, Shringverpur, Chitrakoot, Nasik and Rameshwaram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-plans-to-construct-ram-van-gaman-marg-in-uttar-pradesh-970239.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||MP to restrict movement of people from Chhattisgarh: Chouhan||The Madhya Pradesh government will restrict the movement of people from neighbouring Chhattisgarh to curb the spread of Covid-19 and a lockdown will be enforced in isolated areas whenever needed, MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday. Talking to reporters here, Chouhan said they have already sealed Madhya Pradesh's areas bordering Maharashtra. "There will now be restrictions on movement from Chhattisgarh. Those who need to come for necessary and unavoidable work will be allowed on humanitarian grounds and transportation of goods will continue," he said, citing the spread of Covid-19 in the neighbouring states. Chouhan said patience is needed to control the pandemic. "I will go out with a loudspeaker on my vehicle at 6 pm on Monday and appeal to people to maintain physical distance and wear masks," the chief minister said. Maharashtra on Saturday reported 49,447 new Covid-19 cases, the highest rise in a day so far, taking its tally to 29,53,523. Besides, Chhattisgarh recorded 5,818 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, its highest single-day spike, taking the count of infections in the state to 3,63,796, as per official figures. Chouhan said those coming to MP from these states for necessary and unavoidable work were being screened. If found necessary, they will be kept in isolation, but the general movement of people will not be allowed. "They are our brothers and sisters, but we have to take such measures to control the spread of the coronavirus," he said. The CM said more than 3,000 fresh cases of coronavirus were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday. He also said there will be a limited lockdown in the affected areas whenever needed, but there will be "no lockdown in the entire state". He urged social workers and religious leaders to run a public awareness campaign to check the spread of the viral infection. Chouhan noted that a three-day lockdown is going on in Chhindwara and two-day restrictions are in place in Betul. "I don't want such lockdowns because this affects businesses and employment. Our priority is to protect the people without a lockdown," he said. Chouhan said the BJP is likely to announce an awareness campaign on Sunday under which its MLAs, MPs and other leaders will appeal to people to use masks and maintain social distancing to defeat the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-to-restrict-movement-of-people-from-chhattisgarh-chouhan-970242.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||400 Naxals had ambushed security personnel with heavy gunfire in Chhattisgarh: Sources||A group of an estimated 400 Maoists had ambushed security personnel who were part of a large contingent deployed for a special operation, leading to the killing of at least 22 personnel and injuries to 30 others, official sources said on Sunday.   They said the contingent of about 1,500 troops drawn from CRPF'S specialised jungle warfare unit CoBRA, some teams from its regular battalions, a unit of its Bastariya battalion, the Chhattisgarh Police affiliated District Reserve Guard (DRG) and others had launched a search and destroy operation along the border of Bijapur-Sukma district around noon after they got inputs of some Maoists presence in the area. At least 400 Naxals, an officer said, led by the most wanted Maoist commander and leader of the so-called 'People's Liberation Guerrilla Army(PLGA) battalion no 1'-- Hidma-- and his associate Sujatha are suspected to be behind the Saturday ambush that took place in an area that is a strong-hold of the ultras due to the difficult terrain, large tracts of forests and less number of security forces camps. The Maoists rained bullets from light machine guns (LMGs) and used low-intensity improvised explosive devices (IEDs) to mount the attack that went on till evening. He said that the Maoists carried their dead, estimated to be about 10-12, on tractor trolleys. The total approved strength of security forces personnel for the operation was 790 and the rest were taken as auxiliary and support elements for the long haul operation, the sources said. "Inputs were received that Naxals were undertaking their Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign (TCOC) campaign in the Jagargunda-Jongaguda-Tarrem axis, and hence security forces teams from six camps were deputed to intercept them. "The Maoists drew the forces into an ambush with heavy gunfire soon after, and helicopter sorties were requisitioned to evacuate the injured personnel," a senior security officer told PTI. He said the Maoists encircled the security personnel from three sides and a heavy gun-battle ensued in the jungles which are devoid of any foliage at present. Another officer posted in Chhattisgarh said the operation was being monitored by two Inspector General (IG) rank officers of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force from Jagdalpur in Bastar. "The rescue choppers could not land in the ambush area around 2 PM when they were sent for a casualty evacuation mission as a heavy exchange of firing was taking place. The helicopter landed only around 5 PM to pick up the casualties," another officer said. Out of the total 22 fatalities, the CRPF has lost eight men out of which seven are CoBRA commandos while one personnel is from the Bastariya battalion. A CRPF Inspector is still missing, they said. Officials said while maximum security forces personnel were killed due to bullet shots, one is suspected to have fainted and later died due to dehydration and other issues. "The security forces personnel, especially CoBRA commandos fought very bravely and ensured that the Naxals could not prolong the ambush despite being at an advantage," the officer said. The security personnel took guard against large trees and kept firing till they ran out of ammunition, he added. At one location, he added, seven bodies of the troops were recovered and the tree trunks bore bullet shots, indicating that a heavy gun-battle took place in the area. About two dozen sophisticated assault weapons of the killed personnel are also stated to have been looted by the Naxals even as security officials said the search of the area is still on and details are being collected from the ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/400-naxals-had-ambushed-security-personnel-with-heavy-gunfire-in-chhattisgarh-sources-970251.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||SC orders interim bail to life terms convicts incarcerated for over 30 years in UP jails||The Supreme Court has expressed its surprise over continued incarceration of a few life term convicts for about 30 years without remission. A bench of Justices Navin Sinha and Ajay Rastogi ordered ad-interim bail to a group of petitioners after noting that they were inside the jails of Uttar Pradesh for over three decades. The court noted the petitioner, Jaiveer has been in jail for over 33 years, while others were in prison for over 32, 26 and 22 years. It issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on their plea that continued incarceration without considering their case for premature release was a gross violation of their fundamental rights. In a separate judgement delivered on January 23, 2020 in case of 'the Home Secretary (Prison) and others Vs H Nilofer Nisha, the Supreme Court has held that the grant of remission or parole is not a right vested with the prisoner. It is a privilege available to the prisoner on fulfilling certain conditions. This is a discretionary power which has to be exercised by the authorities conferred with such powers under the relevant rules or regulations. "The court cannot exercise these powers, though once the powers are exercised, the court may hold that the exercise of powers is not in accordance with rules," it has said. Notably, Section 433A of the Criminal Procedure Code restricted power of remission on life term convicts, unless they completed at least 14 years of jail. In a series of cases namely Maru Ram vs Union of India and others (1981), the court has held that failure to put relevant materials before the Governor for exercise of such power under Article 161 of the Constitution may lead to quashing of remission orders||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-orders-interim-bail-to-life-terms-convicts-incarcerated-for-over-30-years-in-up-jails-970275.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Forest fires flare up in Uttarakhand, Centre rushes 2 helicopters to control situation||Forest fires in Uttarakhand flared up over the past day prompting the Centre to rush two helicopters to the state on Sunday to bring the situation under control. There are 40 active fire spots in the forests of Garhwal and Kumaon regions with Nainital, Almora, Tehri and Pauri districts being the worst-hit, forest officials said. Since January this year, there have been 983 incidents of forest fire in the state affecting 1,292 hectares of land, they said. Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat informed Union Home Minister Amit Shah about the current forest fire situation in the state following which two helicopters were rushed in to provide help. "I have spoken to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat to get an update on forest fires in the state. Instructions have been issued to send helicopters and National Disaster Response Force teams to the state to minimise loss of lives and property due to the wildfires," Shah said in a tweet.  Rawat called an emergency meeting of senior officials of the forest and disaster management departments and all district magistrates to assess the situation and discuss ways to effectively control it. He said 12,000 forest department personnel have been deployed and 1300 fire stations have also been set up to stop forest fires. The two helicopters have already arrived in the state and expressed hope that they will help in controlling the situation, the chief minister said.  One helicopter will be stationed in Gauchar which will collect water from Shrinagar and the other will be stationed in Haldwani which will collect water from the Bhimtal lake to extinguish the forest fires. Forest department officials have been asked not to take any leave and keep a close watch on the situation, the chief minister said, adding bushes around residential areas are being cleared so that the forest fires do not spread there.  A major reason for rising forest fire incidents in the state is the paucity of rain during winter. Rainfall during winter was less than normal this year, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/forest-fires-flare-up-in-uttarakhand-centre-rushes-2-helicopters-to-control-situation-970285.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||DU teachers to go back on strike from April 12 over 'Pattern of Assistance' document||The Delhi University Teachers' Association (DUTA) on Sunday said it will go back on strike from April 12 if the "university fails to take concrete steps" to safeguard interest of employees and colleges. DUTA has been protesting for over three weeks against the appointment of senior administrative officers (Sr AOs) and the issue of a 'Pattern of Assistance' document in 12 Delhi government-funded DU colleges. According to a letter addressed to DU's acting vice chancellor P C Joshi, DUTA demanded that the university takes "concrete steps" to ensure the 12 colleges are "governed within the framework of DU Act and Ordinances". "It was decided and communicated to staff associations that while teachers will return to their classes from April 1, 2021, DUTA shall resume the strike from April 12 in case the university fails to take concrete steps to safeguard interest of employees and colleges," it said. "The DUTA executive further demands that the university convenes emergent meeting of Executive Council to pass resolutions against Pattern of Assistance and appointment of Sr. AOs in the 12 DU colleges," the letter added. DUTA has been raising demands to revoke an order from the Finance Department of the Delhi government that gives senior administrative officers additional charge of the 12 colleges. The vice chancellor wrote a letter to the Finance Department on March 24 and also held a meeting with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on April 1 to discuss resolution of pending issues and collaboration for quality education. DUTA also requested the vice chancellor to hold a meeting and update the teachers' body on the latest development in the matter. "We request an urgent meeting with you for an official update. Further, we appeal for immediate steps so that employees feel assured and are not pushed to take the difficult decision of resuming the strike," DUTA said. The teachers' association went on a strike on March 11 against the non-payment of salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff of the 12 colleges. It continued the strike even as the government paid the dues alleging that through the "Pattern of Assistance" document issued by the Directorate of Higher Education, the city government was attempting to "find ways of disaffiliating them from Delhi University". "The Pattern of Assistance document refers to these 12 colleges as '100 per cent funded Delhi government sponsored colleges affiliated to the University of Delhi'. This is absolutely wrong as these are constituent colleges of the university," DUTA had said in a statement on March 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-teachers-to-go-back-on-strike-from-april-12-over-pattern-of-assistance-document-970286.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Maoists were armed with LMG; looted weapons of security personnel||The ambush that left 22 security personnel dead in Chhattisgarh was led by some 400 Maoists who surrounded the jawans from three sides in an area devoid of vegetation and rained on them machine gun fire as well as IEDs for several hours, officials said on Sunday. Some 10-12 Naxals are also believed to have died in the fierce gunbattle that ensued. The security victims were from a contingent of about 1,500 troops, drawn from the Central Reserve Police Force's specialised jungle warfare unit CoBRA, its regular battalions, a unit of its Bastariya battalion, the Chhattisgarh Police affiliated District Reserve Guard (DRG) and others. They had launched a search and destroy operation along the border of Bijapur-Sukma district after they got inputs of Maoists presence in the area. After receiving intelligence that the Naxals were conducting a counter-offensive exercise in the area, a contingent of about 790 personnel set out towards the Jagargunda-Jongaguda-Tarrem axis at dawn, the officials said. At least 400 Naxals suspected to be led by the most wanted Maoist commander and leader of the so-called 'People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) battalion no 1-- Hidma-- and his associate Sujatha ambushed the forces in an area that is a strong-hold of the Maoists due to the difficult terrain, large tracts of forests and a smaller number of security forces camps, an officer said. Out of the total 22 fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men including seven CoBRA commandos while one jawan is from the Bastariya battalion and the rest are from DRG and Special Task Force. A CRPF Inspector is still missing, they said. "The Maoists drew the forces into an ambush with heavy gunfire and encircled the security personnel from three sides. A heavy gun-battle ensued in the jungles which are devoid of any foliage at present," a senior official told PTI. Bullets rained from light machine guns (LMGs) and the Naxals also used low-intensity improvised explosive devices (IEDs) to mount the attack that continued for several hours. Helicopters, which were requisitioned to evacuate the injured personnel, could make the first landing only after 5 PM after the gunfire had ended. The security personnel took cover behind large trees and kept firing till they ran out of ammunition, he added. At one location, he added, seven bodies of the troops were recovered and the tree trunks bore bullet marks, indicating that a fierce gun battle took place in the area. About two dozen sophisticated assault weapons of the slain personnel are also stated to have been looted by the Naxals even as security officials said the search of the area is still on and details are being collected from the ground. He said that the Maoists carried their dead, estimated to be about 10-12, on tractor trolleys. Another officer posted in Chhattisgarh said the operation was being monitored by two Inspector General (IG) rank officers of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force from Jagdalpur in Bastar. Officials said while maximum security personnel were killed due to bullet shots, one is suspected to have fainted and later died due to dehydration and other issues. "The security forces personnel, especially CoBRA commandos, fought very bravely and ensured that the Naxals could not prolong the ambush despite being at an advantage," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maoists-were-armed-with-lmg-looted-weapons-of-security-personnel-970316.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Bombay HC to pronounce order on Param Bir Singh's plea seeking CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh on April 5||The Bombay High Court on April 5 will pronounce its order on whether a PIL filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh seeking CBI probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh should be heard further. Singh's plea alleged that Deshmukh had asked police officers, including suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze who has been arrested in the case of bomb scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, to collect Rs 100 crore each month from bars and restaurants. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni had on March 31 reserved its order on the issue of maintainability of the PIL (whether it should be taken up for final hearing or dismissed at the preliminary stage).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bombay-hc-to-pronounce-order-on-param-bir-singhs-plea-seeking-cbi-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-on-april-5-970340.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Mukhtar Ansari presented himself as ‘saviour of Muslims’ and got foreign funds, alleges UP minister||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla on Sunday claimed that gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari received foreign funding as he presented himself as “saviour of Muslims”. Speaking to reporters here, the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs hit out at the former regimes of the SP, BSP and Congress for not doing enough to punish people like Ansari. "… the former governments of the state used to shield him (Ansari) for Muslim appeasement. As a result of this, his ‘mafia raj’ continued. The Yogi Adityanath government is making efforts to punish him, and has broken his financial empire,” he said. "Time has come for Ansari to get the punishment for the crimes he has committed. That is why he is feeling afraid now. He got foreign funding as he used to present himself as saviour of Muslims," Shukla said but failed to give any proof for his claim. Punjab's home department had recently asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take Ansari’s custody from Rupnagar jail on April 8, with BSP MP Afzal Ansari on Sunday saying that his brother's "safety" is now the responsibility of the judiciary and the Adityanath dispensation. The Uttar Pradesh Police has also set up a special investigation team (SIT) to probe into the issue of fake documents of the ambulance which was used to ferry Ansari from the Rupnagar jail to a Mohali court recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mukhtar-ansari-presented-himself-as-saviour-of-muslims-and-got-foreign-funds-alleges-up-minister-970352.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Illicit liquor killed around 400 people in four years in UP, alleges Congress||Alleging a nexus between the government and the liquor mafia, the Congress on Sunday claimed that illicit liquor has killed around 400 people in the past four years in Uttar Pradesh. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said, "There is an unholy nexus between the government and the liquor mafia in the state. In the past four years, illicit liquor has claimed around 400 lives. The business of illicit and spurious liquor has assumed fearful proportions in UP." Lallu also wondered as to why the government is “shielding” the liquor mafia. The UP Congress chief sought to know why no action has been initiated against officials occupying prominent posts despite hundreds of deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/illicit-liquor-killed-around-400-people-in-four-years-in-up-alleges-congress-970374.html
04-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Covid-19 surge continues as over 4,000 fresh cases reported first time this year; positivity rate 4.64%||Delhi recorded 4,033 coronavirus cases on Sunday, the highest daily count this year, as the positivity rate rose to 4.64 percent from 4.48 percent the previous day, according to the health department. Twenty-one more people died due to the disease, the highest since January 1, when an equal number of fatalities were reported. The number of cumulative cases stands at 6,76,414 and the death toll is 11,081. The city had reported 3,567 cases on Saturday and 3,594 cases on Friday. The last time the city recorded more than 4,000 cases was on December 4 when 4,067 people were diagnosed with Covid-19. Delhi had reported 2,790 cases on Thursday, and 1,819 coronavirus cases on Wednesday, 992 cases on Tuesday, 1,904 cases on Monday and 1,881 cases on last Sunday. The number of active cases rose to 13,982 from 12,647 a day before. The 4,033 new cases have come from a total of 86,899 tests, including 54,472 RT-PCR ones, conducted a day ago, the bulletin said. The number of people under home isolation rose to 7,144 from 6,569 a day ago.  The containment zones rose to 2,917 from 2,618 on Saturday, it said.  The number of cumulative cases as on January 1 had stood at over 6.25 lakh and the total fatalities were 10,557.   The number of daily cases had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded.    However, the daily cases began to rise again in March and have been steadily increasing since then. Of the 6,139 beds set aside for coronavirus patients in government and private hospitals in Delhi, 3,404 are unoccupied, according to government data. Earlier this week, 230 more ICU beds for coronavirus patients have been added in 33 private hospitals on the directions of the city government. The number of non-ICU beds in these private facilities has been increased by 842.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-covid-19-surge-continues-as-over-4000-fresh-cases-reported-first-time-this-year-positivity-rate-464-970378.html
04-04-2021||Opinion||Development is daily work||If employees at a company went to work only occasionally, they’d probably soon not have jobs. If you paid attention to your relationships and friendships only rarely, you’d not have them either. Clearly, the market and society are spheres that are only nourished by everyday actions, and without them, there would be a dramatic resetting of the table. But governance and development are different; they operate by a different clock, as far as anyone can tell. There’s a lot of election coverage these days. And what that coverage tells us is that various leaders are going about helter-skelter in a frenzy of campaigning. In the midst of that, a number of titbits of news emerge and these are reported breathlessly for a few hours, until they’re replaced by the next set of titbits, which are also transient. But while they all pass quickly, they do have a connection to a more persistent, larger question -- which political party is going to win? And, as a corollary to this, which group within society is going to have more power, since the whole exercise is lined up that way. Sometimes, a little before the election, it becomes apparent what the answer is. And at other times, it’s a close call, and there’s nothing to do but wait for the tallying to see what the voters actually did. Throughout this time, millions of people talk to each other about the polls and which way the wind is blowing. A lot of political figures keep jumping ship, which provides plenty of material for these chats. And, of late, elections don’t seem to be the only way to decide who wins. Too many elections have been followed by rounds of poaching to realign the interests of winners, quite often without any regard to what the voters may have wanted. All of this adds to the spectacle, but it also adds to the feeling that the polls are just a game, and that their original purpose is now incidental. The idea that voters get to choose not only who should lead them, but also set a course for development and governance that is preferred by them, is only marginally in the picture. Most voters in most elections believe that between one government and the next, there is not likely to be anything that is new and meaningful. While elections are pivots around which we seek progress, their role in helping us come to decisive answers to the challenges of development have become quite dim. The cost of a high pitch during the few weeks leading up to an election is an appalling inertia for another five years. As a result, we find ourselves near the bottom of nearly every development indicator that matters, and are even being overtaken by nations that we used to look down our nose at. This shouldn’t surprise anyone; we can’t possibly excel at something that we only rarely pay attention to. The state of our public education, the disarray in our healthcare system, the creaking infrastructure, the mounting burden of debt that millions of families face, the deteriorating environment ... these things ought to be front and centre, frequently, in our lives. The institutions of government, and the people we elect to public office, should be held accountable regularly for better outcomes. Without this persistence, the once-in-five-years tambola is just a game. To ask, “Who will win the election?” is a very limited question. We should be able to tell what will be different when elections are won by one group instead of another. And if the answer to that is that “nothing will change, because they are all the same,” that’s not the failure of the political class, it’s our failure as citizens. Daily engagement with development makes elections meaningful. We’ve always known this, but we’ve also become comfortable with going on as though we don’t know it. We tell ourselves that this is “too hard”, and it’s not our job to do things that public officials and elected representatives are supposed to do. That’s actually not correct -- there is no workable model of democratic governance in which the people don’t have an active role. There is no shortage of things one can do, with this mindset. In fact, there are those who are striving against very high odds to make things better. We could easily begin our engagement with development by helping them. A couple of years ago, I said to someone that “within 500 meters of your home, there is already someone working to make the neighbourhood better, to help those in need, and to be a better citizen.” Finding people to work with isn’t hard at all. But wanting to find them, and getting around to helping them, is a completely different thing. Voting makes sense when the non-voting homework is also diligently completed. That’s not an optional part; it is integral to any goal we seek to achieve through voting itself. The quality of candidates that we’ll see on the ballot machine depends very heavily on how well we’ve done this homework. If we’ve failed our part, there’s not much chance that those we elect will succeed. (Ashwin Mahesh Social technologist and entrepreneur, founder of Mapunity and co-founder, Lithium, wakes up with hope for the city and society, goes to bed with a sigh, repeats cycle)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/development-is-daily-work-970062.html
04-04-2021||Opinion||Change, hidden in plain sight||Madam, anything is possible in India, it just takes time,” a shopkeeper astutely told me once. How much time though? I recently read a blog post that opined that many foreign travellers think India hasn’t changed much in the last 20 years and probably won’t change much in the next 20. It left me a bit perplexed, because I’ve noticed India evolving rapidly, especially over the last decade. With so much innovation and development going on, it feels like a really exciting time to be in India. Surely the changes aren’t too subtle for a traveller to notice? Those who landed at Delhi or Mumbai airports 20 years ago would’ve found themselves in antiquated old terminal buildings, greeted by swarms of mosquitoes and an unforgettable musty aroma. In contrast, the swanky new international terminals at these airports are undeniably world-standard. Similar upgrades are taking place at airports in other cities, and regional air connectivity has also vastly improved. The behemoth that is Indian Railways has made an effort to enhance user experience, too, by overhauling its online ticket booking site to make it more functional. Air-conditioned Metro trains now run all over Delhi, and extensive progress is being made in building Metro train networks across the country. Twenty years ago in India, I didn’t come across many domestic tourists staying in hotels. However, better jobs and higher disposable incomes have altered this, enabling people to be much more upwardly mobile. Hip western-style backpacker hostels with co-working spaces have mushroomed to cater to the younger crowd. Such hostels were still a foreign concept in India a decade ago. Even the nature of tourism in India is gradually changing, with more options being offered for experiential and rural travel. Anyone who has been visiting India for a length of time would surely notice the proliferation of trendy restaurants, bars, coffee shops and tea cafes. Attitudes towards females drinking alcohol have become more liberal, at least in major cities. Fifteen years ago, in Kolkata, a random man on the street warned me that I was standing too close to a liquor store and I should move away. Two years ago, in Kolkata, I saw women making purchases in liqour stores. Interest in wine and wine tourism is expanding in India. It took a while, but my life feels complete now that some decent Chardonnay is finally being produced here! However, what I’m most overjoyed about is the growing range of non-toxic goods, and gourmet and organic health foods. No longer do I have to hunt for broccoli or Italian sweet basil. They’ve become so common that even the local roadside vegetable-wala sells them. My days of lugging eco-friendly cleaning products and handwash all the way back from Australia are happily over. Some great new Indian brands are also coming out with natural skincare and makeup. I don’t have to leave my home to get groceries either. Thanks to advancing technology, I can order online, and they’ll be delivered in a few hours. Perhaps it’s the dirt, the chaos, and the noise that foreign travellers notice the most about India and think those will never change. Pollution is unfortunately increasing, and the slow progress in improving sanitation is challenging. Cleanliness initiatives such as Swachh Bharat Abhiyan have lofty goals but gaps in delivery. Some monuments have been restored while others still require attention. Meanwhile, vibrant street art projects have refreshed walls and public spaces. Admittedly, India still has a fetish for cumbersome procedures and excessive paper trails, but that is gradually being modified as well. Even a trip to the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) has become surprisingly more streamlined and less daunting. As the saying goes, “Rome wasn’t built in a day”. While the ‘New India’ won’t be either, change is definitely underway! (Sharell Cook the travel writer from Down Under who has made Mumbai her home is trying to make sense of India one ‘Like That Only’ at a time)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/change-hidden-in-plain-sight-970064.html
04-04-2021||Opinion||For government's sake, drink!||We usually treat tipplers with scorn, but maybe it’s time we changed our view, considering their role in keeping the government afloat (in revenues, I mean), especially during the pandemic. Even as various businesses hit rock-bottom, tipplers contributed to the exchequer, one peg after another, so much so that the excise department almost met its revenue target for last year – the one shining sector at a time when the state’s GSDP contracted by 2.6%. Though the sudden, nationwide lockdown last year led to a near-complete halt in economic activity for much of last year, the collection of excise duty on alcohol had touched a whopping Rs 20,900 crore by February-end. Perhaps confident that liquor lovers will not let him down, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has, in his budget proposals for this year, increased the target to Rs 24,580 crore, which will account for 20% of the state’s tax revenues for 2021-22. If the taxes alone account for such a huge amount, one can easily imagine the size of the liquor industry. Over the years, the excise department has emerged as the favourite whipping boy of the government, with successive chief ministers increasing the duty on alcohol every time there is a need to raise resources. Liquor consumers often complain that it is unfair to single them out to bear this heavy tax burden and cross-subsidise other sections of society, but at the end of the day, they do not shy away from their ‘responsibility’ at all. For instance, on the second day after the lockdown was lifted in May last, the state logged an all-time high sale of Rs 197 crore on a single day, breaking a 2019 record of Rs 170 crore. Karnataka is the second-largest consumer of alcohol in India, guzzling down 12% of the liquor sold in the country. Tamil Nadu, with 13%, is No 1. With the government constantly raising the tax bar, consumption has witnessed a dip in the past few months, leading to tremendous pressure on the excise department to bridge the revenue gap. The department, in turn, sets high targets for wine stores, bars and pubs, even imposing fines on those that fail to meet the mark. In other words, the State is officially in the business of encouraging its citizens to drink more alcohol so that it can shore up its revenues. But liquor bar owners are at their wit’s end trying to figure out how to make their patrons down an extra peg. To add to the woes of the excise department, the Karnataka State Temperance Board wakes up once in a while to organise public awareness programmes on the ill-effects of alcohol. The Board, which believes that there is something fundamentally wrong about the idea of the government earning money from alcohol business, favours total prohibition in Karnataka -- on the lines of Bihar. And then there is the traffic police to contend with. While on the one hand, the excise department is leaving no stone unturned to boost sales, the stringent action and heavy fines against drunken driving is meant to have exactly the opposite effect. Whilst the traffic police goes to town with details of the huge fines collected, hoping to dissuade motorists from driving under the influence of alcohol, the excise department grudgingly rues the loss of revenue. Both have their own targets to meet. Drinkers, on their part, are oblivious to all this confusion and are busy in their own world, filling up the state’s coffers, first in the form of excise duty and again in the form of traffic penalty. And before you call somebody a kudka (drunkard), think twice, for almost a quarter of the state’s revenue comes from tipplers’ pockets. Alcohol may be harmful to one’s well-being, but it is definitely good for the state’s financial health. The poorer you become, the richer the government gets. (M Gautham Machaiah has traversed across print, electronic and digital media donning both journalist and corporate robes  @GauthamMachaiah)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/for-governments-sake-drink-970065.html
04-04-2021||Opinion||Who’s afraid of Virginia Woolf?||In a serendipitous literary irony, the name Virginia Woolf became part of the popular lexicon only after the 1962 play ‘Who is afraid of Virginia Woolf?’ Till then, few knew of this remarkable writer and fewer still, how influential she was in the cause of gender equality. An irony, because her book A Room of One’s Own, will endure long after that play is forgotten. A Room of One’s Own, published in 1929, centres on how patriarchy, in practice, conditions women to internalise a set of values, although male-centric, assumed as universal. Woolf’s importance is that she persuasively connects feminism to anti-fascism, to explain the origins of patriarchal violence, making the book perhaps the first modern primer on feminist politics. The title alone serves as a powerful metaphor, signifying not merely the declaration of political and cultural space for women, but the breaching of the boundaries set by men. Born in 1882, Virginia Woolf was a leading light of the Bloomsbury Group of progressive writers, philosophers and artists in London. Home-schooled because she was a girl while her brothers went to university, Woolf addressed the question: Why does literary history in the early 20th century have such few examples of great women writers? The patriarchy and the prejudices of the time suggested that this was proof of the intellectual inferiority of women. Virginia Woolf disagreed. Instead, she argued, it had to do with the fact that over the centuries, across cultures, male-dominated society had systematically denied women ‘a room of one’s own’ — access to education, economic independence, and autonomous identity. What might have happened, Woolf asks in a rhetorical question, had Shakespeare had a wonderfully gifted sister, called Judith. The answer: Any woman born with a great gift would have been so thwarted and hindered by other people, that quite simply, by her circumstance and society, she would have been a woman at strife against herself. At a time when art was considered a province of the mind and had little to do with economic circumstances, Woolf was a pathbreaker highlighting how limits are placed on women even in their daily lives. Woolf’s narration of her experience at an Oxbridge college where she is refused access to the library because of her gender, and the opulence of her lunch at a men’s college relative to the austerity of her dinner at a women’s college provides the materialist argument: “Intellectual freedom depends upon material things”, an early example of cultural materialism. The timeless relevance of the book is in the opening of the mind, and the resistance to intellectual closure; and its beauty, the luminescent writing and the quality of intimacy of a woman speaking to women. Woolf’s prose often borders on poetry, as much for the imagery as for the language. The technique of the shifting narrative personae to voice the argument, and her opening declaration “…Call me Mary Beton, Mary Seton, Mary Carmichael or by any name you please, it is not a matter of any importance…” is brilliant, to say, the ‘I’ that a woman uses is only a convenient term for somebody who has no real being. Not much has changed since. Women continue to be rendered the mere instruments of the ends of others -- homemakers, caregivers, or bearers of a family’s wellbeing -- but never themselves. Woolf’s metaphorical narrative often blurs the distinction between literary criticism and fiction, and reads like a novel in parts. Woolf examines both women in history and woman as a symbol, pointing to the wide chasm between women in the real world and ‘woman’ in the symbolic order, and I quote: “She pervades poetry from cover to cover; she is all but absent from history. She dominates the lives of kings and conquerors in fiction; in fact, she was the slave of any boy whose parents forced a ring upon her finger. Some of the most inspired words, some of the most profound thoughts in literature fall from her lips; in real life, she could scarcely spell, and was the property of her husband.” Read this passage again using the present tense instead of the past, and it becomes clear that Woolf’s portrayal of the effects of prejudice on the everyday lives of women is relevant in our own times. To paraphrase Virginia Woolf, women “have served all these centuries as looking glasses reflecting the figure of man at twice his natural size.” Woolf’s analysis of the patriarchal system of domination -- that the public and private worlds are inseparably connected, and the tyrannies and servilities of one are the tyrannies and servilities of the other -- provides a powerful framework to understand social groups suffering the effects of prejudice around us, which we choose to ignore. For this reason alone, one must read A Room of One’s Own. (Gurucharan Gollerkeri the former civil servant enjoys traversing the myriad spaces of ideas, thinkers, and books)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/who-s-afraid-of-virginia-woolf-970066.html
04-04-2021||Opinion||When the Constituent Assembly debated regulating interplanetary travel||When they debated India’s Constitution, members of the Constituent Assembly did not just concern themselves with the matters of their time -- they were also shaping the nation’s future. Not just the immediate future but also far into it. Long before Star Trek was a glint in Gene Roddenberry’s eyes and science fiction taken seriously, a member of the Constituent Assembly sought a debate to make laws to regulate interplanetary space travel! The topic was kicked off in unexpected circumstances. As the entries to List I of the Seventh Schedule (which lists out the topics on which Parliament alone could make laws) were being debated, an amendment was proposed by H V Kamath suggesting that among the topics, Parliament should also be specifically empowered to make laws regulating “interplanetary travel.” T T Krishnamachari, eminent industrialist and future finance minister of independent India, objected. He fumed that discussing such a topic would render the proceedings of the Assembly an “absurdity”. Kamath was not deterred. He first berated TTK for his lack of knowledge of the latest developments in science. Then he pleaded with the President of the House for an opportunity to make good his claim why legislation on this matter was needed. Perhaps Rajendra Prasad, who was presiding over the Assembly, was genuinely curious. He allowed Kamath to proceed. When Kamath read out the proposed amendment, the Assembly burst into laughter. Kamath was not deterred. He launched into an impassioned discussion on the march of science and technology in the modern world that, in 50 years, had made the radio, television and air travel almost ubiquitous and even referred to a company in the US that was promising rocket travel to the moon. Prasad confessed (probably in jest) that he thought people travelled to the moon only once they died, hoping to conclude this discussion as the day’s session was coming to a close. Kamath was not deterred. Instead, taking a cue from Prasad, he referred to an appropriate line in the Gita to show how even our ancestors had thought about it. He then launched into a discourse on how the notion of travel to the moon would not be considered farfetched even within the lifetimes of the members of the Assembly and such travel could, in fact, become commonplace soon. But Kamath was not the only one who wanted the Assembly to discuss interplanetary travel. Naziruddin Ali Ahmad (a name regular readers of this column will be familiar with) also moved an amendment along similar lines, proposing that Parliament have powers to regulate “travel between the planets and the satellites and between the satellites.” The main purpose of his amendment, Ahmad claimed, was to address a defect in Kamath’s proposal -- that it didn’t account for travel from the earth to the moon since the moon was a satellite and not a planet. Like Kamath, Ahmad was deadly serious about his proposal -- he wanted the amendments to be put to vote. Prasad invited Babasaheb Ambedkar to comment on the proposed amendment. Coming at the end of a long day, perhaps Ambedkar didn’t want to prolong the discussion. He simply pointed out that the draft Constitution already had provisions that gave power to Parliament to make laws on subjects which were not mentioned in the list and there was no need to specifically mention space travel as such. Regrettably, the members voted against Kamath’s and Ahmad’s amendments. While we all know how visionary members of the Constituent Assembly were on matters of Indian society and state, Kamath and Ahmad showed how visionary they were even on matters of science and technology. The Soviets launched the first man-made satellite into space eight years later; Yuri Gagarin became the first man in space in 1961; and Neil Armstrong took “one small step for (a) man, one giant leap for mankind”, setting foot on the moon a little less than 20 years from the date of this debate. While no Indian has set foot on the moon yet, it would have been an amazing achievement had India’s Constitution reflected Kamath and Ahmad’s farsightedness in its text. If at this point you, the reader, believe that you have just been subjected to a belated April Fools’ Day joke, let me assure you otherwise. The debate I just described did indeed take place on August 31, 1949. Those of you who would like to trust your own eyes on this matter may visit Indian Kanoon, which has a digitised version of the Constituent Assembly debates. This one is at https://indiankanoon.org/doc/787953/. You will not be disappointed. (Alok Prasanna Kumar is co-founder of Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, uses his legal training to make the case that Harry Potter is science fiction and Star Wars is fantasy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-the-constituent-assembly-debated-regulating-interplanetary-travel-970067.html
04-04-2021||Opinion||Tourists hotspots are re-opening but not everyone is thrilled||By Adam Minter Although Hawaii re-opened to tourists in October, it took a combination of spring break and pent-up travel fever before the airports felt close to normal again. By mid-March, the number of arriving domestic passengers exceeded 2020’s anemic levels by 400 per cent. A surge in visitors is undoubtedly good for the state’s hard-hit tourism economy. But is it good for Hawaiians? A year after the state’s borders were first shut due to Covid, many locals have embraced a new normal: uncrowded beaches, free-moving traffic, and cleaner air and water. In one recent poll, nearly half of Hawaiians said that tourists are no longer worth the trouble. Around the globe, other tourist-dependent economies have spent Covid appreciating life free from the visiting hordes. That, in turn, is renewing a global debate about who exactly should benefit from tourism. Over the past decade, the travel sector has had to confront some uncomfortable truths. One was the industry’s effect on climate change: Tourism accounted for fully 8 per cent of global greenhouse emissions between 2009 and 2013. A related problem was that low-cost flights were simply delivering too many people to the world’s hot spots. Venice, a city of 60,000, was visited by a catastrophic 5 million tourists in 2017. Such overcrowding has contributed to both environmental degradation and a slow but steady exodus of locals. Hawaii isn’t quite ready to depopulate, but frustration with tourism runs deep. In 1959, the state had 243,000 tourists; in 1990, 7 million; in 2019, 10.4 million — all sharing space with a mere 1.4 million locals. With the influx of visitors came notorious traffic bottlenecks and new threats to treasured ecological sites. Hanauma Bay, an iconic wildlife refuge formed in a volcanic crater and covered in corals, was once a remote site enjoyed by locals. By the time Covid hit, it was receiving 1 million tourists a year. Among other problems, those visitors trampled corals and left behind 412 pounds of sunscreen per day in the waters. Of course, diagnosing overtourism is easier than finding a cure. In 2019, tourism contributed $8.9 trillion — or 10.3 per cent — to global gross domestic product and employed 310 million people (directly and indirectly). Its contraction has been tough everywhere, but especially in smaller, emerging-market countries where the sector can account for as much as 50 per cent of GDP. The losses haven’t just been economic. As tourists stayed home during the pandemic, some ecologically fragile regions saw devastating increases in wildlife poaching. Plenty of solutions to this challenge have been floated in recent years. The flight-shaming movement sought to dissuade tourists from long-haul air travel. Fed-up locals, especially indigenous communities, became more vocal in their criticisms and even started protesting. Some destinations adopted sustainability pledges for travelers. Although visitors to the Island of Hawaii won’t be barred for refusing the Pono Pledge, its message of personal responsibility could hardly be clearer. Yet even if every tourist in the world signed and obeyed such a pledge, their impact would still be a problem. Recent surges in places such as Miami Beach (for spring break) have only added to worries that the end of Covid could mean a resumption of the old normal for communities beat down by too many visitors. Fixing these problems will require some new thinking. An important first step should be reforming how to measure a “successful” tourist business. Historically, visitor numbers and GDP have been the gold standard. But groups like the World Tourism Organization could help establish a range of new metrics that take sustainability into account — for example, by publishing the ratio of tourists to locals in a given region or accounting for tourism’s impact on the local environment. Businesses, too, should recognize that harmful overtourism isn’t in their long-term interests. Airlines and hotel chains, for instance, could commit to sustainable tourism by reducing carbon emissions, improving waste management and investing in local communities. Social media sites like Instagram contribute heavily to the problem — everyone is after that perfect shot, after all — and should think of ways to educate their users about overtourism and discourage excessive crowds. Nobody wants a lecture about a post-Covid vacation. But the message doesn’t need to be alienating: Traveling right just means thinking more like a local.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/tourists-hotspots-are-re-opening-but-not-everyone-is-thrilled-970138.html
04-04-2021||South||Kerala polls: Pinarayi has no doubts about Vijayan's victory||It was 9.29 am on Saturday when the doors of the Pinarayi Convention centre opened. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan walked into the venue to attend the press conference scheduled at.9.30 am. Sharp at 10 am, he wound up the briefing and proceeded to the first campaign venue of the day in his constituency Dharmadam in Kannur district. Apart from being prompt, Vijayan does not keep people waiting. He makes it a point to limit his speeches to minimum points. Public attendance for local election meetings of parties is not impressive these days, but for Vijayan's local level meetings, there is a considerable crowd, especially at CPM citadels popularly known as party villages. With hardly two days left for the Assembly polls, Vijayan, who is seeking a mandate from his home constituency for the second consecutive term, clarifies the fresh allegations against his government regarding solar power purchase deal with the Adani Group by terming it 'baseless' and cautions the voters to be vigilant about 'BJP-Congress nexus' to defeat the CPM-led LDF. "The LDF will close BJP's account in Kerala by defeating the saffron party in its lone sitting seat Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram. The Congress-led UDF has become undesirable for the people of Kerala owing to its deeds," Vijayan reiterates at every venue. Welfare initiatives of the LDF government like enhancing the social welfare pensions and free ration kits during Covid lockdown and development initiatives are also being highlighted by Vijayan during his campaign and through posters. Children to aged persons gather for the campaigns of Vijayan. Vijayan finds time to greet the children and write autographs for them. Mohanan, a native of Vijayan's home town Pinarayi, which is around 20 kilometres from Kannur city, says that Vijayan would only increase his margin, which was over 37,000 last time. Even after being the chief minister, he ensured the development of the constituency and welfare of his voters. Most voters in Pinarayi share the same view, but some CPM followers say that Vijayan is dominating the party and not allowing others to be above him. Many senior CPM leaders like Industries Minister E P Jayarajan are overtly and covertly expressing their resentment. This should have been avoided, lamented a party supporter who preferred anonymity. Vijayan, who was earlier elected to the Assembly four times from Kuthuparamba and Payyanur constituencies in Kannur, is taking on C Raghunath of the Congress and BJP former state President C K Padmanabhan now. Pinarayi Vijayan is being widely termed by his supporters as ‘Captain’ with many hoardings reflecting this. This has not gone down well with party senior leaders. CPM former General Secretary Prakash Karat told reporters recently that 'Captain' was not an official line of the party, but just a coinage by party young supporters for campaigning. Vijayan told reporters on Saturday that the attempts to make a controversy out of the 'Captain' usage won't work as it was just part of the election campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-pinarayi-has-no-doubts-about-vijayans-victory-970035.html
04-04-2021||South||Kerala minister committed sin by unleashing cops on Ayyappa devotees: Nirmala Sitharaman||The BJP on Saturday continued to attack Kerala's ruling LDF over the Sabarimala issue with Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman alleging Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran committed a sin by unleashing police on devotees of Lord Ayyappa during the Sabarimala protests in 2018. "The devotee who had gone to visit (darshan) the swami (god) was hit. This man (the Devaswom Minister), he cannot atone this sin if he does penance (tapas) even for 500 years," Sitharaman told a poll meeting held in a North Kerala constituency on the penultimate day of campaigning for the state Assembly elections. Her statement came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the Devaswom Minister as "one of the masterminds" to shower lathis on the devotees. Reacting to Modi's allegation, Kadakampally Surendran said the Prime Minister made such a remark as he was misled by the state BJP leadership. Modi had chanted "Swamiye Saranam Ayyappa" thrice at a poll rally held in Konni in Pathanamthitta on Friday. The BJP has fielded its firebrand leader Sobha Surendran against Kadakampally Surendran, a senior CPI(M) leader, in Kazhakootam Assembly constituency in Thiruvananthapuram district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-committed-sin-by-unleashing-cops-on-ayyappa-devotees-nirmala-sitharaman-970090.html
04-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM junks Stalin's charges on Karunanidhi burial||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday said the government could not allot space at the Marina in Chennai to bury the late DMK chief M Karunanidhi in 2018 due to earlier precedents and denied incumbent DMK President MK Stalin's allegation that no land was offered to lay to rest his father's mortal remains. Karunanidhi, earlier as Chief Minister, had said it was not possible to allot space for the late chief ministers K Kamaraj and Janaki Ramachandran in Marina for their respective burial, citing the fact that they were not serving CMs when they died, Palaniswami told an election rally here. "Mr Karunanidhi was not chief minister when he died," Palaniswami added. "I only did what Mr Karunanidhi had stated (for Kamaraj and Janaki) and nothing else," he said. However, his government offered 46,000 sq ft of land worth Rs 180 crore in the city's Guindy locality but Stalin refused to accept the government order issued in this regard, the chief minister added. However, Stalin went around claiming the government did not even give 6 ft of land, he said about the DMK chief's allegation in election rallies for the April 6 assembly polls. The DMK had, however, moved the court and secured an order for the burial of Karunanidhi at the Marina, where other late chief ministers — CN Annadurai, MG Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa are laid to rest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-junks-stalins-charges-on-karunanidhi-burial-970096.html
04-04-2021||South||First transgender candidate Anannyah Kumari Alex pulls out of Kerala polls, accuses party of harassment||Anannyah Kumari Alex, the first transgender candidate to fight the Kerala Assembly polls, backed out of the contest as the Democratic Social Justice Party (DSJP) nominee on April 3 alleging that she is facing stigma, gender discrimination and sexual harassment from her own party. Alex, who was in the poll fray from the Vengara constituency in the Malappuram district, said she filed a police complaint against the DSJP and the leaders who harassed her. "I withdrew because I am facing stigma, gender discrimination and sexual harassment from the Democratic Social Justice Party They are trying to play with me to get more publicity. They had some plans and reasons for putting me in the front," she told ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-transgender-candidate-anannyah-kumari-alex-pulls-out-of-kerala-polls-accuses-party-of-harassment-970103.html
04-04-2021||South||Conversion of Hagia Sophia, 'Love Jihad' to be a factor in Kerala polls||Issues like conversion of the ancient Hagia Sophia church in Turkey to a mosque, incidents of 'Love Jihad' and 'harassment' of nuns in a moving train in Uttar Pradesh, will be reflected in the April 6 assembly polls, say voters in Christian dominated Central Kerala constituencies. Several heavyweights, including senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, Kerala Congress(M) leader Jose K Mani, a key partner of the CPI(M)-led LDF, two Rajya Sabha BJP MPs K J Alphons and Suresh Gopi are trying their luck from the constituencies, spread across Ernakulam, Idukki, Kottayam and parts of Thrissur. Central Kerala is considered a stronghold of the Congress-led UDF, but the LDF put up a strong show in the December 2020 civic polls, winning many local body seats. BJP-led NDA is also trying to make inroads in these areas by reaching out to the Catholic Church, raising the issues like "Love Jihad" and "Hagia Sophia". Their campaigns saw senior BJP leaders, including union ministers, supporting the Church's views on the issue. Both the rival fronts, the LDF and UDF are concerned over BJP's growing proximity to the Church on these matters but have remained silent, fearing a Muslim backlash in the polls. Their campaigns focus on attacks in the country against people of the minority communities, allegedly by right-wing outfits under the BJP rule. Both CPI(M) and Congress have sought to corner the BJP over the alleged harassment of the nuns. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, addressing a poll rally in Thrissur last week, flayed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'silence' on the matter. M Alexander, associated with activities of the Catholic Church in Pala, said the faithful have strong views on "Love Jihad", conversion of Hagia Sophia church in Turkey to a mosque and the harassment of nuns in a train in Uttar Pradesh, allegedly by activities of Sangh Parivar. "People discuss these issues on various platforms, including in our families. But we don't know how these issues are going to get reflected in the elections," he told PTI. He said the community is also not satisfied with BJP in view of alleged attacks on minorities in many parts of the country. Tony P Emmanuel, a regular churchgoer from Elanji in Ernakulam district, said there was resentment against the stand taken by political parties, including the UDF and the LDF, on the issue of "Love Jihad". Citing a recent statement by Chandy Oommen, son of former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, reportedly justifying the conversion of Hagia Sophia to a mosque, Emmanuel said that they never expected such a statement from the son of a senior Congress leader. The Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council had also come down on Chandy Oommen for his statement. Oommen, addressing a function organised by the Youth League, the youth outfit of IUML, had said thousands of churches were converted into dance bars and no one had any issue. Emmanuel alleged that Congress leaders were even silent over an article penned by Muslim League leader Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal, hailing conversion of Hagia Sophia to a mosque by the Muslim administrators of Turkey. "All such issues still remain unaddressed. We are keeping silent now because we don't want to divide people along religious lines during the elections," a Church official, who did not wish to be named, told PTI. He said the Church is also equally worried about the growing clout of the Muslim League in the Congress-led UDF and the stand of the CPI(M)-led LDF on the issues like Love Jihad. It was Kerala Congress(M) leader Jose K Mani, contesting from the Pala Assembly seat as the LDF candidate, who first raked up the "Love Jihad" issue at an election programme this week. He said that the matter should be addressed if the public has any apprehensions about it, drawing support from the influential Kerala Catholic Bishops Council, which claimed that "Love Jihad is a reality" in the state. However, Mani withdrew his statement a few hours later, apparently sensing that it did not go down well with other constituents of the LDF, including the CPI and CPI(M). CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran had termed the remark as Mani's personal opinion, while Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sidestepped queries on the topic. Hitting out at Mani for withdrawing his statement even after KCBC extended support to him, Kerala Janapaksham leader and Poonjar MLA P C George said "Love Jihad is a reality" and alleged that Mani changed his stand as he was scared of some forces with extreme views. While UDF and LDF remain largely silent over the issue, BJP has promised a law against "Love Jihad" if voted to power. BJP state general George Kurian, who is also a former vice-chairman of the National Commission for Minorities, said the issue is a matter of serious concern and the Christian community is a "soft target". He said that both Fronts have not said anything about the matter though certain investigations revealed that it has a connection to terror activities. "We have taken a strong stand against it. If we are voted to power, we will definitely bring a law against Love Jihad," he told PTI. However, BJP's bid to win the support of the Church in the polls on these issues had not yielded the desired results. The Church has criticised BJP in an article on the organ of the Thrissur archdiocese, saying some forces are trying to make India a country based on religion. It has also cautioned voters against those trying to woo them, raising religious issues. The article also hit out at the ruling LDF over alleged corruption and nepotism during its rule, but however, did not mention anything about UDF. Though things appear to be calm on the surface, political parties fear the issues may cause undercurrents in the central Kerala constituencies, where heavyweights are in the fray. Oommen Chandy, who completed 50 years as representative of the Puthuppally Assembly constituency, is contesting the polls from the same home turf in the Kottayam district. While UDF constituent Kerala Congress's leader P J Joseph is fighting the polls from Thodupuzha, his sitting seat, Jose K Mani is seeking a mandate from the Pala constituency, held by his father K M Mani, for 50 years till his demise in 2019. The BJP has fielded its Rajya Sabha MPs K J Alphonse and Suresh Gopi from Kanjirappally and Thrissur assembly constituencies respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/conversion-of-hagia-sophia-love-jihad-to-be-a-factor-in-kerala-polls-970179.html
04-04-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi promises Rs 6,000 every month to poor in Kerala||As the campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls draws to a close, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday gave a further push to his 'Nyuntam Aay Yojana' (NYAY) to reach out to the voters, promising that every poor person in the state will get Rs 6,000 every month "without fail", if the UDF is voted to power. "The UDF is proposing something revolutionary. Something that has never been tried in any Indian state before," Gandhi told a UDF meeting organised at Vellamunda in Mananthavady. Gandhi, who reached the venue after offering prayers at the ancient Lord Mahavishnu Temple in Thirunelli, said the idea of NYAY was very simple. "The idea is that we are going to put money directly into the hands of the poorest people in Kerala. And not a small amount of money. Every poor person in Kerala is going to get Rs 6,000 a month -- Rs 72,000 a year -- without fail every month into his bank account," the Congress leader, who represents Wayanad constituency in the Lok Sabha, said. Gandhi has given an increased focus on the NYAY scheme in his poll meetings, apparently in a bid to counter the ruling Left which is relying heavily on the welfare schemes implemented by it in the last five years to win votes in the crucial polls. In the last five years, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF government has substantially increased the welfare pension for the elderly. The welfare pension was Rs 600 when the UDF rule came to an end in 2016. It is now Rs 1,600 per month, with the left government increasing the amount in multiple phases. The government has also ensured that the pension amount reaches the beneficiaries every month without fail.  Bringing up the NYAY idea during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Gandhi had described it as ground-breaking, which would mark the beginning of the final assault on poverty. Last week, the former Congress president had said he wanted to "test" the scheme in Kerala because if it works here, he wanted to replicate it in all Congress-ruled states in the country. Earlier in the morning, Gandhi visited Thirunelli temple in Wayanad with which he has an emotional link. An urn containing the ashes of his father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi was immersed in Papanasini, a stream connected to a famous temple dedicated to Lord Mahavishnu in the picturesque village, in 1991. "Visited Thirunelli Temple, Wayanad early morning today. The calming atmosphere of this place resonates within for a long time," Gandhi wrote on his Facebook page after visiting the temple with AICC general secretary K C Venugopal. He had also offered prayers at the temple last year and during his Lok Sabha election campaign in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-promises-rs-6000-every-month-to-poor-in-kerala-970223.html
04-04-2021||South||'Captain' over party? Debate raging over Vijayan's star status in poll-bound Kerala||One may feel there is nothing in a moniker, but it is not that simple in the ruling CPI(M), where Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is addressed as 'Captain' by admirers, triggering a raging debate within the party and outside, with many saying the tag should be given to the political outfit and not an individual. "Kerala's captain is here" or "the captain who led Kerala in crisis" are some of the slogans used to welcome the Chief Minister by hardcore supporters and followers during poll campaigns and meetings. However, the Left critics opine that the Marxist party has no tradition of branding or projecting any individual as its face, especially, during elections and any act against it is personality cult worship. Interestingly, Vijayan was an arch critic of cult worship in the party. He had criticised former Chief Minister V S Achuthanandan many times over that. The debate over the 'Captain' reference began recently when senior leader and the party's former state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan replied to a question from a reporter. He was asked whether anyone had heard of any party literature carrying a term like 'Captain'. "The terms like Captain are coming from people. As far as CPI(M) is concerned, everyone is a comrade," he had said. Echoing similar views and referring to the Left front's poll slogan "LDF, for sure", senior party leader and former district secretary of politically volatile Kannur district, P Jayarajan said not individuals, but the party and the Left front are giving assurance to people. "As Kodiyeri has told the media, everyone is a comrade in this party...and the party is the captain," he said in a Facebook post on Saturday. Jayarajan also said when people are close to someone, they show their love and affection in many ways. "Some people may write down songs (to express admiration)...others like to keep photos and certain people like to get tattooed to show their love. But Communists are not fond of any such personality cult worship," he further said, adding that there was no point in right-wing politicians and the media getting upset over the mass support received by the Chief Minister. Though at first glance, the FB post seems to be downplaying the controversy over the 'captain' reference, many feel it was the Kannur strongman's secret jibe on the party leadership and Vijayan for criticising him once in the name of a music album, praising his personality as a mass leader. Over three years ago, P Jayarajan, popularly known as 'PJ' among his followers, had been reportedly criticised and warned by the leadership over the music album, brought out by some of the party workers in Kannur, saying that it was "self-glorification" and amounted to promote personality cult. As the discussion over Jayarajan's FB post continued, Vijayan on Sunday sought to play down the issue and accused the media of creating an unnecessary controversy. Not a single word or sentence was wrong in Jayarajan's post, he told reporters in Kannur. "Some media is after Jayarajan now. There's nothing against the party inhis FB post. He defended the party in a proper manner. But the media intentionally misinterpreted it. This is not right on the part of the media," the Chief Minister said. Repeating the statement of Jayarajan, the CM said many are affected by the rise in popularity of communist leaders. "Well, that's a fact. The popularity of the LDF has increased. Those who oppose us are worried," he added. While CPI(M)'s acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said it was natural for Vijayan to be called 'captain' by people and was a recognition for his work in the last five years, the LDF coalition partner, CPI's state secretary Kanam Rajendran said neither his party or the CPI(M) address their Chief Minister as 'captain' but as 'comrade' only. Meanwhile, well-known Left sympathiser and political observer Dr Azad on Sunday criticised calling Pinarayi Vijayan as 'captain' and shared his poem on his FB page against it. "We have no captains... we have only comrades," the poem said. The opposition Congress has used the 'captain' row as an opportunity to take on Vijayan and the CPI(M) in the poll-bound state. While KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran said Vijayan was the "captain of a sinking ship, senior leader K Sudhakaran alleged that P Jayarajan's FB post was a natural reaction for sidelining him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/captain-over-party-debate-raging-over-vijayans-star-status-in-poll-bound-kerala-970240.html
04-04-2021||South||Ready to quit cinema if it becomes hurdle to political career: Kamal Haasan||Actor-turned-politician and Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Hassan on Sunday said he is ready to quit cinema if it becomes hurdle for his political career, which was meant for serving the people. "I will finish all my present assignments and quit films, if they become a hurdle to my political career," he told reporters here. Saying his entry into politics was historic, as he was one among the 30 per cent who remained aloof from politics, he said that late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran had as MLA acted in many films to propagate his ideals and to achieve his goal of serving people. However, if cinema was becoming an obstacle, Haasan said he would leave it to serve people, the MNM chief said, adding that many of his fellow candidates were of the opinion that he would disappear from politics and re-enter cinema. "Let us see who will disappear, which has to be decided by the people," Hassan added. Claiming that he had received some threats from various quarters, about which he refused to elaborate, the actor-politician said that being an honest party, he has submitted the real expenses incurred during the campaign, which was lauded by a few elections officials. Tamil film personalities Radhika Sarathkumar and Suhasini Maniratnam were present during the press meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ready-to-quit-cinema-if-it-becomes-hurdle-to-political-career-kamal-haasan-970263.html
04-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: Coimbatore restaurant corrects BJP leader Tejasvi Surya on 'politics over food'||A political tweet by Bengaluru (South) MP and BJP Yuva Morcha Chief Tejasvi Surya after breakfast at a restaurant in Coimbatore in poll-bound Tamil Nadu has caused him much embarrassment. After the sumptuous breakfast, Surya took to Twitter not to talk about the food at Sree Annapoorna Sree Gowrishankar, but to take a dig at the DMK, the principal Opposition party, to narrate his “experience” at the famous restaurant. “Today after breakfast at restaurant, I naturally went to pay. Cashier hesitated to accept money. With great hesitation he accepted after insistence. I told him that we are from BJP. A party that respects all and protects all. Not DMK to do roll-call even from small businesses,” Surya wrote on his verified Twitter page on Friday, by posting a photo of him settling the bill. Today after breakfast at restaurant, I naturally went to pay. Cashier hesitated to accept money. With great hesitation he accepted after insistence. A day later, the restaurant took to Facebook to clarify that the waiter hesitated to take money from him because they “sometimes refrain from taking money from people who work for our society” and not due to any other reason. Surya had his breakfast on Friday at the Sree Annapoorna Sree Gowrishankar restaurant, known for its roast dosas of different varieties in the industrial city. “Dear Tejasvi Surya. We are glad to have served you at our restaurant. At Annapoorna, we greet everyone with the same love and gratitude, in fact everyone comes forward to pay their bills. No one has forced us for anything free. As a token of love and respect we sometimes refrain from taking money from people who work for our society,” the restaurant wrote on its Facebook page. Dear Tejasvi Surya we are glad to have served you at our restaurant. At Annapoorna we greet everyone with the same... The response by the restaurant management went viral on social media with many criticising Surya, who was in Coimbatore to campaign for party candidate Vanathi Srinivasan, for “politicising” a simple breakfast. On the same day, Surya was trolled on Tamil Twitter for saying that the BJP will try to “put an end to Periyarism” in Tamil Nadu. The BJP has made the DMK's “high-handedness” and “rowdyism” during 2006-2011 a major issue of its campaign with almost all top leaders of the party, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, talking about these issues in their campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-coimbatore-restaurant-corrects-bjp-leader-tejasvi-surya-on-politics-over-food-970310.html
04-04-2021||South||'Wonder kid' Abdullakutty unlikely to make much wonders for BJP in Malappuram||The CPI(M)-turned-Congress-turned-BJP leader A P Abdullakutty contesting as an NDA candidate for the Lok Sabha bypoll at Malappuram constituency in North Kerala is unlikely to help the party surge in the Indian Union Muslim League's stronghold. Abdullakutty joined the BJP last year and he was made national vice president of the saffron party, which was considered as minority appeasement move. A former CPI(M) MP and Congress MLA, Abdullakutty was often referred to as 'Albhudakutty' (wonder kid) as he retained his victory spree in elections even after jumping over form the left camps to the Congress. He was expelled by the Congress in 2019 after he praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In 2009 he was expelled from CPI(M) for the same reason. Malappuram has been a strong hold of the Indian Union Muslim League. Party leader P K Kunhalikutty won with a thumping majority of 2.6 lakh votes in 2019. Then BJP candidate polled only around 82,000 votes against 5.8 lakh of Kunhalikutty. The constituency is going for bypolls as Kunhalikutty quit to contest in this Assembly polls. IUML has fielded senior leader Abdussamad Samadani this time, while the CPI(M) has fielded SFI leader V P Sanu who contested against Kunhalikutty in 2019 and came second. SDPI's national secretary Taslim Rehmani is also contesting from Malappuram for the April 6 bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wonder-kid-abdullakutty-unlikely-to-make-much-wonders-for-bjp-in-malappuram-970330.html
04-04-2021||State||Ex-minister D Sudhakar rubbishes reports of link with CD woman||Following a media report that former minister D Sudhakar had a link with the woman in the CD, he made it clear that he has nothing to do with the sleaze CD case involving BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi.  Speaking to media persons in his residence in Hiriyur town on Sunday, Sudhakar said he was shocked after his name was dragged into the issue, adding that if he had any fear, he would have sought anticipatory bail. He argued that he had never transferred money to the woman in the sleaze CD and said that he is ready to cooperate with SIT probe.  He said that it is wrong to drag him into the issue just because he is on good terms with KPCC President D K Shivakumar and former chief minister Siddaramaiah.  Many people call him every day and he is not aware of all the callers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ex-minister-d-sudhakar-rubbishes-reports-of-link-with-cd-woman-970174.html
04-04-2021||State||30,000 second appeals pending before Information Commission: RTI reply||As many as 30,000 RTI (second) appeal cases are pending before the Karnataka Information Commission (KIC), with more than half of them older than 2020. While the lockdown in 2020 has slowed down the clearance rate, the old problem of staff shortage and lack of accountability among the commissioners has been cited as the main reason for many cases pending for more than four years. As per the information obained under RTI by activist B H Veeresh, as many as 16,659 of the total 29,205 cases pending before the commission were appeals filed between 2015 and 2019. As many as 92 cases date back to 2015 while more than 350 are from 2016. An official in the commission said many of the information commissioners have a poor clearance rate. “An independent audit should be conducted to assess the competency of the commissioners. Some of them do not even turn up to work at the right time,” he said. To a question, Chief Information Commissioner N C Srinivasa said he has provided all facilities for conducting hearing in the middle of the pandemic. “We have adopted a hybrid model in all courts, which facilitates speedy clearance of cases by helping officials in remote places attend the hearing with a click rather than travel all the way to Bengaluru,” he said, and added that he could not comment on tardy clearance by commissioners. Veeresh said there were several loopholes in the system. “From appointment to preparation of cause list, there is no transparency and accountability. After an automatic system of case allotment was implemented, the commissioners pick and chose the case that goes to the cause list. Old cases and partly heard cases have been ignored,” he said. Srinivasa acknowledged the problem but noted that he is chief only in the administrative domain as all commissioners are equal when it comes to hearing. “It is true that providing information years later may defeat the purpose of filing an RTI application. It is left to discretion of each commissioner to clear the pending cases,” he added. He also said that lack of staffers has led to poor work flow in the KIC. “Of the 100 staffers, 96 are outsourced persons without the required qualification or skills. For example, a stenographer who takes the commissioner’s orders doesn’t know shorthand which leads to delay in issuing orders,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/30000-second-appeals-pending-before-information-commission-rti-reply-970350.html
04-04-2021||State||Covid-19 patient dies as ambulance runs out of oxygen||A 65-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid -19, reportedly died in a moving ambulance as it did not have oxygen on the way to the hospital in Davanagere. The woman, a resident of Vedavathy Nagar, Hiriyur town, was admitted to the district general hospital in Chitradurga after she was tested positive for Covid. She was referred to the hospital in Davangere for higher treatment. She died on her way to the hospital. Family members alleged that the ambulance driver demanded money to arrange an oxygen cylinder for the patient. They had given Rs 2000 to him. But the oxygen cylinder went empty after the vehicle moved for about ten km from Chitradurga city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-patient-dies-as-ambulance-runs-out-of-oxygen-970377.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Compulsory service not applicable to PG medicine students admitted before July 2015: Karnataka HC||The High Court of Karnataka has held that the provisions of compulsory training service will not be applicable to the postgraduate medical students admitted during the academic years 2016-17 and 2017-18. The court said that since the information about the compulsory service was made available only in 2018-19, the provisions are applicable to the students admitted from the 2018-19 academic. In a batch of petitions, postgraduate medical students from the academic years 2016-17, 2017-18 and postgraduate diploma students from the academic year 2018-19 had questioned the applicability of the provision. The Karnataka Compulsory Service Training by Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act, 2012 was gazetted on July 24, 2015, providing compulsory service by candidates who had completed medical courses, before award of degrees or postgraduatedegrees/diplomas. Several petitions were filed and an interim order of stay was also issued subject to result of the petitions. The petitions were disposed of in August 2019, upholding the provisions of the Act and the Rules. However, it was held that the provisions of the Act and the Rules were prospective in nature and therefore they do not apply to the students who had been admitted before July 24, 2015. The petitioners contended that none of the three brochures issued during the first National Entrance and Eligibility Test (NEET) held for the academic year 2017-18, contained the requirement of compulsory service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/compulsory-service-not-applicable-to-pg-medicine-students-admitted-before-july-2015-karnataka-hc-970036.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka up by six times in last two months: Sudhakar||Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said active Covid-19 cases in the state have increased by nearly six times in the last two months. He said ten districts in the country account for 50% of the total active cases. In this, Bengaluru Urban is also one. Five states account for 77% of the total active cases among which Karnataka is also one, he added. His statement came on a day when Karnataka continued to report more than 4,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday. The state reported 4,373 cases and 19 deaths. The bulk of this came from Bengaluru, yet again, which reported 3,002 cases and six deaths. Former HoD of Neurovirology at NIMHANS Dr V Ravi, also a State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee member and nodal officer for genetic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, on Saturday appealed to citizens: "Last year during the first wave, the number of cases that we reached in six to eight weeks, we have already reached this year in four weeks. This should tell you how widely the second wave is spreading." "Don't think of the restrictions that the government has imposed as an obstruction. This is for your good. The data we have received points to the fact that the infection is spreading faster in public spaces. This is the reason the government has imposed these restrictions," he said. "The government has opened up vaccination for everyone aged 45 years and above. Our safety is our responsibility. Get vaccinated," he added. Positivity rate The positivity rate for the day remained at 3.53% and the case fatality rate 0.43%. With 1,959 discharges the number of recoveries reached 9,61,359. The number of active cases has breached 36,000-mark with the state having 36,614 active carriers of the virus. The death toll has now breached 12,610 and the total positive cases 10,10,602. Those admitted in the ICU are 327 with 157 in Bengaluru. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, deaths were reported from Mysuru (six), Hassan (three), Kalaburagi (one), Mandya (two), and Tumakuru (one). As many as 1,23,830 samples were tested on Saturday taking the cumulative to 2,17,69,721. Till 3.30 pm on Saturday, 81,155 were vaccinated taking the total number of vaccinated to 41,73,573.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/active-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-up-by-six-times-in-last-two-months-sudhakar-970037.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Second Covid-19 surge in Karnataka could peak in April||The second surge in coronavirus cases in Karnataka could peak as early as mid-April if people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, said scientists from IISc who have been modelling the outbreak since last year.  The assertion comes from inputting data variables into a multi-dimensional, partial differential equation (PDE) model, details of which were published in the journal Nature Scientific Reports on March 24. Associate professor Shashikumar Ganesan, chairman of the Department of Computational and Data Sciences (CDS), who built the model together with assistant professor Deepak Subramani, also of CDS, said the prediction takes into account variables such as the severity of the infection, the age distribution in the population, duration and severity of the infection, vaccination levels, sero-prevalence at different locations and time. The model was updated to take into account the results of various sero-prevalence studies and considers a sero-prevalence factor of 20x while mapping the second surge. This factor is meant to match the 21.5% national sero-prevalence as established by the third nationwide sero-survey, which was conducted between December 17, 2020, and January 8, 2021. Accordingly, the model suggests the second wave could peak between April 10 and 30 in Karnataka. “But the caveat is that there needs to be rigorous social distancing and mask-wearing, on par with levels early during the pandemic at this time last year,” Ganesan said, adding that no specific lockdown is needed to achieve this rapid peaking.  “There are three specific factors which can be considered the equivalent of last year’s lockdown: ongoing vaccinations, existing sero-prevalence, and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour of physical distancing, masking, and avoiding crowds in closed, ill-ventilated areas,” he said. Dr Thrilok Chandra, Commissioner (health), noted that the state’s Technical Advisory Committee has not provided projections on when the surge will end. “However, it will end quickly if people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. The IISc team’s timeline is independently supported by another model developed at IIT Kanpur. Professor Manindra Agrawal, Head of the Department of Computer Science at IIT Kanpur, who helped develop a model called Sutra, told DH that the daily new infections are likely to peak pan-India around April 20, give orminus five days. “This is because of the speed of the surge, and speed of the infections is also resulting in a large number of people being immunised in a short time,” he said.  In the event people do not follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, the scientists mapped a worst-case scenario, which shows that another rise after the April peak will be observed from June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-covid-19-surge-in-karnataka-could-peak-in-april-970068.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sex CD scandal: SIT destroying evidence to make me accused, alleges woman||The woman allegedly involved in the CD scandal has accused the special investigating team (SIT) of "destroying the evidence" in an effort to turn her from victim to accused. In a letter to City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, the woman said police should quiz the accused without giving in to any pressure. "The accused BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi has not given my name in his complaint. Despite this, the SIT officials raided my paying guest (PG) accommodation and destroyed evidence. Through this, the SIT has acted under pressure from the government to make me an accused," the woman has said in the letter. The woman also questioned the manner of investigation, which focuses on the victim instead of the accused. "The SiT has inquired me regarding the case. I have given all the information. Medical examination, statement recording, panchanama at the PG and the apartment in Mantri Green, all this has been done. I am being investigated without a break. However, the accused has been allowed to move around freely after a mere three-hour inquiry. Looking at all this, I now have doubts whether I am the victim or the accused," the letter said. She said Jarkiholi had planned to besmirch her character and was bringing pressure on the government and the SIT. "The SIT has not quizzed him seriously as per my complaint," she said. The woman also raised objection to the government's move to appoint a special public prosecutor. "I object to this. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's statement that Jarkiholi will emerge out of the episode unscathed has me worried. Please look at my complaint as that of a victimised woman. Investigate the accused without giving in to any pressure," she said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sex-cd-scandal-sit-destroying-evidence-to-make-me-accused-alleges-woman-970260.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In a fresh U-turn, Karnataka now allows 50% capacity at gyms||In yet another U-turn on Covid-19 restrictions, the Karnataka state government on Sunday revised its order on the closure of gyms. According to a new order issued by the Chief Secretary P Ravikumar, gyms can now remain open provided occupancy at the facility does not exceed 50% of the capacity. The order came a day after the state government deferred the 50 per cent cap on seating in theatres till April 7, after representatives of the Karnataka film industry petitioned Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. On April 2, Karnataka had introduced fresh regulations to contain the spread of the Covid-19 virus during the second wave of the pandemic and had ordered gyms to be closed. "A number of representations were received by the Chief Minister to relax these restriction with certain conditions. It is now decided to modify this clause relating to gyms," the order said. Following the announcement of new regulations last week, gym owners had taken to social media criticising the government's decision, saying that it would pile woes on thousands employed at gymnasiums. Petitions were also submitted to elected representatives urging them to relax the regulations. They will be subject to conditions that occupancy at any time cannot exceed 50 per cent of the capacity, strict Covid-19 appropriate regulations such as wearing masks, physical distancing and sanitisers and mandatory sanitisation of equipment after every use. "If there is any violation, the gym shall be closed till the Covid pandemic is over," the order added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-a-fresh-u-turn-karnataka-now-allows-50-capacity-at-gyms-970281.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Affidavit filed in SC to increase reservation cap: Basavaraj Bommai||With many communities demanding reservation under various categories, the Karnataka government has filed an affidavit to increase the reservation cap in the state, State Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday. "The state government has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court to increase the reservation to more than 50 per cent to protect the interests of the backward classes," Bommai said at a function at the Sri Kaginele Mahasamsthana Kanaka Guru Peeth, here. According to him, there was a consensus in the Cabinet meeting in this regard and accordingly the affidavit was filed in the Supreme Court. "We are expecting a good decision from the Supreme Court," the Home Minister said. The minister said the state government was committed to increasing the reservation. Since various communities have applied for reservation, including the Halumath community demanding ST tag, reservation limit has to be increased above 50 per cent. Bommai also underlined that the Kuruba community wanted themselves to be categorised as Scheduled Tribe. In this regard, the government would undertake a study of genealogy. He, however, pointed out that increasing reservation was a challenge because it has to be legally tenable, it should be practical and within the framework of the constitution. To deal with the new challenge, a panel of experts, headed by a retired judge, has been formed so that no one should question this decision in future, the minister said. Speaking about the BJP government in Karnataka, Bommai said the government has been looking after all the communities and religions equally without any bias. He added that the Chief Minister has been extending every support to all the communities in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/affidavit-filed-in-sc-to-increase-reservation-cap-basavaraj-bommai-970292.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus very intelligent, attacks only at gym, theatre: ‘Duniya’ Vijay||Sandalwood cine star ‘Duniya’ Vijay said coronavirus seems to be very intelligent, as it contracts only those people who visit gyms and cinema halls and not those who attend political rallies and religious events. “There is no logic behind the state government’s decision in imposing 50% capacity at cinema halls. Since the cinema halls were allowed to operate at 100% capacity, two major movies were released and both of them went on to become blockbusters. And there has been no instance on record, which directs at the spread of Covid-19 cases from a movie hall. This being the case, why is the government imposing the ban?,” he said. Salaga, Vijay and ‘Daali’ Dhananjay starer movie, which is scheduled to hit the theatres in the coming days will be affected by the state government’s decision of 50% capacity at theatres. The government is treating as if all the Covid-19 cases increasing in Karnataka is due to ‘cinema people’, said Vijay and added that government should start treating Covid-19 just like small-pox, plague, cholera and others. “Covid-19 is going to stay with us for a long time. We, as humans have to take precautionary measures to survive from it. Restricting moviegoers for this is not feasible,” he said. Salaga producer K P Srikanth said shooting and post-production of the movie was completed a year ago. However, due to pandemic, the movie could not hit the screens. Now, the crew and cast of the movie have decided that it would not release the movie till the government reverts its decision and allow 100% occupancy at cinema halls. Hunger more deadly Dhananjay said the government should understand that hunger is killing more people than Coronavirus. “Thousands of families are depending on Sandalwood. Producers have invested huge money in movies. By restricting entry in cinema halls the government is pushing the industries, which is already in deep crises, into further troubles,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-very-intelligent-attacks-only-at-gym-theatre-duniya-vijay-970293.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka logs 4,553 infections, 15 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday logged 4,553 fresh coronavirus cases and 15 deaths, taking the caseload and toll to 10,15,155 and 12,625 respectively, the health department said. According to a department bulletin, so far 9,63,419 people were discharged cumulatively, including 2,060 today. There were 39,092 active cases which includes 331 in the ICU, the department added. Bengaluru urban district accounted for 2,787 fresh infections and eight deaths.The city has reported 4,47,031 infections and 4,649 deaths till date, while the active cases stood at 28,098. Mysuru reported 260 cases today, Kalaburagi 170, Bengaluru Rural 155, Bidar 147, Tumakuru 107, Hassan 104 and Dharwad 100. Cases were also reported in Ballari, Belagavi, Bagalkote, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Gadag, Kodagu, Kolar, Mandya, Raichur, Ramanagar, Shivamogga, Udupi, Yadgir and Uttara Kannada. Other than Bengaluru, three fatalities have been reported in Kalaburagi, two in Dharwad and one each in Hassan and Tumakuru. There were 1,18,933 tests done on Sunday including 1,19,881 using the RT PCR and other methods taking the total tests done so far to 2.19 crore, the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-logs-4553-infections-15-deaths-970306.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||VTU to offer PG course in 'Smart City Planning'||The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will introduce a post graduate course in Smart City Planning from the academic year 2021-22. Speaking at the VTU convocation here on Saturday, varsity vice chancellor Prof Karisiddappa said that a Centre of Excellence will also be started in Smart City Planning. The VC said that the varsity was entering into an agreement with various non-technological institutions and universities for providing education in multiple disciplines. He added that Intellectual Property Rights had been made a part of the BE curriculum now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vtu-to-offer-pg-course-in-smart-city-planning-970355.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka may not achieve 100% tap water connections||Karnataka may not be able to provide tap water connections to all the rural households (RHH) as envisioned under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), unless it addresses the larger issue of water scarcity. Officials in the RDPR department fear that they would hit a roadblock in at least five districts, including Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Tumakuru, Chikkaballapur and Kolar, where there are no river water sources to cater to about 20 lakh households.  Of the total 91.19 lakh rural households, the state government has been able to provide connections to 26 lakh rural households. While the Centre had given time until 2023 to achieve 100% connections, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had recently shot off a letter to Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat seeking time until 2024. However, even with an extension, the government may not be able to reach all the households.  “When it comes to certain drought-prone areas, we simply don’t have a solution as we don’t have rivers to bring water. Borewells have reached unsustainable levels. In rural areas, farmers also competitively drill borewells adding to the crisis,” an official in the Rural Development & Panchayat Raj department said, requesting anonymity.  The above five districts apart, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Chitradurga, Davangere and parts of Haveri will also be a challenge. “The Jal Jeevan Mission envisages provision of a minimum of 55 litres per capita per day of water. Wherever there are borewells, the maximum volume of water that can be supplied is up to 40 litres. Also, borewells aren’t a sustainable solution,” the official explained, adding that the department was right now looking at providing connections only in places where it could meet the 55 litres target.  These concerns come even as big-ticket drinking water projects such as the Yettinahole have failed to see completion. Speaking to DH, water conservation expert S Vishwanath felt that the state should focus on groundwater recharge. “The government should realise that groundwater will be the only source of water for many habitations. Surface water will not be easy to come. They have to identify the right aquifer, recharge it and protect it from irrigation. Lake development should be taken up. This lake will be recharge zone for open well or borewell. This should be used for Jal Jeevan Mission,” he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-may-not-achieve-100-tap-water-connections-970358.html
04-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 cases continue upward climb||Karnataka’s Covid-19 numbers continued to surge  as 28,143 cases were reported in just the last seven days, out of which 4,553 cases were disclosed on Sunday.  The active caseload in the state swelled to 39,092, but more alarming from a statistical viewpoint is that Bengaluru Urban saw 79.5 per cent jump in the last week. Over the last seven days from March 29 to April 4, the city had recorded 18,858 cases, which eclipses the previous week’s total of 10,501 cases. Before that, between March 12 and 21, the city had registered only 6,233 cases. In comparison, the statewide jump has been less pronounced at 37.5 per cent. On Sunday, Bengaluru’s total caseload was 2,787, which is the highest such number since October 25, 2020, when municipal officials had recorded 2,468 cases. The city accounts for the lion’s share of Covid-19 cases, averaging 64 per cent of all daily cases since the start of the second surge on March 12. Mysuru district reported the next highest number on Sunday with 260 cases followed by Kalaburagi district, Bengaluru Rural 155, and Bidar district saw 147 fresh cases. Bengaluru Rural’s increased numbers are a cause of concern. The last time this district had posted triple-digit numbers was on October 25, when it had registered 234 cases. The state also discharged 2,060 people on Sunday, out of which 1,225 were in Bengaluru Urban. Alarmingly, the number of Covid-19 deaths have risen. On Sunday, 15 new deaths were reported, out of which only one had occurred on Sunday. This involved a 61-year-old man who died at a private hospital in Hassan, six days after being diagnosed with the disease. Seven of the fatalities had taken place in the last week of March. Most of the fatalities took place days, if not weeks, after diagnosis. Among them was an 80-year-old woman who died at a private hospital in Bengaluru Urban on March 31, 13 days after being diagnosed with the disease. She had symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. Meanwhile, the number of ICU cases have also climbed sharply in Bengaluru Urban. Last Sunday, the city had only 79 people in the ICUs. This Sunday, however, the number of ICU cases had jumped by 100 per cent to 158. Statewide, numbers have jumped from 204 to 331.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-cases-continue-upward-climb-970368.html
04-04-2021||West||'Forces of darkness' at play in India, says Goa Archbishop on Covid-19 pandemic||Along with the Covid-19 pandemic, the world, as well as India, is plagued with "forces of darkness", Goa Archbishop said in his message to the people of Goa on the occasion of Easter eve. In his message, Ferrao also said that Jesus Christ's resurrection on Easter was symbolic of victory over the "forces of darkness". "Like last year, this year too we are celebrating Easter at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic continues to hold our world to ransom, with its trail of suffering, mourning and death. We also see forces of darkness at play in various parts of the world, including in our own country," Ferrao said. "We also see forces of darkness at play in various parts of the world, including in our own country. Let us intensify our prayer for the world as we continue to celebrate the victory of Christ over evil, hoping that we may be freed from the shackles that keep humanity enslaved to darkness," he also said. "Let us intensify our prayer for the world as we continue to celebrate the victory of Christ over evil, hoping that we may be freed from the shackles that keep humanity enslaved to darkness," the Archbishop further said. Catholics account for 26 per cent of the state's 1.5 million population. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari also greeted the people of Goa on the occasion of Easter. Sawant said that Christ's ideals of love, sacrifice, forgiveness, compassion and brotherhood needed to be embraced in life by everyone. “As we celebrate this very important occasion, let us try to practice, in our day-to-day life, these ideals which can make the world a better place to live in,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/forces-of-darkness-at-play-in-india-says-goa-archbishop-on-covid-19-pandemic-970069.html
04-04-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh brings home a 'Maha' crisis||When Shiv Sena spokesman Sanjay Raut termed Anil Deshmukh as an “accidental Home Minister” recently, it made headlines everywhere. It also rankled Deshmukh’s party, the NCP. There could be a grain of truth in Raut’s claim, for NCP supremo Sharad Pawar did have other choices: his nephew Ajit Pawar, state NCP president Jayant Patil, who had handled the portfolio in the aftermath of 26/11 attacks, and Dilip Walse-Patil, a former Speaker. The reason Deshmukh, 70, landed the coveted and crucial job, some say, is due to the fact that he is a Pawar loyalist. And being loyal does pay in politics. He is also very close to Pawar’s trouble-shooter and party general secretary, Praful Patel. But the good times seem to have ended for the suave five-term MLA from Vidarbha, who has an unconventional approach to things. Popularly known as Anil Babu, Deshmukh is currently facing the biggest challenge of his political career, a crisis that began near Mukesh Ambani’s house and eventually reached the home minister’s doorstep. Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that Deshmukh had set a “collection target” of Rs 100 crore per month for assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who was subsequently arrested in the SUV case and suspended. The sensational allegations have triggered a major political crisis for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, with the Modi government seizing the opportunity and parachuting the NIA into the state to probe the case. Add to it, a string of cases, including one in the Bombay High Court, in which Singh has demanded a CBI probe, and a high-level inquiry committee by Justice Kailash Chandiwal, a retired judge. He has also been accused of taking cash for police transfers and promotions, after Leader of Opposition and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, a fellow politician from Nagpur district and Vidarbha region, brought to light a top-secret report. With multiple crises, the home minister is under siege at the moment. Deshmukh hails from the village of Vad Vihira near Katol in Nagpur district, where he attended the Katol High school and, later, the College of Agriculture, Nagpur, receiving an M.Sc in Agriculture awarded by Dr. Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola. As a young man, he joined the Congress and became a member of Nagpur Zilla Parishad. This was an important moment for Deshmukh’s budding career. When he became the chairman of the ZP, he became known in Maharashtra’s political circles. The year 1995 was a critical year as he contested as an Independent and joined the Shiv Sena-BJP government. He became the Minister of State for School Education, Information and Public Relations, Sports & Youth Welfare. In 1999, when Pawar formed the NCP, he made a crucial move, joining the Maratha strongman and being an integral part of the Congress-NCP Democratic Front that ruled the state for 15 years till 2014. Deshmukh handled a wide range of portfolios: excise, food & drugs administration, (2001-2004), public works (public undertakings) (2004 to 2008), food, civil supplies and consumer protection (2009 -2014). In 2014, he lost the elections to nephew Ashish Deshmukh, who was then with BJP and now with the Congress, as the BJP stormed to power sweeping aside the Democratic Front government. But fortunes changed again in 2019, when the crafty Pawar stitched together the Maha Vikas Aghadi government with an unlikely alliance comprising the Congress, NCP, and the Shiv Sena. And Deshmukh was rewarded for his loyalty with the home minister’s post. He is one of those rare politicians who has served under six chief ministers – Manohar Joshi, Narayan Rane, Vilasrao Deshmukh, Sushilkumar Shinde, Ashok Chavan, Prithviraj Chavan and Uddhav Thackeray. Deshmukh is no stranger to being in the news and limelight. It was during his tenure as food and drugs minister that the Maharashtra government imposed a ban on gutka in 2002. Deshmukh oversaw the completion of the iconic Bandra-Worli sea link when he was the public works department minister. As home minister, he exposed and doggedly pursued the TRP manipulation scandal and ensured the arrest of TV journalist Arnab Goswami in the Anvay Naik suicide case. During the Covid-induced lockdown, which forced thousands to journey on foot, he gave the police a free hand and appeared on TV, asking cops to apply oil on their lathis and be ready. On the intervening night of the New Year, he sat in the Pune Police control room and answered calls. When the corruption allegations by Param Bir Singh surfaced, Pawar termed them “serious” but ruled out Deshmukh’s resignation. The NCP chief stood by his man in his hour of crisis. In his long political journey from Vidarbha to Mumbai, Deshmukh definitely made some smart choices. But whether the beleaguered minister will emerge unscathed from the current crises and have the last laugh (Deshmukh is said to have a great sense of humour) is something to be seen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-brings-home-a-maha-crisis-970074.html
04-04-2021||West||Amid second Covid-19 wave, hospital beds increased in Mumbai||As daily Covid-19 cases inch towards the 10,000-mark in Mumbai, the number of hospital beds in the city is being enhanced significantly – given the fact that the peak of the second wave is still away. The Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has launched massive efforts to augment bed strength in the financial capital. The twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban currently have over 62,000 active Covid-19 cases, with more than 80 per cent of patients asymptomatic. The DCH and DCHC – for serious and moderate patients and complicated cases – and Jumbo Field Hospitals have a total of 14,769 beds. The active CCC2 beds for mild and asymptomatic patients are now 23,806 beds. There are 1,800 ICU beds, 1131 ventilator beds and 9,180 oxygen beds. “We have operationalised additional 3,000 DCHC/DCH Covid beds in various hospitals in Mumbai in the last 7 days,” Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said. According to him, the BMC has also operationalised 30 CCC2 facilities for asymptomatic positive patients in the last 7 days with a capacity to accommodate 4,600 patients. Another 18,300 CCC2 beds are available in reserve with us, he said. “We appeal to our citizens not to wait for hospitalisation as per their choice of hospital, they should occupy beds wherever available for immediate treatment if they are symptomatic as the treatment protocol is similar everywhere and well established now,” he said. Chahal expressed concern that patients are becoming critical by waiting for "choice hospital". “Abundant beds are available in other hospitals,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-second-covid-19-wave-hospital-beds-increased-in-mumbai-970142.html
04-04-2021||West||Nearly 5,000 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 19 deaths||With the addition of 4,931 new cases of coronavirus, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra has reached 3,32,666, an official said on Sunday. Besides these new cases reported on Saturday, the virus also claimed the lives of 19 more people, pushing the death toll in the district to 6,544, he said. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the district stood at 1.97 per cent, he said. So far, 2,89,324 patients have recuperated from the infection in the district, which reflects a recovery rate of 86.97 per cent, he said. As of now, there are 36,798 active Covid-19 cases in Thane, the official said. In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count stood at 51,628 and the death toll at 1,235, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nearly-5000-new-covid-19-cases-in-thane-19-deaths-970143.html
04-04-2021||West||Maharashtra, Punjab report highest daily Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra and Punjab are the two worst-hit states in terms of their share in the total number of new cases and fatalities across the country in the last fortnight, according to official documents. The two states also top the charts among states or UTs that have crossed their ever-reported peaks for new cases and are followed by Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat in the top-five, shows a presentation made by the Union Health Ministry during the last review meeting held by the Cabinet Secretary with all states and union territories. The growth rate of the last seven days for daily new cases till March 23 in Maharashtra was 3.6 per cent and in Punjab, it was 3.2 per cent. Maharashtra has added 4,26,108 cases in the last two weeks as of March 31, while Punjab has added 35,754 cases in the same period. Of all deaths which happened during the two weeks period ending March 31, Maharashtra and Punjab together reported around 60 per cent of India's fatalities. According to the health ministry, 11 states -- Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Haryana have been categorised as "states of grave concern" on account of their high and rising daily case and higher daily deaths They have contributed 90 per cent of Covid cases, 90.5 per cent of deaths in 14 days till March 31, and have crossed or close to crossing their early reported peaks last year, it said. After a detailed and comprehensive review of measures taken by states and UTs, the Cabinet Secretary on April 2 reiterated the necessity of meticulous and hard work regarding stringent enforcement of containment and surveillance measures, in conjunction with ramping up vaccination and strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour.  The states were specifically asked to increase testing continuously to ensure that positivity comes down to 5 per cent or less than that, focus on ensuring RT-PCR tests comprise 70 per cent of total tests, reduce waiting time of test results with regular review with testing labs, use Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) as a screening test in densely populated areas and where fresh clusters are emerging and ensure that all symptomatic RAT negatives are mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR tests. They were also asked to ensure effective and prompt isolation of those infected in institutional facilities (Covid Care Centres) and that patient isolated at home are to be monitored daily.  Isolated infected persons should be transferred immediately to health facilities if required.  They were asked to ensure that 25 to 30 such close contacts are traced for each infected person.  "Tracing of close contacts and their isolation to be done in 72 hours. Subsequent testing and follow up of all close contacts to be carried out. Setting up of Containment Zones/ Micro Containment Zones to break the chain of transmission" was also stressed. States were also asked to examine Case Fatality Rate hospital-wise, devise an appropriate strategy and mitigate concerns regarding late admission in hospitals and non-adherence to National Clinical Management Protocol.  In order to minimize daily fatalities, the states were advised on the strengthening of public and private healthcare resources.  They were specifically asked to increase the number of isolation beds, oxygen beds, ventilators/ICU beds as per requirement, plan for adequate oxygen supply, strengthen ambulance service and reduce response time and refusal rate with regular monitoring by the local administration and ensure an adequate number of contractual staff and optimum rostering of duties. Use of Police Act, Disaster Management Act and other legal/administrative provisions for imposing penalties on defaulters was underscored for immediate compliance by states and UTs.   Besides, the use of local officials, political, cultural, sports, religious influencers to disseminate information proper wearing of masks and maintaining physical distance was also stressed.  They were asked to focus on markets, fair/melas, social and religious congregation that could become super spreader events while enhancing awareness that Covid appropriate behaviour is equally important as vaccination, and this needs to be followed even after vaccination. In order to saturate vaccination for priority age groups in districting reporting surge in daily Covid cases, the states and UTs were advised to make a time-bound plan of 100 per cent vaccination of eligible people and coordinate with the Union  Health Ministry to ensure adequate vaccine doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-punjab-report-highest-daily-covid-19-cases-970175.html
04-04-2021||West||Maharashtra likely to issue curbs as Covid-19 cases rise; Thackeray to hold cabinet meeting||With more than 4 lakh active Covid-19 patients, the Maharashtra government is all set to issue stringent norms or lockdown. At 3 pm, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will preside over an urgent Cabinet meeting that would be held over video-conferencing. On Friday, Thackeray had warned of a lockdown if people did not mend their ways and follow regulations. The state's daily Covid-19 infections are just a little below the 50,000 mark while the progressive total is set to cross the 30-lakh mark. Over the past two days, Thackeray held discussions with a cross-section of people. The government is expected to come out with new norms by the end of day or Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-likely-to-issue-curbs-as-covid-19-cases-rise-thackeray-to-hold-cabinet-meeting-970188.html
04-04-2021||West||Maharashtra CM meets film, TV producers amid Covid-19 surge||Film and television producers met Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday and offered full support for measures being taken to control the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. Interacting with Hindi and Marathi film and TV producers online, Thackeray sought suggestions and cooperation, a statement from the chief minister's office (CMO) said. On Saturday, the CM had interacted with drama producers, multiplex and single screen owners as well as gym owners to ascertain their views on the spike in Covid-19 cases. Nitin Datar, president of Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India told PTI he had suggested that, if the government so wished, he could speak to single screen owners, whose properties are closed due to the pandemic and various other reasons, to see if they can be used as Covid care centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-meets-film-tv-producers-amid-covid-19-surge-970221.html
04-04-2021||West||Maharashtra teen hangs self after mother switches off TV||A 19-year-old boy allegedly committed suicide after his mother switched off the television at home in Kej tehsil of Maharashtra's Beed district, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday morning in Vakilwadi area, an official said. The deceased, who studied at a local school, was watching television lying down after his online classes got over, he said. "His mother asked him to watch TV sitting properly and then proceeded to switch it off. Thereafter, he went to the bathroom and hanged himself. His mother and sister later found the body and informed the police," the official added. Kej police have registered a case and are probing further, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-teen-hangs-self-after-mother-switches-off-tv-970253.html
04-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra imposes weekend lockdown, night curfew||As Covid-19 cases compound in Maharashtra, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has put the state on partial lockdown on weekdays and total lockdown on weekends. Apprehending backlash by public and fractured political opinion, the tri-party alliance government on Sunday stayed away from a “total lockdown” and announced a slew of stringent measures to contain the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The new set of guidelines comes into force from Monday evening. The weekend lockdown will commence at 8 pm on Fridays and end at 7 am on Mondays — and only essential services would be allowed. Besides, on the rest of the five working days, from 8 pm to 7 am night curfew would remain in force in the state even as the government brought the entire state under the ambit of prohibitory orders during the full day. The public transportation system in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) including the suburban local trains will run as usual, however, crowds would be restricted.   The decisions were taken at a hurriedly-convened Cabinet meeting held through video-conferencing. On Friday, Thackeray had threatened to undertake a “complete lockdown”, however, over a series of consultations over the last two days, he decided to go in for a sort of mini-lockdown till April 30. Thackeray personally spoke to BJP stalwart and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and his estranged cousin and MNS president Raj Thackeray and sought support. There was also divergent opinion among the ruling allies – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – over a total lockdown. However, the political class was unanimous over a weekend lockdown and partial lockdown. The government decided to close cinema halls, multiplexes, auditoriums,  malls, restaurants and bars, video parlours, saloons, beauty parlours, spas, swimming pools, sports complexes and water parks. Home delivery and essential services will be allowed. Industrial operations and construction activity will be allowed. Rules to control crowding in vegetable markets will be introduced. The government offices would function with 50 per cent rotational capacity, while in private offices has been put on work from home to be promoted. Religious places would be closed to the public. There would not be any impact on the agriculture activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-imposes-weekend-lockdown-night-curfew-970270.html
04-04-2021||West||All you need to know about fresh Covid-19 curbs in Maharashtra||Here are all the measures: 1. Weekend lockdown to be implemented from 8 pm on Friday to 7 am on Monday. 2. Night curfew will continue and prohibitory orders issued under section 144 will be force during the day time on weekdays. 3. Shopping malls, bars, restaurants, small shops will be open only for take-aways and parcels. 4. Government offices will be allowed to function only at 50 per cent of their capacity. 5. Industries and production sector, vegetable markets will function with Standard Operating Procedures. 6. Construction sites will operate if there is a lodging facility for workers. 7. Theatres, drama theatres will be shut, while film and television shootings will continue if there is no crowding. Parks and playgrounds will also be closed. 9. Religious places will have to follow the SoPs. 10. Public transport system will remain functional. 11. Essential services have been exempted from the existing night curfew. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-you-need-to-know-about-fresh-covid-19-curbs-in-maharashtra-970284.html
04-04-2021||West||Covid-19 lockdown fine but Maharashtra govt should help the poor: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday appealed to the people in Maharashtra to follow the restrictions and the weekend lockdown announced by the state government to tackle the spread of Covid-19 cases. The Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly also said the government should focus on providing financial aid to the poor and the middle-class people following the restrictions. He said the state government had collected arrears to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore from the people for defaulting on the payment of electricity bills. "The government should stop this (collecting the arrears) now," the BJP leader told reporters. The state government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown in the state from 8 pm on Friday to 7 am on Monday. Apart from the weekend lockdown, strict restrictions will come into force from Monday 8 pm onwards under which shopping malls, bars, restaurants, small shops will be open only for take-aways and parcels. Government offices will be allowed to function only at 50 per cent of their capacity. "Lockdown or a partial lockdown is okay. We will support the government, but it should also focus on providing financial assistance to the poor and the middle class," Fadnavis said. Citing experts, Fadnavis said a new and more infectious strain of coronavirus affects the lungs of patients fast. "Awareness should be created about the nature of the precautions that need to be taken by the people because of the new strain of the virus. Why Maharashtra is the worst affected?" he asked. Talking about the "new strain", the former chief minister said that initially no symptoms are seen in the infected people, but then the infection spreads fast. Fadnavis also said the Centre had helped all states, including Maharashtra, in tackling the pandemic. "At the same time, the state government should stop blaming the Centre for its failures and stop playing politics on this issue," he said. Fadnavis said workers of the BJP will help the people in registration of vaccination. "When the chief minister calls us seeking our cooperation, we agree to it. But, at the same time, the government should stop playing politics and stop blaming the Centre for its failures," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-fine-but-maharashtra-govt-should-help-the-poor-fadnavis-970318.html
04-04-2021||West||Maharashtra records over 57,000 Covid-19 cases in fresh spike||The 24-hour Covid-19 infections went past the 57,000-mark on Sunday even as the Maharashtra government launched the ‘Break-the-Chain’ initiative by remodelling its ongoing ‘Mission Begin Again’ plans. The progressive total of the Covid-19 cases since the pandemic broke out in March 2020, too crossed the 30-lakh mark on Sunday. The ‘Chase-the-Virus’ and the 3Ts mission of ‘Testing, Tracking and Treating’ will be aggressively pursued. On Sunday, the state recorded 57,074 cases and 222 deaths taking the progressive total to 30,10,597 and 55,878, respectively. In Mumbai, a total of 11,206 cases and 25 deaths were reported while the same for the larger Mumbai metropolitan region was 19,942 and 45. The case fatality rate in the state was 1.86 per cent. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 4,30,503 – in what comes as a major burden on the state's health infrastructure. "The cases are compounding in the state, we have to break the chain and for this we need people's support," said state's public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope. The vaccination drive is being given a major thrust in the state - and so far 65,59,094 people have been administered the first dose and 7,95,150 people the second dose. On Friday and Saturday, the state reported over three and four lakh vaccinations, respectively, and the state plans to scale it to a level of 10 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-over-57000-covid-19-cases-in-fresh-spike-970341.html
04-04-2021||West||No oxygenated beds, Pune hospital sets up 'triage' for patients||In an indication that the healthcare system in Maharashtra might get overwhelmed in the coming days because of the huge rise in the Covid-19 cases, a civic-run hospital near Pune is forced to set up a 'triage' facility outside to provide oxygen support to patients as the available number of oxygenated beds remained occupied. Pune district reported a record 12,494 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 5,74,829, the third consecutive day when new case addition peaks were touched, according to an official. With the number of cases rising sharply in Pune district, there is a shortage of beds in hospitals. A senior official said the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) in Pimpri Chinchwad city reached the "threshold of available oxygenated beds" on Sunday, forcing authorities to set up a medical triage area outside the facility. "Out of the 432 beds available for Covid-19 patients at the hospital, 55 are ICU beds and the rest are oxygenated beds. As the hospital on Sunday reached the threshold of the number of the oxygenated beds available, and to provide immediate relief to patients, authorities have created a triage area outside the hospital where five beds are kept," said Dr Rajendra Wable, Dean, YCMH. In medical parlance, a triage area or a station is set up when hospitals sort out priorities to treat people according to their need for emergency medical attention to determine who gets care first. "Till the time, the paperwork is completed and the bed is made available to patients inside the YCMH hospital or any other Covid-19 facility, patients are being asked to remain in the triage area and oxygen support is provided as immediate relief," said Wable. He said there was nothing wrong with providing such support in triage areas. "Till 3.30 pm on Sunday, three patients were given the oxygen support at the triage area as they were waiting to get beds inside the facility or at any other hospital," Wable added. Meanwhile, the Pune Municipal Corporation's (PMC) dashboards showed that beds were not available in the civic and private hospitals under the category of the ICU beds with ventilator as on 8 PM on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-oxygenated-beds-pune-hospital-sets-up-triage-for-patients-970373.html
