05-04-2021||First Edit||Second wave, serious concern||The second wave of Coronavirus infections that is sweeping through the country is of deep concern. The number of daily new infections is not only surging but is also doing so at a faster pace than during the first wave. On Saturday, India registered 93,077 cases over a 24-hour period to return to the top slot in the world with regard to daily infections. It is now in a worse situation than the US (70,024) and Brazil (69,662). With a seven-day rolling average of 69,000, India stands second to Brazil and is likely to go past the latter as numbers there are falling now. The surge in the current wave is faster too. Consider this: it has taken just 20 days for the daily tally to rise from 20,000 to 80,000 during the second wave compared to the 64 days it took for a similar spurt in the first wave. Maharashtra continues to be the worst hit in the country with around 50,000 daily infections. The situation in around 11 states, including Karnataka, is grim. Karnataka’s total tally is poised to cross a million in a few days. It is not just the surging numbers during the second wave that are alarming. Experts say that a new ‘double mutant’ Covid variant, where two mutations come together in the same virus, and the UK Kent variant, could be fuelling the second wave. Scientists say that these variants infect human systems more easily and also re-infect people. Worryingly, this time around, children are falling prey to Covid-19 infections in larger numbers. Nearly 750 children under the age of 10 were infected in March in Bengaluru. Over 1,000 children in this age group were infected during March in the state. That children are getting increasingly prone to infections is evident from the fact that daily infections among them are rising. On Thursday, 77 children were infected by the Coronavirus. In all this, one silver lining is, the number of deaths due to Covid is still low in the second wave, unlike in the first. Although the threat posed by the virus and its variants is far greater during the second wave, people seem to be less bothered. Few are wearing masks in public places and almost every political leader is strutting around unmasked or with their mask dangling around the chin. What is the message they are sending? The government must strictly enforce masking and social distancing. Public gatherings whether at the Kumbh, election rallies, markets or in playfields, should be restricted. The government must lead from the front but we, the people, need to conduct ourselves with greater responsibility. Public laxity on masking and social distancing is fuelling the second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/second-wave-serious-concern-970433.html
05-04-2021||In Perspective||Free Trade Zones in Andaman a mindless proposal||In the islands of Little Andaman and Great Nicobar, two new Greenfield Coastal Cities will be built. The cities will be developed as Free Trade Zones to compete with global cities like Hong Kong, Singapore, and Dubai,” says a vision document from NITI Aayog, or the National Institution for Transforming India, a government think tank. “Zone 1 is the financial district and medi city along the eastern coast of the island, with the airport as the catalytic anchor. Zone 2 is the leisure zone located on the southern area of the island [and] would house tourism-attractive activities of entertainment and leisure such as casino strip, sports institutes, film city, water-based recreation etc, and Zone 3 is the nature zone located on the western coast of the island with an exclusive forest resort, nature healing district, and west bay nature retreat,” says the 58-page “Sustainable Development of Little Andaman Island Vision Document”. The three zones put together need a land area of 239 sq km, about 35% of Little Andaman’s total land. Out of the 95% forest cover on the island, about 450 sq km is protected under the Onge Tribal Conserve and 640 sq km is reserved under the Indian Forest Act 1927. The document proposes de-reserving 32% of the forest cover. However, there are certain factors, the vision document notes, that could prevent Little Andaman from becoming the new Singapore — factors that are “stopping us from developing these into veritable jewels for the country”.  These include lack of good connectivity with Indian mainland and global cities, a fragile biodiversity, natural ecosystems and certain Supreme Court notifications that pose an impediment to development. Another key factor is the “presence of indigenous tribes and concerns for their welfare”. The vision document was described by conservationists as the first bullet through the heart of the island. Concerns expressed on the ‘developmental’ projects in Little Andaman Island are that they will have a direct impact on biodiversity and result in cascading effects on the indigenous Onge tribe.  “If required, tribals can be relocated to other parts of island” that are “conserved and protected”, states the vision document. “We are very alarmed about this proposal and the appalling way it talks of stealing Onge land, and even relocating them, without any mention in the proposal that the Onge’s free, prior and informed consent must be obtained before their land is taken from them for this project,” said the London-based indigenous rights group Survival International. A disastrous move “This project of the government is totally going to be disastrous to the culture, society and the antiquity of the place. Because these are not tribes who settled down there 1,000 or 5,000 years ago – they have been living there for over 50,000 years. In fact, it is the civilisation of that old nature. This is a mindless act that India can do to dislocate them somewhere else,” said Anvita Abbi, professor and recipient of the 2015 Kenneth Hale Award and the Padma Shri, India’s fourth-highest civilian honour. The number of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG) of Andaman and Nicobar Islands is just 769 as per the latest census of 2011. The Onge tribe, one of four major ‘Negrito’ tribes in the Andaman Island group, now number only 110 persons, having dwindled to that since 1900.  The Onge, along with other Andaman tribes, are believed to have been part of the early out-of-Africa migrations around 50,000 years ago and are barely managing to survive as a viable group after waves of settlements. “Irrespective of the size of the island, what’s bothersome are the terms used for the proposed project — sustainable and holistic development. Anything that impacts nature irreversibly is not sustainable. Anything that impacts sustainability is not holistic. And when there is nothing holistic or sustainable, it cannot be called development,” says Coimbatore-based wildlife conservationist, Sanjay Molur. Molur was awarded Sanctuary Asia’s prestigious ‘Wildlife Service Award 2020’ for his pioneering work in the field of wildlife conservation for over a quarter of a century. It is particularly poignant to think: Will the PVTG, who lived through the 2004 tsunami, be able to survive the wave of the so-called sustainable development? (The writer is an alumnus of IIM, Ahmedabad and a retired corporate professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/free-trade-zones-in-andaman-a-mindless-proposal-970436.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Unable to pay bribe, farmer from Karnataka's Maddur seeks President's euthanasia nod||Unable to pay bribe, a farmer has written a letter to the President of India, seeking permission for euthanasia through tahsildar, in Maddur taluk of Mandya district. Siddaiah, son of late Yelmogaiah, is the farmer, who has sought permission for mercy killing. Siddaiah alleged that an official of the taluk office has been demanding bribe for the second time for a change in khata. He also handed over an audio CD of the official demanding bribe, to the tahsildar. Siddaiah said, “As per the deputy commissioner’s order, the khata in the name of my mother has to be changed to my name. But the official demanded Rs 80,000 to get the work done. Even after paying this, he again demanded Rs 20,000 bribe. The taluk and the district administration should provide me justice. Upset over the delay, I have requested permission for mercy killing,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unable-to-pay-bribe-farmer-from-karnatakas-maddur-seeks-presidents-euthanasia-nod-970402.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wild elephant spotted on Bengaluru-Mangaluru highway||A wild elephant was spotted on Bengaluru-Mangaluru national highway at Kempuhole Reserve Forest at Shiradi Ghat in the taluk on Saturday. However, the animal did not harm or damage any property. The wild elephant has been frequently spotted on the highway since last three months in search of food. A few passengers captured the movement of the animal passing through the road, on their mobile phones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wild-elephant-spotted-on-bengaluru-mangaluru-highway-970405.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar man arrested for illegally storing explosives||The Begur police conducted a raid and arrested a person for illegally storing explosive material at Gundlupet taluk in Chamarajanagar district on Sunday. The explosives have been recovered. Mahesh of Hirikati village in the taluk is the arrested. It is alleged that he hid the explosive material among dry wooden pieces near his house. Acting on a tip-off, the Begur police conducted a raid and seized 120 tubes, 80 gelatin sticks, salt, and three bundles of wire. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-man-arrested-for-illegally-storing-explosives-970406.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Information commissioner inspects Film City project site in Mysuru||Commissioner for Information and Public Relations P S Harsha directed the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) authorities to prepare an action plan to provide basic infrastructure to the proposed Film City project at Himmavu in Mysuru district. The commissioner inspected the land at Himmavu in Nanjangud taluk where the project is proposed. Nanjangud tahsildar Mohana Kumari said that the KIADB has handed over 110 acres land to the Information and Public Relations department. She also explained about the documents and shared other information on the Film City project. ‘Land suitable for project’ Saying that the land is suitable for the project, Harsha asked the tahsildar to explain the process in connection with the land transfer to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa during the meeting to be held in Bengaluru on April 7. The commissioner said it is a mega project and provided job opportunities to a minimum of 5,000 people, including technicians, artistes, and staff. The department has prepared the project in such a way to make the Film City another major attraction in the district, he said. A district-level implementation committee has to be constituted in connection with the construction and maintenance of the project. He directed the officials to provide him details after discussing with the peoples’ representatives, officials, deputy commissioners, and other concerned persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/information-commissioner-inspects-film-city-project-site-in-mysuru-970407.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||83 fresh Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada||A total of 83 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 35,998. With 61 discharges, the total number of discharges has increased to 34,614. The district currently has 642 active cases. MU suspends classes Meanwhile, as a precautionary measure, Mangalore University has suspended classes for its PG programmes on its campus in Mangalagangothri till April 9. Hostel wardens have been directed to ensure that students do not leave the facility. The head of the department and coordinators of all the PG departments have been asked to initiate measures to conduct online classes, according to a circular issued by MU Registrar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/83-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-970420.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Massive fire at Mangaluru garbage dumping yard||The fire and emergency services personnel, along with fire tenders from New Mangalore Port Trust) and MPRL (Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (NMPT) battled for over seven hours until 3.30 am on Monday to contain the massive blaze at the Mangaluru City Corporation’s (MCC) plastic dry waste baling unit in the dumping yard in Pacchanady. The fire that was noticed in the unit at around 8.30 pm soon spread engulfing the dry waste and storage units. Fire tenders succeeded in preventing the fire from spreading in the neighbourhood. The total loss is expected to run into lakhs as a major part of the shed and machinery were completely gutted in the fire. City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar told DH, “It is suspected that a short circuit caused the fire. But the investigation is on. Precautionary measures were taken immediately to check the spread of fire. There were 200 tonnes of dry waste at the unit when the fire broke out.” The unit was outsourced to a private firm and was run by Nature-Friendly Recycle Industries and Dry Waste Handling. Aris Mohammed of the private firm said they were segregating waste at the unit and segregated waste was taken to their plant in Baikampady for processing. The bailed plastic PET bottles were shipped to the Netherlands in the past. The yard receives an average of 330 tonnes of garbage (both wet and dry waste) per day from MCC, Ullal CMC, Mulki and Bantwal, he said. “A machine, worth Rs 65 lakh, was destroyed in the fire mishap along with other materials. A major mishap was averted as no labourers were at the spot, as Sunday is a holiday,” he said. Due to the massive fire, the residents in Pacchanady, Mangalanagara and Santhoshnagara were forced to endure foul odour. A haze of smoke enveloped the entire area, forcing residents to close all windows, doors and remain indoors. Due to a heavy breeze, the smoke quickly had spread to nearby areas. Every year, the fire at the landfill site of the dumping yard in Pacchanady during summer has been causing many inconveniences to people residing in the surrounding areas. According to residents whenever there is any fire at the landfill site, it causes a lot of problems to health including sneezing, burning of eyes and allergies. The residents of Kudupu, Bikarnakatte and Tiruvailu suffered allergies and had developed health problems due to the polluted air in the past.  It may be recalled that garbage sliding from the landfill site of Pacchanady in August 2019 had affected many families at Pacchanady and Mandara. Recently MCC had disbursed Rs 14 cr as interim compensation for 44 victims of the Pachhanady Garbage slide. MCC Mayor Premananda Shetty, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V, MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar had visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/massive-fire-at-mangaluru-garbage-dumping-yard-970425.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC plans to recruit 60 additional MPWs to create awareness about viral diseases||Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) is planning to recruit 60 additional multi-purpose workers (MPWs) to create awareness on the spread of malaria, dengue and other vector-borne diseases, along with expediting the work on issuing water bills to households and commercial establishments. At present 60 MPWs are working under the health section of the MCC and are engaged in creating awareness on the spread of malaria and dengue in all 60 wards. The council of the city corporation has approved the proposal to recruit additional MPWs on a outsource basis and has decided to write to the state government seeking permission to utilise the funds collected under health cess for paying the wages of the additional MPWs. Mayor Premananda Shetty said that corporators and the general public have been complaining about receiving the water bills once in three to four months. This is causing a lot of inconvenience to the public in paying the water bill promptly. Once the additional MPWs are recruited, then measures will be taken to issue the water bills regularly, he added. At present, the city corporation has been availing the services of existing 60 MPWs for the generation and distribution of the water bills. Hence, it was decided to recruit 60 more MPWs on an outsource basis to take various measures to prevent vector-borne diseases as well as to expedite the water-billing process. The service of MPWs plays a vital role when the number of malaria and dengue cases increase in the city during monsoon. The MPWs visit the houses to urge residents to destroy mosquito breeding sites. “We have been receiving complaints about the inordinate delay in the water supply billing process. Many people have not received bills for several months during the pandemic. Recruiting additional MPWs will not only help in disbursing water bills but also to check the spread of malaria and dengue in the MCC limits,” the Mayor added. The city corporation has no provision as per the Cadre and Recruitment Rules to appoint the MPWs directly. Presently, the city corporation is spending Rs 1.8 crore per year for the payment of 60 MPWs working in the health section of the MCC. Additional 60 MPWs will be appointed on a contract basis and their salary will be paid by utilising the health cess collected by the city corporation. Funds are being released from the state and central governments under the National Urban Health Mission for various health-related activities. A proposal to utilise the funds collected under health cess will be sent to the government for approval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-plans-to-recruit-60-additional-mpws-to-create-awareness-about-viral-diseases-970542.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Somashekar denies interference of BSY family in administration||District in-charge Minister c on Monday denied Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's family members interference in administration. Speaking to reporters, Somashekar said, the allegation against the CM's family members is far from the truth. He said there are ministers, MLAs, officials to look after the administration and it is not right to level unnecessary allegations against the CM family, particularly his son B Y Vijayendra. "Yediyurappa is a good worker and opposition party leaders are not appreciating him," the minister said, claiming that no one has interfered in his cooperative department and he has all the freedom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/somashekar-denies-interference-of-bsy-family-in-administration-970635.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sandalwood theft case accused nabbed after 20 years||Kamalapur police arrested an accused in the sandalwood tree theft case after 20 years. The arrested has been identified as Kashinath Bikku Jadhav, a resident of Bagali Tanda in Zaheerabad of Telangana. The police said a case was registered at Kamalapur police station in 2001 about the theft of a sandalwood tree at Antapanal area of the taluk. All but two accused in this case were arrested. Out of six, four who were out on bail have been acquitted in the court in 2010. Kashinath Bikku Jadhav and his brother Ganapati Bikku Jadhav were absconding. Now, Kashinath has been arrested and Ganapati died in 2015, they told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sandalwood-theft-case-accused-nabbed-after-20-years-970741.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Parents watch ‘Yuvarathnaa’ film with poster of their deceased son||Mysuru, DHNS: It was the most emotional moment for a couple, who watched the Kannada film ‘Yuvarathnaa’ along with the poster of the deceased son, who was a huge fan of actor Puneeth Rajkumar, at a theatre in Mysuru on Monday. Muralidhar and his wife, along with their another son watched the movie at DRC with the poster of their deceased son Harikrishnan. According to the family, Harikrishnan was a great fan of Puneeth Rajkumar. He had downloaded the songs of the film  ‘Yuvarathnaa’ and was practicing them even before the release of the film. He was eagerly awaiting for the release of the film. But, in an unfortunate incident, he drowned in Varuna canal on December 13, 2020.  “We purchased a movie ticket for Harikrishnan,” the parents said. Learning about the incident of the parents watching the film with poster of the deceased son, actor Puneeth Rajkumar has tweeted condoling the death of Harikrishnan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/parents-watch-yuvarathnaa-film-with-poster-of-their-deceased-son-970751.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Eshwarappa shouldn’t have written against CM: Mukhyamantri Chandru||Actor-cum -politician ‘Mukhyamantri’ Chandru said that it is not right on the part of the minister to write to the Governor against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. In a press conference here, Chandru said, “Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K S Eshwarappa should have approached the party high command in connection with the CM’s interference in RDPR department affairs. The CM should have suspended him from the cabinet.” Speaking about the obscene CD issue in which former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi is allegedly involved, Chandru said, “The CM is claiming that Jarkiholi will come out clean. The victim in the case has been claiming that she has no confidence in the investigation agency, Special Investigation Team (SIT). I suspect the role of the CM in connection with the case.” “Politics is contaminated since the 1970s. Selfishness, misery and irresponsibility have increased and political leaders have lost moral,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eshwarappa-shouldn-t-have-written-against-cm-mukhyamantri-chandru-970752.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Somashekar defends CM in connection with interference in RDPR dept||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar defended Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s inference in the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Department and said that the CM directly released funds following complaints by MLAs. Speaking to reporters here, Somashekar, also Cooperation Minister, said, "RDPR department has not released funds and thus, the MLAs raised the issue with the CM. The CM would not have interfered if the RDPR minister had responded positively." Somashekar denied the allegation that CM Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra was running the administration. “Neither the CM nor his son has interfered in my Cooperation department affairs. Congress MLAs level allegations against Vijayendra as he is involved in the party-strengthening activities in Mysuru region. Congress MLAs are threatened of their existence and are thus, making allegations,” he said. Replying to a query on the CD row, Somashekar said, in the session, the opposition party leaders failed to debate on issues related to the state. "But, they discussed the obscene CD in which MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi is allegedly involved. What happened to former minister H Y Meti sex scandal case? Which probe did the then Congress government conduct? Special Investigation Team (SIT) will conduct a thorough investigation in Ramesh Jarkiholi’s case,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/somashekar-defends-cm-in-connection-with-interference-in-rdpr-dept-970757.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vaccination is not linked to foodgrains, DC clarifies on rumours||Rumours that those, who do not get inoculated for Covid-19, will not get foodgrains at fair price shops is doing the rounds in Mandya. It is alleged that several messages are circulated on WhatsApp and Facebook that those who do not get inoculated will not get foodgrains in ration shops. The messages said, “Vaccination is being given to those above 45 years from April 1. There is a target to vaccinate 2,000 people, every day. Vaccinations are available at primary health centres in rural areas. As the rural people have not shown interest to get vaccinated, the Revenue and Health department personnel are threatening that they would not get foodgrains, if they do not get inoculated.” A person has claimed on his Facebook wall, that a gardener had taken half-a-day leave to get vaccinated. When sought the reason, he said that Asha workers threatened him that if he does not get vaccinated, they will not get foodgrains at the fair price shop. Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi said, “It is a rumour and not true. No one has the right to threaten people to get vaccinated. Instead, we are creating awareness among the people.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vaccination-is-not-linked-to-foodgrains-dc-clarifies-on-rumours-970759.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wildlife enthusiasts oppose fee hike for safari||The recent decision of the Forest department, to hike entry fee for safari and also for cameras, at Bandipur and Nagarahole Wildlife Sanctuaries in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, is opposed by nature and wild lovers alike. An online campaign is launched against the hike in fee. The revised fee is in force from April 1. Accordingly, wildlife enthusiasts at Nagarahole and Bandipur Tiger Reserve will have to cough up more for a safari, to de-stress amid nature. Nikhil, a wildlife enthusiast and amateur wildlife photographer, said, “The decision to hike the fee has disappointed many wildlife lovers and photographers. The Forest department has cited rise in fuel price for its decision. But, many students spend their pocket money to visit the safari to capture wild animals on their cameras. It will surely affect them badly.” The number of people on a safari is on the rise and video clippings of tigers, panthers and elephants chasing safari vehicles are uploaded on the social media, almost every day. This shows the increasing number of wildlife enthusiasts, interested in exploring nature. Hence, the hike in entry, safari and camera fee has drawn flak from netizens. Some of them have launched an online campaign, opposing this, and have posted memes on the social media. Moreover, Bandipur and Nagarahole are hot spots and attract hundreds of tourists from Bengaluru and surrounding places, who wish to spend their weekend amid wilderness. While, the earlier entry fee was Rs 250 and Rs 100 for safari at Bandipur. Both have been increased to Rs 300 each. The revised fee for foreign tourists will be Rs 1,000 (Rs 500 each for entry and safari). Similarly, fee for a camera with a zoom lens of 70 mm to 200 mm will be Rs 150 and Rs 750 for cameras with lens above 200 mm. Professional photography charges for above 200 mm lens, handy cams and video cameras will be Rs 1,500 per trip. Gypsy vehicle on rent for a safari will be Rs 3,500 and nine-seater canter will be Rs 7,000. The entry fee in Nagarahole is revised to Rs 600 fee; from Rs 500. The camera fee will be Rs 250 for lens up to 200 mm and Rs 750 for 200 mm and above. Speaking to DH, Bandipur Project Director S R Natesh said, “The fee is increased after a gap of four years and it is marginal. It was inevitable as fuel prices have increased and the expenses related to salaries, vehicle maintenance and fuel has to be met. There was a plan to revise the fee last year, but had to defer due to the Covid-19 crisis. Hence, it is implemented from April this year.” The fee has been hiked in all national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves in Karnataka, but the rates differ from one part to another, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wildlife-enthusiasts-oppose-fee-hike-for-safari-970761.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Two lakh doses of Covid vaccines for Mysuru’||The cases of Covid-19 are increasing and Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar has approved to provide one-lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine, but, another one lakh doses will be sent soon, said District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar. The minister informed about the vaccine after attending a meeting with the officials concerned, at the Zilla Panchayat Hall here, here, on Monday. “The state has received 15 lakh doses of vaccine and one lakh will be sent to Mysuru. I will discuss the issue with the chief secretary once I reach Bengaluru,” he said. “The district administration has a total of 8,000 doses and there is a need for a total of 15 lakh doses. Two lakh doses will be sent to Mysuru soon. The district administration and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) have taken all measures to contain the spread of the virus. The respective Health department officials have been directed to take measures to contain the spread,” he said. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, “The tourist spots will not be closed in Mysuru district, but strict measures will be taken. Covid-19 tests will be conducted at tourist places like Mysuru Zoo, Chamundi Hill and Mysuru Palace. Tourism was severely affected due to the Covid crisis and it took a long time, to resume. Thus, we have no plans to close them.” The Health department is focusing more on vaccination. Administering three lakh vaccinations in a fortnight in Mysuru city will be a big achievement. However, restriction on marriages, festivals and jatramahotsava will remain the same until further orders, she said. MLA L Nagendra, ZP president B C Parimala Shyam, vice-president Gowramma Somashekar, Mysuru Urban Development Authority Chairman H V Rajeev, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth, ZP Chief Executive Officer A M Yogeesh, Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute Dean and Director Dr Nanjaraj, District Surgeon Dr Rajeshwari and District Health Officer Dr T Amarnath were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-lakh-doses-of-covid-vaccines-for-mysuru-970762.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jaggery units suffer loss without industry status||Mandya is one of the largest producers of jaggery in Karnataka and the process is similar to any industry. But, due to lack of interest by the government, jaggery trading is on the brink of decline. An Aalemane requires vast space, equipment, labourers, water, electricity and others like any industry. But, Aalemanes were not considered as industries, that led to the current situation, causing huge loss to owners and also traders. If the government had considered it as cottage industry, the owners would have been eligible for subsidy and other benefits. With the governments over the decades neglecting this, Aalemanes in Mandya district have become abandoned buildings. Despite the hardships, Aalemane owners used to produce chemical-free jaggery, which was in great demand across India. As time passed, around 6,000 Aalemanes in the 1990s has come down to less than 1,000 now. With farmers not showing interest to run jaggery units, they were leased out to people from other states, which sounded the death knell to jaggery production, which was a brand of Mandya. Before 2006, Aalemanes were under industrial policy and subsidy was provided to the owners. But, after S M Krishna became chief minister, Aalemanes were dropped from the industrial policy, citing shortage of sugarcane for sugar factories. Later, a rule was enforced, that requires deputy commissioner’s permission to operate jaggery units. As the authorities hesitated to issue licenses, huge loss was incurred, said sugarcane crushing unit association president Somashankaregowda. Irregular power supply is one of the reasons for the loss. We had to run the units with diesel generators, which was expensive, said Nagesh, a unit owner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jaggery-units-suffer-loss-without-industry-status-970763.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Civic workers’ body seeks completion of Ambedkar Hall||Members of Safai Karmachari Kshemabhivrudhi Samithi (Civic Workers’ Welfare Committee) demanded that the works of the much-delayed Ambedkar Community Hall in Mysuru be handed over to them, for completion. Addressing a media conference here, recently , president of the women’s wing of the committee Uma Dravidan urged the government to complete the works on a war-footing, as it is already very much delayed. “The foundation stone for the huge auditorium, under construction at the junction of Dewan’s Road and Krishna Vilas Road in Devaraja Mohalla, was laid on May 4, 2012, at an estimated cost of Rs 14.6 crore. The works under the first phase are over and a proposal for the second phase, at an estimated cost of Rs 20.6 crore, is submitted to the government. However, the government nod is still awaited, raising suspicion on its completion,” she said. “The government has been releasing funds for other works generously. But, why this kind of neglect for Ambedkar Bhavan? If the BJP government has basic self-respect, it should release funds immediately and complete the works,” she said. “If the neglect and step-motherly attitude of the government continues, we will take to the streets and stage a protest demonstrations. If the government has no money, let it delegate the work to us. We will collect donations and complete the works, with the public support,” Uma said. Committee honorary president M Nagaraju, president Shankar, vice-president Manjunath, general secretary Kishore Kumar and organising secretary Venkataramu were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/civic-workers-body-seeks-completion-of-ambedkar-hall-970764.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ramesh Jarkiholi tested Covid-19 positive, informs Basavaraj||Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj informed that former minister and BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi has tested Covid-19 positive and would join the campaign for the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency for party candidate Mangala Angadi after recovering from the virus. He is currently undergoing treatment at Gokak taluk hospital, a doctor treating him said on Monday. "On Thursday night, he had complained of fever and cough, on conducting rapid (antigen) test the result came out to be positive, as he had no other issues, he was advised home isolation," Dr Ravindra of the Gokak taluk hospital said. Speaking to reporters, the doctor said, last night at about 10.30 he complained of breathing issues, so he was admitted and is undergoing treatment for COVID. "Sugar and BP are bit high, but he is stable...he (Jarkiholi) is currently in ICU, depending on the situation we will decide...also two of his contacts have tested positive," he said, adding that the Gokak MLA had a travel history of Maharashtra and Bengaluru where there are a high number of cases. Basavaraj told reporters here on Monday that Ramesh Jarkiholi was in Bengaluru. Arabhavi MLA and KMF Chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi would join the campaign in the next couple of days. "We have held talks with Ramesh Jarkiholi pertaining to the by-election campaign and not on other issues," he said. BJP leaders and himself have been campaigning in the constituency as instructed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. "We are optimistic of the success of candidate Mangala Angadi in the by-election based on the works of Suresh Angadi. BJP government has released Rs 150 crore for the development of Belagavi city", he said. Basavaraj said that BJP was optimistic about the success of its candidates in the by-election of Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency and assembly constituencies of Basavkalyan and Maski. Talks have been held with leaders of different communities and hope to get their support for party candidates. Regarding Leaders of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah demanding presidents rule in the state due to a letter by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa against Chief Minister Yediyurappa, he said, the former chief minister should look into the affairs of his own party. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief minister has implemented pro-people programmes.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ramesh-jarkiholi-tested-covid-19-positive-informs-basavaraj-970536.html
05-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||‘Disgruntled’ Congress leader Lakhan Jarkiholi to campaign for BJP||Lakhan, the youngest of five Jarkiholi brothers on Monday assured the BJP leaders, who called on the disgruntled Congress leader at his residence here to persuade him to join the saffron party, of campaigning for Mangala Angadi, the the party candidate from Belgaum Lok Sabha bypoll. Speaking to reporters at his residence in Gokak, Lakhan Jarkiholi said, “The Congress party is grappling with factionalism and infighting. One man has hijacked the party. There are four high commands in state Congress. I am pained by the recent developments.” "Senior leaders of the BJP have urged me to join the party. I will soon take an appropriate decision after consulting my borthers Ramesh and Balachandra. Following the request by the BJP leaders, I have decided to extend my support to Mangala Angadi," Lakhan, who had unsuccessfully contested on a Congress ticket against his brother Ramesh in the 2018 Assembly polls, said. Earlier in the day, ministers Jagadish Shettar, Umesh Katti, Byrati Basavaraj, MPs Eranna Kadadi and Annasaheb Jolle among others visited Lakhan at his house to persuade him to join the BJP. A while later BJP candidate Mangala Angadi, her daughter Shraddha among others called on Lakhan at his house seeking support for the April 17 bypoll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/disgruntled-congress-leader-lakhan-jarkiholi-to-campaign-for-bjp-970748.html
05-04-2021||Main Article||Ensure transparent probe||Finally, on January 16, India started its vaccination against Covid-19 with two indigenously produced vaccines under `Emergency Use Authorisation’. It targeted the health staff and frontline workers followed by elderly citizens. With a slow start of 1.9 lakh doses per day for a month and then briskly shooting up to 14.1 lakh doses per day by March 15, we have now administered 7.48 crore doses as on April 3. As per the Cowin website data, only 8% of total doses administered have been Covaxin and the rest Covishield.  An exercise of this magnitude must have utmost safety checks apart from operational efficiency. People rely on a responsible and responsive government to safeguard them against any vaccine-induced harm including an unfortunate death. That is why, scientific community has established safety norms and mechanisms for monitoring adverse events while introducing new vaccines. Pharmaceutical industry in the past responded to evidence generated on potential harm including death due to new drugs or vaccines by re-modelling the product to a better one and if still not successful, discarded it for a newer product. When the government purchases a vaccine and uses it for the public, it should also ensure the vaccine’s efficacy and safety. Any lapse in safety or efficacy must be quickly acknowledged and corrected. There should be no denial of truth or delay in action on the reports of adverse events, especially death. The manufacturer is responsible and liable for the damage. If there is denial and refusal to share the details or action taken to prevent further harm, people will doubt connivance of government with the manufacturer. Surprisingly in India till now, although more than 70 deaths have taken place following vaccination, no case of serious adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) including death has been attributed to Covid vaccine. “No link to vaccination” is the repeated quick response even before the systematic investigation as per WHO-AEFI protocol. This hurried declaration of a verdict -"Not related to Vaccination" - without even completing an autopsy and a histopathological examination to establish diffused thromboembolic phenomena and infarcts of heart, lungs, and brain, is our main concern.   Dr N K Arora, Advisor, National AEFI Committee, and member of Covid National Task Force, said that “in 38 out of 71 post-mortem reports received so far, a causal link to vaccine has been not been established. All the events so far are coincidental.”  What type of post-mortem did they conduct? Was there any histopathological examination done apart from examining gross anatomical changes of organs like heart, brain and lungs? Only histopathological examination can establish the diffused thromboembolic phenomena and multiple infarcts of the heart, lungs, and brain. It also differentiates a suddenly developing diffused thromboembolic phenomena as seen in Sepsis and immune reaction like in Covid either virus or vaccine-induced spike protein stimulated from a slow evolving thrombus of myocardial infarction. Media reports indicate that many deaths post-vaccination (Covishield) occurred due to cardiac arrest, cerebral venous thrombosis and stroke. Deaths in Germany and Norway were due to clots or thrombus formation after Covishield vaccination. Ireland, Denmark, Iceland and Italy etc suspended vaccination. Autopsy findings with histopathological examination must be made mandatory to confirm or revise the clinical diagnosis in post-vaccination deaths. Our issue is whether vaccine-induced pathological changes have occurred in the body or not. That can be established only through inspection of gross anatomical and histopathological changes in the internal organs. Verbal autopsy Verbal autopsy is not at all a satisfactory alternative for post-mortem. Like in maternal or infant death audit, it can only throw light on the socio-economic and logistic problems leading to or aggravating the medical cause of death. At the maximum, it can put on record the version from immediate family members (either s/he was perfectly healthy before vaccination or s/he had an underlying cardiac disease or haematological disorder). Local-level authorities are often eager to project that everything has gone well under their watch rather than investigate and understand the real causality. Sometimes, even the protocols are flouted.  Post-mortems can be badly conducted by inexperienced junior doctors, especially if there is interest or pressure to quickly dispose of the matter. It must be at medical colleges or major hospitals where a pathologist and police surgeon or forensic expert are available. In a controversial death after vaccination, getting post-mortem organised must be made the responsibility of district administration and chief medical officer.  Another hurdle in getting to the truth is refusal of permission for autopsy by the family members, which is understandable. If they take an informed decision against it, we cannot force an autopsy. It is the duty of the vaccination officials to convince them that both the family and society stand to gain to know whether the vaccine has caused the death. It is also required for a claim of higher financial compensation from the government or insurance. There are gaps in AEFI investigations at the local level affecting the quality of evidence submitted to State and National AEFI Committees which depend on these findings for making causality assessments. If the causality assessment report is made public, any lapses in the process by the various AEFI committees can be pointed out by alert and competent citizens. Whether the WHO guidelines for investigation of AEFI occurring as cluster have been strictly followed or not must be made public to allay fears. If no diagnosable specific cause is found, the death must provisionally be attributed to the vaccine. The government must ensure prompt, complete, time-bound and transparent investigation of all deaths and other serious adverse events following vaccination. Make these findings on few deaths versus the benefit of protection from lakhs of Covid deaths public. Let the person standing in the queue for vaccination decide. (The writer is a paediatrician and public health consultant based in Kochi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/ensure-transparent-probe-970435.html
05-04-2021||National||France condoles death of security personnel in Chhattisgarh||France on Sunday condoled the death of 22 security personnel in a gunbattle with Naxals in the jungles of Chhattisgarh. "Heartfelt condolences for the losses suffered by the security personnel in #Chhattisgarh. Our thoughts go out to the families of the victims and to the injured, for whom we wish a speedy recovery," French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain said on Twitter. "France stands with India in the fight against terrorism in all its forms," he said. According to officials, a group of around 400 Maoists, armed with light machine-guns (LMGs), ambushed security forces, killing at least 22 personnel and injuring 30 others in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts of Chhattisgarh on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/france-condoles-death-of-security-personnel-in-chhattisgarh-970446.html
05-04-2021||National||India, UAE, Israel trilateral trade could reach $110 billion by 2030, says top diplomat||Tapping into the mutual strengths of India, Israel and the UAE could propel the trilateral trade between the countries to a high of $110 billion by 2030, top diplomats and members of the business community have said. The comments were made at an event organised by the International Federation of Indo-Israel Chambers of Commerce (IFIICC) on Sunday to discuss the ongoing business collaborations being pursued through IFIICC's leadership across sectors. “The international business potential backed by Israeli innovation, UAE’s visionary leadership and strategic partnership of both nations with India could be $110 billion by 2030,” Ambassador Ilan Sztulman Starosta, Head of the Israeli mission in Dubai, said in a press release issued by IFIICC. Echoing similar sentiments, Ambassador of the UAE to India and Founding Patron of IFIICC, Dr Ahmed Abdul Rahman AlBanna, said that ”UAE and India's bilateral trade is projected to grow from $60 billion in 2020 to $100 billion by 2030. UAE is a gateway to the world and this trilateral with India and Israel could benefit the world”. Dr Aman Puri, Consul General of India to Dubai, said, ”the Indian business community in the UAE could significantly leverage the strengths of this trilateral to boost economic growth of all nations”. Ran Tuttnauer, Honorary President of IFIICC in Israel and Chairman of Israeli Manufacturers Council at Manufacturers Association of Israel (MAI) participated in the event virtually from Tel Aviv. Tuttnauer stressed that “International business through the UAE in collaboration with India using Israeli Innovation will be the future”. IFIICC was launched on December 14 last year and is looking to set up offices globally, drawing the support of the Indian diaspora, the largest in the world. “Innovation and collaboration can help usher in a new, post-pandemic era of sustainable economic growth,” Merzi Sodawaterwala, Founder and Chairperson of IFIICC, said. Kamal Vachani, Honorary President of IFIICC for the UAE and Group Director & Partner of Al Maya Group, noted that “the innovation and economic prospects of this trilateral are endless”. The European business school (ESCP) in a seminar organised recently also highlighted the global potential of trilateral ties between Israel, the UAE and India. The seminar held last month was organised in cooperation with SPJIMR. Established in 1819, the ESCP Business School (École Supérieure de Commerce de Paris) is considered to be the world's first business school. The post-Abraham accords phase normalising Israel's ties with some of the Arab countries has generated a lot of interest in this trilateral partnership with several events organised by various organisations, including leading banks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uae-israel-trilateral-trade-could-reach-110-billion-by-2030-says-top-diplomat-970462.html
05-04-2021||National||Chhattisgarh: Shah to meet injured jawans, go to Naxal attack site||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will visit the site where Naxals attacked security personnel at Sukma-Bijapur border in Chhattisgarh on Monday. He will later meet injured jawans at hospital. Shah on Sunday evening chaired a high-level meeting on the Chhattisgarh Maoist attack in which at least 22 security personnel were killed, soon after he returned from Assam where he was conducting the election campaign. Around 2,000 security personnel had launched a joint anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests on Friday night. Out of the total 22 fatalities, eight were from CRPF — seven from CoBRA unit and another from the Bastariya battalion. Sources said around 400 Maoists had ambushed the security personnel. Most wanted Maoist commander and leader of the self-styled 'People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) battalion no 1' -- Hidma -- and his associate Sujatha are suspected to be behind the attack. Maoists used light machine guns (LMGs) and low-intensity improvised explosive devices (IEDs) to target the personnel. Sources said Maoists carried around a dozen of their dead operatives on tractor trolleys. Maoists are said to have encircled the security personnel from three sides and a heavy gun battle ensued in the jungle which are devoid of any foliage at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-shah-to-meet-injured-jawans-go-to-naxal-attack-site-970502.html
05-04-2021||National||India sees highest-ever rise in single-day Covid-19 cases||India's coronavirus tally crossed 1.25 crore with 1,03,558 cases in the last 24 hours on Monday — the highest single-day rise ever in the country — according to Union health ministry data. The single-day rise in cases surpassed the earlier peak of 97,894 infections reported on September 17, last year, making it the highest so far. However, the country had not breached the 1-lakh mark for new cases until now. According to data, India is only the second country after the United States to record a single-day spike of over one lakh. The death toll climbed to 1,65,101 on Monday with 478 new fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 26th straight day, the number of active cases surged to 7,41,830, accounting for 5.54 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 93.14 per cent, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease increased to 1,16,82,136. Last year, it took 76 days for the single-day rise in coronavirus cases in India to reach the then peak of 97,894 from 20,000. However, this time the daily rise in cases has galloped at a much faster pace taking just 25 days (March 10 to April 4) to cross the grim milestone of one-lakh infections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting on Sunday to review the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination programme amid the "alarming rate of growth" in infections and deaths, with 10 states contributing to more than 91 per cent of them. According to the ICMR, 24,90,19,657 samples have been tested up to April 4 with  8,93,749 samples being tested on Sunday. The 478 new fatalities include 222 from Maharashtra, 51 from Punjab, 36 from Chhattisgarh, 31 from Uttar Pradesh, 15 from Karnataka, 14 each from Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, 11 from Madhya Pradesh and 10 each from Himachal Pradesh and Kerala. A total of 1,65,101 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 55,878 from Maharashtra, 12,778 from Tamil Nadu, 12,625 from Karnataka, 11,081 from Delhi, 10,344 from West Bengal, 8,881 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,239 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,083 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-highest-ever-rise-in-single-day-covid-19-cases-970503.html
05-04-2021||National||PM Modi's 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' to be held on April 7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that his annual interaction with students ''Pariksha Pe Charcha'' will be held on April 7 in a new virtual format. "A new format, several interesting questions on a wide range of subjects and a memorable discussion with our brave #ExamWarriors, parents and teachers. Watch 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' at 7 PM on 7th April," the prime minister tweeted. Along with his tweet, he also tagged a video on the event in which highlights of this year's 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' are elaborated upon. "We have been living under the shadow of coronavirus for the last one year and because of that I have to forego the charm of meeting you in person and have to be with you in a new format -- the first virtual edition of 'Pariksha Pe Charcha'," Modi says in the video. He also urges students to look upon exams as an opportunity and not as an end of life's dreams.  A voice-over in the video says that the prime minister will speak with children as a friend and also interact with teachers and parents during the virtual event. Modi also talks about the pressure of what people and parents will say which sometimes becomes a burden. In the video, the prime minister also says that this is 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' but is not confined to just a discussion on 'Pariksha' or exams. In February, it was announced that Prime Minister Modi's annual interaction with students will be held online this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The first edition of the prime minister's interaction programme with school and college students ''Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0'' was held at the Talkatora Stadium on February 16, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-pariksha-pe-charcha-to-be-held-on-april-7-970517.html
05-04-2021||National||Chhattisgarh anti-naxal operation was poorly designed: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged that the operation against naxals in Chhattisgarh, in which 22 security personnel were killed, was "incompetently" executed and "poorly designed". "Our jawans are not cannon fodder to be martyred at will," Gandhi said on Twitter and demanded that each Indian jawan be given body armour for protection. If there was no intelligence failure then a 1:1 death ratio means it was a poorly designed and incompetently executed operation. Out of the 22 fatalities in the Saturday naxal attack in the state, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight men, including seven CoBRA commandos, while one jawan is from the Bastariya battalion, eight from the DRG and five from the Special Task Force. "No Indian jawan should face an enemy without body armour in the 21st century. It needs to be made available to every soldier," the Congress leader said. Citing a media report quoting CRPF Director General Kuldeep Singh as saying there was no intelligence failure in the operation and an equal number of ultras were killed, Gandhi said, "If there was no intelligence failure then a 1:1 death ratio means it was a poorly designed and incompetently executed operation." Officials on Sunday had said that 30 security personnel were also injured in the ambush by naxals. The security personnel were ambushed by naxals when they were out on a combing operation in a forest along the border of the Bijapur and Sukma districts of the state. Director General Singh had acknowledged that his personnel were "surprised and ambushed" during the attack on Saturday that lasted several hours. Other officials in the know of the developments said the forces may have been waylaid by the naxals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-anti-naxal-operation-was-poorly-designed-rahul-gandhi-970533.html
05-04-2021||National||Supreme Court to hear 1994 ISRO espionage case matter next week||The Supreme Court Monday said it would hear next week the 1994 espionage case relating to ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan in which a high-level probe panel appointed in 2018 has recently filed its report. The apex court had on September 14, 2018 appointed the three-member panel, headed by its former judge Justice (retd) D K Jain, while directing the Kerala government to cough up Rs 50 lakh compensation for compelling Narayanan to undergo "immense humiliation". It had ordered setting up of the committee to take appropriate steps against the erring officials for causing "tremendous harassment" and "immeasurable anguish" to Narayanan and had directed the Centre and state government to nominate one officer each in the panel. The matter was mentioned for urgent listing before a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, that a report has been filed and it is a “national issue”. The bench said it understands that it is an important matter but “not a very urgent matter”. “We will take it up next week,” the bench said. Terming the police action against the ex-scientist of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) as a "psycho-pathological treatment", the apex court had in September 2018 said that his "liberty and dignity", basic to his human rights, were jeopardised as he was taken into custody and, eventually, despite all the glory of the past, was compelled to face "cynical abhorrence". The espionage case, which had hit the headlines in 1994, pertained to allegations of transfer of certain confidential documents on India's space programme to foreign countries by two scientists and four others, including two Maldivian women The scientist was arrested when the Congress was heading the government in Kerala. The 3-member investigation panel submitted its report in a sealed cover to the apex court recently. The CBI, in its probe, had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan's illegal arrest. The case also had its political fallout, with a section in the Congress targeting the then Chief Minister late K Karunakaran over the issue, that eventually led to his resignation. Over a period of almost two-and-a-half years, the panel headed by Justice Jain examined the circumstances leading to the arrest. The 79-year-old former scientist, who was given a clean chit by the CBI, had earlier said that the Kerala police had "fabricated" the case and the technology he was accused to have stolen and sold in the 1994 case did not even exist at that time. Narayanan had approached the apex court against a Kerala High Court judgement that said no action needed to be taken against former DGP Siby Mathews, who was then heading the SIT probe team, and two retired superintendents of police K K Joshua and S Vijayan, who were later held responsible by the CBI for the scientist's illegal arrest. "There can be no scintilla of doubt that the appellant, a successful scientist having national reputation, has been compelled to undergo immense humiliation. The lackadaisical attitude of the state police to arrest anyone and put him in police custody has made the appellant to suffer the ignominy,” the apex court had said in its September 2018 order. "The dignity of a person gets shocked when psycho-pathological treatment is meted out to him. A human being cries for justice when he feels that the insensible act has crucified his self-respect," the top court had said. It had accepted Narayanan's plea that the authorities, who were responsible for causing such a "harrowing effect" on his mind, should face "legal consequences". The CBI, while giving clean chit to the scientist, had said that Siby Mathews had left "the entire investigation to IB surrendering his duties" and ordered indiscriminate arrest of the scientist and others without adequate evidence being on record. The case had caught attention in October 1994, when Maldivian national Rasheeda was arrested in Thiruvananthapuram for allegedly obtaining secret drawings of ISRO rocket engines to sell to Pakistan. Narayanan, the then director of the cryogenic project at ISRO, was arrested along with the then ISRO Deputy Director D Sasikumaran, and Fousiya Hasan, a Maldivian friend of Rasheeda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-1994-isro-espionage-case-matter-next-week-970552.html
05-04-2021||National||Supreme Court appoints two judges to conduct trials in coal scam cases||The Supreme Court on Monday appointed Arun Bhardwaj and Sanjay Bansal as special judges to try 41 Coal block allocation scam cases here. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian passed an order in this regard on the basis of a letter received from the Registrar General of the Delhi High Court. Special judge Bharat Parashar who presided over the court to try coal scam cases, has already completed six years on the post since his appointment on August 19, 2014. Last month, the top court has asked the Chief Justice, Delhi High Court to send names of five judges high calibre and absolute integrity to suggest an appropriate replacement for judge Parashar. It had on March 15 said, "We find that Bharat Parashar who has acted as a Special Judge (PC Act), (CBI)-07, Patiala House Court, New Delhi, needs to be replaced, as he has now completed more than 6 years in the same post after having been posted as Special Judge in the above-mentioned court since 19.08.2014." "We accordingly request the Chief Justice, Delhi High Court to give us a panel of names of about five judges of a high caliber and absolute integrity to enable us to suggest an appropriate replacement for Bharat Parashar, Special Judge," the bench had said. The bench took note of the submission of special public prosecutor Cheema that the law contemplates the disposal of such cases has to be ensured in two years which may be extended up to four times by a period of six months each. It had taken note of the fact that Parashar has been acting as the special judge since 2014 and his replacement is now needed and fixed the case after two weeks to consider the names to be provided by the Chief Justice of the High Court. The top court in 2014 had quashed 214 coal blocks allocated by the Centre between 1993 and 2010 after taking note of PILs, including one filed by lawyer M L Sharma, and had ordered trial by a special CBI Judge. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-appoints-two-judges-to-conduct-trials-in-coal-scam-cases-970556.html
05-04-2021||National||Many states, Union territories close schools or suspend classes following fresh Covid-19 surge||Several states and union territories, including Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi, have announced closure of schools or suspended classes briefly till the Covid-19 situation is further reviewed in the wake of rising cases across the country. Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the outbreak of the pandemic with over one lakh new infections pushing the nationwide tally to 1,25,89,067, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. While a few states and union territories like Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu have announced closure of schools for an indefinite period, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Punjab, among others, have suspended classes for a brief period. Schools have been directed to impart education through online classes in view of the situation. In a presentation made by the ministry during the last review meeting of the cabinet secretary with states and union territories, it said Maharashtra and Punjab are the two worst-hit states in terms of their share in the total number of new cases and fatalities in the country in the last two weeks as on March 31. The Delhi government had last week announced that no student will be called to school in the new academic session till further orders. On Sunday, the national capital had recorded 4,033 coronavirus cases, the highest daily count this year, while the positivity rate rose to 4.64 per cent from 4.48 per cent a day ago, according to the Delhi health department. The administration of the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has announced that all schools for students up to class 9 will remain closed for two weeks from April 5. The Uttar Pradesh government has extended to April 11 the closure of schools for students up to class 8. Earlier, the state government had shut schools for students up to class 8 till March 31. In Maharashtra, which recorded 57,074 coronavirus cases, only students of classes 10 and 12, and candidates preparing for the MPSC exam will be allowed to carry out their regular academic activities. The Punjab government has ordered that schools in the state will remain shut till April 10. Earlier, it had ordered that schools and colleges be closed till March 31. While in Gujarat, school for students of classes 1 to 9 have been shut for an indefinite period, the Rajasthan government has also suspended school for the same classes from April 5 to 19. The Bihar government has deferred reopening of schools and colleges from April 5 to April 11. The Karnataka government, has taken a slew of decisions including shutting down boarding and residential hostels for primary and secondary schools and optional attendance for students of classes 10, 11 and 12. In Madhya Pradesh, the government has decided to close all schools in the state up to class 8 till April 15, while in Tamil Nadu, schools in the state have been shut for classes 9, 10 and 11 from March 2 until further notice. Schools and colleges in Chhattisgarh were ordered to be closed by the state government on March 22 due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. The government has not communicated any date for the reopening of educational institutes yet. The union territory of Puducherry had asked all schools to close from March 22. The schools have only been closed for students of classes 1 to 8 while the lessons for higher classes are being conducted. Schools across the country closed in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The schools remained closed for months and teaching and learning continued online. Several states started reopening schools partially in October last year. Class 10 and 12 board exams which usually happen in February-March are scheduled to be conducted in May-June this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-states-union-territories-close-schools-or-suspend-classes-following-fresh-covid-19-surge-970557.html
05-04-2021||National||As Covid-19 cases surge, concerns to vaccinate children mount||With the country seeing Covid-19 infections among children as well, the curiosity among parents around their vaccination has become palpable.  “The trials in children should be completed and once we have a safe and effective vaccine, we should vaccinate the children,” says Dr Giridhara R Babu, Professor and Head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India. Elucidating on whether vaccinating children can help in building herd immunity, Babu, who is also a member of Karnataka’s Covid 19 Technical Advisory Committee, says the virus will have adverse consequences in the long run. He says, “There are children who are undernourished in society and their immunity may be affected. Their getting protection will help in the protection of the community.”  He further points out that as far as India is concerned -- to find out whether the inactivated vaccines and administered vaccines are safe for children -- it has to be studied through trials. “A vaccine administered intranasally is being developed by Bharat Biotech. If approved after clinical trials, will be a game-changer. It is non-invasive," he informs. BioNTech-Pfizer had said recently that their vaccine is 100 per cent effective on 12 to 15-year-olds. This has quite literally been a shot in the arm in the fight against Covid-19. “Currently, there are trials going on and we should have data in few weeks. In children, we should look at safety and efficacy but also dose efficiency,” opines Dr Srikanta J T, consultant, paediatric interventional pulmonology, Allegra and sleep medicine, at a Bengaluru hospital. No respiratory etiquette Dr Srikanta goes on to say that as far as the Covid-19 cases in children are concerned, there are two aspects to it. "Firstly, most people have either completely stopped or are only partially implementing respiratory etiquette or Covid-19-appropriate behaviour thinking that Covid-19 is over. This is leading to a significant intermingling of children and adults in common areas, marriages, and public places,” he says. Secondly, he says that there is “a surge of cases in adolescents who have restarted their offline classes (which is again due to lack of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour in both school and public places)”. As the Covid-19 cases keep rising, caution is still being thrown to the wind. Covid-19-appropriate behaviour seems to have been forgotten. While the first wave did not affect the children, the young ones are now caught in it, unfortunately. On whether Bengaluru is equipped to handle Covid-19 cases in children, Dr Srikanta says, “On an average, we are either seeing or getting calls from approximately two to three every day. As most cases are mild, we advise them for home quarantine and if required, for hospitalisation.” “Since most of the cases are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, they can be managed at home under supervision. Only a few children require hospitalisation for which there are adequate beds,” he said. ‘More contact tracing needed’ With India crossing the one-lakh mark in daily Covid-19 cases, Dr Giridhara elaborates the reasons for the spike in cases in the second wave. “One, the virus itself might be changing,” he says. “I’ve no doubt that part of the surge is because the virus is spreading more effectively. To understand that we need to do in-vitro tests and more contact tracing,” he says. Secondly, he explains, that the waning immunity could be because of the reinfection of the asymptomatic illness, although it’s in a small percentage. “The third is the lack of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. There are crowds gathering everywhere -- cinema theatres, schools and colleges, and offices providing the perfect environment for the virus to spread,” he adds. Amidst the second wave that is heating up, what comes as a breath of fresh air is the Centre saying that vaccination against coronavirus will be offered on all days in April. Pointing out that there is a higher risk of transmission in closed spaces, Dr Giridhara says, “When it comes to children, people should ensure outdoor engagement for their educational activities with physical distancing.” It is now time to go back to the basics as Dr Srikanta says. “For all stakeholders, including the general public, it is time to go back to basics, i.e., test, trace, isolate and treat. Follow respiratory etiquette, maintain social distancing, get yourself vaccinated when your turn arrives and hope for the best,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-19-cases-surge-concerns-to-vaccinate-children-mount-970572.html
05-04-2021||National||SC asks Centre to consider convening meeting of committee for appointing CBI Director||Maintaining that an acting CBI director cannot go on for long, the Supreme Court Monday asked the Centre to consider convening before May 2 the meeting of a high-powered committee consisting of the Prime Minister and others as head of the premier investigating agency. The Centre informed a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran that a meeting of the committee — consisting of the Prime Minister, leader of the single largest opposition party and the Chief Justice of India or any judge of the apex court nominated by the CJI — would be held after May 2. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for petitioner NGO 'Common Cause' which has sought direction for appointment of a regular CBI director, claimed before the bench that the Centre is delaying the meeting of the committee as it wanted to bypass the present CJI S A Bobde who is retiring on April 23. During the hearing, the bench orally told Attorney General K K Venugopal that in-charge arrangements for the CBI director cannot go on. The A-G, for his part, said the senior-most person was appointed as CBI's interim director. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta termed the arguments raised by the petitioner as "absurd" and alleged that "unscrupulous public-spirited citizens are making accusations left, right and centre against individuals and institutions". The bench said it would hear the matter on April 16. On March 12, the top court had sought a response from the Centre on the plea seeking direction for the appointment of a regular CBI director. Upon the term expiry of Rishi Kumar Shukla as CBI chief on February 2, the government appointed Praveen Sinha as an interim director.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-consider-convening-meeting-of-committee-for-appointing-cbi-director-970583.html
05-04-2021||National||After Delhi, Tikait threatens tractor agitation in Gujarat||Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday threatened to start a farmers' tractor agitation in Gujarat after Delhi, and said time has come to gherao the state capital Gandhinagar and also break barricades if needed. Talking to reporters outside the Sabarmati Ashram here, Tikait claimed farmers in Gujarat were unhappy and suffering. Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year against the Centre's three agriculture reform laws. They are demanding a repeal of the three laws along with a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their produce. The protesting farmers took out a tractor rally in Delhi on January 26. "Farmers will conduct an agitation in Gujarat using their tractors. Time has come to gherao Gandhinagar and block roads. If needed, we will have to break barricades too," Tikait said. The BKU leader is on a two-day tour of Gujarat since Sunday to campaign against the Centre's three farm laws. On the second day of his visit, Tikait, accompanied by former Gujarat chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela, paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at the Sabarmati Ashram. "Farmers are suffering because there is no agitation here. There is no backing from courts also. Farmers are compelled to say they are happy and making profit. Please give us that technology which is helping Gujarat's farmers to reap benefits," said Tikait. He claimed farmers of Banaskantha are compelled to sell potatoes for Rs 3 per kilogram. "Is that enough to make farmers happy? We have come here to remove fear from the minds of farmers. We will agitate in a peaceful manner," Tikait said, when asked about his future plans for Gujarat. Later, Tikait and Vaghela reached Karamsad town in Anand district and paid tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at his native place. Tikait then headed to Bardoli in Surat, where he would address farmers in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-delhi-tikait-threatens-tractor-agitation-in-gujarat-970594.html
05-04-2021||National||DRDO develops advanced chaff technology to safeguard Naval ships||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) said it has developed an Advanced Chaff Technology to safeguard naval ships against enemy missile attack. Defence laboratory Jodhpur (DLJ), a DRDO laboratory, has indigenously developed three variants of this critical technology -- Short Range Chaff Rocket (SRCR), Medium Range Chaff Rocket (MRCR) and Long Range Chaff Rocket (LRCR) -- meeting Indian Navy's qualitative requirements, a DRDO statement said on Monday. Recently, Indian Navy conducted trials of all three variants in Arabian Sea on Indian Naval Ship and found the performance satisfactory, it said. Chaff is a passive expendable electronic countermeasure technology used worldwide to protect naval ships from enemy's radar and RF missile seekers, the statement noted. "The importance of this development lies in the fact that very less quantity of chaff material deployed in the air, acts as decoy to deflect enemys missiles for safety of our ships", DRDO said. DRDO said it has also gained the expertise to meet the futuristic threats from adversaries, which is a unique technology not available from outside. The technology is being given to industries for production in large quantities, it said. Vice Chief of Naval Staff Vice Admiral G Ashok Kumar has applauded DRDO efforts in developing strategically important technology indigenously in a short span and cleared for bulk production, the statement said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO, Indian Navy and Industry for the achievement, it said. Secretary, Department of Defence R&D & Chairman, DRDO, Dr G Satheesh Reddy appreciated the efforts of teams involved in indigenous development of this vital technology to safeguard Indian Naval ships, it added. "Successful development of Advanced Chaff Technology by DL Jodhpur is one more step towards 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'", DRDO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-develops-advanced-chaff-technology-to-safeguard-naval-ships-970600.html
05-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh resigns||In your evening news brief, Maharashtra  Home Minister Anil Deshmukh resigns; Byju's acquires Aakash Educational Services and Actor Vicky Kaushal, Bhumi Pednekar and Akshay Kumar test positive for Coronavirus  In a jolt to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, the Bombay High Court ordered a preliminary enquiry into the allegations made by Mumbai Police’s ex-chief Param Bir Singh against state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Singh has alleged that Deshmukh fixed a Rs 100-crore collection target for suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Amid a major controversy and allegations of corruption, Anil Deshmukh resigned in the wake of the Court order. Ed-tech startup Byju's on Monday said it has acquired Aakash Educational Services Ltd (AESL) to bolster its presence in the test preparation segment in the country. According to sources, the deal is worth close to $1 billion (about Rs 7,300 crore) - making it the biggest acquisition by Byju's to date. The companies, however, did not comment on the financial details of the deal. As part of the transaction, Aakash founders and Blackstone will become shareholders in Byju's. As the second wave of Covid surges with Sunday recording the highest cases over 1 lakh, a slew of celebrities seem to have been infected by the coronavirus. Actor Vicky Kaushal, Bhumi Pednekar and Akshay Kumar tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, Former prime minister and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda, who was admitted to a Bengaluru hospital on March 31 after he tested positive for Covid-19, has been discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-resigns-970610.html
05-04-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with all CMs on Covid-19 situation on April 8||India’s Covid-19 caseload surged by over one lakh in a single day and total deaths crossed 1.65 lakh, prompting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to call a meeting of chief ministers on Thursday even as states rolled out fresh measures to curb the spread of the disease. Ahead of Modi’s meeting, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan is scheduled to deliberate with his counterparts from 11 states and union territories that were reporting a massive spike in Covid-19 cases. India’s daily infections have risen about 12 fold since February 8 when the country had reported 8,576 new cases in a single day, which led to laxity in Covid-19-appropriate behaviour – a reason now cited for a sudden surge in cases. On Monday morning, India had reported the highest daily spike of 1,03,558 new infections – the first time it breached the one-lakh cases mark in a single day since the outbreak was reported in January last year. The highest number reported in a single day was 99,181 on September 10. The deaths in a single day jumped by 478, still one of the lowest fatality rates in the world, raising the total to 165,101. States such as Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have announced stricter curbs on the movement of people from states reporting a surge in infections. The Rajasthan government imposed a night curfew and ordered the closure of multiplexes, gymnasiums besides suspending classes 1 to 9 at schools from April 5 to 19. It also put restrictions on the number of people at social gatherings to a maximum of 100. Colleges, except for final-year students, will remain suspended during the period but students can take their practical exams with prior permission. Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have launched special campaigns to promote Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, while the Delhi government announced round-the-clock functioning of healthcare centres to speed up the vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-all-cms-on-covid-19-situation-on-april-8-970622.html
05-04-2021||National||CBI opposes Reddy's plea to remove restrictions on visit to Ballari, SC reserves order||The CBI on Monday opposed before the Supreme Court a plea by former Karnataka Minister and mining baron Gali Janardhana Reddy to remove bail restrictions on his visit to home town, Ballari. He is an influential figure with immense power. There are many witnesses who need protection, it submitted before a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan. “Whenever he has sought for two-three days for family events, we have never opposed that. But, he cannot be let out permanently. After many days we have gotten the witnesses to speak up," Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan said. She, instead, sought an order for expediting the trial. The bench wrapped up the hearing and reserved the order on Reddy's application. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Reddy, contended that a cock-and-bull story has been made on the basis of concocted statements of witnesses. He also claimed  20 adjournments have also been taken by the CBI in the matter. “If they are not able to meet the exigencies of the trial, they should give it up," he said. Reddy cannot visit Ballari as per the conditions of bail granted on January 21, 2015, by the top court. The top court had then enlarged Reddy on the bail in a case of illegal mining with a condition that he would not visit Ballari, Ananthpuram and Cuddapah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-opposes-reddys-plea-to-remove-restrictions-on-visit-to-ballari-sc-reserves-order-970625.html
05-04-2021||National||Anti-Naxal operations to be intensified further, jawans' sacrifices will not go in vain: Amit Shah||Security forces will intensify the anti-Naxal operations in the coming days and will not be cowed down by attacks, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Monday, emphasising that the sacrifice of 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh will be remembered for taking the battle against the Naxals to a "decisive turn". Shah, who reached Jagdalpur Chhattisgarh in the morning, held a review meeting with Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, senior officials of the state police and the CRPF and took stock of the situation. This was Shah's first visit to Bastar region, considered a Naxal hotbed, after assuming the charge of Union Home Minister in May 2019. Sources, meanwhile, said security agencies are looking into a claim made by Naxals that they have abducted a CoBRA commando after the ambush on Saturday. While 22 personnel were killed and 31 injured, one personnel Rakeshwar Singh Minhas of the 210th CoBRA battalion was missing. After the high-level meeting in Jagdalpur, Shah said, "I want to assure the country that this fight will not be stopped, rather it will continue with more intensity till the end. In this fight, our victory is definite in the end." He said their supreme sacrifices "will not go in vain" and the country would always remember them. "In the last few years, the fight against Naxals has reached a decisive turn and this unfortunate incident has taken the fight two steps ahead," he said. During the meeting, Shah said, Baghel and other security officials suggested that the encounter should not have an impact on the intensity of the anti-Naxal operations. He said this showed that the morale of the forces is intact and high. He said both the Centre and state government have jointly made inroads into Maoist strongholds and such incidents "come to fore out of their frustration". In the last 5-6 years, he said, the authorities have achieved success in setting up camps of security forces in the interior areas. Though the Covid-19 pandemic has slowed down the pace, he said several developmental works have been done. "But, I believe that action is being taken on all the suggestions received from tribal public representatives, chief minister and MPs from the state," Shah said. He said governments at the Centre and the state have been working to expedite development works in tribal areas and to intensify action against the extremists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-naxal-operations-to-be-intensified-further-jawans-sacrifices-will-not-go-in-vain-amit-shah-970633.html
05-04-2021||National||India well prepared to combat second wave of Covid-19: FinMin report||Having successfully managed the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic, India is well prepared to combat the scourge of the second wave, the Finance Ministry's monthly economic report said. The report further said high-frequency data indicates that India is on the path to become better and stronger. "After battling a historic pandemic in FY 2020-21, the Indian economy is poised to build back better and stronger as is reflected in the movement of several high-frequency indicators. "Instrumental in this resilient comeback will be a strong revival in investment growth supported by the AtmaNirbharBharat Mission and a massive boost to infrastructure and capital expenditure provided for in the Union Budget 2021-22," the report said. The rise in daily new cases since mid February marks the onset of second wave of Covid-19 infection in India, the report said, adding the country "has, however, been able to delay the onset of the second wave – the gap between the first peak to start of the second wave has been 151 days in India while it was much lower in other countries." At this juncture of the onset of the second wave, the report said, India is well prepared to combat the scourge of the virus. "The wheels of India's capex cycle have been set into motion, signs of which are imminent in the second half of the year. As the vaccination drive continuously upscales in India and guided by the learnings of India's successful management of pandemic during its first wave, India is now well armed to combat any downside risk posed by the recent surge in Covid-19 cases,"the report said. With the end of a challenging 2020-21, the crest of a brighter and self-reliant 2021-22 awaits India, the Finance Ministry report said.  The fiscal position of the Centre has witnessed improvement in the recent months due to a revival in the economic activities, it said.  "During April 2020 to February 2021, the Centre's fiscal deficit stood at Rs 14.05 lakh crore, which is 76 per cent of Revised Estimate 2020-21. Net Tax Revenue of the Central Government for 2020-21 is set to overshoot the RE despite 41 per cent higher income tax refunds this year," it said.  To share the revenue buoyancy seen in Q4 2020-21 and in the true spirit of fiscal federalism, an amount of Rs 45,000 crore has been released as additional devolution to states in 2020-21, an increase of 8.2 per cent over RE, it said.  The Centre raised Rs 13.7 lakh crore as gross market borrowings during 2020-21 at a weighted average borrowing cost of 5.79 per cent - the lowest in 17 years, it said.  The government's capital expenditure sharply turned around to grow at 104.4 per cent during October 2020 to February 2021 (YoY), recovering from a decline of 11.6 per cent in the first half of 2020-21 (YoY), it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-well-prepared-to-combat-second-wave-of-covid-19-finmin-report-970639.html
05-04-2021||National||Delhi allows 1/3rd of Covid-19 vaccine centres to operate 24 hours||One-third of Covid-19 vaccination centres in all Delhi government hospitals will operate 24 hours from April 5.  "In order to accelerate the pace of Covid-19 vaccination, it has been decided that the timings of functioning of the Covid-19 vaccination centres should be increased," an order stated. The vaccination sites at present operate from 9 am to 9 pm. "It is hereby ordered that with effect from 06.04.2021, one-third of the vaccination sites in all Delhi Government hospitals will also function from 9.00 pm to 9.00 am," it said. 1/3rd of vaccination centres in all Delhi Government hospitals to operate 24 hours from tomorrow: Delhi Government The move comes amid a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital and across the country.  All the facilities will ensure the deployment of adequate manpower at these sites to ensure their smooth functioning, authorities said. The national capital recorded 4,033 coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally to over 6.76 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 11,0811 with 21 new fatalities being reported, according to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-allows-1/3rd-of-covid-19-vaccine-centres-to-operate-24-hours-970641.html
05-04-2021||National||India joins multilateral naval drill in eastern Indian Ocean||India and three other Quad member nations on Monday joined France in kick-starting a three-day mega naval exercise in the eastern Indian Ocean, in reflection of their growing strategic cooperation in the region. Officials said the Indian naval ships Satpura and Kiltan along with P-8I long-range maritime patrol aircraft are participating in multilateral exercise 'La Perouse'. The Indian Navy ships and aircraft will exercise at sea with ships and aircraft of navies of France, Australia, Japan and the United States during the exercise, they said. Indian Navy Spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said the exercise will witness complex and advanced naval operations including surface warfare, anti-air warfare and air defence exercises. He said it will also feature weapon firing exercises, cross deck flying operations and tactical manoeuvres among others. "The exercise will showcase high levels of synergy, coordination and interoperability between the friendly navies," he said. "Participation by the Indian Navy in the exercise demonstrates the shared values with friendly navies ensuring freedom of seas and commitment to an open, inclusive Indo-Pacific and a rules-based international order," Madhwal said. Besides host France, the four other participants are members of the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition. India has been expanding cooperation with navies of the US, Japan, Australia and France in the last few years. On March 28 and 29, India and the US navies carried out a two-day naval exercise in the eastern Indian Ocean Region. The Indian Navy deployed its warship Shivalik and long range maritime patrol aircraft P8I in the 'PASSEX' exercise while the US Navy was represented by USS Theodore Rosevelt carrier strike group. A carrier battle group or carrier strike group is a mega naval fleet comprising an aircraft carrier, accompanied by a large number of destroyers, frigates and other ships. The PASSEX exercise came over a week after US Defence Secretary Austin flew into India as part of his three-nation first overseas tour that signalled the Biden administration's strong commitment to its relations with its close allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-joins-multilateral-naval-drill-in-eastern-indian-ocean-970644.html
05-04-2021||National||4th wave of Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi, micro-containment zones being created: Jain||Delhi is witnessing a fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic and to tackle it testing capacity has been ramped up while micro-containment zones were being created where two or more cases are being reported, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday. The national capital recorded 4,033 coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally to over 6.76 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 11,0811 with 21 new fatalities being reported, according to the bulletin issued by the health department. Jain on Monday said Delhi is witnessing a fourth wave of the pandemic and the government is taking all relevant measures to contain its spread. "The case positivity rate was 4.64 per cent. Random tests are being done at a fast pace and capacity is being ramped up. More than 80,000 tests are being conducted a day which is five times more than the national average," he told reporters. The Arvind Kejriwal government is taking a number of other decisions to contain the contagion, the minister said, adding micro-containment zones are being created wherever two to three Covid-19 cases are getting detected. Jain, a Covid survivor, appealed to the people who have recuperated from the disease to donate plasma. "I appeal to all citizens of Delhi to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and not show any negligence. I believe that taking necessary precautions is of utmost importance to stop the spread of the infection," he said. Asked about the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths, Jain said, "The severity of the cases (this time) is comparatively lower vis-a-vis the previous waves." "The Delhi government is taking appropriate measures, the most significant one being boosting daily testing capacity. Around 80,000 tests are being done each day. Moreover, asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients are being kept in home isolation, while and moderate to severe cases are being treated in the hospitals," he said. "Genome tracing is also being carried out... Additionally, micro containment zones are being created to prevent the spread of the virus." About the coronavirus variants, he said let scientists look into the variants. "It would not make much difference. Scientists say that the current coronavirus variant is spreading at a fast pace with less severity and the mortality rate is also low. The central lab is doing the study on the variants."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4th-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-in-delhi-micro-containment-zones-being-created-jain-970658.html
05-04-2021||National||Relax norms for opening vaccination centre, taking jab: Kejriwal writes to PM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking relaxed norms for opening vaccination centres, and asserted that all people here can be vaccinated against the coronavirus within three months if requisite permission is granted. "The increased transmission of Corona across the country has presented a new concern and challenge. We will have to move the vaccination campaign more rapidly," he said in his letter to the prime minister. Kejriwal demanded relaxation of norms for opening vaccination centers and removal of age limit for getting inoculated. If the rules for opening new centers are simplified and everyone is allowed to get vaccinated, the Delhi government can inoculate all Delhi residents in three months, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/relax-norms-for-opening-vaccination-centre-taking-jab-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-970659.html
05-04-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan to hold meet on Tuesday with health ministers of 11 states witnessing surge in Covid cases||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan will on Tuesday hold a meeting with health ministers of 11 states and Union Territories, which has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases, to review the situation there. These 11 states are Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. According to the health ministry, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab have shown a steep rise in daily COVID cases, accounting for 81.90 per cent of the over 1 lakh infections reported in a day. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 57,074 which is 55.11 per cent of the new cases reported nationwide. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 5,250 cases and Karnataka reported 4,553 fresh infections.  India's total active caseload has reached 7,41,830 and comprises 5.89 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 50,233 active cases have been recorded in a day, the data presented by the health ministry showed. Five states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab -- cumulatively account for 75.88 per cent of the total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounts for nearly 58.23 per cent of the total active caseload, the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,16,82,136 with 52,847 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 478 deaths were reported in a day. Eight states account for 84.52 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw a maximum of 222 casualties, followed by 51 in Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-to-hold-meet-on-tuesday-with-health-ministers-of-11-states-witnessing-surge-in-covid-cases-970662.html
05-04-2021||National||SC seeks private firm’s reply on dismantling status of decommissioned aircraft carrier Viraat||The Supreme Court Monday asked the private firm seeking to preserve India's decommissioned aircraft carrier 'Viraat' and convert it into museum, to file its response on the report of status of dismantling of the warship. The centaur-class aircraft carrier, INS Viraat, was in service with the Indian Navy for 29 years before being decommissioned in March 2017. 'Viraat' had reached the Alang ship breaking yard from Mumbai in September last year and the dismantling process was going on. Another private firm Shree Ram Group at Alang in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat has bought Viraat at an auction in July last year for Rs 38.54 crore and began the dismantling process in December last year. A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian posted the matter for further hearing on April 12. During the hearing, the bench, after perusing the report on the status of dismantling of ‘Viraat’, asked the private firm Envitech Marine Consultants Pvt Ltd if 40 per cent of the warship has been dismantled after a valid purchase by another company, then why does it want to take it for making a museum. Petitioner in-person Rupali Sharma, representing Envitech Marine, said that she would like to inspect the ship to ascertain the status of dismantling and added that, “around the world these warships are preserved”. The bench told Sharma, “We share the same sentiment as you have about preserving the warship. But it has now become a private property and it does not have a character of warship. “We will give you (Sharma) one week. You go through the report and file your response to it”. At the outset, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Shree Ram Group, which has purchased the warship in an auction and is currently dismantling it objected to the petition filed by Sharma’s firm. “This firm is represented before the court by a director of the company and does not have money to even hire a lawyer. We don’t know the petitioner. It has not appeared even in auction. This is a fly-by-night petition,” Dhavan said. The bench told Dhavan, “Why can’t you raise this issue about the petitioner before the High Court”. Dhavan replied that to argue in person before the top court an application has to be filed and permission has to be granted by the court itself. The bench said the application was considered and she was granted to argue in person by the registrar. Dhavan then said that since the stay granted by the top court on February 10, they have been spending Rs 5 lakh per day to maintain the vessel. The bench asked Dhavan, how his client incurs the cost on the ship, if nothing is being done due to stay order. Dhavan replied that the vessel is being pulled to the beach for dismantling and to keep it beached it needs efforts especially during high tides. He said that the situation will worsen in monsoon, when high tides at the sea are frequent.   “We have already dismantled around 40 per cent of the ship and all important parts have been taken out,” he said, while referring to the report the company has filed that major fixtures like machinery, navigation devices, and furniture have all been taken out.   He said, “The vessel is totally grounded and is a dead structure” and even the Centre has refused to give no objection certificate for making the warship a museum. The bench asked Sharma to go through the report filed by Shree Ram Group and file the response in one week. On February 10, the top court had ordered status quo on dismantling of 'Viraat' and sought responses from the Centre and Shree Ram Group on the plea Envitech Marine, which has offered to pay Rs 100 crore for the ship, so that it can be converted into a museum. The Centre had in July 2019 informed Parliament that the decision to scrap Viraat was taken after due consultation with the Indian Navy. Viraat is the second aircraft carrier which is being dismantled in India. In 2014, Vikrant was dismantled in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-private-firm-s-reply-on-dismantling-status-of-decommissioned-aircraft-carrier-viraat-970663.html
05-04-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh govt announces aid to slain jawans' kin||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 30 lakh each to the families of the two CRPF jawans killed in action with the outlawed CPI (Maoists) at Bijapur in Chhattisgarh. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, in a statement, expressed sorrow over the killing of the two jawans, who hailed from Andhra Pradesh, on Sunday. The Chief Minister conveyed his sympathies to the bereaved families. The jawans Routhu Jagadeesh and Sakhamuri Murali Krishna, who were among the22 CRPF men killed in the encounter, belonged to Vizianagaram and Guntur districts of the state. Vizianagaram district Superintendent of Police B Rajakumari visited the slain jawan's family today and offered condolences||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-govt-announces-aid-to-slain-jawans-kin-970665.html
05-04-2021||National||March third warmest in 121 years: IMD||March was third warmest in 121 years in terms of monthly average maximum temperature, the India Meteorological Department on Monday said. The IMD, in its review for the month, said the observed monthly average maximum, minimum and mean temperature for the country as a whole during March this year are 32.65 degrees Celsius, 19.95 degrees Celsius and 26.30 degrees Celsius, respectively, against the normal 31.24 degrees Celsius, 18.87 degrees Celsius and 25.06 degrees Celsius based on the climatology period 1981-2010. "The all India average monthly maximum temperature during March 2021 with 32.65 degrees Celsius is the warmest in the last 11 years, and third warmest in the last 121 years with 2010 and 2004 as the warmest ever and second warmest month with 33.09 degrees Celsius and 32.82 degrees Celsius, respectively," the IMD said. Several parts of the country had recorded temperatures above 40 degrees Celsius in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/march-third-warmest-in-121-years-imd-970670.html
05-04-2021||National||Mum on Indira Gandhi: Gehlot accuses Modi of ignoring her role in liberation of Bangladesh||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ignoring Indira Gandhi’s role in the creation of Bangladesh, saying he failed to mention her during his visit there to mark the 50th anniversary of its independence. Modi participated last month in the Golden Jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh’s independence in 1971 when Indian forces defeated the Pakistan Army and took thousands of its soldiers prisoners. Addressing railway workers, Gehlot said Modi skipped any reference to the then prime minister during the visit. “Indira Gandhi did not bow to threats from the US. But it is the misfortune of the country that the prime minister goes to Bangladesh and does not mention how Indira Gandhi contributed and 90,000 soldiers surrendered,” Gehlot said. The Congress leader said the respect Modi has got from foreign governments and Non-Resident Indians during his visits abroad is not just for him. It is respect for the journey of 70 years of independent India, the CM added in his video conference address to North Western Railway employees. Now a US paper has written that democracy in India is shrinking, and the country’s system are being criticised, the CM said. He claimed that the nation is heading towards a “dangerous turn”. The BJP is committed to carrying out the agenda of the RSS, Gehlot said, referring also to “love jihad” – the right-wing allegation that Muslim youth are marrying Hindu women to convert them. Gehlot alleged that the judiciary, Election Commission of India, Income Tax Department and other agencies are working under pressure. On Railways, he said it was a priority sector for former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. He said the rail network has played an important role in keeping a country of different languages and religions united||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mum-on-indira-gandhi-gehlot-accuses-modi-of-ignoring-her-role-in-liberation-of-bangladesh-970697.html
05-04-2021||National||Breaking cycle of violence and corruption key to Bengal's economic revival: Trivedi||The culture of violence and corruption is holding West Bengal back despite the state having a formidable army of skilled labour, trained engineers and professionals, and vast natural resources, former Union minister Dinesh Trivedi, who recently switched over to the BJP, said. He said job creation, infrastructure building and harnessing Bengal's standing as a knowledge hub to build industry, will be among the focus areas for the BJP, if it comes to power in the state. The 71-year-old former minister said the party expects investment in infrastructure to create jobs and the pull needed to attract industry. Development of highways, railways, ports and airports will all create the jobs, he said. "Bengal is a knowledge hub, yet we have failed to cash in on that to transform the state industrially and create jobs. There is scope to build a parallel Silicon Valley here given the number of software engineers the state trains every year," he said in an interview with PTI. The Left Front government which preceded TMC had set up an IT hub in Salt Lake, but it is considered a paler version of Bangalore, the IT and start-up capital of the country. Software techies from Bengal's engineering colleges and universities continue to throng IT hubs elsewhere in the country and abroad, he said. Trivedi, as the railway minister, had planned to set up an engine manufacturing and coach building hub in Bengal, before his tenure was cut short and he was asked to resign by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee in March 2012. "Bengal which was an industrialised state long before many others, slipped as successive governments failed to deliver it from a cycle of violence, corruption and `tolabaji (extortion)," said Trivedi who started his political career with the Congress, became a Rajya Sabha MP of the Janata Dal in 1990, before switching over to the TMC in 1998. The BJP's manifesto called 'Sankalp Patra, too, had lamented that Bengal's share in India's industrial production had fallen from 30 per cent to 3.5 per cent. "This has happened despite the best brains and resources because of this endless cycle (of violence and corruption). When Mamata Banerjee came to power, replacing the Left, we spoke of 'Bodol' (change). The only change was in the party which ruled Bengal, not in the governance style. "She simply copied the CPIM)'s model of interfering at every stage of our social, political, and economic life down to the village level. The few jobs that were there were bought and sold. Government benefits depended on political patronage," Trivedi, an alumnus of Kolkata's St Xavier's College and Texas University, said. He said dance bars and liquor vends increased in numbers but not industry. The state now earns a significant slice of its revenues from liquor sales and lottery business, he claimed. As jobs got scarce, the coal mafia became a major employer, employing thousands in unsafe and exploitative environment in illegal coal mines, something which needs to be stopped and legal mining operations expanded, he noted. "We feel there is a need to bring about a paradigm shift and that can only happen once this cycle is broken, said Trivedi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/breaking-cycle-of-violence-and-corruption-key-to-bengals-economic-revival-trivedi-970699.html
05-04-2021||National||J&K ex-Dy CM Muzaffar Hussain Baig, wife test positive for Covid-19||Former Jammu and Kashmir deputy chief minister Muzaffar Hussain Baig and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19 and are under home-quarantine, an official spokesman said on Monday. Lt Governor Manoj Sinha spoke to Baig and his wife Safina Baig, who is also the District Development Council Chairperson of Baramulla, over the phone and enquired about their health and wellbeing. "Lt Governor prayed for their speedy recovery, and healthy and long life," the spokesman said. He said Baig and his wife are under home quarantine after being tested positive for Covid-19 and doctors are regularly monitoring their health. Baig recently parted ways with the Peoples Democratic Party and joined the Peoples Conference, led by former minister Sajjad Ghani Lone. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-ex-dy-cm-muzaffar-hussain-baig-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-970716.html
05-04-2021||National||5.4-magnitude quake hits Sikkim; tremors felt in Assam, West Bengal||An earthquake of 5.4 magnitude hit Sikkim on Monday night, the National Centre for Seismology said, with tremors being also felt in the eastern states of Assam, West Bengal and Bihar. The quake occurred at 8.49 PM at a depth of 10 kilometres near the India-Bhutan border, the NCS said.           In Sikkim, panic-stricken people rushed out of their houses. There was no immediate report of any major damage.      Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the chief ministers of Sikkim, Bihar and Assam and took stock of the situation in eastern India following the quake, government sources said.          "PM Narendra Modi is taking stock of the damage due to the earthquake. He is speaking to chief ministers of all 4 affected states and has already spoken to the CMs of Bihar, Assam and Sikkim," the sources said. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said that he called up Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and enquired about her well-being as she is in Siliguri, where the tremors were felt. "Had telephone conversation @MamataOfficial to enquire her well-being as Earthquake Tremors Felt In North Bengal. Hon'ble CM is at Siliguri presently. Relieved to learn all well at her end," he tweeted.            The Himalayas are prone to earthquakes and are known for high-seismic activity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/54-magnitude-quake-hits-sikkim-tremors-felt-in-assam-west-bengal-970719.html
05-04-2021||National||Gujarat records over 3,000 Covid-19 cases in single day for first time||The single-day coronavirus positive cases crossed 3,000-mark on Monday in Gujarat for the first time since the global pandemic broke out last year. The state reported a total of 3,160 cases and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours. The rising cases have increased immense pressure on health infrastructure across four major cities including Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot which are the worst affected. According to state health department's news bulletin, the number of active cases in the state stood at 16,252. Officials said that due to surge in daily cases, barely 17 per cent of critical patient beds were vacant out of 851 beds across 100 private hospitals in Ahmedabad. Similarly, out of 3,800 covid-19 beds in the city, over 80 per cent is occupied. Almost similar conditions are prevalent in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. On Monday, Ahmedabad reported 773 new cases in a day, followed by Surat 603, Rajkot 283 and Vadodara 216 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-records-over-3000-covid-19-cases-in-single-day-for-first-time-970723.html
05-04-2021||National||Central teams rushed to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab amid Covid-19 surge||The Centre has rushed teams of public health experts to 50 districts across Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab that have been reporting a surge in fresh Covid-19 cases and deaths. “The teams are being rushed to 30 districts of Maharashtra, 11 districts of Chhattisgarh and nine districts of Punjab to assist the state Health Department and local authorities in Covid-19 surveillance, control and containment measures,” a Health Ministry statement said. The two-member high-level team consists of a clinician/epidemiologist and a public health expert. “The teams will visit the states immediately and monitor the overall implementation of Covid-19 management, especially in testing, including surveillance and containment operations; Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and its enforcement; availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics including ambulances, ventilators, medical oxygen etc, and Covid-19 vaccination progress,” the statement said. Senior officers from the Centre – Additional Secretaries Vijoy Kumar Singh and Richa Sharma have been appointed nodal officers for Punjab and Chhattisgarh, respectively. Joint Secretary Kunak Kumar is the nodal officer for Maharashtra. The high-level teams will report to and coordinate with the nodal officers for the three states and submit daily reports on five aspects – testing, contact tracing including surveillance & containment, hospital infrastructure including ICU, ventilator and oxygen beds, enforcement of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, and Covid-19 vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-teams-rushed-to-maharashtra-chhattisgarh-punjab-amid-covid-19-surge-970726.html
05-04-2021||National||Nearly two dozen shanties housing Rohingyas gutted in fire in J&K||Nearly two dozen shanties were gutted in a major fire at a slum housing Rohingya Muslims in the outskirts of Jammu city on Monday, officials said. No one was injured in the fire at Maratha Mohalla in Trikuta Nagar, they said. The fire broke out in one of the shacks in the wee hours and within no time engulfed the nearby wooden huts, turning over 22 huts into ashes, the officials said. The Fire and Emergency services department responded to the fire call and rushed its tenders to douse the flame, they said, adding that police are yet to ascertain the exact cause of the fire. "The fire broke out in one of the vacant Juggi's around 1 pm and spread to adjoining huts. We could only manage to save our lives, leaving behind our belongings which gutted in the devastating blaze,” Mustafa, one of the victims, said. He said a similar fire in the slum last year damaged dozens of shanties. "We appeal for help to overcome the loss," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-two-dozen-shanties-housing-rohingyas-gutted-in-fire-in-jk-970729.html
05-04-2021||National||Centre writes to Delhi govt on irregularities in identification of Covid-19 vaccination beneficiaries||The Centre has written to the Delhi government drawing its attention to irregularities in the identification of beneficiaries below the age of 45 years for Covid-19 vaccination by some private facilities. In the letter to Principal Secretary (Health), GNCTD, the authorities have been asked to immediately issue a show cause notice to Vidyasagar Institute of Mental Health, Neuro and Allied Sciences (VIMHANS) located in the north east district, operating as a private Covid vaccination centre (CVC), regarding such wrong practices which violate the vaccination norms, the health ministry said. The letter also talked about seeking a written explanation from the institute within the next 48 hours, it said. "An appropriate monetary fine may also be imposed on the hospital. Further, it has been suggested that depanelment of the hospital may be considered if the explanation to the show cause notice is found unsatisfactory," it read. The letter by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that there have been serious lapses in registration of beneficiaries by VIMHANS. "VIMHANS has been found to register beneficiaries below the age of 45 years as healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), and vaccinate them," the health ministry said. As per provisions of the ongoing Covid-I9 vaccination drive, citizens above 45 years (from April 1) are being vaccinated along with HCWs and FLWs above 18 years of age. "The Co-WIN sample data (March 19-April 3) of vaccinated beneficiaries from this private CVC verified by the health ministry revealed that many beneficiaries lie outside the ambit of eligible beneficiaries (not under the identified priority populations groups), in violation of the guidelines laid down by the Union health ministry," it stated. Noting that vaccines are a precious commodity, the letter stated that these serious lapses at VIMHANS CVC in terms of compliance of Covid-19 vaccination guidelines harm the countrywide vaccination exercise as eligible beneficiaries may get deprived from vaccination. In another case, the Delhi government, in pursuance of the advice from the health ministry, has issued a show cause notice to Bensups Hospital, Sector-12 Dwarka for violation of the guidelines issued by the Centre on the eligible groups of population for receiving Covid vaccination, where persons below the age of 45 years have been wrongly registered as HCWs and FLWs. The Covid-19 vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-writes-to-delhi-govt-on-irregularities-in-identification-of-covid-19-vaccination-beneficiaries-970736.html
05-04-2021||National||'Conspiracy' may be hatched against Mukhtar Ansari in UP jail, says his brother||BSP MP Afzal Ansari on Monday expressed apprehension that a "conspiracy" may be hatched against his brother Mukhtar Ansari in Uttar Pradesh jail, saying he may approach the judiciary on the issue of security of the gangster-turned-politician. Last month, Mukhtar Ansari's wife had written to President Ram Nath Kovind, expressing fears that her husband might be killed in a fake encounter while being transferred from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh, following a Supreme Court direction. A team of the Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday left for Punjab to bring back Mukhtar Ansari, who is facing trial in several cases. Speaking to PTI on Monday, Afzal Ansari, who is the MP from Ghazipur, said, "The Ansari family is worried following the media reports and statements made by BJP leaders. However, the Ansari family is not feeling afraid." He also said that there is a rule of law in the country, and he feels that nothing (untoward) will happen with his younger brother. Mukhtar Ansari is a BSP MLA from the Mau assembly constituency. He is involved in cases both in the BJP-run Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, which has a Congress government. "Conspiracy may be hatched against Mukhtar Ansari in Uttar Pradesh jail as he is shifted from Punjab. We will approach the judiciary on the issue of his security. When a problem is being created by the state government, then there is no option except seeking the shelter of the judiciary," Afzal Ansari said. The BSP MP said that he is proud of the independent judiciary in the country.   "Justice is still alive in the country. I am confident that justice will prevail, and Mukhtar will prove innocent in all the cases," he said. "Everyone will die one day. When death is destined, on that day one has to embrace it, and if it is not destined, then no one can die," he said. Punjab's home department in a letter had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take custody of Mukhtar Ansari from the Rupnagar jail on or before April 8. It had written to the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home) following a March 26 Supreme Court order that had directed the Punjab government to transfer the BSP's Mau MLA to UP's Banda jail in two weeks from the Rupnagar prison, where he has been since January 2019 in connection with an extortion case. Delivering the order on March 26, the apex court had also noted that Mukhtar Ansari was allegedly involved in various cases of attempt to murder, murder, cheating and conspiracy apart from offences under the Gangsters Act, lodged in Uttar Pradesh and 10 of these cases are at different stages of trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conspiracy-may-be-hatched-against-mukhtar-ansari-in-up-jail-says-his-brother-970737.html
05-04-2021||National||BJP will win all 20 seats in Tamil Nadu, says Ravi||With its strategy of 'win the booth, win the election,' BJP candidates will secure victory in all 20 constituencies contested by the party in Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi said Monday. Though the elections are a contest between DMK and AIADMK, the agenda for the polls was set by the BJP, said Ravi, who is in charge of the party's affairs in Tamil Nadu. AIADMK was the natural partner for the BJP in Tamil Nadu as there is no dynasty politics in the party. DMK, however, is a family enterprise run by Karunanidhi and Maran families, he said, adding that DMK will be rejected by the Tamil Nadu electorate. On the complaint against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarappa, Ravi said that he was yet to see the contents of the letter. "I advised him to talk to the CM, BJP president J P Nadda and general secretary Arun Singh," he said, adding that he would refrain from making public remarks on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-will-win-all-20-seats-in-tamil-nadu-says-ravi-970750.html
05-04-2021||National||Fact check: Video of Yogi Adityanath using abusive word is not edited||On April 5, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s bite to ANI on Covid vaccination led to a Twitter storm after many pointed out that he used abusive language on camera. The UP CM was criticised by opposition parties and journalists for lashing out at a reporter. इस वीडियो को देखकर शायद आप शर्मिंदा हो जाये:- All the jokes and memes aside, we now live in times where the Chief Minister of a state abuses a media person on camera and ENBA awardees are all silent. What good is an award if it comes at the cost of your self respect? ANI retracts video, propaganda websites come to Adityanath’s rescue News agency ANI was quick to retract its live broadcast and share another bite where Adityanath cannot be heard blurting out a swear word. Video byte of UP CM Yogi Adityanath on Covid vaccination Alt News contacted ANI editor-in-chief Smita Prakash for comment since the agency is yet to issue a statement. “I am not interested in speaking with you,” she said before hanging up. ANI UP bureau chief Kamna Hajela disconnected the call when asked about the video. UP CMO stated that the last three seconds of the viral clip are edited and a case will be registered against those sharing the viral video to tarnish the chief minister’s image. सीएम योगी आदित्यनाथ के सोशल मीडिया पर हो रहे वायरल वीडियो को सरकार ने फेक बताया है। मुख्यमंत्री कार्यालय ने इसे एडिटेड वीडियो बताया ही। सीएम ऑफिस ने बताया कि वीडियो के आखिरी के 3 सेकेंड का फ्रेम एडिट किया गया। मुख्यमंत्री की छवि धूमिल करने के आरोप में मुकदमा दर्ज कराया जाएगा।   The UP CM can be heard saying in the redacted clip, “I thank the honourable prime minister, central health ministry from my heart for providing Covid vaccine for free. I want to thank the country’s scientists. What are you doing, f******.” The reference to the health ministry was also tweeted by ANI. In the video reshot by the news agency, the CM does not mention the central health ministry. “I thank the honourable prime minister for providing Covid vaccine for free to the country’s citizens. I thank all the scientists who launched two vaccines on time in India…” he said. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath indeed used an abusive word in the presence of ANI crew. The claim that the video is edited is false. ANI, which is at the centre of the controversy, has chosen to not respond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-video-of-yogi-adityanath-using-abusive-word-is-not-edited-970755.html
05-04-2021||National||FIR against former office-bearer of ISKCON over graft charges||An FIR has been registered against a former office-bearer of ISKCON at Vrindavan over charges of embezzlement of donation money, police said on Monday. “A case has been registered against former PR director at ISKCON, Saurabh Trivikram Dasa. He had neither deposited the amount received by him as donation with the organisation nor surrendered the receipt book,” a police officer said. The FIR was registered based on a complaint filed by Debashish Ghosh, secretary, ISKCON Vrindavan. “Since no police report has been filed so far by Dasa about losing any original receipt book, it is apprehended that he has embezzled the donated amount,” according to the FIR. “The worst part of the incident is that he is absconding with his mobile phone unresponsive. He has been abstaining from work since February 25,” it said. Meanwhile, Ghosh said Dasa is no more a part of ISKCON society since February 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-former-office-bearer-of-iskcon-over-graft-charges-970765.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||Unlike UPA, Modi govt lets law agencies do business as per law: Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman at a press conference in Thiruvanthapuram took a jibe at the UPA government and the LDF. She said that the Narendra Modi government allowed law enforcement agencies to carry out their business as per law, unlike the UPA government. She alleged that the agencies weren't allowed to investigate the corruption that rocked the UPA government. In Modi Govt, law enforcement agencies do their business as per law. During UPA, mountainous amount of corruption happened but no agency was allowed to investigate, news agency ANI quoted her as saying. She added that the Congress was the LDF's "B-team."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/unlike-upa-modi-govt-lets-law-agencies-do-business-as-per-law-nirmala-sitharaman-970459.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||LDF vs UDF vs BJP: Fight for Kerala crown all set for Tuesday||The southern state of Kerala will go to vote on April 6 to decide who will run their government for the next five years. The state is seeing a fierce competition between the ruling Left front and the opposition parties of the BJP and Congress, for the 140 seats of the State Legislative Assembly. The winning party or alliance needs at least 71 seats to form the government. The electoral politics in Kerala has been historically dominated by either the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) or the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). This time around, the BJP is making a strong effort to overturn the CPI(M) government, pinning their campaign on allegations of corruption against the ruling party and citing cases such as the gold smuggling scam, which has been a thorn on the CPI(M)'s side. The Congress-UDF and BJP have also tried their best to make a topic of discussion the Sabarimala temple women entry issue. Political parties promised freebies such as gas connections and laptops, with pensions for housewives and raising welfare pensions during their campaigns, and the BJP promised a law to curb 'love jihad'. Here are the key battleground constituencies to watch out for in the Kerala Assembly elections:   Dharmadam Assembly Constituency: Pinarayi Vijayan (Left) vs C K Padmanabhan (BJP) vs C Raghunath (Congress)   Palakkad Assembly Constituency: CP Pramod (Left) vs Shafi Parambil (Congress) vs 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan (BJP)   Nemom Assembly Constituency: Kummanam Rajasekharan (BJP) vs V Sivankutty (Left) vs K Muraleedharan (Congress)   Puthuppally Assembly Constituency: Oommen Chandy (Congress) vs Jaick C. Thomas (Left) vs N Hari (BJP)   Manjeshwar Assembly Constituency: V V Rameshan (Left) vs AKM Ashraf (IUML) vs K Surendran (BJP) BJP state president K Surendran, who lost by just 89 votes in 2016, is contesting from the constituency with high hopes of a victory. The BJP is accusing the Congress-led UDF and CPM-led Left Democratic Front for the lack of development in the constituency apart from triggering the Sabarimala women entry issue. The results for the state's election will be announced on May 2, along with results for West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ldf-vs-udf-vs-bjp-fight-for-kerala-crown-all-set-for-tuesday-970573.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||Congress rakes up Rafale deal once again amid fresh bribery allegations, demands probe||Congress on Monday renewed its attack on the Modi government over alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal after a French media outlet claimed that aircraft makers paid one million euros to alleged middlemen after finalising the fighter jet deal with India. Citing the media report, Congress stepped up attack on the Modi government claiming that the existence of middlemen in the fighter jet purchase was a violation of the Defence Procurement Procedure that made it clear that no payment of commissions would be made in purchase of defence equipment. “Was the payment of 1.1 million euros shown by Dassault as ‘Gifts to Clients’ in reality a commission paid to middleman of the Rafale deal,” Randeep Singh Surjewala, chief spokesperson of the Congress, told reporters here. He called for a fresh investigation into the claims of payment of commission and bribery in the Rafale deal. According to the report by mediapart.fr, French anti-corruption agency – Agence Francaise Anticorruption (AFA) had raised questions about the expenditure of 5,08,925 Euros made by Dassault Aviation under the heading ‘gifts to clients’. According to the report, Dassault had furnished an invoice dated March 30, 2017 by an Indian company Defsys Solutions as justification for the “gift”. “This invoice, which related to 50% of the total order (1,017,850 euros), was for the manufacture of 50 models of the Rafale C, with a price per unit of 20,357 euros,” the report added, quoting the AFA report. “Dassault told the French anti-corruption agency that it paid an Indian firm that was engaged to prepare 59 models of Rafale. No answers were forthcoming when the French officials asked Dassault why it would engage an Indian firm to make models when it was manufacturing the jet itself,” Surjewala said. He pointed out that Defsys Solutions-India was actually a company undertaking assembly of flight simulators and optical and electronic systems and sought to know whether the Prime Minister would now invoke the integrity clause of the DPP to black list Dassault. Surjewala claimed that the “evidence” of a middleman in the Rafale purchase had vitiated the deal and demanded a complete investigation into the case. “How can a ‘middleman’ and ‘payment of commission’ be permitted in a ‘government-to-government defence contract’ or in any Defence procurement in India in violation of the mandatory defence procurement procedure,” Surjewala said. The Congress also pointed out that the then Defence Minister A K Antony had scrapped the AgustaWestland helicopter contract and black-listed the company from participating in Indian defence market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-rakes-up-rafale-deal-once-again-amid-fresh-bribery-allegations-demands-probe-970586.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||AAP questions Centre for sending Covid vaccines across the world, says 'it'll take 15 years to vaccinate Indians'||The AAP questioned the Centre for sending Covid-19 vaccines across the world instead of further accelerating the inoculation drive within the country, claiming it will take at least 15 years to vaccinate the entire population of India at this rate. Addressing a press conference here, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha questioned the reason for "exporting" vaccines and not supplying them to the people in India first. "Vaccination doses have been exported to 84 countries. The amount exported is higher than the number of vaccine doses given to the people in India. Should we care about people from our own country or from other countries?" Chadha said. "Where has the Centre's vaccine nationalism gone? The AAP demands an increase in the rate of vaccinations against Covid-19 so that each and every Indian can get vaccinated," he said. He further claimed that it will take 15 years to vaccinate the entire population of India if the vaccination drive continues at the current pace. "Some scientists say that to contain the virus at least 70 per cent of the population has to be vaccinated. It will take 10 years to inoculate 70 per cent of the population of the country if the vaccination continues at the current pace while at the current pace, vaccinating everyone in the country will take about 15 years," he said. In India, cumulatively, 7,91,05,163 vaccine doses have been administered through 12,31,148 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 90,09,353 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose, 53,43,493 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 97,37,850 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the 1st dose, and 41,33,961 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-questions-centre-for-sending-covid-vaccines-across-the-world-says-itll-take-15-years-to-vaccinate-indians-970588.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||Anil Deshmukh's eventful journey in Maharashtra politics hits a roadblock||Except for the Devendra Fadnavis-led government during 2014-19, Anil Deshmukh has managed to find a berth in the state ministry irrespective of which party came to power in the last over two decades. That journey hit a roadblock on Monday as he quit the Uddhav Thackeray-led ministry after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into the allegations of extortion against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh (70), who hails from Wadvihira village near Katol in Nagpur district, began as an independent MLA in 1995, extending support to the then Shiv Sena-led government - in which BJP was a partner - and was made a minister of state. In 1999, he broke off his ties with the Sena-BJP government and joined the newly-formed Nationalist Congress Party. He won from Katol Assembly seat and was inducted in the Congress-NCP ministry as a cabinet minister in 2001. He was dropped during a cabinet reshuffle and rejoined the ministry in 2009 and held charge of food, civil supplies and consumer protection. Deshmukh lost the 2014 Assembly elections to his nephew but regained the Katol seat in 2019. He recently scored a self-goal in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly while attacking the BJP and claiming how good is the law and order situation in Maharashtra. Deshmukh pointed to the alleged suicide of Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar and also that of an IAS official "from Madhya Pradesh" in Maharashtra, claiming that both felt they would only get justice in Maharashtra and not in their home states that are ruled by the BJP. Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis immediately pointed out that the IAS officer, whom Deshmukh had referred to, hailed from Congress-ruled Chattisgarh. An embarrassed Deshmukh had to set the record straight in the House. Singh is not the first bureaucrat to attack him. In April 2020, he was criticised by a retired IAS officer and chairman of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission Anand Kulkarni, who threatened to "expose" Deshmukh over alleged corruption in the allotment of molasses and transfers of excise officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anil-deshmukhs-eventful-journey-in-maharashtra-politics-hits-a-roadblock-970605.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||BJP president Nadda holds roadshow in Kolkata's Tollygunge area||In a show of might amid the ongoing assembly elections, BJP national president J P Nadda on Monday held a roadshow in Tollygunge area of the city. The roadshow, which commenced at a tram depot at 3.15 pm, is scheduled to culminate at Garia More, spanning a distance of little more than 4 km. It is set to cover Tollygunge assembly constituency and parts of Behala Purba seat, where Union minister Babul Supriyo and actress Payal Sarkar -- a poll debutant -- are respective candidates. Standing atop a lorry, decorated with flowers and BJP flags, Nadda, with Supriyo and Sarkar by his side, was seen waving at the crowd, amid chants of 'Jai Shri Ram', 'Narendra Modi Zindabad' and 'J P Nadda Zindabad' by party supporters. Hundreds of people queued up on both sides of the road as the rally inched forward through the crowded streets. Nadda is scheduled to address a rally in Chuchura, Hooghly district, later in the day. His rally at Sreerampur, however, was cancelled due to unknown reasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-president-nadda-holds-roadshow-in-kolkatas-tollygunge-area-970608.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||Confident of win in Bengal now, later in Delhi: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday asserted that she would win the ongoing state polls despite injury and eventually aim for power in Delhi. Training her guns at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, Banerjee who is seeking a third term in office said that West Bengal will be ruled by its own people. Terming herself as a Royal Bengal Tiger, the TMC chief said, West Bengal will not be ruled by anyone from Gujarat. "I will win Bengal with one leg and Delhi with two legs," Banerjee said. The TMC leader said that she suffered injuries, which were allegedly inflicted on her by BJP supporters in Nandigram on March 10, to prevent her from campaigning for the West Bengal assembly polls, a make or break event for both the TMC and the BJP. However, after going through the report of poll observers, the EC had concluded that the Nandigram incident was an accident and not a planned attack. Criticising the Central government over Sunday's naxal attack in Chhattisgarh in which 22 security personnel were killed, the West Bengal chief minister accused the BJP of not governing the country properly and concentrating on West Bengal elections. Lambasting the BJP for bringing leaders from all over the country, who "are camping in the state to win the elections", Banerjee said at a public meeting here that the saffron party is fielding its sitting MPs for the assembly polls since it has a dearth of suitable candidates. The BJP has nominated Locket Chatterjee, its Lok Sabha MP from Hooghly, for the Chunchura assembly seat. Banerjee, who has been accused by the prime minister of showering abuses on him on different occasions in the run up to the elections, said that she does not care about Modi calling her "Didi..o... didi" in a tone which some TMC women leaders have termed as sarcastic. "He does this everyday, I don't care," Banerjee said. Questioning the logic behind holding West Bengal assembly elections in eight phases, she said, "It could have been done in 3 or 4 phases. "Was it not prudent to hold the elections in fewer phases and wrap it up early in view of the Covid-19 situation?" the chief minister asked. Banerjee also claimed that the coronavirus situation is not grim in the state till now. The country recorded an all-time high of 1,03,558coronavirus infections in a day pushingthe nationwide Covid-19 tally to1,25,89,067, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. In West Bengal, 1,957 more people had tested positive for the infection on Sunday. Admitting wrongdoings by sitting TMC MLAs Tapan Majumdar and Tapan Dasgupta of Chunchura and Saptagram respectively, who have been fielded by the ruling party, the TMC supremo asked voters to forgive them and give them an opportunity "as they will not do it again". "We will be in big problem if we do not win from Hooghly district," she said. The TMC, which had a sway over most of the 18 assembly seats in Hooghly district till the 2016 assembly polls, lost a lot of ground to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. She claimed that the Centre has refused permission to the TMC government in the state to take over the closed Jessop and Dunlop Industries situated in Hooghly district, leaving thousands of employees of these two companies, in the lurch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/confident-of-win-in-bengal-now-later-in-delhi-mamata-banerjee-970609.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||CM Uddhav Thackeray’s silence is disturbing, says BJP leader Fadnavis||Hours after NCP’s Anil Deshmukh put in his papers Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis questioned the silence of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. “I am surprised at the Chief Minister’s silence…his silence on the entire issue is disturbing,” said Fadnavis, a senior BJP leader and former chief minister. Fadnavis, who held the home portfolio for five years, said that Deshmukh should have resigned long back.  “The resignation came only after the Bombay High Court order (on CBI probe)…there have been serious allegations against the minister and top police officials…but so far the chief minister has not spoken a word,” said Fadnavis. “This is not a compromise to save the government but a compromise with the dignity of the people of the state,” he said even as he lashed out at the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. He reiterated that the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government is an “auto-rickshaw government” with the three wheels moving in three different directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cm-uddhav-thackeray-s-silence-is-disturbing-says-bjp-leader-fadnavis-970636.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||'Completely baseless', says BJP on Rafale bribe allegations||The BJP on Monday rejected as “completely baseless” the allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal suggesting that reports in the French media in this regard could be on account of "corporate rivalry" in that country. On Congress’s demand for a fresh investigation into the bribery allegations, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the Opposition party had made the Rafale deal an election issue in 2019 and lost badly. “The Congress is raising the Rafale issue again. It lost in the Supreme Court. They campaigned in the 2019 polls on the Rafale issue, threw all kinds of abuses at the prime minister and still lost. How many seats did it get? ” Prasad asked. He said that Sushen Gupta, the middleman whose name has figured in the report by the French media outlet on the Rafale deal, was arrested in the AgustaWestland case by the Enforcement Directorate in 2019. The Congress on Monday renewed its attack on the Modi government over alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal after a French media outlet claimed that aircraft makers paid one million euros to alleged middlemen after finalising the fighter jet deal with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/completely-baseless-says-bjp-on-rafale-bribe-allegations-970638.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||Two West Bengal districts hold key to TMC's return to power||With the BJP seeking to breach TMC fortresses in Bengal, two of the biggest districts -- North and South 24 Parganas -- seem to hold the key in the state's action-packed electoral battle. Together, the two districts send 64 representatives to the 294-member assembly -- North-24 Parganas having 33 seats and South-24 Parganas 31. The TMC had swept both the districts in 2011 and 2016, and had successfully cemented the foundation of the Mamata Banerjee camp in the state. In 2016, the party had bagged 27 of the 33 seats in North 24 Parganas, and all but two seats in the minority-dominated South-24 Parganas. The saffron party, during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, managed to make a dent in the TMC's citadel in North-24 Parganas, but failed to chart its course in South-24 Parganas. "This time, too, winning seats in both the districts would be the key to retaining power. The BJP, through threat and intimidation, had made inroads in certain areas during the general election. But we have taken adequate measure to stop the saffron party's juggernaut," state minister and TMC's North-24 Parganas district president Jyotipriyo Mullick said. Echoing him, party colleague and his counterpart in South-24 Parganas, Subhasish Chakraborty, said voters will reject the "divisive forces", and the TMC will emerge stronger in the area. With state capital Kolkata locked in between, both the districts share border with Bangladesh, and house a significant refugee population. It was the Left Front dispensation that had split 24- Parganas into two separate districts in 1980 for ease of governance. Prior to that, during the Congress rule, 24- Parganas stretched from Kamarhati in the North to Sagar Island in the South. The Left, however, lost its influence in these areas -- home to a large number of minorities -- after the Sachar Committee report in 2008 painted a dismal picture of the living conditions of Muslims. Add to that, the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram and Singur projected the TMC, led by Mamata Banerjee, as the new alternative. South 24 Parganas, along with East Midnapore district, was the first two zilla parishads that the TMC had wrested from the mighty Left in 2008. Over the years, however, rampant infighting in the TMC camp, and communal riots in these two districts started taking a toll on the TMC's prospects, and the BJP managed to bag two of the five Lok Sabha seats in North-24 Parganas in 2019. The saffron party, which had made the citizenship law one of its poll planks during the general election, was able to woo a section of the refugees, especially those from the Matua community, and the Bongaon Lok Sabha seat subsequently fell on its lap. Matuas are a deciding factor in 14 out of the 33 assembly seats in North-24 Parganas. The TMC, notwithstanding a strong BJP wave, managed to win all the Lok Sabha seats in South-24 Parganas.  However, the recent exodus of elected representatives and local leaders has become a matter of concern for the Mamata Banerjee camp, as the defectors include five MLAs from the two districts. The BJP, at present, has one elected representative from Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas, as Pawan Kumar Singh bagged the assembly seat during a bypoll. Adding to TMC's woes, the newly floated Indian Secular Front, which has stitched an alliance with the Left and the Congress, is seeking to checkmate the ruling party in some of its strangleholds in South-24 Parganas, which have a significant minority population. "The TMC has done nothing for the minorities, and they will get a befitting reply in South-24 Parganas district," ISF president Naushad Siddiqui, who is contesting the elections from Bhangore assembly seat, claimed. Despite the odds stacked up against the ruling party, which also include rampant infiltration, row over cattle smuggling and graft allegations during Amphan relief distribution, a well-oiled election machinery, strong foundation, and decisive district leadership may work in its favour in south Bengal. In North-24 Parganas, the TMC hopes to politically exploit the confusion over CAA implementation to curry favour with the Matua community, which had voted hands down in favour of the saffron camp in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The ruling party has also fielded greenhorns and swapped candidates in several seats to beat the anti-incumbency wave. The BJP, which is undertaking power-packed poll campaigns led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah -- is hopeful of winning more than 50 per cent of the seats in the two districts. "We will be able to bag 60 per cent of the seats in North 24 Parganas, if not more. In South-24 Parganas, too, we will fare well, with at least 50 per cent seats in our kitty," BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said. Elections in South and North-24 Parganas are being held in three and two phases respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-west-bengal-districts-hold-key-to-tmcs-return-to-power-970640.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||No one ever succeeded by intimidating Bengalis: Jaya Bachchan||In an apparent dig at the BJP, Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan said on Monday that no one has ever succeeded by "intimidating" Bengalis. Addressing a press conference at the Trinamool Congress headquarters here, the veteran actor hailed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, asserting that she was fighting a battle all alone for democracy in Bengal. Bachchan said that she was in West Bengal to campaign for the TMC on the instruction of her party chief Akhilesh Yadav. "Mamata is fighting all alone against the atrocities, and for democratic rights of the people of Bengal. Her leg is broken, but she is still fighting," Bachchan said. She said no one has ever succeeded by "intimidating" Bengalis, in an apparent dig, targetting the BJP. "Bengalis never bow their heads before threat or intimidation," she added. Bachchan said shame on them who are criticising Banerjee. "She is fighting for the rights and respect of the people of Bengal. This is is the safest state for women. Those who are criticising her, I would only say shame, shame!" she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-one-ever-succeeded-by-intimidating-bengalis-jaya-bachchan-970643.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||J P Nadda's rallies in Bengal cancelled||The BJP on Tuesday cancelled both the rallies of party president J P Nadda in Hooghly district after he had to rush back to New Delhi for an "urgent meeting". The BJP party chief's meeting at Sreerampur in the morning was cancelled due to unknown reasons. Nadda, however, participated in a roadshow in the afternoon to canvass for Union minister Babul Supriyo and actress Payal Sarkar, a poll debutant, who are contesting from Tollygunge and Behala Purba assembly constituencies respectively. The roadshow in the Tollygunge area of the city covered a little more than 4 km from Toyllygunge's tram depot to Garia More. His rally later in the evening at Chunchura also in Hooghly district, was also cancelled. The state BJP said his rallies were cancelled as he had to rush back to Delhi to attend an "urgent meeting" without giving any details of the meeting. The TMC, however, said Nadda did not attend rallies as attendance at these meets were thin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-p-naddas-rallies-in-bengal-cancelled-970701.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||Shah campaigning with film stars as Naxals struck: Congress||Congress on Monday kept up the attack on Home Minister Amit Shah alleging that he did not respond to the ambush of security forces by naxalites in Chhattisgarh and continued his election campaign Tamil Nadu. Congress leaders claimed that the operation against naxalites in Bijapur-Sukma region was being carried out under direct supervision of the Security Advisor to the Centre, a former CRPF chief who has a direct hotline to the Home Minister, was present at the site. “It is the responsibility of the Home Minister to put an end to naxalism. … He was busy campaigning in elections in Tamil Nadu and Assam when security forces were being martyred in Chhattisgarh,” Randeep Singh Surjewala said. “The attack on security forces took place at 11:00 am on Saturday, but their leader was taking part in a roadshow in Tamil Nadu with a film actress,” he said referring to the poll campaign of Kushbu Sundar, who quit the Congress recently and joined the BJP. Asked about Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel’s presence in Assam for the poll campaign, Surjewala said the fight against naxalites was a Centre-led exercise with the state government playing an assisting role. “The Home Minister can do road show with film stars, hold public rallies, be in three different states, not come back to Delhi and then do as a great favour by canceling the last two rallies in Assam and not be held accountable or not to be asked questions, I don’t think so, that should be the yardstick in this country,” Surjewala said. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi alleged that the operation against naxals in Chhattisgarh was “incompetently” executed and “poorly designed”. “Our jawans are not cannon fodder to be martyred at will,” Rahul said and demanded that every soldier be given body armour for protection. “No Indian jawan should face an enemy without body armour in the 21st century. It needs to be made available to every soldier,” the Lok Sabha member from Wayanad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shah-campaigning-with-film-stars-as-naxals-struck-congress-970715.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||Congress demands dismissal of B S Yediyurappa government||The Congress on Monday demanded dismissal of B S Yediyurappa's government in Karnataka following allegations made by Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa. "Eshwarappa's letter to the Governor of Karnataka clearly indicated that there was large scale corruption in the government. The BJP government in Karnataka indulged in looting public money," Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters. Since the senior Minister made a direct allegation against the Chief Minister, Yediyurappa has no moral right to continue as the CM, he said. Last week, Eshwarappa had alleged that the CM has been interfering in his departmental works.    He also alleged that the Chief Minister is trying to protect former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and harass the victim in sex CD case. Demanding the immediate arrest of Jarkiholi, he questioned why the govenment is not arresting him even after the victim complained against the BJP leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-demands-dismissal-of-b-s-yediyurappa-government-970728.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||EC issues showcause notice to BJP leader over his 'encounter' barb||Controversy erupted in Bengals Birbhum area, after the BJP's district president, Dhruva Saha, said people raising 'Pakistan zindabad' slogan "will face (police) encounter", once the BJP assumes power in the state, following which the Election Commission issued a showcause notice to the saffron party leader. A video clip of Saha's speech, delivered during an election campaign on Sunday in Nanoor, has also gone viral on social media platforms. The EC has asked him to furnish a reply in 24 hours. "On May 2, the BJP will assume power in West Bengal. Those who have betrayed the country, raised 'Pakistan zindabad' slogans will definitely face (police) encounter after May 2," Saha said. Earlier in March, a local Birbhum leader, surrounded by supporters who held a TMC poster, was heard stating "four Pakistan can be created if India's 30 per cent Muslims unite. The TMC, however, had distanced itself from the comment, stating that Sheikh Alam, seen in the video, is not a member of the TMC, and the party doesn't support what he said. Nanoor in Birbhum district, where the BJP has fielded Tarak Saha, is scheduled to go to polls on April 29, during the eighth phase of the ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-issues-showcause-notice-to-bjp-leader-over-his-encounter-barb-970746.html
05-04-2021||National Politics||Vote to strengthen Congress nationally: Sonia Gandhi to Kerala voters||Locked in a fierce contest with the CPI(M)-led LDF in Kerala, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday urged voters to reject the “authoritarian and dictatorial leadership” and vote for the Congress-led UDF to strengthen the party nationally. Gandhi, in a statement on the eve of the polls, said a vote for UDF would also strengthen the Congress nationally and help it “confront the divisive forces who are damaging and destroying all that India has stood for and represented for twenty centuries and more.”  “I am confident that you will reject authoritarian and dictatorial leadership and once again place your trust and confidence in the Congress and the UDF,” Gandhi said. She noted that the pain and distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic have been managed to some extent because of schemes launched by the UPA such as the MGNREGA, women’s self-help groups and social security schemes. “A vote for the UDF is a vote for bringing Kerala back on the path of development that ensures a decent, guaranteed monthly income to all families but particularly to the poor and the disadvantaged, to the Scheduled Castes and Sscheduled Tribes, to fishermen and women, to widows and the aged,” the Congress president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vote-to-strengthen-congress-nationally-sonia-gandhi-to-kerala-voters-970768.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||ISJK commander arrested in Jammu; terror strike averted, says IGP||A terror strike by the Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) was averted in the Union Territory with the arrest of a self-styled commander of the outfit here on Sunday, Inspector General of Police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh said. Malik Umair alias Abdullah, a resident of Yaripora village in south Kashmir's Kulgam, was arrested by the Special Operations Group of the Jammu police from Jhajjar Kotli on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the officer said. "The terrorist was arrested on a specific information around 7 pm and a pistol, eight rounds and Rs 1.13 lakh were seized from his possession. With his arrest, a terror attack by the outfit has been averted," he said. Singh said the major success came when police started checking at Jhajjar Kotli after being tipped-off about the possible movement of a terrorist commander. "One person tried to flee and was chased and apprehended, from whom a pistol and cash, concealed in a bag, were seized," he said, adding that the man later turned out to be a commander of the ISJK. During inquiry, the terrorist revealed that he had received the delivery of the weapon and cash to carry out a terror strike in the Union Territory. The accused has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and further investigation in on, the IGP said. He said it has come to light that the arrested terrorist was in touch with a number of ISJK operatives and efforts are on to nab them||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/isjk-commander-arrested-in-jammu-terror-strike-averted-says-igp-970443.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||118-year-old woman gets her first Covid-19 dose in Madhya Pradesh||A woman, whose age according to her Aadhaar card is 118 years, has received her first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh. She was administered the dose at an inoculation facility in the Khimlasa area near here on Saturday. After getting the jab, Tulsabai came out of the centre with a broad smile on her face and flashing a victory sign, and said in Bundelkhendi dialect, "Hamne lagwao teeka so ache hojen. So tum bhi lagwaao so ache ho ja ho. Kuchhu dikkat nainuaan...(I took the vaccine so that I feel better. You also take it. No worries.)" She is possibly the oldest woman in the country to get the vaccine. According to her Aadhaar card 790309436468, Tulsabai was born on January 1, 1903, and is a resident of the Sadarpur area of Sagar, which is part of the Bundelkhand region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/118-year-old-woman-gets-her-first-covid-19-dose-in-madhya-pradesh-970445.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday received his first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine here and he appealed to all those eligible to get inoculated. "Today I have taken first dose of 'swadeshi' coronavirus vaccine at Lucknow's Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Civil Hospital. I appeal to all those eligible to take vaccine to make UP 'Corona Free'. Come, we all contribute in the fight against the coronavirus," the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. आज मैंने लखनऊ स्थित डॉ. श्यामा प्रसाद मुखर्जी (सिविल) अस्पताल में स्वदेशी कोरोना वैक्सीन की प्रथम डोज प्राप्त की। Adityanath also posted a picture in which he is seen taking the jab. Nurse Rashmi Jeet Singh administered Bharat Biotech's Covaxin to the chief minister at the hospital.   Singh, who is the nursing officer at the health facility, told PTI that the "chief minister took all information regarding the vaccine and after taking the jab, waited for 30 minutes before leaving the hospital". "The chief minister also appealed to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine," she said. He also asked people to take all precaution as Covid-19 cases are rising again, Singh said. The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh rose to 8,881 on Sunday with 31 more fatalities in the state while 4,164 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 6,30,059.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-970512.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh Naxal attack: A search operation went wrong||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is visiting Chattisgarh on Sunday and will meet jawans hurt in the Maoist attack in Bastar region wherein 22 were martyred.  In the biggest massacre in more than a year, police have so far recovered bullet-riddled bodies of 22 security personnel in the jungles. Here is a rundown on what led to the incident and the aftermath: According to police officials, in a major joint offensive, separate joint teams of security forces, comprising over 2,000 personnel, launched an anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered as a Maoist stronghold, on April 2 night. The ambush was led by some 400 Maoists who surrounded the jawans from three sides in an area devoid of vegetation and rained on them machine gunfire as well as IEDs for several hours, officials said on April 3. Some 10-12 Naxals are also believed to have died in the fierce gunbattle that ensued. The security forces had launched a search and destroy operation along the border of Bijapur-Sukma district after they got inputs of Maoists presence in the area. After receiving intelligence inputs that the Naxals were conducting a counter-offensive exercise in the area, a contingent of about 790 personnel set out towards the Jagargunda-Jongaguda-Tarrem axis at dawn, the officials said. At least 400 Naxals suspected to be led by the most wanted Maoist commander and leader of the so-called 'People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) battalion no 1 — Hidma — and his associate Sujatha ambushed the forces in an area that is a strong-hold of the Maoists due to the difficult terrain, large tracts of forests and a smaller number of security forces camps, an officer said.  'Planned Naxal ambush?' On Monday, several media reports citing security officials reported that the forces on Saturday were acting on "faulty intel." However, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and CRPF Director General Kuldeep Singh denied any such failure. "There is no point in saying there was some kind of intelligence or operational failure. Had it been some intelligence failure, forces would have not gone for the operation. And if there was some operational failure, so many Maoists would have not been killed," Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Rubbishing claims of "a meticulously planned Naxal ambush", Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said, "Security forces fought bravely and inflicted a heavy blow to the ultras during the face-off." However, another senior police official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI that the Naxals were strategically positioned on a hillock in front of Tekalguda village and around it, inviting scepticism on whether the attack was a planned Naxal ambush or a joint offensive. The operation was launched from five places — Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (in Bijapur), and Minpa and Narsapuram (in Sukma), the official said. Visuals from the spot showed bodies of the slain jawans lying in the field and on the village streets. Chhattisgarh's Deputy Inspector General (anti-Naxal operation) O P Pal claimed that the Maoists suffered a huge loss in the gunfight. Only the body of a woman Naxal could be recovered from the spot amid heavy exchange of fire. 22 Jawans martyred A total of 22 security personnel were killed and 31 others injured in the gunfight with Naxals. Out of the total fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven commandos of the CoBRA (CRPF's elite unit) and one jawan of the Bastariya battalion, eight of the other deceased were from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six from the Special Task Force (STF). One jawan is still missing, officials said. A history of violence As many as 14 of the 27 districts in Chhattisgarh are affected by Left Wing Extremism violence. The April 2 attack comes after the March 23 incident when five DRG personnel were killed as the Maoists blew up a bus carrying the security personnel with an IED in the Narayanpur district of the state. On March 21 last year, 17 security personnel were killed in a Naxal ambush in the Minpa area of Sukma district. On April 9, 2019, BJP MLA Bhima Mandavi and four security personnel were killed after Naxals blew up their vehicle with an IED in Dantewada district. On April 24, 2017, 25 CRPF personnel were killed in a Naxal ambush in Burkapal area of Sukma district. In March 2017, 12 CRPF jawans were killed in a Maoist attack in Sukma district. In November 2016, two CRPF jawans were injured in a pressure bomb blast triggered by Naxals in the dense forest of Sukma district. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-naxal-attack-a-search-operation-went-wrong-970518.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah pays homage to security personnel martyred in Naxal attack||Union Home Minister Amit Shah attended a wreath-laying ceremony here on Monday to pay homage to the security personnel who lost their lives in a gun battle with Naxals in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region. Twenty-two security personnel were killed and 31 others injured in the gunfight with Naxals between Jonaguda and Tekalguda villages along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts on Saturday. After arriving in Chhattisgarh's Jagdalpur town from Delhi, Shah reached the Police Lines here, where the mortal remains of 14 security personnel were kept in coffins draped with the national flag, to pay his last respects. Shah, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and other dignitaries laid the wreath on the mortal remains of the security personnel. The wreath-laying ceremony of other martyred jawans, who belonged to the Bijapur district, was held in the Bijapur town where local public representatives and senior officials were present. It is Shah's first visit to the Bastar region after assuming the charge of Union home minister, an official said. Shah is scheduled to chair a high-level meeting at the Police Coordination Centre here on the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) situation. Chief Minister Baghel, senior officials of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will attend the meeting, he said. Shah will then leave for the Basaguda camp of the CRPF in Bijapur in a chopper and will have interaction and lunch with the CRPF and state police personnel there, he said. He will later go to Raipur and visit three hospitals where the injured personnel are admitted. Shah will leave for Delhi at 5.30 pm on Monday. The Union home minister on Sunday vowed a befitting response to Naxals and said the battle against the extremists will be won through joint efforts of the central and state governments. Out of the total 22 fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven commandos of the CoBRA battalion (CRPF's elite unit) and one jawan of the Bastariya battalion, eight of the other deceased were from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six from the Special Task Force (STF). One jawan is still missing, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-pays-homage-to-security-personnel-martyred-in-naxal-attack-970554.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||UP police team leaves for Punjab to bring back Mukhtar Ansari||A team of the Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday left for Punjab to bring back gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who faces trial in several cases in the state, officials said. Punjab's home department in a letter had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take custody of Ansari from the Rupnagar jail on or before April 8. It had written to the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home) following a March 26 Supreme Court order that had directed the Punjab government to transfer the BSP's Mau MLA to UP's Banda jail in two weeks from the Rupnagar prison, where he has been since January 2019 in connection with an extortion case. "A team of over 80 Uttar Pradesh Police personnel equipped with sophisticated weapons and a company of the Provincial Armed Constabulary left from Banda on Monday morning to bring back Ansari from Punjab," a senior police official said. Delivering the order on Macrh 26, the apex court had also noted that Ansari was allegedly involved in various cases of attempt to murder, murder, cheating and conspiracy apart from offences under the Gangsters Act, lodged in Uttar Pradesh and 10 of these cases are at different stages of trial. Acting Superintendent of the Banda District Jail Pramod Tiwari said that for Ansari, all arrangements have been made in Barrack Number-15, where no other prisoner can reach. "Three prison guards will be deployed inside the barrack," he said. In the letter, the Punjab Home Department had asked the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (Home) for suitable arrangements to be made for Ansari’s transfer. "The said handover is to be made at district jail Rupnagar on/before April 8," the letter stated. It also said that Ansari suffered from certain medical conditions and the same may be kept in mind while making arrangements for his transfer. Additional Director General of Police, Allahabad Zone, Prem Prakash had on Sunday said that an ambulance will part of the convoy going to Punjab. Mukhtar Ansari's brother Afzal Ansari, who is the MP from Ghazipur, on Sunday had said, "The safety of Mukhtar after he comes to the UP jail is the responsibility of the judiciary and of the Yogi Adityanath government. The court should monitor the safety and medical facilities."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-team-leaves-for-punjab-to-bring-back-mukhtar-ansari-970562.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Betul cops make Covid-19 violators watch awareness film||Several people moving about without any valid reason amid Covid-19 restrictions in Ganj police station area in Madhya Pradesh's Betul were made to watch an animation film on the outbreak to create awareness among them, an official said on Monday. Lockdown was imposed in Betul, bordering Maharashtra, on April 2 and it was in force till 6am on Monday, he said. "Those found loitering in the area without any valid reason were made to watch an animation film about Covid-19 awareness. These people were made to take an oath that they would not come out of their houses needlessly amid outbreak restrictions," Ganj police station in charge Praveen Kumar Kumre said. In the last 24 hours, Betul district has seen 63 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally here to 4,965, including 83 deaths, a health official said. It stands at ninth place among MP's 52 districts as far as Covid-19 numbers are concerned, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/betul-cops-make-covid-19-violators-watch-awareness-film-970584.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Arch of world's highest railway bridge on Chenab river in J&K completed||The construction of the arch of the world's highest railway bridge that soars 359 metres above the bed of the Chenab river in Jammu and Kashmir was completed on Monday, with the Northern Railways terming the achievement a milestone. The 1.3-kilometre-long bridge aims to boost connectivity to the Kashmir Valley and it is being constructed at a cost of Rs 1,486 crore as part of the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Railway Link (USBRL) project. The bridge, which is 35-metre higher than the Eiffel Tower in Paris, is expected to be completed within a year, officials said. "It is a historic day for the Northern Railways and a milestone in the completion of the USBRL project, connecting Kashmir with the rest of the country. The project will be completed within two and a half years," Northern Railway General Manager Ashutosh Gangal told reporters at the work site here in Reasi district. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal watched the lowering of the closure segment of the arch by cable crane through a video link from Delhi. Senior officers, including Gangal and Konkan Railway Chairman and Managing Director Sanjay Gupta, attended the function here. "The self-supporting arch is an engineering marvel and has brought us closer to our goal of the dream project. After the completion of the arch, we will move further, and are hopeful of completing the bridge within a year," Gangal said. The Railway Ministry said that the 5.6-metre last piece of metal (closure segment) was fitted at the highest point of the arch on Monday. It joined the two arms of the arch that currently stretch towards each other from both banks of the Chenab, it said. "This completed the shape of the arch. After completion of the arch work, removal of the stay cables, filling of the concrete in the arch rib, erection of the steel trestle, launching of the viaduct and track laying work will be taken up," the ministry said. Gangal said that the construction of the bridge involves fabrication of 28,660 metric tonnes of steel, 10 lakh cubic metres earthwork and 66,000 cubic metres of concrete. "The arch consists of steel boxes in which concrete will be filled to improve stability. The stay cables which are presently holding the arch will be removed as it has become self-supporting after the installation of the last piece," Gangal said. He said the overall weight of the arch is 10,619 metric tonnes and "the erection of members of the arch by overhead cable cranes was done for the first time by the Indian Railways". Talking about safety measures, Gangal said the bridge was designed for blast load in consultation with the Defence Research and Development Organisation. This is the first such design in the country and it can remain operational at a restricted speed of 30 kmph after removal of one pier or trestle, he said. The bridge is designed to withstand high wind speed of up to 266 kmph and earthquake forces of highest intensity, Gangal said. For the first time, the Indian Railways used phased array ultrasonic machines and established a NABL-accredited lab at the site for weld testing, he said. "Approximately 584 kilometers of welding was done to join the different parts of structure, which is to the tune of distance between Jammu Tawi to New Delhi," the ministry said. The chairman of the Konkan Railways Sanjay Gupta said that the real challenge was the construction of the arch which was completed today. "Some people were apprehensive about its construction but this has finally happened with the installation of the last piece. This is the heart of this project," he said. On the construction of the arch, the ministry said that this was one of the most difficult part of the bridge. "This achievement is a major leap towards the completion of the 111-km-long winding stretch from Katra to Banihal. It is arguably the biggest civil-engineering challenge faced by any railway project in India in recent history," it said. "This bridge is 1,315-metre long and is the highest railway bridge in the world being 359 metres above the river bed level. It will be 35 meters higher than the iconic Eiffel Tower in Paris (France)," the ministry said. The sophisticated ‘Tekla’ software has been used for structural detailing and the structural steel is suitable for -10 degrees Celsius to 40 degrees Celsius, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arch-of-worlds-highest-railway-bridge-on-chenab-river-in-jk-completed-970590.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Sahada bypoll: Rajasthan BJP rebel Pitliya meets state chief as Congress attacks rival party||Rajasthan BJP rebel Ladulal Pitliya Monday met its state chief here who said he has agreed to campaign for the party's candidate in the Sahada Assembly bypoll, even as the Congress alleged the saffron party had forced him to withdraw his nomination as an independent candidate. Pitliya was earlier with the BJP but had decided to contest the upcoming assembly bypoll in Sahada as an independent candidate after he was denied a ticket by the party. However, he withdrew his papers Friday. Rajasthan Congress Chief Govind Singh Dotasra Monday attacked the BJP over the issue by referring to an audio clip that purportedly had a conversation between the BJP MLA and party whip and a VHP leader in Bhilwara about allegedly forcing Pitliya to withdraw his nomination papers. "The language used against Pitliya in the audio describes how the BJP has crossed all limits to strangle democracy. There is a question mark whether there will be democratic elections in the country and states in future under the Modi regime or not," Dotasra told reporters. Pitliya earlier in the day met BJP state president Satish Poonia, who said the former has agreed to campaign in support of the party candidate in Sahada. "Pitliya withdrew his nomination because he felt he would get more chances in the future," Poonia told media. Dotasra, however, alleged, "The BJP fears defeat so much that they threatened Pitliya and forced him to withdraw his nomination." A total of 27 candidates are contesting the by-poll in Sahada (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand constituencies, to be held on April 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sahada-bypoll-rajasthan-bjp-rebel-pitliya-meets-state-chief-as-congress-attacks-rival-party-970617.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||IAF helicopters begin firefighting operations in Uttarakhand||IAF helicopters on Monday began firefighting operations in Uttarakhand, conducting several sorties over the burning forests in Garhwal region of the state to spray water over the raging flames and extinguish them. An Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter with a bucket carrying around 3,500 litres of water from Tehri lake was deployed to douse the forest fire in Gaja, Pokhri and Quili in the district, said Narendra Nagar DFO and the nodal officer of the campaign D S Meena. The helicopter has made four sorties so far to extinguish the fires in these forests located in Narendra Nagar area of the district, he said. Similar sorties will also be conducted by the IAF helicopter on Tuesday to pour water over the burning forests of Thauldhar block of the district, Tehri DFO Koko Rose said. Boating activities in the Tehri lake were kept suspended during the day so that the IAF helicopter can collect water from the lake in an uninterrupted way. Meanwhile, another IAF helicopter stationed in Kumaon for the purpose could not undertake sorties due to low visibility caused by a thick cover of smoke emanating from the smouldering forests, Kumaon DFO Tejaswini Patil Dhakate said. There are 40 active fire spots in the forests of Garhwal and Kumaon regions with Nainital, Almora, Tehri and Pauri districts being the worst-hit, forest officials said. Since January this year, there have been 983 incidents of forest fire in the state affecting 1,292 hectares of land, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-helicopters-begin-firefighting-operations-in-uttarakhand-970621.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Dharamshala MC polls: Anurag Thakur for BJP's 'triple engine' govt||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Monday said Himachal Pradesh has a double engine BJP government and appealed to the people to put in place a "third engine" by voting for the party in the Dharamshala Municipal Corporation election. "The Dharamshala Municipal Corporation was controlled by the Congress in the past five years, but they did nothing to uplift the city despite the availability of funds. There is an immediate need to increase the facilities here to attract more visitors from all over the world," he told reporters. In the outgoing municipal corporation, the Congress has 13 corporators and the BJP four "We want to organise World Cup match again this year in Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association Stadium. Work will have to be done fast so that better facilities can be provided to the players and the visitors," Thakur added. Thakur, the Union Minister of State for Finance, said there is a double engine BJP government already working in Himachal Pradesh and now "we can put a third engine here" by helping win the BJP in the municipal corporation election in Dharamshala in Kangra district. Municipal corporation polls in Dharamshala will be held on April 7 and the results will be declared on the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dharamshala-mc-polls-anurag-thakur-for-bjps-triple-engine-govt-970646.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Muzaffarnagar riots: BJP MLA Vikram Saini surrenders before court; gets bail||BJP MLA Vikram Saini surrendered before a court here on Monday in a case related to defiling a place of worship and triggering communal hatred during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. A judge of the special court granted bail to Saini, the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Khatauli, on condition that he furnishes two sureties of Rs 25,000 each. The court also directed him to appear on April 22 for further hearing. The Muzaffarnagar police had booked Saini under sections 153A and 295 of the Indian Penal Code, respectively for promoting communal enmity and defiling a place of worship in Kawal village under Jansath police station on February 21, 2013 during communal riots in the district. A former Kawal village Panchayat ‘pradhan’, Sani was elected to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly in 2017. He also faces another case of attempt to murder along with 27 others during the 2013 riot in the district. In this attempt-to-murder case against him, Saini had appeared in the court in 2020. He had been earlier arrested and released on bail in 2014 for his alleged role in the riots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muzaffarnagar-riots-bjp-mla-vikram-saini-surrenders-before-court-gets-bail-970651.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: A jawan who longed to visit his dream house||Samaiya Madvi, a jawan of the 'Bastariya' Batallion, had promised his family members that he would come home soon on a long leave and enjoy the stay in their "dream house" built by him only two months ago in Awapalli village in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh. On Saturday, Madvi, who was in his 20s, fell to bullets of Naxals along with 21 other security personnel in a fierce gun battle along the Bijapur-Sukma border. A jawan of the 'Bastariya' Battalion, which was raised by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to recruit local youths in combating ultras, Madvi had joined the police force as a constable five years ago, his family member said on Monday. The father of a 10-month-old son, Madvi's dream was to build a house of his own, which became a reality just two months ago, said his cousin brother Shankar Madvi. "Even the 'Grihpravesh' (rituals performed before entering a new house) ceremony was performed. Madvi had told his family members that he would return soon on leave to enjoy a good time in his house. However, destiny wished otherwise. Instead of Madvi, his mortal remains have reached the new house," he said. Besides Madvi, seven young men from Bijapur district in the Bastar region also lost their lives while fighting Naxals. "The martyrdom of these youths from Bastar will cost dear to rebels in the coming days as the people have started speaking against Naxals who have been banking on the support of villagers for their operations," relatives of some of the slain jawans said. Bheema Sodi, brother of slain District Reserve Guard (DRG) head constable Narayan Sodi, said resentment was growing among villagers against ultras. Narayan Sodi was a native of Punnur village, also in Awapalli area. "There are anger and grief among the villagers, but there is no fear (of Naxals). The ultras are frustrated as many youths from villages have joined the police force," Bheema Sodi said. Of the total five brothers in the Sodi family, four had joined the police force except me, he recalled. "I am proud that my brother has sacrificed his life while serving the motherland," Bheema Sodi said. In Mohada village in Gariaband district, villagers are awaiting the body of slain Special Task Force (STF) constable Sukhsingh Faras. Faras, who got married one-and-a-half-years ago, became a father just four months ago. Out of the total 22 jawans killed in the ambush, the CRPF lost eight personnel, including seven commandos of its elite CoBRA unit and a jawan of its Bastariya battalion. Others included eight personnel of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six jawans of the Special Task Force (STF). One jawan is still missing, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-a-jawan-who-longed-to-visit-his-dream-house-970653.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||North India likely to receive rainfall from April 5-9||The hilly areas of north India and the plains are likely to receive widespread rainfall from April 5-9, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. It said heatwave conditions are very likely in isolated pockets over southwest Rajasthan during the next 24 hours, over east Rajasthan during the next two days, over Maharashtra's Vidarbha during the next three days and over Madhya Pradesh during April 7-9. It said a fresh western disturbance is very likely to affect western the Himalayan region from April 6. Under its influence, scattered to widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh during April 5-7 and over Uttarakhand during April 6-9. Isolated thunderstorm, lightning/gusty winds over the western Himalayan region during April 5-7 and over adjoining plains during April 6-7. Isolated rainfall over Punjab, Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh during April 5-7. Hailstorm is also likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad on April 6 over Himachal Pradesh on April 5 and 6 and over Uttarakhand on April 6-7, the Meteorological (MeT) Department said. The IMD said dust storm/thunderstorm and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kilometres per hour) likely at isolated places over west Rajasthan during April 5-7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/north-india-likely-to-receive-rainfall-from-april-5-9-970667.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||VVIP chopper scam: Delhi court grants bail to businessman in money laundering case||A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to businessman Anoop Kumar Gupta in connection with a money laundering case related to the alleged Rs 3,600-crore VVIP chopper scam. Special Judge Arvind Kumar granted the relief to the accused noting that the investigation will take time to complete and he has been in custody since January 29, 2021. As per Enforcement Directorate's allegations, the accused had through his companies committed the offence of money laundering in respect of proceeds of crime amounting to USD 24,624,298. “The accused is admitted to bail on his furnishing personal bond in the sum of Rs 5 lakh with two sureties of the like amount with further conditions that the accused shall not tamper with evidence and shall not try to contact or influence the witnesses..,” the court said. It further directed the accused to join the probe as and when called by the investigating officer, and will not leave India without the permission of the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vvip-chopper-scam-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-businessman-in-money-laundering-case-970676.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 3,548 fresh cases of Covid-19, 15 more deaths in a day||The national capital recorded 3,548 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, while 15 more people succumbed to the infection taking the death toll to 11,096, according to the Delhi health department. The case positivity rate also rose to 5.54 per cent amid a massive surge in cases in the last few weeks. Meanwhile, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday said as the city is reeling under the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic and as such testing capacity has been ramped up and micro-containment zones being set up in areas where two or more cases are getting reported. The number of cumulative cases on Monday stood at 6,79,962. Over 6.54 lakh patients have recovered from the disease. Delhi had reported 4,033 cases and 21 deaths on Sunday. The city had recorded 3,567 cases on Saturday and 3,594 cases on Friday. On December 8, last year, the city had recorded 3,188 cases and 2,706 on December 6. According to the latest bulletin, 15 more people died due to the disease taking the toll to 11,096. The number of active cases rose to 14,589 from 13,982 a day before. A total of 64,003 tests, including 43,960 RT-PCR tests and 20,043 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said. The number of people under home isolation increased to 7,983 on Monday from 7,144 on Sunday, while the number of containment zones mounted to 3,090 from 2,917 a day before.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-3548-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-15-more-deaths-in-a-day-970730.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Over 1.4 lakh Covid vaccine doses administered in Haryana on Monday||Over 1.4 lakh anti-coronavirus vaccine doses were given to beneficiaries in Haryana on Monday, taking the total number of jabs administered in the state to 20,12,332, an official said. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said Monday and Tuesday are the 'mega vaccination days' when the administration of vaccines is relatively higher in comparison to the other days of the week. Arora said there were 1,449 vaccination centres across Haryana, which were evenly spread. Most of the beneficiaries were above 60 years of age or between 45 years to 60 years, he added. On the administration of vaccines to Health Care Workers (HCWs) and Frontline Workers (FLWs) in the state, the official said 1.9 lakh HCWs have been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine and around 1,14,656 HCWs have been administered the second dose. A total of 1,20,378 FLWs have been administered the first dose of the vaccine and 43,494 FLWs have been administered the second dose. Arora said 50,094 people aged above 60 years have been administered the first dose of anti-coronavirus vaccine and the second dose has been given to 2,895 such beneficiaries. The first dose of the vaccine has been given to 87,634 beneficiaries who are within the age group of 45 to 60 years and the second dose has been administered to 1,016 such beneficiaries, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-14-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-haryana-on-monday-970731.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||150-strong UP Police team heads for Punjab to bring back Mukhtar Ansari; Kin voice apprehension about his security||A 150-member team of the Uttar Pradesh Police headed for Punjab on Monday to bring back jailed gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is facing trial in over a dozen cases, even as his family said they will move the court for ensuring his security in prison as a "conspiracy" may be hatched against him. Punjab's home department had asked the UP authorities to take custody of Ansari, BSP MLA from Mau, at the Rupnagar jail on or before April 8 following a March 26 Supreme Court order, on the UP government's plea, to transfer him to Banda prison within two weeks. Senior police officials said a 150-member team, including a company of the Provincial Armed Constabulary, equipped with sophisticated weapons left from Banda on Monday morning to bring back Ansari from Punjab. "The process of eliminating the mafia has begun," Uttar Pradesh minister Sidharth Nath Singh told reporters and alleged that the Punjab Government made every effort to stall the handover of Ansari but it had to "bow before the commitment" of the Yogi Adityanath government. He asserted that stringent action will be taken against criminals, irrespective of their religion or caste. The UP Police said that Ansari, who has been lodged in Rupnagar prison since January 2019 in connection with an extortion case, is facing 52 cases in UP and elsewhere, and 15 of them are in the trial stage. In a crackdown on his gang, the police have arrested 96 criminals and so far seized, freed or demolished property worth Rs 192 crore linked to the MLA and his associates. Acting Superintendent of the Banda District Jail Pramod Tiwari said all arrangements have been made in Barrack Number-15 for Ansari and no other prisoner can access the area. "Three prison guards will be deployed inside the barrack," he said. In its letter, the Punjab Home Department had asked the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (Home) for suitable arrangements to be made for Ansari’s transfer as he suffered from certain medical conditions. Additional Director General of Police, Allahabad Zone, Prem Prakash had on Sunday said that an ambulance will be part of the convoy going to Punjab. Ansari's family member have been saying that they fear for his life if he is brought to Uttar Pradesh. His wife Afshan Ansari had claimed that he may be killed in a fake encounter and had demanded adequate security for him. On Monday, Ansari's brother and BSP MP from Ghazipur Afzal Ansari expressed apprehension that a conspiracy may be hatched against him in UP jail. "The Ansari family is worried following the media reports and statements made by BJP leaders. However, the Ansari family is not feeling afraid. "Justice is still alive in the country. I am confident that justice will prevail and Mukhtar will be proved innocent in all cases," he said. The MP said that he is proud of the independent judiciary in the country and was confident that nothing untoward will happen to his brother. "A conspiracy may be hatched against Mukhtar Ansari in UP jail. We will approach the judiciary on the issue of security for Mukhtar. When a problem is being created by the state government, then there is no option except seeking the shelter of the judiciary," Afzal Ansari said. Meanwhile, in another twist, an ambulance used to ferry Ansari to a Mohali court in Punjab on Wednesday was found abandoned outside a roadside eatery on the Chandigarh-Nangal highway in Punjab's Rupnagar district, police had said on Sunday. The police said they have taken the vehicle in their custody. Amid tight security arrangements, Ansari had been taken to the court on a wheelchair on that day. A case was registered in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki after the documents of the ambulance were found to be fake. The Uttar Pradesh Police, officials said on Sunday, has set up a special investigation team to further probe into the issue of fake documents of the ambulance. Amid a row over the issue, a Punjab police official had clarified that an inmate can be transported in a private ambulance on medical grounds and the cost of conveyance has to be borne by the prisoner. Additional Director General of Police Prashant Kumar in a statement here on Monday said that there are 52 cases registered against Ansari in UP and other states. Of these, 15 are in the trial stage, the statement said, adding that prosecution work will be completed soon and the guilty will face punishment. "Mukhtar (Ansari) had committed heinous crimes in eastern Uttar Pradesh including the murder of policemen. He had formed a gang of criminals and shooters in the state. "He had also established contacts with the gang of Sahabuddin in Bihar to establish a strong crime network and empire," the statement said and added that Ansari established his hold over the coal market and contracts in eastern UP. The UP government has initiated strong action against Mukhtar Ansari and his aides by dismantling their empire under the Gangster Act. "The estimated worth of properties of Mukhtar Ansari and his aides seized/demolished/freed stands at over Rs 192 crore," the statement said. As many as 96 criminals of his gang have been arrested. Action under the Gangster Act has been initiated against 75 criminals. Arms licences of 72 criminals of this gang have been cancelled or suspended. Action has also been initiated against seven contractors of this gang, the statement said. The Supreme Court recently directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of Ansari to the Uttar Pradesh police, saying it was being denied on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues. The apex court had also said a convict or an undertrial prisoner, who disobeys the law of the land, cannot oppose his transfer from one prison to another and the courts are not to be helpless bystanders when the rule of law is being challenged with impunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/150-strong-up-police-team-heads-for-punjab-to-bring-back-mukhtar-ansari-kin-voice-apprehension-about-his-security-970732.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||Covid bed count increased at several Delhi government hospitals||Amid a massive surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the Delhi government on Monday issued an order to augment the number of beds reserved for coronavirus patients at its several hospitals. The national capital recorded 3,548 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, while 15 more people succumbed to the infection taking the death toll to 11,096, according to the Delhi health department. The Delhi government's order stated that in view of the increase in Covid-19 cases in the city, it has been decided to designate an increased number of beds in these hospitals for admitting confirmed or suspected cases of coronavirus infection. The hospitals include LNJP, where beds are to be increased from 300 to 1,000. At Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, the number of reserved beds is to be increased from 50 to 100 while at GTB Hospital it is to be hiked to 500. "Further, MD/Directors of all the above-mentioned Covid Hospitals must upgrade the number of beds indicated against their hospital with immediate effect and logistics required, if any, may be sourced by using powers delegated under section 50 of the Disaster Management Act," the order said. In another order, the Delhi government said in order to augment bed capacity for Covid-19 patients and to also ensure that treatment of non-Covid critical patients is not compromised, 54 large private hospitals having bed strength of 100 beds or more are to reserve at least 30 per cent of their ICU bed or double the occupancy as on April 5, whichever higher and 30 per cent of their ward bed capacity or double the occupancy, whichever higher for Covid-related treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-bed-count-increased-at-several-delhi-government-hospitals-970740.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||15 sticks of plastic explosives seized in Kupwara district of J-K: Army||Security forces seized 15 sticks of plastic explosives in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, averting a tragedy, the Army said. On receiving information that explosives might be exchanged near Jama Masjid of Tangdhar, a search was initiated by the Army bomb disposal team which led to seizure of explosives supposedly being transhipped to the hinterland, an Army spokesperson said. "In a major success to security forces deployed in Karnah, 15 sticks of plastic explosives were recovered on Monday evening owing to high state of alertness of the Army and police," he said. The operation was conducted in the heart of Tangdhar market with zero inconvenience to locals, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-sticks-of-plastic-explosives-seized-in-kupwara-district-of-j-k-army-970772.html
05-04-2021||North and Central||MP: Massive fire in cotton godown, dousing operation underway||A huge fire broke out in the godown of a private factory storing cotton in Madhya Pradesh's Hoshangabad district on Monday, and 22 fire-tending vehicles were trying to bring the blaze under control, a senior official said. Budhni Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Shailendra Hanotia said vehicles and personnel from Hoshangabad, Budhni, Mandideep and Itarsi were engaged in the dousing operation. The cause of the fire is not known yet, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-massive-fire-in-cotton-godown-dousing-operation-underway-970778.html
05-04-2021||Panorama||Tamil Nadu on the cusp of breaking film personality-driven politics||For the past few decades, politics in Tamil Nadu revolved around the Dravidian parties intertwined with film personalities and the electorate preferring to vote in or out one of the two poles - the AIADMK or the DMK. The revolving door politics that dominated the state since 1984 with the party in power being ousted after a term and voting in the other, was disrupted in 2016 when AIADMK led by J Jayalalithaa bucked the trend. In the process, she became the first chief minister since 1984 to retain office and emulate her mentor and predecessor M G Ramachandran (MGR). This time in 2021, the political landscape has altered in the absence of both charismatic Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi of the DMK. This will be the first time in over five decades the electorate will have the option to choose between the two prominent Dravidian formations under a leadership that has little to do with the Tamil film industry. DMK architect C N Annadurai and Karunanidhi earned fame as scriptwriters in the Tamil film industry while fellow traveller in the DMK was matinee idol MGR. Both Karunanidhi and MGR were prominent aides of Annadurai until they fell out with MGR who floated the AIADMK. Drawing upon the strength of his command over Tamil, Annadurai moulded public opinion, raising issues of concern while Karunanidhi packed punch in his dialogues for the hero in Sivaji Ganesan and MGR. Since then, film personalities found a platform in the party while the organisation drew upon the popularity of the hero whose ubiquitous fan clubs worked as springboards to send the message of the party’s anti-caste, strong linguistic flavour and challenging societal ills. This found resonance among masses. MGR carved an image of one who spoke and cared for the downtrodden with a down-to-earth approach and a halo of purity. Once he assumed office as the Chief Minister, MGR fortified his position through schemes by formalising the mid-day meal for schoolchildren coupled with his interest in promoting education. His popularity soared on the wings of work in office and the AIADMK retained power in 1984 even when MGR had to be away for medical treatment. In 1987, the AIADMK split as MGR’s widow Janaki Ramachandran, also a film heroine of her time, claimed inheritance of the party but lost control soon. The party’s political fortunes flourished under MGR’s protégé and his films’ leading lady Jayalalithaa. Her accession in the party ranks came via her anointment as the Propaganda Secretary. She gradually picked up the ropes within the organisation, gradually consolidating her grip after MGR amid stiff challenge from the established leaders. During the last decade, she became synonymous with the AIADMK rounding off her successful stint notching electoral victories including two successive terms in 2011 and 2016. Jayalalithaa transformed her image dexterously from that of a famous heroine to a caring politician eventually to be known as “Amma”. She assiduously built her persona and blended social welfare politics. One of her contributions was the launch of an inexpensive Amma canteen serving food at a cheap rate that now is standard measure in many states. After a decade in the opposition and exit of MGR, Kalaignar Karunanidhi, backed by oratory and master of alliteration, bounced back and since then the party alternated a term in office until 2016. Karunanidhi expanded the mid-day meal programme of MGR packing more nutrition and worked to expand the industrial base in the state. In the interregnum, Karunanidhi’s attempt to launch a political career through a tailored script for son, M K Muthu did not have the desired impact. Now, when Tamil Nadu votes to elect the new Assembly on April 6, the political scenario has undergone a huge change following the exit of prominent film personalities and the decision of superstar Rajinikanth to stay away from politics. Having learnt a lesson in losing the last elections narrowly and serving a  term as the Leader of Opposition, DMK leader M K Stalin would be covering all flanks and work to consolidate on the 2019 Lok Sabha results when the party–led alliance swept 38 of the 39 Lok Sabha seats. While it would be unrealistic to replicate the rich harvest in the Assembly, the turf is much smoother with the AIADMK having to battle 10-year anti-incumbency hobbled by the internal struggles. Adding to it is the rapier thrust by nascent AMMK, a party founded by T T V Dinakarnan, nephew of Sasikala, the once powerful aide of Jayalalithaa. Coming back to the sway of film personalities on politics in the state, hopes were raised in the 'post-Jayalalithaa’ phase with superstar Rajnikanth stirring the cauldron. The superstar’s announcement last December generated excitement. While positioning for a political role and kindling hopes among his fans of a promised new awakening through spiritual politics, he quietly announced inability to enter the field citing health as a factor. This decision sliced chances of a major film star making the cut. The development still does not mean film personalities will not have any role in the current elections but they are not in a position to assume leadership of the state. Some of them are still in the field - popular and versatile actor Kamal Hasan’s MNM, Vijayakanth’s DMDK whose meteoric rise a decade ago now stands eclipsed and film director S Seeman‘s NTK. Seeman took to active politics ahead of Hassan but failed to win any seat in the 2016 Assembly polls or later in the 2019 Lok Sabha where his party contested. Haasan founded the MNM in 2018, tested waters in 2019 Lok Sabha polls garnering some 3.78% of votes while NTK got 3.91% of votes. The current elections should bring about a new dawn in state politics sans mass adulation for film personalities who endeared themselves to the people and left them chanting encore. (The writer is a New Delhi-based political commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tamil-nadu-on-the-cusp-of-breaking-film-personality-driven-politics-970437.html
05-04-2021||Panorama||Coronavirus variants threaten to draw out the pandemic, scientists say||Cases, hospitalisations and deaths from the coronavirus have fallen steeply from their highs in the US, and millions of people are being newly vaccinated every day. Restaurants, shops and schools have reopened. Some states, like Texas and Florida, have abandoned precautions altogether. Powerful vaccines and an accelerating rollout all but guarantee an eventual return to normalcy — to backyard barbecues, summer camps and sleepovers. But it is increasingly clear that the next few months will be painful. So-called variants are spreading, carrying mutations that make the coronavirus both more contagious and in some cases more deadly. Even as vaccines were authorized late last year, illuminating a path to the pandemic’s end, variants were trouncing Britain, South Africa and Brazil. New variants have continued to pop up — in California one week, in New York and Oregon the next. As they take root, these new versions of the coronavirus threaten to postpone an end to the pandemic. At the moment, most vaccines appear to be effective against the variants. But public health officials are deeply worried that future iterations of the virus may be more resistant to the immune response, requiring Americans to queue up for regular rounds of booster shots or even new vaccines. “We don’t have evolution on our side,” said Devi Sridhar, a professor of public health at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. “This pathogen seems to always be changing in a way that makes it harder for us to suppress.” Health officials acknowledge an urgent need to track these new viruses. Already, B.1.1.7, the highly contagious variant that walloped Britain and is wreaking havoc in continental Europe. Limited genetic testing has turned up more than 12,500 cases, many in Florida and Michigan. As of March 13, the variant accounted for about 27% of new cases nationwide, up from just 1% in early February. The Biden administration has pledged a “down payment” of $200 million to ramp up surveillance, an infusion intended to make it possible to analyze 25,000 patient samples each week for virus variants. It’s an ambitious goal: The country was sequencing just a few hundred samples each week in December, then scaling up to about 9,000 per week as of March 27. Until recently, B.1.1.7’s rise was camouflaged by falling rates of infection overall, lulling Americans into a false sense of security and leading to prematurely relaxed restrictions, researchers say. “The best way to think about B.1.1.7 and other variants is to treat them as separate epidemics,” said Sebastian Funk, a professor of infectious disease dynamics at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. “We’re really kind of obscuring the view by adding them all up to give an overall number of cases.” The coronavirus was supposed to be slow to change shape. Like all viruses, it would pick up mutations and evolve into thousands of variants, scientists said at the beginning of the pandemic. But it would not change significantly for years — a stupid virus, some called it. The pathogen defied those predictions. “We expected the virus to change,” said Dr. Michael Diamond, a viral immunologist at Washington University in St. Louis. “We didn’t quite anticipate how quickly it was going to occur.” A variant is of concern only if it is more contagious, causes more severe disease or blunts the immune response. The variants identified in Britain, South Africa, Brazil and California all fit the criteria. B.1.1.7, the first to come to widespread attention, is about 60% more contagious and 67% more deadly than the original form of the virus, according to the most recent estimates. The variant is no different from the original in how it spreads, but infected people seem to carry more of the virus and for longer, said Katrina Lythgoe, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Oxford. “You’re more infectious for more days,” she said. So contagious is B.1.1.7 that Britain succeeded in driving down infections only after nearly three months of strict stay-at-home orders, plus an aggressive vaccination program. Even so, cases fell much more slowly than they did during a similar lockdown in March and April. For too long, government officials disregarded the threat. “Case plateaus can hide the emergence of new variants,” said Carl Pearson, a research fellow at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. “And the higher those plateaus are, the worse the problem is.” In the United States, coronavirus infections began a rapid decline in January, soon prompting many state leaders to reopen businesses and ease restrictions. But scientists repeatedly warned that the drop would not last. After the rate bottomed out at about 55,000 cases and 1,500 deaths per day in mid-March, some states — notably Michigan — began seeing an uptick. Since then, the national numbers have steadily risen. As of Saturday, the daily count was up to nearly 69,000, and the weekly average was 19% higher than the figure two weeks earlier. The variant is particularly pervasive in Florida, where the state lifted restrictions and initially did not see a surge. Officials in other states cited this as a rationale for reopening. But now Florida’s infection rate is curving upward. The variant may only have been obscured by what scientists like to call seasonality. Respiratory infections are usually rare in Florida in the spring, noted Sarah Cobey, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Chicago. Coronavirus infections peaked in Florida last year in the summer, as heat drove people indoors, and may do so again. “I still don’t think we’re out of the woods,” Cobey said, referring to the country at large. “If we don’t have another wave this spring, then I’m going to be really, really worried about the fall.” While most vaccines are effective against B.1.1.7, researchers are increasingly concerned about other variants that contain a mutation called E484K. (Scientists often refer to it as “Eek.”) This mutation has evolved independently in many variants worldwide, suggesting that it offers the virus a powerful survival advantage. In laboratory studies, the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines seem to be slightly less effective against B.1.351, the variant identified in South Africa. That variant contains the Eek mutation, which seems to enable the virus to partly sidestep the body’s immune response. The vaccines made by Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca and Novavax were even less potent against B.1.351. “I think for the next year or two, E484K will be the most concerning” mutation, said Jesse Bloom, an evolutionary biologist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle. The mutation slightly alters the so-called spike protein sitting on the surface of the coronavirus, making it just a bit harder for antibodies to latch on and destroy the invader. The good news is that the virus seems to have just a few survival tricks in its bag, and that makes it easier for scientists to find and block those defenses. “I’m feeling pretty good about the fact that there aren’t that many choices,” said Michel Nussenzweig, an immunologist at Rockefeller University in New York. The Eek mutation seems to be the virus’ primary defense against the immune system. Researchers in South Africa recently reported that a new vaccine directed against B.1.351 ought to fend off all other variants, as well. In one form or another, the new coronavirus is here to stay, many scientists believe. Multiple variants may be circulating in the country at the same time, as is the case for common cold coronaviruses and influenza. Keeping them at bay may require an annual shot, like the flu vaccine. The best way to deter the emergence of dangerous variants is to keep cases down now and to immunize the vast majority of the world — not just the United States — as quickly as possible. If significant pockets of the globe remain unprotected, the virus will continue to evolve in dangerous new ways. “This might be something that we have to deal with for a long time,” said Rosalind Eggo, a public health researcher at London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Still, she added, “Even if it changes again, which it is very likely to do, we are in a better, much stronger position than a year ago to deal with it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-variants-threaten-to-draw-out-the-pandemic-scientists-say-970438.html
05-04-2021||Panorama||Off the record: April 5||Grand old confusion A common grouse against the ‘dissenters’ within the Congress is that their remarks on the state of party affairs provided ammunition for BJP to target the grand old party. The party had frowned upon the remarks by a section of the G-23 leaders at Jammu in February where they had expressed concern over the weakening of the Congress over the years. The dissenters, however, wonder whether Rahul Gandhi’s remarks, particularly in his interactions with professors of US-based universities, were helping the Congress. Rahul’s recent remark seeking US intervention in India’s internal affairs too has not gone down well within the party. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi  In Pawar’s name  A new plant species has been named after one of India’s seniormost politician and NCP president Sharad Pawar, the longest-serving union agriculture minister. The flowering plant has been named after the octogenarian politician for his contribution to the field of agriculture. The species has been named ‘Argyreia Sharadchandrajii’, according to researchers Dr Pramod R Lawand and Dr Vinod B Shimpale, who had discovered the species in the Kolhapur district of Maharashtra. The flowering plants belong to the genus ‘Argyreia’. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Covid festival?  In the wake of a huge surge in Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir, the government on Sunday announced the closure of all schools for a week. The decision has come exactly when the same government launched a mega Tulip Festival at the iconic Tulip Garden on the banks of Dal Lake, where celebrities like famed singer Badshah performed before a huge gathering. People, including schoolchildren and their families, had been asked to join the huge number of tourists at the Tulip Festival. Another similar function is being held at Badam Wari or Almond Park, a few miles away from the Tulip Garden. Residents of the Valley find it ridiculously contradictory. Confused by government orders, people have resorted to calling it ‘Covid Festival’! Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar  An emergency  Home Minister Amit Shah and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel were both campaigning for the Assembly elections in Assam when Naxalites killed at least 22 security forces in an ambush in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma region. Both the leaders cut short their campaign programmes and rushed to attend to the emerging situation. Shah asked CRPF Director General Kuldip Singh to visit the encounter site, spoke to Baghel on phone and rushed to Delhi. Similarly, Baghel too returned to Raipur leaving aside his campaign tasks in Assam. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi A ‘bomb’ scare Opposite camps in Kerala have come out with major allegations on the eve of elections to influence voters. This is not uncommon during elections. This time, Kerala is witnessing a fierce electoral battle and hence it was natural for political parties to expect election stunts by opposite camps. This time, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan went a step ahead by stating in advance that even if the opposition parties shell any bombs, it would not hit LDF’s electoral prospects. This indeed triggered widespread speculations of what could be in store and most of the speculations were related to the nexus of CPM leaders and even their family members with gold smuggling accused. Nothing of that sort has emerged yet as just one day is left for the polling.  Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-april-5-970439.html
05-04-2021||Panorama||The kite and the thread||Some days ago, I was savouring a sweet memory of my school days, wherein we were swamped by sublime delight, flying splendiferous paper kites in several hues, sizes and shapes. The beautiful kites, flying against the backdrop of a blue sky, indeed created a bedazzling spectacle.   During such times, my child’s mind would often wonder, “Had the kite been fully throbbing with life, what would it be feeling, flying up above at those frightful heights? Was it feeling all chuffed, especially while flying higher than its contender-kites in the vicinity? Did it feel buoyant and bumptious, too, to be bearing the similitude of a bird’s flight? Moreover, did it ever think of the tremendous role of the thread, tightly twirled at its ribbed-centre, that had taken it to those terrific heights”?  Now, even in life, when a person is gliding high on a plane of humongous success, we notice only him, the way we see only the high-flying kite. Seldom do we consider the collective, cardinal role of people behind his success. Just as we hardly see the strong thread, securing and supporting the kite, to soar high in the sprawling skies.  Take the instance of any glitterati in the celeb world, who could be an actor extraordinaire, a guitar virtuoso, a great songster or a graceful danseuse. None of them could have possibly scaled the pinnacle of success, in their professional front, sans a proper godfather, proffering that plenteous succour. Just as, howsoever mesmerising a multi-hued flying-kite may appear, if not for that mighty thread, it couldn’t have managed to fly, even for moments.  Interestingly, not only in celebs’ life, even in ours, there are several people behind our successes, donning the singular role of a strong/sturdy thread, for kites like us, to fly seamlessly, sans getting snagged on life’s sundry stumbling-blocks.  Apparently, if this thread is too tenuous, within seconds it can snap off, making the kite nosedive into the ground, in its ripped/tattered form. Just as our life, too, falters and flounders, without the firm support of that Divine Power, our family and few other close folks, fabulously binding us!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-kite-and-the-thread-970440.html
05-04-2021||Right in the Middle||An eventful picnic||We had arranged a picnic at a sprawling open space somewhere on the outskirts of Moradabad in the early years of the '70s. The event was exclusively organised for the employees in the middle tier of our machine tool factory. On the day of the event, boarding two buses enfamille we arrived at the venue. The spot, besides being off the track, had tall trees which soaked up much of the heat of the sun; there was also a river nearby with clean water flowing in it. Soon after reaching the spot we had piping hot idlis that we washed down with steaming coffee. Breakfast done, games were organised for children and prices distributed. Spoon race, sack race for couples, threading the needle while walking were games played by the better halves of many male members.  Tambola, (a game similar to binge) was the next one that attracted the most people. Opting out of the game, I began strolling towards by the river with a handful of others who were Tambola-shy like me in tow. I sat on the river bank soaking in the sight of the water lapping against the rocks and boulders in its flow while others were joyously playing duck and drake picking flat stones lying around them. With the clock ticking towards lunchtime, we retraced our steps to the picnic spot and joined the first sitting of diners before whom were placed banana leaves cut to short lengths.  Soon a wide south-Indian fare, prepared specially for the occasion, was served to everyone. After everyone had dessert, musical chairs for the womenfolk commenced. Every successive round progressed exuberantly with the crowd around making whoopee. In the last round of the game, two ladies were running around a single wooden stool. When the music stopped they dashed to occupy the stool. One of them named, Mary flumped on the stool that broke into two with the impact of the fall. The other lady fell over her like a ton of bricks. The crowd of onlookers around stood breathless for a moment. Collecting however from the shock some of them rushed to them and helped them to be up.  Finding Mary hobbling towards the vehicle for our return to the factory I assisted her to leg up. Almost a decade later, chancing upon the same Mary at a park in Bangalore, I stood speechless as she was not on a musical chair but a wheelchair, her face pallid, body paralysed below the waist due to the same slump on the stool during that bittersweet occasion of the picnic. Grief choking my throat, I stood eyes suffused with tears.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/an-eventful-picnic-970434.html
05-04-2021||Second Edit||Release funds to Indira Canteens||Indira Canteens which provide wholesome food at affordable rates to the underprivileged in urban areas are on the verge of closure with the state government failing to make any budgetary allocation for the past three years. A brainchild of the previous Siddaramaiah government, the canteens launched in 2017 are a boon to daily wage earners and migrant labour, especially in Bengaluru where a majority of them are located. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has adopted a step-motherly attitude towards Indira Canteens right from the start, perhaps wary that the credit would go the previous Congress regime.  First, the rates were doubled and then, during the lockdown, when they emerged as the only source of succour to jobless migrant workers, they were abruptly ordered shut, after the government initially announced that food would be provided free of cost. Though the project has not been officially scrapped, it has been left gasping for funds. So far, the contractors have managed to run the canteens by obtaining bank overdrafts or by dipping into their own resources, hoping that the government would release funds soon. In Bengaluru alone, the government owes the contractors over Rs 200 crore. Naturally, hygiene and quality which were once the buzz words at the canteens, have now taken a beating with the contractors forced to cut corners to make ends meet. The government’s excuse that it lacks sufficient funds has no takers because a state with a budget outlay of nearly Rs 2.5 lakh crore cannot claim that it is unable to spare a mere Rs 300 crore required to run the canteens. It is not just the labour class that has been at the receiving end, the government has been pulled up by Karnataka High Court more than once for its failure to effectively implement the mid-day meal scheme for school children during the pandemic. According to the United Nations, food security means that all people at all times have physical, social, and economic access to sufficient, safe, and nutritious food. With this in mind, the previous administration had drawn up an integrated plan to create a ‘hunger free Karnataka’, by providing nutritious food to rural families, school children, lactating mothers and urban poor. The attitude of the present government which has hit the poor where it hurts the most, smacks of not just callousness, but a total lack of humanity. At least, when it comes to welfare schemes like feeding hungry stomachs, Yediyurappa should set aside politics and release funds immediately so that Indira Canteens can be saved from certain death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/release-funds-to-indira-canteens-970432.html
05-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls begin tomorrow: Watch out for these constituencies, candidates||The high octane campaign for the April 6 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections ended on Sunday at 7 pm, with the stage now set for the polling on April 6 which will decide whether it will a hat-trick of terms for the AIADMK or the return of DMK after a decade in opposition. As many as 3,998 candidates, including Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, DMK President MK Stalin, AMMK founder TTV Dhinakaran, actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan, Naam Tamizhar Katchi leader Seeman and BJP state unit chief L Murugan are in the fray. Leaders, including Palaniswami and Stalin, hit the campaign trail on the last day, even as they have been crisscrossing the state for hectic electioneering, the former in a bid to ensure a record third term, while the latter is keen to upset his rival's chances. Over 6.28 crore eligible voters will choose 234 members of the 3,998 contesting the elections. Ahead of the voting tomorrow, let us look at the key players in the fray to win the southern state: The ruling AIADMK, steered by Chief Minister K Palaniswami, is keen to ensure the continuation of 'Amma aatchi' (Amma's rule) for an unprecedented third time. Palamiswami is the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and took over as the CM after the death of enigmatic AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa. He is the joint coordinator of the party with O Panneerselvam. Palaniswami will be seeking re-election from the Edappadi constituency in Salem district after polling over 85.5 per cent of the votes in the previous Assembly election. In 1998, he also voted as the Lok Sabha member from the constituency. The constituency is an AIADMK stronghold and the chief minister is expecting a landslide victory. He is being challenged by 37-year-old T Sampath Kumar. The DMK feels a local man will give a tough fight to the CM. O Panneerselvam is the Deputy Chief Minister and joint coordinator of AIADMK. He was close to the late Jayalalithaa and often functioned as the CM when Jayalalithaa was unable to head the government. He will be contesting from the Bodinayakannur constituency in the Theni district. The Deputy Chief Minister has never lost the seat since 2001 and is also expected to win the seat by a large margin. This is likely to be one of the most interesting fights this election as both OPS and Tamilselvan had the trust of late J Jayalalithaa but they never saw each other eye-to-eye. MNM leader, actor Kamal Haasan is making his electoral debut in 2021, seeking his fortunes from Coimbatore South, part of the western region often hailed as AIADMK's fortress. He is fighting the battle from Coimbatore South, from a city that has returned both AIADMK and BJP MPs in the past and his rivals are BJP women's wing leader Vanathi Srinivasan and Congress' Mayrua Jayakumar, both local faces. Kamal Haasan's entry has certainly created ripples in the constituency – which has a sizeable chunk of Gounders, Naickers, Chettiars, Mukulathors, Muslims, Christians, and North Indians – where he is being primarily challenged by Vanathi Srinivasan of BJP and Congress' Mayura S Jayakumar. Tamil actor, producer and now politician Udhayanidhi Stalin is set to make his electoral debut in the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. He will be contesting from Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni, a constituency in the heart of Chennai and one that has favoured DMK in the past. Udhayanidhi's grandfather and late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi represented Chepauk, it was renamed as Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni in 2011 after delimitation, thrice from 1996 to 2011 before he moved to Tiruvarur, his native constituency in the fertile Cauvery Delta region. This Assembly election would be Udhayanidhi’s electoral debut. Dhinakaran, VK Sasikala’s nephew, is currently an MLA from RR Nagar in Chennai. He launched his own party Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) after he and Sasikala were removed from AIADMK. He is seen as a key player in the assembly polls as he is fighting both the AIADMK and the DMK and he has branded the two parties as betrayers and evil force respectively. AMMK has sealed an alliance with AIMIM and Vijayakanth’s DMDK. Dhinakaran will not be seeking re-election from the seat but will contest from Kovilpatti against local AIADMK strongman and Cabinet Minister K Raju.  CPI(M)'s K Srinivasan is the candidate from the DMK alliance. The BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit president, L Murugan is seen as another prominent face in the elections as the party has made a marginal mark in the state. BJP is in an alliance with AIADMK and the alliance is seeking re-election in the polls. He is contesting from the Dharapuram assembly seat. There have been reports that BJP has been eyeing the Deputy CM post this time. Here are the key battleground constituencies to watch out for in the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections: Thousand Lights This might be a battle between a popular star and a medical doctor known for his strong Dravidian ideology but BJP's Khushbu Sundar and DMK's Dr N Ezhilan have based their fight on development in the city's Thousand Lights constituency for the April 6 Assembly polls. The constituency is considered a DMK stronghold due to the presence of a large Muslim population. The Congress has fielded Mayura S Jayakumar, who was its youth wing chief in the state. Coimbatore South The fight for the urban seat of Coimbatore (South) got interesting on Friday with Makkal Needhi Maiam President and actor Kamal Haasan deciding to fight from the constituency in the industrial city. Haasan, who projects himself as an alternative to the Dravidian majors, will, however, face candidates from the Congress and the BJP, not the DMK and the AIADMK. Kamal Haasan's decision to choose a seat in Coimbatore stems from the fact that his party nominee, R Mahendran, had polled over 1.4 lakh votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In this Assembly constituency, Mahendran had secured over 16 per cent of the votes polled. BJP Women's Wing chief Vanathi Srinivasan is being pitted against Kamal Haasan in the constituency. Srinivasan was an active member of ABVP whilst she was a student in Coimbatore and is a lawyer by training. She is one of the longest-serving members of the BJP in Tamil Nadu and has been a member since 1993. She contested in the 2016 Assembly election, but lost to AIADMK’s Amman K. Arjunan. Aravakuruchi Seven months after he joined the BJP in Tamil Nadu, former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai was on Sunday named as the party's candidate for Aravakurichi assembly constituency that will go to polls on April 6. The contest in Aravakurichi, from where Annamalai will make his electoral debut, will also be interesting as it is the former IPS officer's native constituency. Aravakurichi is currently represented by V Senthil Balaji, who won the seat in the by-election held in 2019 by a huge margin. Balaji, who was Transport Minister in J Jayalalithaa government, joined the DMK in 2018 after being disqualified as a legislator for owing allegiance to T T V Dhinakaran. He will take on DMK's R Elango and Mohammed Hanif Saheel of MNM, and P S N Thangavel of AMMK. Will it be a hat-trick of wins or a political upheaval in Tamil Nadu when the results are out on May 2? Only time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-begin-tomorrow-watch-out-for-these-constituencies-candidates-970514.html
05-04-2021||South||After unparalleled electioneering, Kerala set for Assembly polls on Tuesday||After weeks-long stormy campaign sessions, marathon rallies and mammoth roadshows, Kerala is all set to go to polls on Tuesday with 2.74 crore voters exercising their franchise to decide the fate of 957 candidates including high-profile leaders and independents in 140 Assembly constituencies across the state. The total electorate in the state includes 1,32,83,724 male voters, 1,41,62,025 female voters and 290 transgenders, according to Election Commission figures. As the high-octane public campaign drew to a close last night, the southern state is now witnessing silent electioneering in which candidates and party workers are busy visiting homes and institutions to seek votes at the last minute. An array of ministers and several sitting MLAs from both the traditional coalitionsm — the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-headed United Democratic Front (UDF) — are seeking another term in the April 6 polls. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, health minister K K Shailaja, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, Power Minister M M Mani and Higher Education Minister K K Jaleel are among the prominent personalities trying their electoral luck from the ruling side. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, senior leaders K Muraleedharan, P T Thomas and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan are among those contesting from the UDF fold. The election is crucial for an array of BJP leaders including former Mizoram Governor Kummam Rajasekharan, 'Metroman' E Sreedharan, who joined the saffron party recently, state president K Surendran, senior leader Shobha Surendran, Rajya Sabha members Suresh Gopi and K J Alphons and others. The April 6 poll is equally significant for Kerala Congress (M) chief Jose K Mani who recently snapped decades-long ties with the UDF and joined hands with the Left front. It would be a litmus test, especially for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi personally as he had camped in the state for several days and taken part in dozens of corner meetings and rallies across Kerala to campaign for the UDF. The ruling LDF is hoping to retain power for a second consecutive term breaking the state's four-decades-old trend of alternating between the UDF every five year. While the UDF is all confident to form their government when the results are out on May 2, the BJP-led NDA is leaving no stone unturned to garner maximum number of seats to become a decisive force in the state's rule. Since the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced the poll dates on February 26, Kerala had been witnessing unprecedented competitive spirit between all the three political fronts-from carrying out maximum number of rallies and meetings to bringing in all possible national leaders to woo the voters. In the place of one or two prominent national figures usually, the state this time saw multiple visits by leaders right from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and a dozen of their cabinet colleagues including Nirmala Sitharaman, Rajnath Singh and Prahlad Joshi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Sachin Pilot, A K Antony, Salman Khurshid and so on. The release of the election manifesto also drew much attention this time as the three fronts came out with populist promises including pension for housewives, raising of welfare pensions, free gas cylinders for poor, free laptops for economically backward students and so on. To consolidate votes of a majority community and keep devotees with them, the BJP even promised in their manifesto a law to contain alleged 'love jihad' and even state legislation to protect the customs and traditions of the Sabarimala temple. The topics of faith, religion, development and welfare have taken a centre-stage throughout the campaigns. The state witnessed how the ruling LDF strived hard to bring focus of the poll debate on the a governments achievements in the development and welfare fronts in the last five years and its much celebrated Covid-19 and flood management. But, the Congress-UDF and BJP-NDA have tried their best to make a topic of discussion the Sabarimala women entry issue and the controversial gold and dollar smuggling cases, in which the Chief Minister's office, Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and some other ministers were facing allegations. The LDF, who projected themselves as the sole saviour of minority communities especially in Muslim-dominated Malabar (north Kerala) districts during the campaign, is calculating that their votes would be consolidated en-mass in their favour. They also accused the Congress of adopting a soft stand towards the Hindutva agenda to pick a hole in their vote-bank. The Congress was seen reaching out to prominent figures and institutions related to Hindu, Christian and Muslim religions to ensure their support. Besides wooing the majority community votes by promising a law to check 'love jihad' and protect the tradition of Sabarimala, the BJP also tried to reach out to the Christian community during the campaign. Many national and state leaders of the saffron party could be seen meeting the cardinal, bishops and church leaders during the period. Since the 1980s, the LDF and UDF have alternatively formed the government with neither able to gain back-to-back victories in Kerala. If the ruling front can manage to buck the trend in the state this time, it will be history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-unparalleled-electioneering-kerala-set-for-assembly-polls-on-tuesday-970565.html
05-04-2021||South||Supreme Court calls Bengaluru blast case accused a 'dangerous man'||A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde posted the matter for consideration next week to ascertain if Justice V Ramasubramanian, a part of the bench, had earlier appeared for the petitioner. As soon as senior advocate Jayant Bhushan sought to argue the matter, CJI observed, "You are a dangerous man. Bail was granted by the bench to which I was a part." Justice Ramasubramanian, however, said he might have represented the petitioner earlier as a lawyer. The counsel sought time to confirm it, promoting the court to adjourn the matter for consideration next week. The bench also comprised Justice A S Bopanna. In an application, 56-year-old Maudany through advocates Haris Beeran and R S Jena stated that on account of recent developments of the cases being dragged due to various reasons, including Covid-19 pandemic, it was just and necessary to relax the bail conditions. While granting bail to him on July 11, 2014, the top court directed him not to leave the city of Bengaluru. He said the progress of the case was crawling at snail's pace due to various reasons, including recall of witnesses and transfer of prosecutor and trial judges thrice and now on account of Covid-19. For the last one year, recording of the statement of accused was underway. At present, his presence in the trial was not required. He also claimed there was no presiding officer at the trial court at present. He had already spent 11 years since arrest and seven years since bail in Bengaluru. Among other reasons, the applicant contended he was not able to avail Ayurveda treatment for his ill-health. For his various ailments, he was also not able to get proper treatment due to high number of Covid-19 cases in the city. His father was also critical after having suffered a stroke. He also submitted that being in the city caused him excessive financial burden due to high rent. Further, he said the top court had earlier three times relaxed the bail conditions to permit him to visit Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/supreme-court-calls-bengaluru-blast-case-accused-a-dangerous-man-970598.html
05-04-2021||South||ISRO espionage case: Centre moves SC seeking urgent hearing; matter to be heard next week||The Centre on Monday asked the Supreme Court to consider a report of a panel, headed by former top court judge D K Jain, formed in September 2018 by the court to probe the role of Kerala police officers in the wrongful arrest of ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan in a 1994 espionage case. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, asked a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde to open the sealed cover of the report for passing appropriate orders on Tuesday as the matter was of national importance. The bench said there was no doubt that the matter was important, but there was no urgency in hearing it. The court, however, agreed to consider the matter next week. Seventy nine-year-old Narayanan waged a legal battle against the Kerala police officers who accused him of being a Pakistan spy in 1994. Besides appointing the panel, the top court had directed the Kerala government to pay Rs 50 lakh compensation for causing immense humiliation to Narayanan.   In 2018, a bench of the then Chief Justice Dipak Misra decided to appoint a committee under Jain and asked the Centre and the Kerala government to name one person each to the committee under Jain. While the Centre appointed a top official -- D K Prasad, the Pinarayi Vijayan government appointed former Additional Chief Secretary V S Senthil. The ISRO spy case surfaced in 1994 when Narayanan was arrested on charges of espionage along with another senior official of ISRO, two Maldivian women and a businessman. The CBI had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan's illegal arrest. The panel examined the circumstances leading to Narayanan's arrest. It was alleged that confidential documents on India's space programme were allegedly transferred to foreign countries. Narayanan had maintained that Kerala police fabricated the case and the technology he was accused to have stolen and sold in the 1994 case did not even exist at that time. The Modi government awarded the scientist Padma Bhushan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/isro-espionage-case-centre-moves-sc-seeking-urgent-hearing-matter-to-be-heard-next-week-970601.html
05-04-2021||South||Jadavpur: CPI(M)'s battle to save its last bastion in southern suburbs of Kolkata||At one time Jadavpur used to be called the 'Leningrad of Calcutta'. Today it is the setting for an epic battle between CPI(M), which is trying to resuscitate its political fortunes in West Bengal, and Trinamool Congress that is trying desperately to get enough seats to ward off its main rival BJP, whose saffron surge has unnerved the ruling party, ten years since it uprooted the Left rule in the state. The upcoming election to the Jadavpur assembly seat in the southern suburbs of Kolkata on April 10 is perhaps symbolic of the larger battle for Bengal. The CPI(M) is fighting to protect its last bastion in the eastern metropolis after losing all other assembly constituencies falling under the jurisdiction of Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) to TMC. Jadavpur is the only seat that it managed to regain in the city in 2016. However, in the 2019 election to the Jadavpur Lok Sabha constituency, Left Front candidate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya had trailed by over 12,000 votes to TMC's Mimi Chakraborty in the namesake assembly seat. For the TMC, the fight is to regain the assembly seat it had lost to the CPI(M) in 2016 after snatching it from the then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya in 2011 when the party had stormed to power, ending the 34-year Left rule. Winning the seat will also be symbolic for the BJP as Jadavpur University, known as the stronghold of the Left and ultra-Left students unions and where Union minister and nominee in neighbouring Tollygunge seat Babul Supriyo was heckled in 2019, is the centrepiece of the constituency. It is one of the few seats in and around Kolkata which will witness a three-cornered contest. However, on the ground, problems faced by the locals may play a more important role than political or ideological symbolism. Sitting MLA Sujan Chakraborty, who had in 2016 clinched the seat from TMC's Manish Gupta, who in turn had defeated Bhattacharya in 2011, is going to the polls with issues like unemployment, the law and order situation and fuel price rise. "People of Jadavpur, like across West Bengal, are politically aware. They understand the dangers they are facing, the ways the BJP and the TMC are betraying them. They want an end to all their problems. "Voters understand that the politics of West Bengal is becoming polluted. They do not like it. They want a good future. Those who are giving slogans like 'Khela Hobe' (game will happen) know very well that they have already been defeated," Chakraborty, also a CPI(M) central committee member, said. He said that in a democracy, people have the right to exercise their franchise to elect anybody. The same way people of Jadavpur had defeated Bhattacharya in 2011 but elected the CPI(M) again in 2016. Jadavpur, which has over 2.69 lakh voters, is dominated by descendants of people who had migrated from erstwhile East Bengal and then East Pakistan in waves following Partition in 1947. A feeling of deprivation among the refugee settlers saw Jadavpur turning decisively towards the Left when the first Jukta Front or United Front rode to power in 1967. The seat has since then remained a Left bastion, electing CPI(M) candidates, including Bhattacharya, who won five times since 1987. The BJP on the other hand is trying to muscle in by reviving the refugee feeling, harping on its poll plank of implementation of CAA. It is to be seen how much the promise of giving citizenship cuts ice with the erstwhile refugees. Riding on the 'poriborton' (change) wave of 2011, former state chief secretary Manish Gupta had defeated the then chief minister by over 16,000 votes. He, however, lost to Chakraborty by nearly 15,000 votes in the 2016 election, when a Left resurgence was visible in the constituency. The TMC has this time fielded four-time KMC ward councillor and a chartered accountant by profession, 56-year- old Debabrata Majumdar, aka Moloy, as its candidate for the seat. "As councillor for over 20 years, I have worked for the development and beautification of Jadavpur. I have a heart-to-heart connection with the people of the constituency, and they love me. I am seeking votes based on my work. "Sujan-babu had wrested the seat from us in 2016. (But) As a result of his poor performance, voters had given us a lead in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The people of Jadavpur are with us," Majumdar said. Like in other constituencies, in Jadavpur too, the TMC is flaunting the "achievements" of the state government's pet projects such as Kanyashree, Khadya Sathi and Swasthya Sathi, among others. However, the Left has been targetting him over his past "connection" to the RSS. On the other hand, BJP candidate Rinku Naskar, a CPI (M) turncoat, feels that she is just a foot soldier as the people of West Bengal have already decided to bring her new party to power in the state. "People of Jadavpur are politically conscious. They will cast their votes keeping national politics in mind. I have been a councillor of ward number 102 for ten years. People of Jadavpur know my work. No allegation has ever been levelled against me. "Unemployment is the biggest issue of West Bengal now. There has been no industrialisation; people have to pay hefty sums to get government jobs. As the BJP is highlighting these issues, I am confident that the youth will back me," Naskar, who had lost on a CPI(M) ticket from Mathurapur Lok Sabha seat in the 2014 polls, claimed. Naskar said that she joined the BJP because the party is concerned about the people's betterment, and the CPI(M) never thought of utilising her potential as her new party did. While door-to-door visits have been the preferred mode of campaigning for the candidates, the CPI(M) is also canvassing through street plays and flash mobs. Voters of the constituency, however, reflected different moods. "The CPI(M) and Sujan-babu had played key roles during the Covid-19 pandemic by feeding poor people through the Shramajibi Canteen and helped in treating coronavirus patients in various hospitals. Voters won't forget that while exercising their franchise," Raju Boral, a tea vendor near 8B bus terminus, said. Others like Tamal Dasgupta of Bikramgarh feel that the impact of the 'Duare Sarkar' (government at doorsteps) programme and various state welfare schemes will translate into votes favouring the TMC. The constituency has a total of 2,99,710 electors, of whom 1,44,921 are males, and 1,54,785 females. The votes of Jadavpur will be counted along with 293 other assembly constituencies of the state on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jadavpur-cpims-battle-to-save-its-last-bastion-in-southern-suburbs-of-kolkata-970607.html
05-04-2021||South||Tight vigil against duplicate voters in Kerala polling||The Assembly elections in Kerala this time will be under tight vigil against duplicate voters as thousands of multiple entries of same persons were found in the electoral roll. While the Election Commission maintained that around 38,000 multiple entries were noticed, the Opposition Congress alleged that there were around 4.3 lakh multiple voters. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala even published the list of multiple voters on a website. The opposition alleged that it was an attempt of the ruling party to carry out massive bogus voting. A total of 957 candidates are in the fray across the 140 constituencies. The polling will be held from 7 am to 7 pm at 40,771 polling booths. There are 2.74 crore voters in Kerala. An instructed by the Kerala High Court on the duplicate entry row, the Election Commission has prescribed a slew of measures to the election officials to plug multiple votes by same person. The commission also warned that voters getting involved in multiple or impersonated voting would attract case warranting up to one year imprisonment and fine. Voters in absentee, shifted and duplicate or deceased voters' list should have to submit a declaration and the presiding officer should take their photograph using mobile phone apart from taking their thumb impression and ensuring that the indelible ink is dried before allowing all voters to vote.  The ECI also direct the police to provide adequate security to polling booths. Vigil along the state borders were also enhanced to curb the chances of inter-state bogus voting. Over 4,000 booths were identified as sensitive, including around 250 in left-wing extremist affected areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tight-vigil-against-duplicate-voters-in-kerala-polling-970656.html
05-04-2021||South||Disallow Stalin, four others of DMK from contesting Assembly polls: AIADMK||The ruling AIADMK on Monday urged the Chief Electoral Officer to 'cancel' the candidature of DMK president M K Stalin and four others of his party for the April 6 Assembly polls, alleging 'distribution of cash' to voters. Associates of Stalin, who is contesting from Kolathur constituency have been 'distributing a sum of Rs 5,000 to voters', party's joint secretary of the advocate's wing, R M Babu Murugavel alleged in a petition to the CEO, Tamil Nadu, Satyabrata Sahoo. Women self-help groups were 'paid' Rs 10,000 each to act, canvass and cast votes in Stalin's favour and voters were remitted Rs 5,000 through mobile payments app 'G-Pay,' he alleged. It was 'shocking' that despite repeated complaints from the AIADMK and others persons in the constituency no effort was taken by officials to stop distribution of cash for votes, the AIADMK functionary alleged in the petition. DMK nominee Stalin was involved in 'corrupt' practices which called for his 'disqualification' from contesting polls, he claimed. "Hence the Election Commission should cancel the candidature of MK Stalin under the plenary powers of the Commission under Article 324 of the Constitution and the Representation of People Act." Making similar allegations against DMK nominees Udhayanidhi Stalin (Chepauk-Triplicane), E V Velu (Tiruvannamalai), K N Nehru (Tiruchirappalli West), and Duraimurugan (Katpadi), the AIADMK wanted all their candidatures to be 'cancelled'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/disallow-stalin-four-others-of-dmk-from-contesting-assembly-polls-aiadmk-970664.html
05-04-2021||South||Accusing locals of taking cash to vote, Tadipatri municipal chairman says 'not obliged to work for you'||In a video going viral on social media in Andhra Pradesh, newly elected Tadipatri municipal chairman JC Prabhakara Reddy is seen plainly refusing to commit to any works or favours in a ward, accusing the locals there of taking bribes to vote. The conversation between an elected leader and the voters on the money factor in elections could not get more candid, especially at a time when polls are taking place in various states. “The day you vote without accepting money, you can hold my shirt collar and demand to get your things done. But you do not have that right now,” Reddy, a former MLA, can be heard telling a group of locals in a ward in Tadipatri. While Reddy accused them of taking Rs 2,000 per vote from both the parties, one auto-driver and his wife in chat with the chairman admitted that they had in fact accepted the money, though they differed with the quantum. The town in Anantapuram district adjoining Karnataka is the only civic body the opposition TDP managed to win, out of the over 80 municipalities and corporations in Andhra Pradesh that went to polls last month. The ruling YSRCP has swept the urban body polls. The incident is said to have occurred on Sunday when the chairman was inspecting various wards. The JC brothers, including former MP JC Diwakar Reddy are known for their controversial remarks. Padmanabha Reddy, secretary, Forum for Good Governance, an NGO based in Hyderabad working against corruption and for electoral reforms, says the menace of accepting cash for vote is not limited to lower income groups. “Some of the voters in the graduates' and teachers' MLC constituencies also accept money to vote in favour of a particular candidate. The society as a whole is in a moral degradation,” Padmanabha tells DH stressing on the immediate need to crackdown on politicians who lure the voters with money. “But yes, of course, people should also change and start respecting their vote,” the former bureaucrat adds. There were some instances earlier too when elected representatives like MLAs declined to honor their commitments, saying that people “did not vote them for free.” After the local body polls in Telangana last year, some defeated candidates reportedly went from house to house to retrieve their money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/accusing-locals-of-taking-cash-to-vote-tadipatri-municipal-chairman-says-not-obliged-to-work-for-you-970669.html
05-04-2021||South||Ahead of polls, a look at key triangular battles in Kerala||As Kerala heads to the polling booth on Tuesday, a tight triangular fight is expected in at least a dozen constituencies. The emergence of BJP as a decisive force over the years has cast a shadow over the usual trend of the LDF and its alternate, the Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala. Manjeshwar Having lost by just 89 votes in the 2016 Assembly elections, BJP state president K Surendran is contesting from Manjeshwar in Kasargod. IUML is trying to retain the seat by fielding local native A K M Ashraf. BJP camps are concerned over chances for counter-consolidation of the minority communities in favour of Ashraf as SDPI, the political arm of Popular Front of India, already announced its support to IUML. But BJP is hopeful of a split of the anti-BJP votes among the UDF and the LDF. CPM fielded former chairman of the Kanhangad municipality V V Rameshan. Nemom BJP's maiden and lone sitting seat in Kerala, Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram, is witnessing a tight triangular fight this time with Congress fielding a popular candidate K Muraleedharan, who is a sitting Lok Sabha MP and son of former Chief Minister K Karunakaran. In the last election, the UDF had allotted the seat to coalition partner JD(U) which had performed badly. This triggered allegations of a BJP-Congress nexus leading to BJP opening its account in the Kerala Assembly with the victory of O Rajagopal. This time BJP fielded former state president and former Mizoram governor Kummanam Rajasekharan, while CPM is retaining local leader V Sivankutty. Palakkad BJP's trump card in this election is 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan. The saffron party hopes that the professional competency and clean image of Sreedharan may not only help the party in Palakkad constituency where it was runner-up last time but would also help the party get the support of youngsters and professionals across the state. However, local popularity of sitting Congress MLA Shafi Parambil, who is eyeing a hat-trick victory, is a cause for concern for the saffron party. Konni BJP state president K Surendran is also contesting from Konni in Pathanamthitta hoping to take advantage of the Sabarimala issue wherein he was leading the stirs. However, Surendran finished in third place in the 2019 Assembly bypolls and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in the district where the temple is located. Congress, which lost its longtime sitting seat in the bypolls, is trying to regain the seat by fielding local leader Robin Petre in the Christian-dominated constituency. Kazhakkoottam BJP's firebrand women leader Shobha Surendran is giving a tight fight to CPM leader and Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran in the constituency in Thiruvananthapuram by mainly raising the Sabarimala issue. By fielding World Health Organisation's (WHO) former technical officer and known public health expert Dr. S S Lal, Congress hopes to tap the votes of professionals in the constituency in which Thiruvananthapuram Technopark is situated. Vattiyoorkavu Being one of the seven seats in Kerala where BJP came second in the 2016 election, the saffron party has high hopes at Vattiyoorkavu in Thiruvananthapuram city. BJP fielded party district president V V Rajesh, while Congress fielded young woman Veena Nair who had unsuccessfully contested in the 2015 local body polls. But CPM's sitting MLA V K Prasanth, who is a former Mayor, enjoys much popularity and is widely referred to as 'MLA bro'. Thiruvananthapuram While the contest in Thiruvananthapuram constituency was initially expected to be between Congress's sitting MLA V S Sivakumar and LDF's Antony Raju, BJP's new entrant actor Krishnakumar is receiving much acceptance in the constituency. This may be due to his popularity as a television serial star. Moreover, the BJP performed well in the region in the recent local body polls. Malampuzha and Chathannoor Malampuzha in Palakkad and Chathannoor in Kollam are also in BJP's list of possible victories as they came second in both these seats in 2016, mainly due to the high Hindu population in the regions. Veteran CPM leader V S Achuthanandan, who is now 97 and keeping off from the electoral politics owing to weak health, is the sitting MLA of Malampuzha for the fourth consecutive term. Thrissur Thrissur in central Kerala may also witness a tight fight as Congress leader Padmaja Venugopal, daughter of K Karunakaran and BJP's Suresh Gopi try to wrest CPI's sitting seat. Kunnathunad This constituency in the suburbs of Kochi is being keenly watched as a corporate-backed forum is contesting as an alternative to the mainstream political parties. Twenty20, a forum initiated by the Kitex Garments group as part of their corporate social responsibility, had won the Kizhakambalam ward in 2015 and won four more wards in the region in the 2020 local body election by highlighting welfare and development. Twenty20 has fielded candidates in eight seats, of which it has high chances in Kunnathunad, posing a tight fight to Congress's sitting MLA V P Sajeendran and CPM P V Sreenijin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ahead-of-polls-a-look-at-key-triangular-battles-in-kerala-970679.html
05-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to vote in epic election on Tuesday||Over 6.28 crore electorate are eligible to exercise their franchise in an epic election on Tuesday that will elect the new generation leaders of Tamil Nadu. The elections are being held under the cloud of allegations of rampant use of money by political parties to buy votes.  More than 1.58 lakh personnel, including those from police, para military are engaged in providing security to ensure peaceful elections in the state. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, the number of poll booths have been increased to 88,937 from the previous figure of around 67,000. Poll officials said the maximum number of voters in a booth is 1,000.  The election to elect the 16th assembly is unique in more ways than one as this is the first state election without the presence of stalwarts M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. While the DMK alliance has projected M K Stalin as the chief ministerial face, the AIADMK made incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami its nominee for top post this election. While the number of female voters eligible to vote is 3.19 crore, the number of male voters stand at 3.09 crore. As many as 7,192 people from third gender will also be eligible to vote.  The voting will begin at 7 am and end at 7 pm without any lunch break, officials said, adding that wearing of masks has been made mandatory at polling stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-vote-in-epic-election-on-tuesday-970687.html
05-04-2021||South||BJP will emerge as credible third alternative in Kerala: Joshi||The BJP will emerge as a credible third alternative in Kerala politics dominated by two alliances — LDF and UDF — and will improve its tally in the assembly polls, said Union minister and the saffron party's elections in-charge for the state, Pralhad Joshi said, on Monday. Taking potshots at both CPI(M)-led LDF and Congress-led UDF, he said both alliances are "tough competitors in corruption" and have done nothing for the economic prosperity of the state. "The economy of Kerala still depends largely on offshore remittances, and both alliances, LDF and UDF, have done nothing for the state besides giving tough competition to each other in corruption and scams," Joshi told PTI. Dubbing Rahul Gandhi a "non-serious politician", he said, "The Congress is sinking and he is busy in political gimmicks." "The people have realised that Rahul is non-serious part-time politician as a MP from the costal state of Kerala. He even doesn't know that there is an Union Ministry of Fisheries," Joshi said. Asserting that the BJP will make its presence felt strongly in the upcoming assembly elections, he said, "Kerala always had a significant vote base which is ideologically inclined towards the BJP, but was not confident of its victory earlier." But now, he said, this vote will shift towards the BJP and it will emerge as new alternative in the LDF-UDF dominated political landscape of the state. "The BJP will emerge as a credible third alternative in Kerala. And this election won't be bipolar, it will be a three-way fight at many assembly seats in the state. The BJP will not only improve its tally but its vote percentage will also go up," he said. The elections for the 150-member assembly of Kerala will be held on April 6. The three political fronts are LDF-led by CPI(M), UDF-led by Congress and NDA-led by BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-will-emerge-as-credible-third-alternative-in-kerala-joshi-970702.html
05-04-2021||South||BJP workers in Thalassery in dilemma over statements of party leaders||BJP workers in Thalassery were in a dilemma on Monday over statements by Union Minister V Muraleedharan, asking them to support C O T Naseer in the constituency,though they do not have a candidate there, and state president K Surendran, asking them to exercise their franchise "according to your conscience". BJP candidate and it's district president N Haridas's nomination was rejected by the returning officer due to errors in his nomination papers. The BJP then decided to support Naseer of the Indian Gandhian Party, who was ousted from the CPI(M) last year. The nomination of the BJP candidate at Guruvayur was also rejected as the signature of the party chief was missing. Muraleedharan told a press conference here on Monday that there was no confusion among cadres as the party had already said that it would support Naseer. "The BJP workers are not confused. We had earlier declared support to Naseer. Party workers have a clear idea on whom to vote," he told reporters. However, BJP state chief K Surendran, who met the media at Kasaragod, said BJP workers could vote "according to their conscience." Thalassery constituency in Kannur district has traditionally been a CPI(M) seat since 1977 and is currently represented by A N Shamseer. The BJP had bagged over 22,000 votes here in the last assembly election, the highest in the district.  Naseer, who had earlier welcomed the BJP's support, later retracted his statement and said hedoes not need it. Surendran also lashed out at KPCC President Mullappally Ramachandran for reportedly asking CPI(M) workers at a public meeting at Manjeswharam to vote for the UDF candidate. "Mullappally Ramachandran begged the CPI(M) to vote for the Congress and this shows the ideological hollowness of that party. He did so because he realised that there was growing popular support for the BJP," he said. He also alleged that the CPI(M) and UDF are working together Nemom and Kazhakootam constituencies to defeat BJP. The state will go to polls on April 6 and the results will be out on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-workers-in-thalassery-in-dilemma-over-statements-of-party-leaders-970708.html
05-04-2021||South||V S Achuthanandan's politically sensitive picture being used by Congress camps||The Assembly election eve in Kerala witnessed the left front raising concerns over the use of an earlier politically sensitive picture of veteran CPI(M) leader V S Achuthanandan by the UDF camps. A picture of Achuthanandan calling on K K Rema, wife of dissident CPI(M) leader T P Chandrasekharan who was murdered by gang involving CPI(M) activists in 2012, is being used for the campaigning at Vadakara in Kozhikode where Rema is contesting with Congress's backing. The CPI(M) local leadership was learnt to have approached the election authorities raising concerns that the use of the picture could lead to tension.  Achuthanandan had openly flayed the political murder and took a stern stand against his rival group in the CPI(M) led by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Meanwhile, at Kazhakkoottam in Thiruvananthapuram where Kerala Devaswom Minister and CPI(M) leader Kadakampally Surendran is contesting, pamphlets mentioning major contributions made by Surendran for the development of various temples were reportedly being distributed among the voters as a counter campaign against him over the Sabarimala women entry issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/v-s-achuthanandans-politically-sensitive-picture-being-used-by-congress-camps-970722.html
05-04-2021||South||TN Polls: Sasikala’s name missing from voters’ list||Former AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala may not be able to vote on Tuesday after her name was found missing from the electoral rolls. The name of Sasikala, who was registered as a voter in the Poes Garden residence of her late friend J Jayalalithaa, was removed after the bungalow was converted into a memorial for her by the government. N Vaidyanathan, AMMK candidate from Thousand Lights, from where Sasikala was eligible to vote, alleged on Monday that Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was behind this.  The AMMK run by Sasikala’s nephew T T V Dhinakaran also submitted a complaint to Chief Electoral Officer Sathyabrata Sahoo asking her name to be included in the list. “This is nothing but a planned move by EPS to prevent Chinamma (Sasikala) from voting. The CEO should add Chinamma’s name into the list and allow her to vote,” Vaidyanathan told DH. It is said Sasikala’s name was removed from the list but this was not communicated to her. “Everyone knew Chinamma was in prison, and the communication should have been sent there. If she had known, she would have registered in a new place,” Vaidhyanathan said.  Sasikala, who completed her four-year prison term in January, had in March announced that she was “stepping aside” from politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-polls-sasikala-s-name-missing-from-voters-list-970724.html
05-04-2021||South||Lotus will bloom in Tamil Nadu on April 6: C T Ravi||As Tamil Nadu goes for polls on April 6, BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, the party in-charge of the state, on Monday said the election would prove wrong the myth that the saffron party has no place in Dravidian land. The MLA from Karnataka said the BJP has put in the efforts needed to win all the 20 seats it is contesting. "April 6 polls will be significant for BJP in South, especially Tamil Nadu. The myth that the BJP has no place in Dravida land will be proved wrong," Ravi told reporters. April 6 is also BJP's Foundation Day and the lotus would bloom in Tamil Nadu, he said. "The AIADMK-led NDA will come back to power, and the ground reality is in favour of NDA," he said. As part of its alliance with the AIADMK, the BJP has fielded its candidates in 20 seats. Ravi said though the BJP has contested only in 20 seats, it has taken the election seriously. "I feel there is a wave in our favour, there is expectation of good results," he said. Noting that AIADMK was the natural partner for the BJP in Tamil Nadu as there is no dynasty politics in the party, Ravi said the DMK is a family enterprise run by Karunanidhi and Maran families, and it would be rejected by the people. Though it may look like it is a fight between the AIADMK and the DMK, it is the BJP that has set the agenda for the whole election, he said. Despite being the minor party in the alliance through "Vetrivel Yatra", "Namma Ooru Pongal" and "jallikattu", among other things, the BJP set the agenda, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lotus-will-bloom-in-tamil-nadu-on-april-6-c-t-ravi-970776.html
05-04-2021||State||SC reserves order on Reddy's plea to remove restrictions on visit to Ballari||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its order on a plea by former Karnataka Minister and mining baron Gali Janardhana Reddy to remove bail restrictions on visiting his home town, Ballari. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan wrapped up the hearing on Reddy's application as Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan opposed the plea on behalf of the CBI. He is an influential figure with immense power. There are many witnesses who are in protection, she said.   “Whenever he has sought for two-three days for family events, we have never opposed that. But, he cannot be let out permanently. After many days we have gotten the witnesses to speak up," she said. Divan sought an order for expediting the trial. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Reddy, contended that a cock-and-bull story has been made on the basis of concocted statements of witnesses. Rohatgi, for his part, also claimed  20 adjournments have also been taken by the CBI in the matter. “If they are not able to meet the exigencies of the trial, they should give it up," he said. Reddy cannot visit Ballari as per the conditions of the bail granted on January 21, 2015 by the top court. The top court had then enlarged Reddy on the bail in a case of illegal mining with a condition that he would not visit Ballari, Ananthpuram and Cuddapah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-reserves-order-on-reddys-plea-to-remove-restrictions-on-visit-to-ballari-970571.html
05-04-2021||State||33 garment workers, 27 kids of orphanage test positive for Covid-19 in Kolar||As many as 33 workers of a private garment factory and 27 children of an orphanage tested positive for Covid-19 in Kolar district. The factory premises at Bettani village on the outskirts of Kolar has been sealed. About 900 workers were also screened for the virus and the reports are awaited. The infected workers have been shifted to SNR District Hospital and their primary and secondary contacts are being tested.  About 26 children of an orphanage near Attigirikuppa in Bangarpet taluk in the district have contracted the virus. There are 60 children in the orphanage. A girl tested positive for the virus on April 2. The remaining 26 children had come in contact with her. The children have been shifted to different hospitals in the district. Five staff and 33 other children have been tested. Reports are awaited.  The district administration has declared the orphanage as a containment zone. Deputy commissioner R Selvamani has directed the officials to supply essentials through the gram panchayat staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/33-garment-workers-27-kids-of-orphanage-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kolar-970754.html
05-04-2021||State||Karnataka HC upholds DK Shivakumar discharge in three I-T cases||The High Court on Monday dismissed three criminal revision petitions filed by the Income Tax department against KPCC President D K Shivakumar. The Income Tax department had moved the High Court challenging the order of the special court for elected representatives, which discharged Shivakumar in three cases connected to the raids on him in August 2017. Justice John Michael Cunha dismissed the petitions stating that no interference is called for on the orders passed by the special court. The special court had discharged Shivakumar on February 28, 2019, in respect of three separate cases registered by the department. Apart from the offences under the Income Tax Act, the department had also booked Shivakumar under Section 201 of the IPC for causing disappearance of evidence of offence. The I-T department claimed that Shivakumar tore up a piece of paper during the raid at a resort near Bidadi. The department claimed that interference by the special court was unwarranted and that the cases should progress. After the I-T department launched prosecution in the cases, Shivakumar had moved the special court seeking discharge from the cases. He contended that the I-T department could not have launched prosecution even before culmination of assessment proceedings for 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18. Though the special court quashed the proceedings, it reserved the liberty for the department to launch a fresh prosecution, after estimating the undisclosed income.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-upholds-dk-shivakumar-discharge-in-three-i-t-cases-970756.html
05-04-2021||State||Kharge mocks BJP’s age rule citing Sreedharan||Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday criticized the BJP for fielding ‘Metro Man’ E Sreedharan while having “sidelined” other senior leaders such as L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi.  Kharge was speaking at an event to commemorate the 114th birth anniversary of former deputy prime minister Babu Jagjivan Ram organised by the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC).  “People like L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and others who built the (BJP) were sidelined because they turned 75 and were made to sit at home as margdarshaks (advisers). But in Kerala, they gave the ticket to 88-year-old Sreedharan. In West Bengal also, they gave tickets to two TMC MLAs aged 82 and 84. They say one thing and do something else,” Kharge said.  Kharge, 78, also attacked the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological parent. “The RSS ideology is poisonous,” he said. “Even (former Congress president) Rahul Gandhi says wherever he goes that PM Modi and the BJP are creating trouble for the country and that the RSS’ ideology is dangerous,” he added.  Kharge said leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, B R Ambedkar and Jagjivan Ram strived to keep the country together. “But the BJP is trying to divide the country. In the name of religion, they feel they’ll continue to be in power. It’s only a matter of time before people wake up and realize,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kharge-mocks-bjp-s-age-rule-citing-sreedharan-970758.html
05-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC stays criminal proceedings against Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||In a relief to Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the Supreme Court on Monday stayed the criminal proceedings against him in a land denotification case. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian suspended the operation of the High Court's order of March 17, which has restored the criminal case proceedings, in the case related to denotification of over 20 acres of industrial land in Bengaluru North in 2007. Senior advocate K V Vishwanathan, appearing for Yediyurappa, contended that he could not be prosecuted for bona fide administrative decision. After hearing him, the court issued notice to original complainant, A Alam Basha, the Karnataka government as well as to the Lokayukta on the petition against the High Court's order. "In the meantime, there shall be stay of operation of the order as well as stay of further proceedings in the criminal case," the bench said. The top court's order also came as a relief for Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh R Nirani, who separately challenged the High Court's order. He was named as accused in the complaint. The special court had refused to proceed against Yediyurappa and then large and medium scale industries minister Katta Subramanya Naidu in the case. The trial court said since there were no allegations against Yediyurappa and Naidu in the complaint, it could not take cognisance of the charge sheet filed against them. The HC, however, set aside the trial court's order of July 25, 2016 that had quashed the complaint which also named another minister Nirani as one of the accused. It directed the special court to take cognisance of offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act against him, and proceed further on the basis of charge sheet filed by the Lokayukta Police on May 25, 2012. In his petition filed through advocates Kush Chaturvedi and Sandeep Patil, Yediyurappa contended that the High Court could not have directed the trial court to take cognizance of the offence without prior sanction against the petitioner, a public servant. He also said the High Court ought to have appreciated that the petitioner was not named as an accused in the private complaint. "The High Court ought not to have interfered with judicial independence of the trial court by directing him to issue a particular order," his plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-stays-criminal-proceedings-against-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-970541.html
05-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||H D Deve Gowda clinically stable, discharged from hospital||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda has been discharged from the hospital where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19, JD(S) said on Monday. The party tweeted about its patriarch's discharge from the Manipal Hospital here after recovering from coronavirus. The 87-year-old leader too tweeted stating that he and his wife Chennamma, who were hospitalised on March 31, were on their path to recovery. "When my wife and I fell ill recently, people from all walks of life, leaders from across parties, friends, colleagues and party workers showed us warmth and wished us well. We are deeply indebted to everybody. Thank you. By the grace of God, we are on our path to recovery," Gowda tweeted. Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa were among the host of leaders who had called Gowda and enquired about his and his wife's health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/h-d-deve-gowda-clinically-stable-discharged-from-hospital-970559.html
05-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru reports 3,728 Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 5,279 new Covid-19 cases and 32 deaths. Bengaluru accounted for 3,728 Covid-19 cases and 18 of these deaths. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-reports-3728-covid-19-cases-18-deaths-970668.html
05-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Crumbling Hampi, Pattadkal monuments get restoration boost||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has taken up conservation and restoration of monuments at UNESCO world heritage site Hampi. Several monuments, including the fort wall near the famed Kamal Mahal and pillars of Saalu Mantap, had crumbled recently due to the vagaries of nature. The ASI had identified several such monuments and prepared an action plan to restore them. In the first phase, the premier agency to protect and conserve the cultural heritage of the country will take up restoration of Bishtappayya Gopura of Virupaksheshwara Temple, mantap behind Vijaya Vittala Temple, Chandikeshwari Temple, Saalu Mantaps near Krishna Temple, Paan Supari Bazaar and the two-storey mantap behind Tulabhara Smaraka. The metallic arch fixed to Bishtappayya Gopura during the British Raj is crumbling. The ASI authorities have taken up the restoration of the massive gopura. Also, the pillars of Saalu Mantaps and the two-storey mantap are being strengthened with iron pillars and structures. With rising Mercury levels, influx of tourists to the City of Ruins has come down drastically. Low tourist footfall has paved way for the restoration. P Kalimuttu, deputy superintendent, ASI (Hampi Circle), told DH, "The ASI has taken up restoration of monuments so that these breath-taking pieces of Vijayanagar architecture are preserved for future generations. We are just strengthening the weak pillars and monuments with iron structure or scaffolding. No new work is being taken up," he said. Brass rings for victory pillar  The 1,200-year-old victory pillar in UNESCO site Pattadkal, Bagalkot district, which had developed cracks to natural wear and tear, has been restored with brass rings. Vittal S Badiger, superintendent, ASI (Dharwad Circle) told DH, " Our in-house technicians have inserted brass rigns to Vijayastambh. There is no danger to the pillar now." In the next phase, the monument will be given a chemical treatment. A similar stone used to construct the Vijayastambh will be used to fill the cracks (mending). Also, there is a need to mask the marks of the brass rings on the pillar. We have written to KLE Polytechnic College, Hubballi, for technical assistance. DH, on January 7, had reported highlighting the precarious condition of the Chalukyan era monument. Following this, the ASI (Dharwad Circle) had assured to restore the victory pillar, also one of the early Kannada inscriptions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/crumbling-hampi-pattadkal-monuments-get-restoration-boost-970680.html
05-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S) seeks action against Zameer over racist remark on H D Kumaraswamy||The JD(S) on Monday sought legal action against Congress legislator B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan for his alleged racist comment on former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy. The Bengaluru Yuva Janata Dal, in its complaint against Khan, stated that he made a derogatory comment against Kumaraswamy during a recent election campaign in Basavakalyan. During his election rally speech on March 30, Khan can be heard calling Kumaraswamy "Kaala Kumaraswamy" (Black Kumaraswamy). The JD(S) has fielded Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, a Muslim, for the Basavakalyan bypolls in the hope of wooing minority voters. "Ali saab is a nice man. This nice man was misled by our 'Kaala Kumaraswamy' and was made the candidate," Khan said in his speech, adding that the JD(S) would cast Ali aside after the elections.  Taking objection to the racial remark, the regional party's youth wing handed over a complaint to Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant seeking strict action against the Congress leader.  It is a 3-way fight in the Basavakalyan bypolls between BJP's Sharanu Salagar, Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri of the JD(S) and Congress's Mala Narayan Rao, wife of MLA Narayan Rao, whose death necessitated this bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jds-seeks-action-against-zameer-over-racist-remark-on-h-d-kumaraswamy-970683.html
05-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases, 32 deaths||Karnataka for the first time this year logged nearly 5,000 cases on Friday with the state reporting 4,991 cases. The bulk of these cases were from Bengaluru, pushing the active caseload to 34,219 in the state, while six deaths took the toll to 12,591. This led the government to issue a slew of restrictions on Friday which were recommendations made by the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). Earlier rejected, they have now been accepted by the Government. The positivity rate for the day shot up to 4.19% from 3.65% on Thursday. Bengaluru alone accounted for 3,509 cases and five deaths. The state capital now has 24,600 active cases which is 72% of the active case load in the state. The other fatality was reported from Kalaburagi. The total caseload is now 10,06,229. The day also saw 1,631 patients getting discharged after recovery taking the total number of recoveries to 9,59,400. As many as 269 patients are in Intensive Care Units. Other than Bengaluru, Mysuru reported 174 cases, Tumakuru 142, Bidar 126, and Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi 105 each. A total of over 2,16,45,891 crore samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,18,933 were done on Friday alone. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu, member of TAC, in the backdrop of the spike in cases and the restrictions imposed by the government on Friday told reporters here, "After several rounds of deliberation, we had made these recommendations to the government earlier. After extensive examination by the state government, the new restrictions have been imposed. The main aim of these restrictions are to contain super-spreader events in closed spaces." "There is evidence that infection is spreading more in such events. By imposing restrictions for two weeks, the government wants to reduce the number of cases. People should help the government in doing this. We should be successful in bringing down the cases. This is an appeal from the Technical Advisory Committee," he added. Vaccination Even as the state grapples with a rapid surge in cases, more than one lakh people were vaccinated on Friday. Out of 1,26,270 vaccinated, 68,100 were between 45 and 60 years of age. The next highest vaccinated numbers were among the elderly. As many as 51,373 above the age of 60 were vaccinated. This took the cumulative vaccinated to 40,73,206 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-over-5000-new-covid-19-cases-32-deaths-970704.html
05-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa may find going tough after May 2||Political circles are abuzz with talks that the ongoing political developments are an indicator that the BJP central leadership is preparing ground for a change of guard in the state. Political observers feel that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa might find the going tough post May 2, depending on the outcome for the BJP in the five states’ election. Till now, Yediyurappa has outwitted attacks from within his Cabinet and the party leadership, hanging on to power despite some close calls last year. Disgruntlement has rocked the Yediyurappa administration since June 2020, a year after he assumed power, along with relentless criticism of the chief minister and his son BY Vijayendra by BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal. The writing on the wall is clear after Rural Development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarappa’s recent complaint to the Governor, experts say. Political analyst Mahadev Prakash said that indications are of a systematic ploy to remove Yediyurappa. These efforts may gain momentum considering election results in the five poll-bound states, he said. “However, Yediyurappa has survived such efforts, is surviving it and will try to survive in the future, too. It will be interesting to see how the CM counters such moves,” Prakash, who was the CM’s media adviser till November 2020, said. According to political scientist Muzaffar Assadi, those attempting to destabilse Yediyurappa were “very cautious” and the dissenting group was not large enough to question his authority or demand his resignation as he still enjoys the support of a sizable number of MLAs. “Other forces in the party are speaking through Yatnal and Eshwarappa as Yediyurappa is not heeding the high command. The party leadership is well aware that moves - such as complaints against Yediyurappa - could be counterproductive,” he added. Harish Ramaswamy, political analyst and Raichur University vice chancellor, noted that there were clear indications from the Centre that Yediyurappa should be replaced. “But the big question is, who is the heir apparent?” A senior BJP leader told DH recently that the number of MLAs with whom Yediyurappa held sway had shrunk in the last couple of years, primarily due to his age. Another party functionary, under the condition of anonymity, noted “everything depend on byelection results.” Karnataka will face Assembly elections in 2023 and preliminary discussions on who should be the BJP’s face are already on. This is likely to be discussed in the next BJP executive meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-may-find-going-tough-after-may-2-970753.html
05-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex CD case: HC directs SIT to submit probe report in response to petitions||The High Court on Monday ordered notice to the state government and Special Investigation Team (SIT), probing the CD case involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, in response to two PILs. The petitions sought independent investigation and restraining media from publishing unverified reports. The court also directed the SIT to submit the status report regarding investigation in a sealed cover. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing PILs filed by two city-based advocates. In his petition, S Umesh prayed for either a CBI investigation or court- monitored investigation by a central investigation team. The petitioner contended that the guidelines framed by the Bombay High Court with regard to media coverage of sensitive cases are applicable to the ‘CD episode’. He stated that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had addressed a communication dated on March 5, 2021, to all private TV channels and to the Press Council of India, with a copy of the Bombay High Court order. The petition sought directions to ensure that there is no media trial and information is circulated through media within the parameters of fundamental principles of criminal jurisprudence.  The other petition, filed by Geeta Misra, prayed for quashing the order of the city police commissioner constituting the SIT. The petition claimed that the SIT was formed on March 11 on the basis of a letter by Jarkiholi, which was forwarded to the police commissioner by Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. ‘Formed without FIR’ The petitioner contended that the SIT was formed without there being an FIR, without quoting provisions of law and also in the absence of a government order and gazette notification. The petition also sought directions to initiate action against police officials who have leaked sensitive investigation details to media persons with an ulterior motive and contrary to the dictum of the Apex Court. The bench orally questioned as to how the SIT was formed without there being an FIR registered in the case. The court directed the SIT to submit the status report regarding investigation by April 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-cd-case-hc-directs-sit-to-submit-probe-report-in-response-to-petitions-970760.html
05-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No diversion of Mahadayi basin water: Karnataka tells SC||Karnataka on Monday informed the Supreme Court that it has not diverted Mahadayi basin water to Malaprabha river through Kalasa canal. Denying the allegation by Goa, Karnataka has submitted a report saying that there is no question of facing contempt of court as the state has never diverted Mahadayi basin water. Karnataka also submitted a part of its report prepared by K B Krishnajirao, Member (Karnataka), Joint Monitoring Committee. Earlier, the Supreme Court formed a joint inspection committee comprising officials of Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra after Goa alleged that Karnataka diverted the Mahadayi basin river water to Malaprabha against the apex court's order. SC had ordered Karnataka to close the vents of Kalasa interconnecting canal. As per the Court order, the committee conducted an inspection of Kalasa Nala near Kanakumbi in Belagavi District recently. Karnataka reiteration in its report based on the committee's spot visit that it had no diverted any water. The state also said that though some flow was observed through Kalasa inter-connecting canal, it was not surface water but seepage of groundwater. Maharashtra and Goa are yet to submit reports to the Supreme Court mentioning their views based on joint inspection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-diversion-of-mahadayi-basin-water-karnataka-tells-sc-970788.html
05-04-2021||West||'Love Jihad' law: Complaint filed against Hindu family in Gujarat||Barely four days after a bill was passed in the Legislative Assembly to amend the Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003, a complaint was filed with Vadodara police on Sunday against a family for allegedly "luring" the complainant's sister to "convert her to Hindu religion" through marriage. The amendments in the bill, which have been described by Gujarat minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja as a bill to curb "love jihad", is yet to be made a law. The complaint was filed by Arbazkhan Pathan against Kalpesh Chauhan and several members of his family with J P Road Police Station in Vadodara on Sunday evening. Pathan has alleged in his complaint, received by the local police, that his 29 years old sister was "lured" to marriage for the purpose of "religious conversion" by fraudulently promising her a "better lifestyle", "economic prosperity" divine blessings, among others. The complainant has sought police action against the accused under the newly introduced Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill, 2021. "We know that it is not yet a law yet and police won't register an FIR. But, we want to highlight such inter-faith marriages which the present government also recognise as 'love jihad'. Will the government take action against the Hindu family if their son marries a Muslim daughter. The proposed law will open a Pandora's box in such interfaith marriages it gives authority to everyone to file FIR," said a source close to the family of the complainant. Despite repeated attempts, J P Road Police Station Inspector B G Chetariya didn't respond to calls and text messages also remained unanswered.  When contacted, Kalpesh Chauhan, who has married complainant's sister Nazneen, said, "I don't know about this complaint but their allegations that I have married Nazneen through allurements is false. We have known each other for nearly three years and mutually decided to marry. There is no question of forcing my wife to change of religion." During the telephone interview, Chauhan handed the phone to a woman, who, he said was Nazneen. "I shouldn't say anything bad about my family but I feel bad that they filed a case. I have been working at a nursing home where I met Kalpesh who runs the ambulance van. We have been in a relationship for the last three years and last month we got married in the court. There is no question of any other motive behind my marriage," the woman on phone said claiming that she was Nazneen. On April on1, Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja introduced the controversial bill in the Assembly which was passed amidst a protest by opposition Congress. Although the bill doesn't mention "love jihad" anywhere in its language, Jadeja during the debate hailed Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill, 2021 as a bill to stop "love jihad" or interfaith marriage done by "trickery" or "allurements."  The bill has provision of imprisonment from 3 to 5 years for individuals while 4 to 7 years in case of women, minor or people from scheduled caste and scheduled tribe. The proposal also targets institutions involved in religious conversion. The draft bill stated that maximum punishment in such cases will be up to 10 years and fine of Rs 5 lakh on each members of the organizations involved. The bill defines "better lifestyle, divine blessings or otherwise" as "allurements". The bill gives right to "any aggrieved person related by blood to lodge FIR."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/love-jihad-law-complaint-filed-against-hindu-family-in-gujarat-970442.html
05-04-2021||West||As Covid-19 cases surge, Mumbai shuts malls, asks people to work from home||By Dhwani Pandya Mumbai authorities asked all private offices to work from home through April as India’s financial hub emerges once again as the epicenter of a new wave of coronavirus infections. Banks, stock exchanges, medical and insurance services will be allowed some staffing concessions, according to a government notification Sunday. All non-essential services including malls, places of worship, and beauty salons will shut operations from 8 pm on Monday. “There is an alarming rate of growth of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the country,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government said in a statement earlier Sunday. Maharashtra  — which contributes about 15 per cent of India’s national output — accounted for 57 per cent of new infections over the past 14 days and 47 per cent of deaths during the period.   India is heading toward 1 lakh daily cases, which would be a record. The resurgence follows an unexplained lull in recent months, which allowed businesses to re-open and fostered optimism in policymakers about a recovery in growth. Asia’s third-largest economy had slumped into a historic recession last year after PM Modi announced a sudden, vast, and strict lockdown. Maharashtra will impose a complete lockdown over weekends. Anyone breaking the rules will be fined Rs 500. Delivery staff, transport workers and other personnel must be vaccinated as early as possible under government rules, and those not yet eligible must have a test certificate to show they aren’t infected. The negative RT-PCR statement will be valid for 15 days. India recorded 93,249 new infections on Sunday, the highest daily tally since September 19. Mumbai reported a record 11,163 cases for the day. About 7.5 crore citizens have been vaccinated so far in the country of 130 crore people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-covid-19-cases-surge-mumbai-shuts-malls-asks-people-to-work-from-home-970468.html
05-04-2021||West||Maharashtra: 6,077 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 17 more deaths||Thane has reported 6,077 new cases of coronavirus, taking the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 3,38,743, an official said on Monday. These new cases were reported on Sunday, he said. The virus also claimed the lives of 17 more people, pushing the death toll in the district to 6,561, he said, adding the Covid-19 mortality rate in Thane is 1.94 per cent. So far, 2,92,451 patients have recuperated from the infection in the district, which reflects a recovery rate of 86.33 per cent. There are 39,731 active Covid-19 cases in Thane at present, the official said. In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count stood at 52,241 and the death toll at 1,236, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-6077-new-covid-19-cases-in-thane-17-more-deaths-970524.html
05-04-2021||West||HC directs preliminary CBI inquiry into charges against Anil Deshmukh||In a jolt to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, the Bombay High Court ordered a preliminary enquiry into the allegations made by Mumbai Police’s ex-chief Param Bir Singh against state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Singh – an IPS officer of the 1988 batch who was shunted out as commissioner of police of Mumbai and made the commandant general of Home Guards – has alleged that Deshmukh fixed a Rs 100-crore collection target for suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Vaze (49), who was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit if Mumbai Police Crime Branch-CID is allegedly involved in parking a Scorpio laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the residence of India's top business Mukesh Ambani and the mysterious murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren Deshmukh (70), a senior politician from Vidarbha, is a loyalist of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and a confidante of party’s general secretary Praful Patel.  Singh has filed a criminal PIL in the Bombay High Court. The bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni – that heard a bunch of petitions last week - ordered the Director of CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry in accordance with law and conclude it within 15 days. Once the preliminary inquiry is complete, the director CBI is at discretion to decide on further course of action, the court said. Further details of the order are awaited. “It is a welcome development,” said BJP leader Atul Bhatkalkar. He said that it is high time that Deshmukh tendered his resignation. It may be recalled that amid call for resignation of Deshmukh by opposition BJP, the Uddhav Thackeray-led  government appointed a high-level inquiry committee headed by justice Kailash Chandiwal, a one-man probe panel headed by former judge of Bombay High Court. The BJP, however, has said that the probe was not instituted under Commission of Inquiry Act and would serve no purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-directs-preliminary-cbi-inquiry-into-charges-against-anil-deshmukh-970529.html
05-04-2021||West||Maharashtra hoteliers protest against fresh Covid-19 curbs||With the Maharashtra government imposing a mini-lockdown to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, hotel industry bodies -- Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI), Hotel & Restaurant Association Western India (HRAWI) and Indian Hotel & Restaurant Association (AHAR) described the decision as the “last nail in the coffin” for the hospitality sector and has pleaded for help. “With this decision, as far as our industry is concerned, the State Government has driven in the last nail into the coffin. The industry which generates employment and is a source of income to lakhs, cannot survive this time as we cannot pay staff salaries, licence fees, meet operational expenses etc with mere home delivery and takeaways,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR. “We fail to understand why the hotel and restaurant industry is targeted every time when there is no empirical evidence to prove that Covid-19 is emanating from our places, or it is rampantly spreading only during the evening,” he added. “We will once again support the government like we did last year. But, there will be no hospitality industry if the government does not reciprocate. We are doomed this time around if we are expected to be both, shut for business and not receive any relief. The government has to meet us somewhere in between. "Shut us but do justice to the owners, staff and their families. Take care of the salaries. Unburden the owners of the property tax, waive off the statutory fees, don't generate electricity and water bills until the industry becomes completely operational again,” said Pradeep Shetty, senior vice president, HRAWI and joint honorary secretary, FHRAI. It is only after October 2020, that restaurants in Maharashtra were allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity with time restrictions. But the resurgence of the pandemic at regular intervals led to more severe restrictions disrupting all its revival efforts.  The FHRAI & HRAWI, had recently in a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, stated that the rental and salary expenses, servicing of debts taken earlier, negative cash flows and the statutory payment obligations have made hospitality the most unviable and unsustainable business under the present situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-hoteliers-protest-against-fresh-covid-19-curbs-970530.html
05-04-2021||West||Mukesh Ambani security scare: NIA seizes high-end bike||The NIA has seized a high-end bike, suspected to be registered in the name of an alleged woman associate of API Sachin Vaze, arrested for his alleged role in planting an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, an official said on Monday. Sleuths of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) brought the bike in a tempo to its office in south Mumbai on Monday, he said. The woman, an alleged associate of suspended assistant police inspector Vaze, was questioned by the NIA on Friday, sources said. The probe agency had on Thursday searched a flat in Mira Road area which was in the woman's possession, they said. The NIA suspects she accompanied Vaze to a city-based hotel on February 16, before the explosives-laden SUV was found near Ambani's residence 'Antilia' here on February 25, the sources said. The NIA had earlier seized eight high-end vehicles used by Vaze, who was arrested in the case last month. The NIA is also conducting a probe into the death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiren, who was in possession of the SUV before it was found with explosives near Ambani's house. Hiren was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mukesh-ambani-security-scare-nia-seizes-high-end-bike-970561.html
05-04-2021||West||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh resigns||Maharashtra’s high-profile Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP resigned on Monday hours after the Bombay High Court ordered a “preliminary enquiry” by the CBI into the serious allegations of corruption charges levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government and its architect and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar were under tremendous pressure for nearly a month over the demand of Deshmukh’s resignation by the BJP. Singh - an officer of the 1988-batch of the IPS – who was moved as commandant general of Home Guards, has alleged that Deshmukh had fixed a Rs 100 crore per month ‘collection target’ from controversial police officer Sachin Vaze. A division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni ruled a CBI probe after last week’s hearing of a bunch of public interest litigations and criminal writ petitions. The order came vis-à-vis the petition filed by lawyer-activist Jaishri Patil, however, the other petitions including that of Singh were disposed of. “As of necessity, the probe has to be entrusted to an independent agency like the CBI… Although we do not see an immediate reason to direct registration of an FIR by the CBI, however, in the interest of justice, in our opinion, would be sufficiently served if the Director, CBI is directed to initiate a preliminary inquiry,” it said. The bench asked the inquiry in 15 days after which a call on further action can be taken. Immediately after the order, Deshmukh met Pawar, who spoke to his nephew and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Water Resources Minister and state NCP president Jayant Patil. After this, Deshmukh, a 70-year-old leader from Vidarbha, sent his resignation to Thackeray. “His continuation in the post has become untenable,” said the leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil, “We welcome the resignation of Deshmukh. Pawar saheb has a political career of 54 years… if Deshmukh was allowed to continue, it would not have been a good sign.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-resigns-970569.html
05-04-2021||West||Dilip Walse Patil to be next Maharashtra Home Minister?||Senior NCP leader Dilip Walse Patil has emerged as a frontrunner for the post of Maharashtra’s Home Minister following the resignation of Anil Deshmukh. Besides Walse Patil, the two others whose names are doing rounds are state NCP president Jayant Patil and Rajesh Tope. Tope is the state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister – and there is an opinion within the party that he should not be disturbed from the existing responsibilities because of the emerging Covid-19 pandemic scenario. Patil is the state’s Water Resources and Command Area Development Minister and has served as the state’s Home Minister in the aftermath of the 26/11 terror attacks when late RR Patil had to resign along with the then chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh. Walse Patil is the state's Labour Minister. In the erstwhile Democratc Front government, he has held ministries like energy, higher and technical education.   In the past, he had served as the Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. He is currently serving as the President of the National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Limited (NFCSF). He began his political career as NCP supremo Sharad Pawar’s personal assistant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dilip-walse-patil-to-be-next-maharashtra-home-minister-970592.html
05-04-2021||West||Covid-19 restrictions in Maharashtra not in interest of people: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday opposed the imposition of new restrictions in Maharashtra alleging that the state government and the Mumbai civic body have failed to curb the rise in Covid-19 cases. The AAP alleged "half-hearted" measures were being taken without considering their implications on the common people in Mumbai. The weekend lockdown will start from 8 pm on Fridays and last till 7 am on Mondays. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) had said in a statement. The AAP has issued a release saying the new restrictions "would prove disastrous for Mumbai's economy, especially for small entrepreneurs and street vendors, who form the backbone of the city's commercial activity". "A lockdown by any other name is still a lockdown. The 'Break the Chain' rules announced by the government of Maharashtra are downright confusing," the Arvind Kejriwal-led party said. The AAP alleged the government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are falling short in tracking and tracing the contacts of the infected people. "It is preposterous to assume that all offices can function with its employees working from home. Even if the transport is functional, what is the use if all offices and shops are shut?" asked AAP's Mumbai in charge Preeti Sharma Menon. As per the state government's notification, all private offices, except in the banking, stock market, insurance, pharma, telecommunication and mediclaim sectors, will be shut as part of these restrictions. The AAP felt that keeping shops open on alternate days was a better option rather than ordering all establishments to remain shut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-restrictions-in-maharashtra-not-in-interest-of-people-aap-970614.html
05-04-2021||West||Can't be a mute spectator: Bombay High Court on Param Bir Singh's plea||As the Bombay High Court instituted a probe by the CBI into Mumbai Police ex-chief Param Bir Singh’s allegations against Anil Deshmukh, it reasoned that it cannot remain a mute spectator on allegations against high-ranking officials, and given the circumstances, the Maharashtra Police could not have carried out a fair probe. “…The police department is under his (Deshmukh’s) control and direction. There can be no fair, impartial, unbiased and untainted probe if the same were entrusted to the State police force. As of necessity, the probe has to be entrusted to an independent agency like the CBI,” observed the division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. “Also, the press release of Deshmukh (in the aftermath of Singh's letter) suggests that he is not averse to facing any inquiry. It is, therefore, ordered accordingly,” it said. In its detailed reasoning, the court said: “Prima facie, the issues are such that the very faith of citizens in the functioning of the police department is at stake. If there is any amount of truth in such allegations, certainly it has a direct effect on the citizens’ confidence in the police machinery in the State. Such allegations, therefore, cannot remain unattended and are required to be looked into in the manner known to law when, prima facie, they indicate the commission of a cognizable offence.” In the order, Chief Justice Datta and Justice Kulkarni -- who heard a bunch of public interest litigations and criminal writ petitions last week -- have pointed out: “It is, hence, certainly an issue of credibility of the State machinery, which would stare at the face when confronted with the expectations of the law and when such complaints are received against high ranking public officials. This Court cannot be a mere spectator in these circumstances.” "There is certainly a legitimate public expectation of a free, fair, honest and impartial inquiry and investigation into such allegations which have surfaced in the public domain." “The necessity to have a probe into such allegations by an independent agency, would also certainly be a requirement of the rule of law. To instil public confidence and safeguard the Fundamental Rights of the citizens, it is necessary that an inquiry and investigation are conducted by an independent agency and for such reasons, we consider it to be in the paramount public interest that an independent probe in the present, circumstances would meet the ends of justice,” the 52-page judgement reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cant-be-a-mute-spectator-bombay-high-court-on-param-bir-singhs-plea-970627.html
05-04-2021||West||BJP gets upper hand in Maharashtra as HM Anil Deshmukh resigns||Nearly one and a half years after Shiv Sena, its oldest ally broke away and joined hands with the Congress-NCP front to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi in Maharashtra, the BJP has been restless. But it managed to score two big goals in quick succession. Two ministers had to resign back-to-back within a matter of 37 days — first, it was Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Rathod and now, NCP’s Anil Deshmukh. Incidentally, both hail from the Vidarbha region, where the BJP is very strong.  The BJP did not leave any opportunity to target Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray since he became the chief minister on November 28, 2019. The BJP’s first success came on February 28, 2021, when Rathod, the forest minister and a prominent leader of the Banjara community, had to put down his papers due to his links in the suspicious death of social media star Pooja Chavan. Now on April 5, 2021, Deshmukh had to resign in the wake of allegations of fixing Rs 100 crore per month ‘collection target’ for assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the NIA for planting a Scorpio laden with gelatin sticks near Antilia, the Mumbai residence of India’s top business Mukesh Ambani and murder of the SUV owner and Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren. On February 7, when Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited Sindhudurg in Konkan at the inauguration of a medical college owned by a trust of BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane, he held a meeting with Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, Pravin Darekar and state BJP president Chandrakant Patil, the BJP decided to go all out against the Thackeray government. Rathod resigned on the eve of the Budget Session of the Maharashtra Legislature. This gave the BJP an upper hand during the session when it mounted pressure on the MVA. Fadnavis, a former chief minister and home minister launched an attack on the chief minister. However, Thackeray came to the defence of Deshmukh and Vaze saying that “Vaze is not Osama bin Laden”. It needs to be mentioned that in 2008, Vaze was briefly associated with the Shiv Sena. His reinstatement into the police force itself has been questioned. Thereafter, when the session ended, Fadnavis came out with a copy of a top-secret intelligence report which pointed out that a cartel was operating that was fixing police transfers and promotions in exchange for money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-gets-upper-hand-in-maharashtra-as-hm-anil-deshmukh-resigns-970630.html
05-04-2021||West||Maharashtra govt to respond after studying HC order on Deshmukh: Sanjay Raut||The Maharashtra government will come out with its response after studying the Bombay High Court judgement ordering a preliminary CBI probe into the allegations of corruption against Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Monday. Earlier in the day, the HC directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry within 15 days into allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh. Deshmukh, a senior leader of the NCP, a key ally in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, resigned from the cabinet after the HC order, his party announced. Talking to reporters, Raut said the MVA government will study the judgement and then respond. "No investigating agency is an incarnation of God. The issue is political, too. Our tradition is that we honour decisions of the judiciary," the Sena MP said. The judgement needs to be studied in detail after which Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray or someone from the government would respond on his behalf, Raut said. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said this was an "extraordinary" and "unprecedented" case that warranted an independent inquiry. In its 52-page judgement, the bench said Singh's allegations against Deshmukh had put at stake the citizen's faith in the state police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-respond-after-studying-hc-order-on-deshmukh-sanjay-raut-970650.html
05-04-2021||West||BJP attacks Uddhav Thackeray after Anil Deshmukh's resignation||Training its guns on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the BJP said on Monday that he has forfeited the moral authority to govern after the Bombay High Court asked the CBI to probe into allegations of corruption against Anil Deshmukh. Addressing a press conference, senior BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asked if Thackeray has no moral responsibility following Deshmukh's resignation as the state home minister. So many major incidents have happened under his government, Prasad said, referring to the Sachin Vaze case and former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh's corruption allegations against Deshmukh. "He has forfeited moral authority to govern," Prasad said, attacking the Shiv Sena leader for his "conspicuous silence" over the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-attacks-uddhav-thackeray-after-anil-deshmukhs-resignation-970655.html
05-04-2021||West||Dilip Walse Patil is Maharashtra's new Home Minister||Starting off as a personal assistant to Sharad Pawar, the new Home Minister of Maharashtra, Dilip Walse Patil, has a tough task at hand to set the house in order. Anil Deshmukh's departure has surely impacted the NCP, his party and also the tri-party coalition. Perhaps, the soft-spoken, non-controversial, no-nonsense 64-year-old seven-time MLA is the best suited for the job. In the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government, Walse Patil was handling two key portfolios – Excise and Labour. While NCP’s Hasan Mushrif has been given the Labour portfolio, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who will hold the Excise portfolio along with Finance and Planning. There were several who could have fit the bill – the Pawar junior himself, state NCP president and Water Resources and Command Area Development Minister Jayant Patil and Public Health and Family Welfare Rajesh Tope. The general consensus was that Tope could not be discharged as Maharashtra is reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic and Patil himself has twin responsibilities – party and government. The NCP supremo wanted someone loyal to him and also who has a ‘Mr Clean’ image – for it the best was Walse-Patil. Walse Patil hails from Ambegaon in the Pune district. His father Dattatray Walse Patil has been a former Congress MLA and Pawar’s friend. In 1990, Patil defeated Kisanrao Bankhele in Ambegaon and entered the Assembly for the first time. In 1999, when Pawar formed the NCP, he joined it and was part of the second-rung leadership.  In the erstwhile Democratic Front government, Walse Patil has held multiple portfolios including Finance and Planning, Energy, Higher and Technical Education, Medical Education from 1999-2009. From 2009-2014, he was the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Council – and his performance has been appreciated both by the Treasury and Opposition benches. He is currently serving as the president of the National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Limited (NFCSF).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dilip-walse-patil-is-maharashtras-new-home-minister-970674.html
05-04-2021||West||Mumbai reports 9,857 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths||A day after recording more than 11,000 Covid-19 cases in a day - the highest so far - Mumbai reported less than 10,000 infections at 9,857 on Monday, while 21 more patients died due to the disease, the city civic body said. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) updated data, 9,857 new cases took the tally of Covid-19 cases to 4,62,302, while the death toll jumped to 11,797. On Sunday, the city had witnessed the highest-ever 11,163 new Covid-19 cases. The number of fatalities also went down to 21 from 25 on Sunday. According to the BMC, 3,357 more people were discharged from hospitals during the day, pushing the number of recovered patients to 3,74,985. With this the number of active cases jumped to 74,522, the data showed. The data showed the BMC carried out 36,878 new Covid-19 tests, down from Sunday's 51,319, taking the number of samples examined so far to 43,06,053. The recovery rate of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has gone down to 81 per cent, according to the BMC. The overall Covid-19 growth rate has increased to 1.70 per cent, while the case doubling rate has dropped to 40 days, the civic body said. At present, the city has 70 active containment zones in slums and 'chawls' (old tenements), while 748 buildings have been sealed in the financial capital, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-reports-9857-new-covid-19-cases-21-deaths-970681.html
05-04-2021||West||Shirdi Saibaba temple shut till further orders due to rise in Covid-19 cases||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases and the Maharashtra government's notification on restrictions, weekend lockdown and night curfew to contain it, officials of the renowned Saibaba temple in Shirdi decided to keep it shut from Monday night till further orders. As per the Maharashtra government notification, religious places will remain closed due to the rise in Covid-19 cases, and, therefore, the Saibaba temple will remain closed for devotees from Monday 8 pm till further orders, said Ravindra Thakre, the officiating chief executive officer, Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust. However, the daily affairs inside the temple premise will go on as usual, though accommodation and 'prasadalay' (dining hall for devotees) will remain closed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shirdi-saibaba-temple-shut-till-further-orders-due-to-rise-in-covid-19-cases-970694.html
05-04-2021||West||Beginning of fall of Maharashtra government: BJP on Anil Deshmukh's resignation||The BJP on Monday dubbed the ouster of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh the beginning of the fall of the “unholy, anti-people alliance government” in the state. “MVA first wicket falls. Anil Deshmukh resigns after Bombay high court orders CBI enquiry into allegations of C P Param Bir Singh. This is the beginning of fall of an unholy, anti-people alliance government. Sooner it falls better it is for the state & country,” B L Santosh, BJP General Secretary (Organisation) said. Senior BJP leader and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had forfeited the moral authority to govern after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into the graft allegations against Deshmukh. “Democracy is run by the standards of probity and propriety, The consistent conspicuous silence of Uddhav Thackeray is by itself raising a lot of questions,” Prasad told reporters after Deshmukh tendered his resignation as Home Minister. Prasad claimed that Deshmukh had met NCP president Sharad Pawar and sought his permission before putting in his papers, while Thackeray kept quiet on the entire episode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/beginning-of-fall-of-maharashtra-government-bjp-on-anil-deshmukhs-resignation-970714.html
05-04-2021||West||Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra getting worse: Pawar||The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has spread across Maharashtra and the situation is worsening by the day, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said, urging people to be careful.  “The numbers of patients are increasing exponentially and day by day the situation is worsening,” he said on Monday when a mini-lockdown came into force. The 80-year-old Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra chief minister, asked NCP workers to work relentlessly at the local level to give relief to the distressed in this unprecedented crisis.  “Special emphasis should be given on the implementation of corona preventive vaccination campaigns,” he said. On the worsening blood storage, he said, “There is a huge shortage of blood availability in the state. For this, blood donation camps should also be extensively organized. I am sure that we will overcome this pandemic with patience, restraint, precautions and mutual co-operation,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-situation-in-maharashtra-getting-worse-pawar-970720.html
05-04-2021||West||Covid-19 surge: Police issues prohibitory orders in Mumbai||The Mumbai Police on Monday issued prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC banning the assembly of five or more people at public places in the city from 7 am to 8 pm from Mondays to Fridays till April 30. The order also imposed a night curfew on weekdays and a strict lockdown on weekends beginning from 8 pm on Friday till 7 am on Monday. The order was issued by Deputy Commissioner of Police (operations) S Chaitanya which will remain in force till April 30 unless withdrawn earlier. It stated that a strict lockdown will be enforced during weekends. "No person will be allowed to roam outside without a valid reason from 8 pm on Friday till 7 am on Monday," as per the order. The order asked people to adhere to the Covid appropriate behaviour including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing at public places. Those found violating the new curbs will be booked under section 188 (disobeying public servant's order) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act, it said. Mumbai had reported the highest 11,163 cases in a day on Sunday. As on Monday, Mumbai's caseload stood at 4,62,302. Alarmed by the huge rise in cases over the last few days, the state government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30, in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons. The weekend lockdown will start from 8 pm on Fridays and last till 7 am on Mondays. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) had said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-surge-police-issues-prohibitory-orders-in-mumbai-970725.html
05-04-2021||West||CBI to reach Mumbai on Tuesday to start process of preliminary enquiry against Anil Deshmukh||A CBI team will reach Mumbai on Tuesday to start the process of initiating a preliminary enquiry against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh who resigned after the Bombay High Court directed the agency to probe allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Normally, the agency waits for a formal order and a legal opinion before initiating any action in such cases but given the short period of 15 days granted by the high court to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the allegations, the CBI has taken the swift action, officials said.  The CBI team will meet lawyers to collect the order, complaint along with annexure and other related documents to start the probe, they said.   A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni on Monday said this was an "extraordinary" and "unprecedented" case that warranted an independent inquiry. In its 52-page judgement, the bench said Singh's allegations against Deshmukh had put at stake the citizen's faith in the state police. Such allegations, made by a serving police officer, against the state home minister could not be left unattended, and were required to be probed into, if prima facie, they made a case of a cognisable offence, the HC said. The court said a probe by an independent agency was necessary in the present case, to "instill public confidence and safeguard the Fundamental Rights of the citizens". The HC pronounced its verdict on three public interest litigations (PILs) and a criminal writ petition filed last month, seeking several reliefs and a CBI probe into the matter. One of the PILs was filed by Singh himself, and the other two were filed by lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay and a local teacher Mohan Bhide. The criminal writ petition was filed by city-based lawyer Jayshree Patil. The high court ordered for the CBI inquiry on Patil's plea. Singh, in his plea filed on March 25, sought a CBI probe against Deshmukh who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants.  Waze himself is under NIA probe in the case pertaining to explosives found in a SUV near the mansion of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Deshmukh has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-to-reach-mumbai-on-tuesday-to-start-process-of-preliminary-enquiry-against-anil-deshmukh-970739.html
05-04-2021||West||Open vaccination for people above 25 years: Maharashtra CM to PM Modi||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow people above 25 years of age to receive Covid-19 shots, which he said will protect the young people from the rapid spread of coronavirus at a time when they are stepping outside their homes to earn a livelihood. In a letter to the PM, Thackeray also demanded that Maharashtra be provided 1.5 crore additional doses of Covid-19 vaccines, which will enable the state government to complete within three weeks the vaccination of the beneficiaries above 45 years of age in six districts, including Mumbai, reporting a large number of cases. Thackeray also apprised the prime minister of the steps being taken by his government to break the transmission chain of the viral infection, said a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO). Thackeray wrote that the young generation is also getting infected by the virus, and to prevent the spread, people above 25 years be made eligible for vaccination. The CM stressed the younger people have to travel in public to earn their livelihood. The CMO said PM Modi had accepted Thackeray's earlier suggestion to allow people above 45 years of age to get vaccinated. The chief minister told the PM that his government was transparently handling the pandemic and expanded the vaccination drive, it said. On April 3, 4.62 lakh people were vaccinated in Maharashtra, where 76.86 lakh people have received the jabs so far. "The Centre should provide 1.5 crore additional doses of Covid-19 vaccine to Maharashtra. We will take three weeks to administer the vaccine to age group above 45 years in six districts of Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur where the spike of cases is the highest," the letter stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/open-vaccination-for-people-above-25-years-maharashtra-cm-to-pm-modi-970777.html
05-04-2021||West||Leopard rescued from 40-feet deep well in Pune||A leopard that had fallen into a 40-feet-deep well in a village in Pune district was saved from drowning in a two-hour-long rescue operation conducted by Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department. The incident took place in Vadgaon Kandali, located in the Pune district of Maharashtra on Monday. Dotted across villages that are situated in close proximity to the forests, wells constitute the support system for the sugarcane farming communities. Indispensable to these sugarcane cultivators, these wells offer a deadly fate to wild animals. The 5-year-old male leopard escaped a narrow brush with death after falling into a 40-feet-deep well. The big cat’s distressed cries caught the attention of the villagers who immediately reached out to the MFD. A four-member rescue team operating out of Wildlife SOS-run Leopard Rescue Centre in Junnar was also dispatched to the location to assist the forest officers. The rescuers immediately lowered a trap cage into the well and the leopard, sensing that this was his only chance out, carefully climbed into it. After being lifted out of the well, the leopard was transferred to the Leopard Rescue Centre for medical examination. Dr Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “While the leopard was struggling to claw its way out of the well, he sustained minor abrasions at the nail region. We will keep the leopard under close observation while he recuperates from this stressful ordeal.” Kartick Satyanarayan, Co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS, said, “The entire exercise had to be executed quickly and with painstaking care. We are grateful to the forest department for making this rescue a success. The startling increasing rate of habitat encroachment has resulted in decreasing prey base, territory and water sources for predator species like leopards that are then forced to come out into human habitation. Since these elusive cats usually prefer to move around at night, it is common for them to fall victim to uncovered wells.” Yogesh Ghodke, Regional Forest Officer, said, “We suspect that the leopard had fallen into the well at night while on the prowl for food. The leopard is currently under temporary observation at the Wildlife SOS centre.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leopard-rescued-from-40-feet-deep-well-in-pune-970770.html
05-04-2021||West||Maharashtra sees 47,288 new Covid-19 cases, 155 deaths||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 47,288 fresh coronavirus positive cases, a day after seeing the highest spike of 57,074 infections, and 155 fatalities, the state health department said. With the addition of new cases, Maharashtra's overall caseload reached 30,57,885 while the death toll mounted to 56,033, it said, adding the state is now left with 4,51,375 active cases. Mumbai city reported 9,879 fresh cases and 21 fatalities in the day. A total of 26,252 patients were discharged during the day in Maharashtra, taking the overall count of recoveries to 25,49,075, the department said. The recovery rate in Maharashtra now stands at 83.36 per cent while the fatality rate is 1.83 per cent, it said. Mumbai division, which includes Mumbai city and satellite towns, reported 17,139 new infections and 38 fatalities, taking the cumulative tally to 9,72,452and the toll to 20,661. Pune division added 9,643 cases, including 4,250 cases in Pune city, during the day, the department said. Nashik division reported 7,275 new cases, including 2,647 cases in Nashik city, followed by Nagpur division with 5,245 infections, including 2,556 cases in Nagpur city. In the Aurangabad division, the tally of cases rose by 2,547 while 2,508 and 2,403 cases were reported from Latur and Akola divisions, respectively, the department added. Kolhapur division saw 528 cases during the day. With 1,75,682 new tests, the number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra has gone up to 2,07,15,793, the department said. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 30,57,885, deaths 56,033, recoveries 25,49,075 active cases 4,51,375, total tests 2,07,15,793, tests today1,75,682.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-47288-new-covid-19-cases-155-deaths-970773.html
