06-04-2021||First Edit||Multiple failures in Chhattisgarh's Bastar||Two major attacks that Maoists have carried out in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region in a span of 10 days underscore their continuing capacity to inflict heavy losses on the security forces. On March 23, a bus carrying security personnel was blown up by an improvised explosive device (IED) in Narayanpur district. Five District Reserve Guard personnel were killed in that strike. Then came the Maoist ambush of security personnel in Sukma district on April 3, which has left 22 jawans dead, 32 injured and one missing. The toll may rise. More than 400 Maoists are said to have carried out the ambush on the security personnel. A gunfight ensued but the jawans were clearly outnumbered and outgunned, resulting in the high casualties. While details of what transpired are still emerging, it appears that a major security operation was underway in the area to nab Hidma, commander of the Maoists’ Battalion No 1, who was reportedly in the area. Around 1,000 security personnel as well as auxiliary forces were pushed into the jungles for the operation. However, from what has resulted, the forces seem to have walked into a trap laid by the Maoists. Although the number of Maoist attacks have fallen in recent years and the area over which they wield influence has declined considerably, in the Bastar region, it is the rebels who continue to call the shots. Here the Maoists hold the advantage, adept at playing the security forces by feeding them ‘intelligence’ and then drawing them into a trap. In contrast, the security forces continue to operate like a big bumbling army. Rather than sending thousands of troops into the jungles, they should be sending small units of nimble-footed troops to act on solid, actionable intelligence. Apparently, senior police and paramilitary officials were being brought in by helicopter over the last 2-3 weeks to plan the operation to nab Hidma. Surely, this heightened activity would have alerted the Maoists, who would have then planned and laid the ambush. The gunfight is said to have lasted over five hours. Why were the ambushed jawans not provided reinforcements, especially since there were hundreds of troops in the area? Was there a communications failure?   It is evident that the quality of intelligence input available to the security forces in Bastar is at best patchy. This is because the State is yet to win the confidence of the locals. Especially in Bastar, the benefits of development promised by successive governments has failed to reach the Adivasis. They have little reason to support the State and to provide the forces with inputs on the Maoists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/multiple-failures-in-chhattisgarhs-bastar-970812.html
06-04-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Karnataka RTC strike: Workers threaten to resign en masse if demands not met||Toughening its stand against the state government, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) Employees' Federation has decided to go ahead with their indefinite protest from April 7 across Karnataka. Speaking to the media persons here on Tuesday, Federation’s Dharwad Division Honorary President P H Neeralakeri said the union members are ready to face any consequences and will not back off from their strike unless the main demand of wages as per the 6th Pay Commission recommendations on par with other government employees is met. “None of the employees, be it drivers, conductors or workshop engineers, will report to their duty from April 7 even if the government enforces Essential Services Maintenance Act,” he said and added that if the government fails to implement the demands the employees are ready to resign en mass after April 13. Advocate Neeralakeri termed the behaviour of the State government towards road transport corporation employees worse than those of bonded labourers. “The government is trying to hide its failure to implement their demands under the garb of poll code of conduct (bypolls are being held for Belagavi Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyana assembly seats),” he said and added that all the government needs to do is hold a Cabinet meeting and pass a government order. The Election Commission will not object to such decisions, he claimed. He said North Karnataka employees have decided to stage their protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office by following all the Covid-19 protocols. Employees of all the divisions coming under North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation will hold a relay protest in Dharwad. Neeralakeri, on behalf of RTC employees, assured that none of them will resort to any kind of violence and allow plying of private transportation vehicles if they wish to. “We will also not object if our own staff wish to join duty,” he said and added that they would request the staff ‘with folded hands’ against joining duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/karnataka-rtc-strike-workers-threaten-to-resign-en-masse-if-demands-not-met-971133.html
06-04-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Woman tries to end life in front of Pralhad Joshi's residence in Hubballi||A woman tried to end her life by consuming poison in front of Union Minister Pralhad Joshi’s house in Mayuri Estate, Keshwapur, Hubballi on Tuesday. She is currently battling for life at the intensive care unit (ICU) of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi. According to police sources, the woman, identified as Sridevi Veerappa Kumar, a resident of Garag village in Dharwad district, wrote a suicide note before trying to end her life in front of Joshi’s house. In the note, she mentioned that she was fed up of running around houses of elected representatives for getting compensation for her house that collapsed in last year rains. Her husband Veerappa Kumar, who is suffering from a paralysis attack, said they have been visiting Joshi and MLA  Amruth Desai’s houses for the last six months. However, none of them was responding to their demands. “Today also we tried to reach him (Joshi) and sought his help. The minister said the issue comes under Desai’s jurisdiction and he had informed Desai to resolve it,” Kumar said. Frustrated by this, my wife tried to end her life, he said. Keshwapur Police station officials said they would register a case after the woman, who is recovering at KIMS, regains consciousness. 'Rs 50,000 compensation paid' Dharwad Tahsildar Santosh Biradar issued a press release on Tuesday saying that Veeranna Kammar of Garag has been paid a compensation of Rs 50,000 for house damage. Tahsildar said that the house belonging to Veeranna was partially damaged due to heavy rains last year. During a joint survey, it was observed that some portion of the house had collapsed. The house damage was in the C category and as per government norms, a sum of Rs 50,000 was credited to the bank account of Veeranna on January 28 this year. Speaking to DH, Joshi said the family had submitted a memorandum earlier seeking Rs 5 lakh compensation for the damaged house. However, the taluk administration had paid them Rs 50,000 as per rules. "I have asked the officials to look into their demands. Will look after her medical expenses," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/woman-tries-to-end-life-in-front-of-pralhad-joshis-residence-in-hubballi-971165.html
06-04-2021||In Perspective||The joke govt played on Fool’s Day ||People woke up to a rude joke on April Fool’s Day. The government announced a steep cut in interest rates on Small Savings Schemes (SSS) for the first quarter of FY 2021-22, starting from April 1, through an Office Memorandum (OM) issued the previous day by the Union Finance Ministry’s Budget Division. This was followed by another hastily issued OM on April 1 on the same subject which said, “In suppression (or did they mean supersession?) of the OM…dated 31.03.2021 on the above subject…the interest rates on small savings schemes will remain unchanged.” The government was in damage control mode. The Finance Minister was quick to tweet early in the morning that orders issued by “oversight” would be withdrawn. Small-savers and pensioners were left wondering which of the two – the slash or the rollback -- was a joke. What crossed the common man’s mind was, why would the government take such a hasty step at a time when elections were underway in five states? It had also come at a time when people were reeling under a series of hikes in petrol and diesel prices. Elsewhere, on the same day, HDFC Ltd had increased interest rates on fixed deposits maturing between 33 to 99 months by 25 basis points! Back to the contents of the controversial circular slashing interest rates on SSS. The downward revision in interest rates was across all schemes and ranged from 40 to 110 basis points. The smallest cut was for three-year deposits, for which the interest rate was cut from 5.5% to 5.1%, while the steepest cut was for one-year deposits, slashed from 5.5% to 4.4%. Senior citizens who had just got the first dose of vaccine got a rude shock with the interest rate on the senior citizen savings scheme cut from 7.4% to 6.5%. It is common knowledge that senior citizens depend overwhelmingly on these schemes to park their savings in and to meet their expenses as most banks are offering only around 6% on fixed deposits. The middle class and senior citizens have lost faith in the banking system after a spate of bank failures. The cut was equally cruel under Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, with the interest rate being cut from 7.6% to 6.9%. Even those working in the formal sector were not spared. The rate on PPF was cut by 70 basis points from 7.1% to 6.4%. Interest rates on SSS have been reset on a quarterly basis since 2016. They are benchmarked to the yield on 10-year g-secs (government securities), which has dropped from 6.8% a year ago to 6.17% now. Small savings are an important source for financing the government’s deficit, and the government has already raised around Rs 4.5 lakh crore through it in FY 20-21. The government has many sources of borrowings, external and internal, such as g-secs, treasury bills or small savings. The government knows that lenders or investors in small saving schemes are mainly from the middle class and senior citizens. It can claim that there will be a government guarantee in these schemes and there is no default risk and hence these investments are safe for the common man. That said, the government cannot be so ruthless as a corporate borrower for whom the lower the interest rates, the better it will be for the corporate’s bottom line. But imagine borrowing at 5.8% on a National Savings Certificate (NSC) from small savers, which is less than the benchmark rate of 6.17% on a 10-year g-sec! This is preposterous. Something is amiss. The government has to take care of small savers, more so when there are no social security measures in place. The reduction in interest rates was sought to be done at a time when core inflation is on the rise. It had increased to 5.6% in February, up from 5.3% in January. Moody's Analytics said in a report recently that India's inflation is "uncomfortably high," thanks to the increase in fuel and food prices. The rise in international fuel prices from $30 per barrel a year ago to $65 per barrel now is one of the reasons for the rise in fuel prices. Incidentally, petrol price had touched Rs100 per litre recently in Rajasthan. Though inflation has been subdued in most countries in Asia, it has been going up in India, making it difficult for the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to recommend cutting rates when it meets in a few days. Retail inflation, on which MPC relies to change the policy rates, rose to 5% in February, from 4.1% in January. With inflation targeting being the policy in place and the MPC mandated to keep inflation at around 4%, it is high time government came out with a mechanism to insulate small savers from fluctuations in interest rates. (The writer is a former banker and currently teaches at Manipal Academy of Banking, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-joke-govt-played-on-fool-s-day-970814.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||More than 50 acres gutted in wildfire in Kollegal||More than 50 acres of vegetation was gutted in the forest fire at Pallakki Gudda and Gaviraya Betta, near Sattegala Handpost, in Kollegal taluk, Chamarajanagar district. A large number of trees and shrubs have been destroyed due to a fire on Sunday evening. More than 40 forest department personnel rushed to the spot and struggled to douse the flames from spreading. Range Forest Officer Praveen Ramappa Chalavadi said that minor fire incidents were common at these places every year during the summer. But, the fire on Sunday was suspected to be man-made, he alleged. Due to rising temperature and no rains, all the bushes and small trees have totally dried. Miscreants set fire to the forest for fun destroying precious forest resources. If the fire is doused immediately, a major loss can be prevented. A probe will be conducted to trace the miscreants and legal action taken against them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/more-than-50-acres-gutted-in-wildfire-in-kollegal-970863.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru reports 165 fresh Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||Mysuru reported 165 Covid-19 positive cases and three deaths on Monday. The total number of positive cases now stands at 56,689 and the total number of deaths at 1,064. There are 1,167 active cases in Mysuru district. Among the new cases, 137 are primary contacts of infected persons, while 21 are suffering from Influenza-like illness (ILI) and seven are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases. While the Health Department authorities have observed a total of 3,40,261 persons to date, 2,77,640 persons have successfully completed quarantine and 5,932 are under quarantine. A total of 54,458 persons have recovered and are discharged from the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-reports-165-fresh-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-970866.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||KCCI seeks measures for development of inland waterway from Bantwal to Markada Bridge||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has appealed to the Director of Ports and Inland Water Transport to initiate measures for the development of the inland waterway from Bantwal to Markada Bridge in Dakshina Kannada - National Waterway 74 and National Waterway 43. Even though India’s Inland Waterways Authority has identified the Netravati River as National Waterway 74 and Gurupur River as National Waterway 43, there has not been any budgetary allocation for implementing it, KCCI president Isaac Vas said in a letter to the Director of Ports and Inland Water Transport. The number of sailing vessels and yachts that used to visit the Old Port for business and other travel has significantly reduced. One of the reasons is that the inland waterways on both Nethravathi and Gurupur rivers no longer exist. There is no feeder cargo generated from the industrial hinterland due to the lack of efficient waterways. The Old Port and its inland waterways are all connected. These waterways must be developed and connected to different ports like Goa, Lakshadweep, Mumbai, Kochi, and Karwar port to spur economic activities, he added. Isaac Vas said the inland water connection needs to start from the interior of the Netravati River from Thumbe and can come down towards the Old Port. It should proceed towards the Maravoor Bridge in the shape of a hockey stick connecting the Old Port and the Mangalore International Airport. If the entire area is connected, it will form a critical link and a catalyst for economic development all along the riverbank, he said.The port department may lease out one acre each of land to entrepreneurs for boat and yacht building activities thereby helping Mangaluru to reclaim its old glory in boat building. There also exist many opportunities in ship repair activities. If a good draft of about 4 to 4.5m (below chart datum) is provided in the river channel vessels, up to 100m length can be easily taken alongside for repairs.He also suggested a direct dredged access to the sea where presently, Bharati Defence and Infrastructure Ltd is located by providing a floating bridge across the sand bar for regular vehicular traffic movement.  The sea access has to be turned into a dry dock on the BDIL side, resulting in connected economic benefits of the ship repair and servicing industry. The area between Kulur bridge and Malavoor dam on the Phalguni is suitable for fish farming which in turn will provide employment.  Seven floating restaurants are not able to operate further into the river because of the lack of waterways, he said and added that the proposed waterway should develop tourism along with generating employment. If riverbanks were developed to load and unload goods, transportation will become easy. The riverfront improvement can also be taken up through developing waterways, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kcci-seeks-measures-for-development-of-inland-waterway-from-bantwal-to-markada-bridge-971009.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Foundation stone for girls hostel laid at Kodialbail||The foundation stone for the construction of the pre-matric and post-matric girls’ hostel at Kodialbail, was laid at a programme held at Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat’s Netravathi Hall on Monday. The 114th birth anniversary of former deputy prime minister late Babu Jagjivan Ram, a pioneer of the Green Revolution, was also observed on the occasion. The hostel is being constructed at a cost of Rs 9.85 crore. The pre-matric hostel can accommodate 150 students while the post-matric one will accommodate 100 students. The construction work has been entrusted to Karnataka Vasathi Shikshana Samsthegala Sangha. The three-storied hostel, to be built in a plinth area of 3,097.63 sqft, will have a dining hall, the warden’s room, a special room for sick students and a storeroom along with rooms for the students. Each floor of the hostel will accommodate 40 students in the post-matric hostel while 52 students in the pre-matric hostel. The hostel will have a borewell, and other facilities. On the occasion, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V urged the youth to draw inspiration from the illustrious life of Babu Jagjivan Ram to cross obstacles in life and reach heights of success. He urged the younger generation to face challenges with confidence. “We have to follow the path laid down by great personalities in life,” Zilla Panchayat chief executive officer Dr Kumar said. The ideals and accomplishments of Babu Jagjivan Ram will continue to inspire generations to come, he added. Dr Kumar said everyone should emulate his principles and recollected his achievements, including the Green Revolution and labour laws, which he introduced as a labour minister.  “He was not only a pioneer of the Green Revolution but also an epitome of social justice,” he added. University First Grade College principal Dr Dayananda Naik said that the green revolution, introduced by Babu Jagjivan Ram, had laid the foundation for the en masse production of food grains in the country. “Babu Jagjivan Ram had a great concern for democracy and had opposed emergency in the country. He had laid the foundation for the Ministry of Social Justice. His birth anniversary is observed as ‘Equality Day’ or the ‘Samata Diwas’ to commemorate his fight against caste discrimination. Banaras Hindu University in 2007 had set up Babu Jagjivan Ram Chair in the faculty of Social Sciences to study economic backwardness and caste discrimination. He continues to remain in the hearts and minds of the people of India because of his altruistic activities.” MLA Vedavyasa Kamath, Mayor Premananda Shetty, Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shanthigodu and others were present at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/foundation-stone-for-girls-hostel-laid-at-kodialbail-971013.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bengre residents observe bandh against coastal berth project||The residents of Bengre, under the banner of different political, cultural and religious organisations, observed a bandh and staged a massive protest against the proposed coastal berth project proposed to be implemented under the Centre’s Sagarmala project. The protesters accused the government of implementing the project without taking them into confidence. The project is estimated to cost over Rs 65 core, to which the Centre's contribution will be Rs 25 crore. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel had laid the foundation stone for the project in Bengre in December a year ago. The residents alleged that the project will render them landless and will also affect their source of livelihood. The project will take away the land of the burial ground, owned by fishermen, and government schools. The traditional fishermen will face many inconveniences because of the project, the protesters warned. According to the proposal, 70 cargo vessels up to 5,000-tonne capacity will be able to berth in the facility. It will have a commercial wharf, double-lane approach road, passenger lounge, godown etc. Muneeb Bengre, a corporator from Bengre ward, said that the residents of the village were not consulted before finalising the project report. “The residents have been demanding title deeds for the land they own for many years, but no efforts have been made to do that. The government is planning to evacuate residents from Bengre for implementing the project,” he added. Many families in Bengre are eking out a living by engaging in fishing activities. “We will lose our livelihood when drying tents are cleared to facilitate the work on the berth,” the residents said. The protesters also said that the government school will also face a threat from the project. “We urge the government to provide basic facilities and sanction a degree college to Bengre. The government should not implement the project in a thickly-populated area like Bengre,” the residents said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bengre-residents-observe-bandh-against-coastal-berth-project-971020.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||10 injured in collision between 2 KSRTC buses in Hassan||Around 10 people were injured in a head-on collision between two Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses at Kodihalli village on the outskirts of Arsikere town, Hassan district, on Monday night. A KSRTC bus that was bound for Bengaluru from Dandeli via Shivamogga rammed into another bus that was on its way to Shivamogga on national highway 206. The mishap occurred at around 2.30 am, it is said. The drivers of both the buses and a few passengers were severely injured. All the injured are being treated at the Arsikere government hospital and are said to be out of danger. Meanwhile, due to traffic congestion at the mishap site, a car collided with a wooden logs-laden truck from behind. A woman in the car sustained serious injuries. Arsikere rural police rushed to the spot and shifted the injured to the hospital and registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-injured-in-collision-between-2-ksrtc-buses-in-hassan-971085.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||RCU examination for Wednesday postponed||Rani Channamma University, Belagavi (RCUB) has postponed undergraduate and postgraduate examinations that had been scheduled on April 7 (Wednesday) due to a strike call by North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) employees. RCUB Registrar (Evaluation) Prof S M Harkudli informed DH that they had been hoping that the strike would be called off, but as no such signs were seen until evening, examinations scheduled for Wednesday have been postponed. They have been rescheduled to start from April 15. He said, in Belagavi, Bagalkot and Vijayapura districts, examinations of affiliated colleges were held in clusters at different places and a lack of transport would affect them. Hence, examinations scheduled on Wednesday stand postponed. Decisions regarding the examination to be held on April 9, will be taken later, Prof Hurkadli said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rcu-examination-for-wednesday-postponed-971134.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fine to be imposed for use of plastic at railway stations, trains||South Western Railway, Mysuru division, conducted an anti-plastic campaign, with the railway officials creating awareness on the state government's ban on use of plastic items on trains, at Mysury City Railway Station on Monday. It may be mentioned that the state government has banned the use of plastic - carry bags, banners, cups, plates, flags, spoons, sheets on the premises of railway station and on trains. The officials highlighted the consequences of using plastic. During the day-long campaign, the passengers were screened for carrying plastics on the station premises and on board trains. They were counselled on the harmful effects of the use of plastic and explained about the discipline to be followed for non-use of plastics, with specific attention on polythene carry bags. A street play was held as part of the campaign, during the departure of trains towards Mayiladuthurai and Tirupati by Bharath Scouts and Guides. Devasahayam, Additional Divisional Railway Manager; and Vijaya, Assistant Environment Officer, Karnataka Pollution Control Board, participated in the campaign. Carrying of plastic bags and plastic items on the station premises and on trains will not be allowed and fine may be imposed on violation of the government orders, Devasahayam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fine-to-be-imposed-for-use-of-plastic-at-railway-stations-trains-971173.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Flood victim: Elderly woman waits compensation even after three years||Even after three years, a septuagenarian woman, who lost her house in the floods, is yet to get either compensation or a new house, due to the negligence of the officials and elected representatives. The government had promised new houses, to be constructed at a cost of Rs 5 lakh each, for those who lost their houses in the floods in August 2018 in Sakleshpur taluk. Around 60 houses had totally damaged in the floods, while many others suffered damages. Manjamma, 76, lives in Hadlugedda village, under Vanaguru Gram Panchayat in Sakleshpur taluk of Hassan district. She lost her house in the floods in August 2018. Manjamma’s both sons have passed away and she lives with her mentally-challenged daughter-in-law and two grand daughters, who are also mentally and physically challenged. Understanding her plight, the residents of the village allowed her to stay in a small room of a school. The school building is also in a dilapidated condition and may collapse any time, it is feared. Apart from getting a few bags of paddy from her leased land, Manjamma has no other source of income. Despite the struggle, she has ensured that her grand daughters attend school. Manjamma said, “I have lost everything due to the floods, three years ago. Many elected representatives and officials visited the school, where we are living. They promise of building a new house for us with the government compensation of Rs 5 lakh. But, we have received just Rs 18,000 as compensation, so far. It has been three years, since I purchased cement and bricks for constructing the house. But, no one has come to help us.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/flood-victim-elderly-woman-waits-compensation-even-after-three-years-971174.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain lashes Ch'nagar||Chamarajanagar city and parts of the district received a good spell of rains on Monday evening. Male Mahadeshwara Hill, Martalli and several places in Hanur taluk received heavy rains, bringing cheers among the people, who were reeling under sweltering heat. The district remained overcast from Monday afternoon and by evening there was heavy winds, uprooting several electricity poles in Somanna Layout in Chamarajanagar city. It started raining by 7 pm. Hanur taluk received rains for more than one hour. Parts of Yalandur taluk experienced scattered rains. MM Hill received heavy rains for about 20 minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-lashes-chnagar-971177.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cong leader accuses sugar company of violating agreement||The state government has plans to resume Mysore Sugar (MySugar) Company under operations and maintenance (O&M) model as the Pandavapura Sahakari Sakkare Karkhane (PSSK) has resumed production and completed one season of crushing on the same lines, under the management of MRN Sugar Company founded by Minister for Mines Murugesh Nirani. However, Dr H N Ravindra, Congress leader, alleged that MRN Sugar Company has not fulfilled the conditions of the 40-year-lease agreement in PSSK, so far. “While PSSK is India’s first cooperative sugar factory, MySugar is the nation’s first and only government sugar factory — both in Mandya district. If both are privatised, the identity and uniqueness of Mandya district will be lost. Privatisation will only lead to exploitation of farmers and employees,” he said. Ravindra said, “As per the terms and conditions agreed upon, Rs 5 crore as security and Rs 20 crore as upfront amount was to be deposited, before commencing operations. The upfront amount was meant to pay pending salaries of 36 months to employees and also to settle the issue of their gratuity.” “Besides, the agreement is to retain all employees. If at all they have to be dropped, all norms of Voluntary Retirement from Service (VRS) should be followed and monetary benefits settled. However, MRN Sugar Company has sacked 21 contract employees, who are working since over 11 years, without following any norms. If they are not reinstated by April 16, a movement would be launched on April 18, to chase MRN Sugar Company management out of PSSK premises,” he said. Ravindra said, “Even though MRN Sugar Company claims to have bagged the tender, to operate PSSK, for Rs 405 crore, it is operating by paying a meagre amount of Rs 5 crore.” “Besides, the agreement between MRN Sugar Company and the government is not registered. Nirani is not just an industrialist, but a responsible people’s representative and a minister. However, his representatives, at PSSK, behave in an arrogant manner. Mandya deputy commissioner, who is also designated as Special Officer of PSSK, Cane Commissioner, Principal Secretary for Sugar Industries, and others are responsible for the state of affairs in PSSK,” he said. He said that he went to PSSK as the contract employees complained about their removal. “But, after reaching PSSK, I learnt that the MRN Sugar Company is operating without fulfilling the terms. In fact, they are trespassers on PSSK premises,” he claimed. Deputy Registrar for Cooperatives J Vikram Raj Urs, who is also designated as Managing Director of PSSK, admitted that MRN Sugar Company has not registered the agreement and unless the agreement is registered, it would not pay the upfront amount of Rs 20 crore. “However, I have written a letter to the company to pay the upfront amount. The 21 employees in question were handed over by MRN Sugar Company to PSSK. But, as PSSK in not operating the factory, there is no scope to use their services. Thus, they were terminated,” he said. The officials of MRN Sugar Company said that the employees in question work on contract. “It is a procedure to discontinue their services after completion of every crushing season. Accordingly, they were returned to PSSK management. As the fee for registration is exorbitant, the company has sought a concession. Unless the agreement is registered, the upfront amount cannot be paid. In the interest of farmers, the government had ordered to start the operations despite pending registration of the agreement. Most of the problems will be solved once the agreement is registered,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cong-leader-accuses-sugar-company-of-violating-agreement-971182.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid: Play ‘Parva’ postponed||Shows of play ‘Parva’, by Rangayana-Mysuru, have been postponed in the wake of an increase in the number of infections in the second wave of Covid-19. Parva, directed by Prakash Belavadi, is a play based on a novel by S L Bhyrappa. According to a press note by Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariyappa, the shows, which were planned to be staged on Saturdays and Sundays at Bhoomigeetha auditorium, up to May end, have been cancelled up to April 20, as the government has issued new guidelines to check the spread of Covid. As Bhoomigeetha theatre has only 200 seats, it is difficult to maintain social distance among the fewer audience. The date of the next show of Parva will be announced after April 20, said Cariyappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-play-parva-postponed-971185.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Male elephant found dead at Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary||A tusker was found dead at Koudalli Wildlife range, coming under the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary limits, on Monday. According to the Forest department personnel, the tusker is aged around 60 years and had died of natural causes. The department personnel on patrol found the carcass at the Koudalli range. The personnel had earlier spotted a tusker in a weak condition on April 1 in the same range. They were monitoring its movements. The elephant was found dead in Talatti forest area on Monday. Assistant Conservator of Forest Ankaraju and Range Forest Officer Vinay visited the spot. A post-mortem was conducted and final rites were performed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/male-elephant-found-dead-at-cauvery-wildlife-sanctuary-971230.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress harps on emotions, BJP dangles development card for Maski, Basavakalyanbypolls||The Congress is banking on the ‘betrayal’ and ‘sympathy’ cards, while the BJP is dependent on the development mantra for the byelections to Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly seats.  The grand old party has been using the betrayal card in byelections held after the BJP came to power by overthrowing the Congress-JD(S) coalition, against the 17 turncoats from the Congress and JD(S) who helped the BJP in the endeavour. At an election rally recently, leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah alleged that BJP candidate Pratapgouda had sold himself for Rs 30 crore by betraying the Congress which made him MLA twice. In fact, the Maski contest is one between turncoats as Congress candidate Basanagouda Turvihal has shifted his loyalty from the saffron party, which denied him the ticket. In Basavakalyan segment, the Congress is looking to encash sympathy by fielding Mala Narayanrao, the widow of B Narayanrao, the legislator whose death due to Covid-19 last year necessitated the byelection.  The party is struggling to keep the votes of the Muslim community intact as the JD(S) has fielded a Muslim candidate. Narayanrao was the first non-Lingayat and Maratha MLA from this segment. BJP leaders Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Social Welfare Minister Sriramulu and others are trying to woo voters to the BJP in Maski, saying that Pratapgouda will become minister if he wins the bypolls, thus helping in the development of the constituency. In Basavakalyan, the BJP is facing several problems after fielding Sharanu Salagar, an outsider, by neglecting 18 ticket aspirants in the segment, said a party leader. He added that top leaders of the party, including a number of ministers deputed for the campaign, are leaving no stone unturned to ensure victory for Salagar, saying it will address the development issues here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-harps-on-emotions-bjp-dangles-development-card-for-maski-basavakalyanbypolls-971179.html
06-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa will complete term, become governor, president, predicts Jain seer Balal Acharya Siddasena Swamiji||Jains seer Balal Acharya Siddasena Swamiji predicted that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will not only complete his remaining tenure as chief minister, he would also become a governor and president of the country. Yediyurappa on his way to the city visited Balal Acharya Siddasena Swamiji at Jain Basadi at Halaga village in Belagavi taluk on Tuesday evening and sought the seer's blessings. During an interaction with Yediyurappa, the seer said that he would complete his tenure as chief minister and in the future would become governor and president. Replying to the chief minister, the seer also predicted that the BJP candidate for the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency Mangala Angadi would win the election by over 40,000 votes. KPCC President D K Shivakumar had also met the seer on his way to file nomination papers of Congress candidate for the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency Satish Jarkiholi and was blessed with words that he would become chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-will-complete-term-become-governor-president-predicts-jain-seer-balal-acharya-siddasena-swamiji-971228.html
06-04-2021||Main Article||Workers’ woes in ‘Smart’ cities||The Vision Document of Bengaluru Smart City Limited (BenSCL) states that its goal, among others, is to make Bengaluru “Liveable and Healthy” and that the company will be guided by, among other things, the key operating principle of ‘Employee Inclusiveness’, namely, to “Respect and value the contributions of employees because everyone is important to the success of the operations.” The ‘Mission & Strategy’ of the company further says that the objective is to promote cities that "give a decent quality of life to its citizens" and the focus is to be on "inclusive" development.  But how far are these noble goals being put into practice? For instance, the kind of workers’ shelters being provided by BenSCL on Rhenius Street, near Nanjappa Circle, Shanthinagar, put paid to the above-stated vision, mission, objectives and strategies promising “inclusive development”. The workers here are housed in squalid-looking, window-less tin-sheds. In such shelters, how will the workers live a dignified life, maintain hygiene and avoid Covid? The shelters on this street are exemplars of what is perpetuated across the city and state. That such tin-sheds continue to be provided under this prestigious national project led by the prime minister himself, even after the miserable conditions in which migrants/workers live in cities was brought out before the entire country during the lockdown, shows that the sensitivity of the government to the lives of the marginalised has not improved at all. What is even more galling is that, in contrast, the supervisor/engineer's cabin a little further down the same street has a "SMART" hygienic, portable cabin with neat doors, windows and attached toilet. Why is there such gross class discrimination if the goal and objectives of the SMART City Mission is to work for “inclusive development” and “give a good quality life to all citizens”? What prevents the mission authorities from providing the same kind of cabins to workers to make their lives also equally “SMART”? It is worth recalling in this context that a memorandum had been submitted by CIVIC and CFAR even before the pandemic to Manivannan, then Labour Secretary. Based on the memorandum, a Government Order (GO) was issued in January 2020 -- more than a year ago -- mandating the Building & Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board (hereinafter ‘Board’) to use the Rs 8,000 crore of cess funds lying unused with it to provide workers several benefits. The GO was also based on a Model Scheme suggested by the central Labour Ministry as per a directive of the Supreme Court. The GO required that, based on the Haryana model recommended by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and commended by the Supreme Court, temporary/migrant workers’ colonies with decent houses, toilets, etc., should be provided in each ward as a common facility to enable such workers to lead a life of dignity. The GO required the Board to also start schemes for social rental housing and ownership housing, like those for beedi workers, for settled construction workers. Engineers of all government departments -- BBMP, Housing Board, Slum Board, BWSSB, etc. – were to be designated as registering officers and licences for projects were to be issued only after contractors enrolled all workers with the Board. All these agencies were to communicate to the Board the list of approved projects every quarter; the Board was to update the progress made on the enrolment and disbursal of schemes to the workers on its website. This was to help civil society groups to monitor the enrolment of workers and also the disbursal of benefits.  Since many workers were finding it difficult to register themselves with the Board as they were unable to prove that they had worked for 90 days in the year as construction workers, the GO required employers and registering authorities to issue a passbook/employment diary to the workers so that a record of their employment remained with the workers, enabling them to self-certify the number of days worked by them. This would make it unnecessary for employers, local authorities, trade unions, NGOs, etc., to provide this certification. The need for such certification, social audits in Rajasthan had revealed, led to corruption.  Enquiries with the workers on Rhenius Street revealed that they had not received such employment diaries. The GO required the Board to run crèches -- or provide grants to municipalities or the Women & Child Development Department to do so in every municipal ward as a common facility for all construction workers’ children. The award of such grants to local authorities is supported by Sections 22 (2) and (3) of the BOCWW Act. The GO requires the contractor/employer to ferry children less than five years old at worksites to the nearest creches/Anganwadis (in cases where the employer is not required to provide the crèche himself) and ferry children above five years to the nearest school. The Board was required to extend all the nine ILO Social Security benefits as per ILO Convention No 102 to every enrolled member. The monthly pension given by the Board was to be raised to Rs 3,000 and disbursed at the age of 55 years itself. More awareness was to be created about the ‘child care benefit’ of Rs 500 per month for a period of three years that mothers were entitled to after the birth of a child. Hardly any of these measures that were outlined in the GO seem to have been implemented, not only for the SMART City workers but for all construction workers across the state.  An email sent to all relevant officials in this regard elicited no response. A Board official was unable to provide an update on the implementation of the GO.  Bengaluru is elated that it has achieved No 1 ranking in the entire country in the ‘Ease of Living Index’. But it appears that not everyone in the city is enjoying that ‘ease of living’ equally. (The writer is Executive Trustee of CIVIC Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/workers-woes-in-smart-cities-970813.html
06-04-2021||National||India administers over 8 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses||The cumulative number of anti-coronavirus vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed eight crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Eight states -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala -- account for 60 per cent of the cumulative vaccine doses given till morning. Meanwhile, the ministry said Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab have shown a steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases, accounting for 81.90 per cent of the 1,03,558 new cases reported in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 57,074 (55.11 per cent), followed by Chhattisgarh with 5,250 fresh cases and Karnataka 4,553 new cases, it said. India's total active caseload has reached 7,41,830 and now comprises 5.89 per cent of the country's total infections, the data stated. A net increase of 50,233 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab cumulatively account for 75.88 per cent of the total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounts for nearly 58.23 per cent of the total active caseload of the country, the ministry said. Twelve states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala -- are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry said. Fifteen states and Union Territories have lower tests per million population than the national average of 1,80,449, the ministry stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administers-over-8-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-970823.html
06-04-2021||National||Collective effort needed to make India Vishwa Guru: Bhagwat||RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat on Monday said everyone will have to work collectively to take India to the top of the world and make it a 'vishwa guru'. Addressing a programme at Dev Sanskriti Vishwavidyalaya to mark the golden jubilee of Shantikunj, Bhagwat said both RSS and Gayatri Pariwar, which runs the university, are preparing individuals capable of contributing to nation building. "We all need to work collectively to make India a Vishwa Guru," he said. He called upon everyone to do things in the spirit of "Sarve Bhawantu Sukhinah" (may all be happy) as that leads to contentment of the soul. Bhagwat was welcomed at the dais by DSVV pro-vice chancellor Chinmay Pandya. Earlier during the day, the RSS chief worshipped the Ganga at Har ki Pairi and took a dip in the river praying for peace and prosperity in the world, end to coronavirus and successful conduct of the ongoing Kumbh Mela.  Praising Ganga Sabha for the arrangements at Har ki Pairi, Bhagwat said the spirit of service alone leads to the development of a nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/collective-effort-needed-to-make-india-vishwa-guru-bhagwat-970834.html
06-04-2021||National||Insure cybercrime victims, parliamentary panel suggests||The government should make arrangements to provide insurance coverage to cybercrime victims, said a parliamentary standing committee against the backdrop of more people shifting to non-cash payment modes and a subsequent rise in digital frauds. “The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology should enhance its cooperation with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Finance and devise mechanisms to make the digital payment ecosystem more safe, secure and trustworthy for citizens,” the Standing Committee on Electronics and Information and Technology headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said in its report. Expressing concern over the absence of a unified approach in dealing with cases pertaining to digital payments, including cybersecurity and grievance redressal, the committee recommended a centralised nodal agency/helpline. This will help victims of payment-related cybercrimes and also in the faster resolution of such cases. India witnessed a steady increase in digital transactions over the last few years. The total transaction volume rose from 2,071 crore in FY 2017-18 to 4,572 crore in FY 2019-20. As of mid-February 2021, about 4,306 crore digital payment transactions took place, said the report. Digital payments are expected to grow manifold by 2025 due to the growing fintech ecosystem, Covid-led changes in consumer behaviour and government policies around financial inclusion. The committee also recommended that apart from promoting digital payments, the enhanced allocation be utilised effectively for developing robust security mechanisms. According to the IT Ministry, 2.9 lakh cybersecurity incidents related to digital banking were reported in 2020 alone. As per information reported to the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), 2018 saw 1,59,761 incidents while 2019 witnessed 2,46,514 cases. They included phishing, hacking, network scanning and probing, and viruses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/insure-cybercrime-victims-parliamentary-panel-suggests-970843.html
06-04-2021||National||Plea in SC seeks uniform retirement age for SC and HC judges||Plea in SC seeks uniform retirement age for SC and HC judges A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court for fixing the uniform retirement age for the judges of the apex court and high courts. The PIL by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay sought direction from the top court to the Centre to take steps to make the retirement age of judges of high courts and Supreme Court uniform, as it’s irrational to have different retirement age for judges of constitutional courts. “Alternatively, being the protector of right to speedy justice guaranteed under Article 21, the court may use its plenary constitutional power to declare that the judges of high courts shall retire at the age of 65 years until Centre takes steps to reduce the pendency of cases from 15 to three years,” the plea contended. It pointed out in developed countries, the retirement age of higher court judges varied from 70-80 years. For example, judges retired at the age of 75 years in the UK and Canada and at the age of 70 years in Australia, the Netherlands, Ireland, Belgium, Norway. Moreover, the judges worked for a lifetime in the United States, Russia, New Zealand and Iceland, subject to their physical-mental fitness. The plea contended that uniformity in the retirement age was not only necessary to reduce the pendency of cases but it would also attract and retain the best legal talent on the bench. To reduce judicial and procedural error, India needs more experienced judges, the petitioner said. At present, the retirement age for the apex court judges is 65 years whereas, for the high court judges it is 62 years. The plea argued that the judges of the high courts will work independently, without any expectation to move the top court, if the retirement age is made uniform. “Finest Lawyers don’t want to become Judge of the high courts because instead of continuously giving valuable services to the nation, high court judges are compelled to retire at a very early age i,e., 62 years,” said the plea. The petitioner argued that uniformity will create a pool of experienced judges in high courts, which will be extremely useful for deciding the cases of extreme importance or which require deep knowledge for interpretation of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-uniform-retirement-age-for-sc-and-hc-judges-970844.html
06-04-2021||National||Security forces to step up fight against Maoists after Bijapur attack||Indian security forces have stepped up operations against ultra left-wing guerrillas deep in the forests of Chhattisgarh after they killed 22 police in an ambush over the weekend, a top police officer said on Monday. At least 30 other members of the security forces were wounded in the four-hour gun battle with Maoist rebels that took place in Chhattisgarh on Saturday, the deadliest ambush of its kind in four years. "The operation will be intensified," said Om Prakash Pal, deputy inspector general of police, who is leading the fight against the rebels in Chhattisgarh. The Maoists, also known as Naxals, have waged an armed struggle against government forces for decades. They say they are fighting for the poor who have been left behind in India's economic boom. Chhattisgarh, one of the fastest-developing states in India, has 28 varieties of major minerals, including diamonds and gold, a government website said. It also holds 16 per cent of India's coal deposits and large reserves of iron ore and bauxite. The Maoists, considered India's biggest internal security threat, operate in mineral-rich territory in the east and south of the country known as the "red corridor," which has shrunk in recent years because of heavy operations against them. But last week some 400 guerrillas armed with grenades and automatic rifles attacked a police raiding party in the Bijapur district of Chattisgarh. Pal said the rebels also suffered losses and local media reported that drone surveillance showed them taking away bodies. "They are definitely trying to strengthen themselves but the forces put a lot of pressure on them. Now they are confined only to very few pockets. In their core area they are shrinking very fast," Pal told Reuters, adding security forces were stepping up their intelligence gathering efforts too. Well-armed 'Maoist menace' Security experts say that police forces need to be better equipped to deal with the guerrillas who are often as well-armed as the police. In the latest encounter, the naxals carried AK-47 assault rifles, rocket launchers, and under barrel grenade launchers, said Pal. "The government will leave no stone unturned to provide you with the best facilities," Home Minister Amit Shah said in a speech to security forces in Chhattisgarh on Monday. Shah vowed to end the "Maoist menace" after paying homage to the dead security personnel and visiting a hospital to meet the injured. "The government will not tolerate such bloodshed and a befitting response will be given. We will put an end to the ongoing battle with Maoists," Shah said. He also held a meeting with top security officials in the state to "realign strategy" to dismantle the nexus run by Maoist leaders, a close aide to Shah told Reuters on condition of anonymity. Uddipan Mukherjee, a joint director for government agency, the Ordnance Factory Board who has been tracking war strategy deployed by the Maoists for more than a decade said the pandemic had allowed the insurgency to recruit more members. Others with direct knowledge agreed. "We have intelligence reports that the Maoist leaders during the pandemic have managed to recruit hundreds of new foot soldiers, including women, living in the forests who leak details about security force patrols," a New Delhi-based bureaucrat who oversees country's internal security said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-forces-to-step-up-fight-against-maoists-after-bijapur-attack-970864.html
06-04-2021||National||India likely to make vaccines less available globally due to surge in Covid-19 cases: Gavi||India, which is experiencing a sudden rise in number of Covid-19 cases, is now likely to make available a smaller number of vaccines to the rest of the world, the head of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation has said. “India is, by volume, the largest supplier of vaccines for the developing world. Because of the new wave of outbreaks in India right now, the Indian government has stepped up their vaccination programmes, and that has meant that they've required more doses, which means that they've made less doses available for the rest of the world,” Seth Berkley, CEO of Gavi told CBS News in an interview. “We had expected, in March and April, about 90 million doses, and we suspect we'll get much, much less than that, and that is a problem,” he said. Gavi Alliance is a public-private partnership that works to provide vaccines for developing countries. It provides about 50 per cent of the world's children with vaccines. “But we're in a race because we also see wealthy countries beginning to cover much of their population. Our hope is that they will begin to make their vaccines available to the rest of the world, including ones that they may not use. For example, the US not only has Moderna, Pfizer, and J&J, but they also have vaccines from Novavax and, of course, from AstraZeneca,” Berkley said. “Those could be made available, and they would make a big difference in terms of the supply for the world,” he said. Berkley said that the big challenge right now is access to vaccines. "We have gone ahead and placed orders for more than two billion doses, but the majority of those are coming in the second half of the year. And in the first half of the year, because of vaccine nationalism, has meant that there are less doses available. So that's our big challenge now. If we had more doses, we could make those available,” Berkley said. Responding to a question, Berkley said that what it is talking about now is ultimately getting access to the large manufacturing facilities. “I mean the US invested heavily at the beginning, and scaled up manufacturing, and invested again and scaled up. Once the US needs are met, those facilities really could be used to come online for the rest of the world, which could help stop the acute pandemic. Our goal would be by the end of this year to stop the acute pandemic, which is critical for global health security,” he said. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan last month said that India has provided over 481 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines to various countries, out of which 73.5 lakh doses have been supplied as grant assistance, 288.4 lakh on commercial basis and 119.16 lakh doses for COVAX. India recorded an all-time high of 1,03,558 single day new coronavirus infections, pushing the nationwide tally to 1,25,89,067, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Monday.The death toll increased to 1,65,101 with 478 daily new fatalities, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-make-vaccines-less-available-globally-due-to-surge-in-covid-19-cases-gavi-970911.html
06-04-2021||National||Tamil Nadu Assembly elections: How to check your name on the voter list||Have a voter ID card? Check. But is your name present on the electoral roll? You need to check that also. The electoral roll or the voter list is a document that has a list of names of registered voters in a particular constituency. Since you cannot vote if your name is not included in the voter list, it is advisable to confirm if your name is on it. Polling in 234 Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu to decide the fate of 3,998 candidates including heavyweights like Chief Minister K Palaniswami, deputy CM O Panneerselvam, DMK President M K Stalin, AMMK founder TTV Dhinakaran and Makkal Needhi Maiam President Kamal Haasan began on Tuesday. The votes will be counted in Tamil Nadu on May 2. Here is how you can check your name on the voter list: You have to visit the website National Voters’ Service Portal. On this website you can search your name through two methods. 1. You can enter all the details asked on the website - it includes your name, gender, age, date of birth, father’s name, state, assembly constituency and district. After entering the details enter the captcha and click on the search button. If you are enrolled in the electoral list, then the result will be displayed on screen. 2. You can also search your name through EPIC no. All you have to do is enter your EPIC no., your state and the captcha. Then click on search. The result will be displayed on screen accordingly.  Another way is to download the voter list and then search your name in it. Step 1: For downloading the voter list, go to the website of Election Commission of India and then click on menu on the left side of the page. Step 2: After clicking the menu, you get a dropdown. Click on the electoral roll on that drop down. Step 3: Click on Link to PDF E-roll. Step 4: On PDF E-roll page click on your state. Step 5: Select your Assembly Constituency. Step 6: Enter the captcha and click next, you will be directed to the PDF of your electoral list. You can search your name there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-how-to-check-your-name-on-the-voter-list-970921.html
06-04-2021||National||Kerala Assembly elections: How to check your name on the voter list||Have a voter ID card? Check. But is your name present on the electoral roll? You need to check that also. The electoral roll or the voter list is a document that has a list of names of registered voters in a particular constituency. Since you cannot vote if your name is not included in the voter list, it is advisable to confirm if your name is on it. In Kerala voting is underway for the 140 seats in a single phase election to the state assembly, amid heavy security. The votes will be counted in Kerala on May 2.  Here is how you can check your name on the voter list: You have to visit the website National Voters’ Service Portal. On this website you can search your name through two methods. 1. You can enter all the details asked on the website - it includes your name, gender, age, date of birth, father’s name, state, assembly constituency and district. After entering the details enter the captcha and click on the search button. If you are enrolled in the electoral list, then the result will be displayed on screen. 2. You can also search your name through EPIC no. All you have to do is enter your EPIC no., your state and the captcha. Then click on search. The result will be displayed on screen accordingly. Another way is to download the voter list and then search your name in it. Step 1: For downloading the voter list, go to the website of Election Commission of India and then click on menu on the left side of the page. Step 2: After clicking the menu, you get a dropdown. Click on the electoral roll on that drop down. Step 3: Click on Link to PDF E-roll. Step 4: On PDF E-roll page click on your state. Step 5: Select your Assembly Constituency. Step 6: Enter the captcha and click next, you will be directed to the PDF of your electoral list. You can search your name there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-assembly-elections-how-to-check-your-name-on-the-voter-list-970926.html
06-04-2021||National||Assembly elections: PM Modi urges people to vote in large numbers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged people to vote in large numbers in the Assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Polling is taking place for 31 seats in the third of the eight-phase West Bengal Assembly elections, while 40 seats are at stake in the final and third phase of the Assembly elections in Assam. Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are voting on Tuesday in single-phase Assembly elections. "Elections are taking place in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. I request the people in these places to vote in record numbers, particularly the young voters," the prime minister tweeted. Elections are taking place in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. I request the people in these places to vote in record numbers, particularly the young voters. Modi also tweeted in Bengali, Assamese, Tamil and Malayalam, urging voters in the four states and the union territory of Puducherry to vote in large numbers and strengthen the festival of democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-elections-pm-modi-urges-people-to-vote-in-large-numbers-970927.html
06-04-2021||National||West Bengal Assembly elections: How to check your name on the voter list||Have a voter ID card? Check. But is your name present on the electoral roll? You need to check that also. The electoral roll or the voter list is a document that has a list of names of registered voters in a particular constituency. Since you cannot vote if your name is not included in the voter list, it is advisable to confirm if your name is on it. In Bengal, polling for 31 seats in the third phase of the assembly elections began amid tight security. Over 78.5 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 205 candidates, including BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta, state minister Ashima Patra and CPI(M) leader Kanti Ganguly. The votes will be counted in West Bengal on May 2.  Here is how you can check your name on the voter list: You have to visit the website National Voters’ Service Portal. On this website you can search your name through two methods. 1. You can enter all the details asked on the website - it includes your name, gender, age, date of birth, father’s name, state, assembly constituency and district. After entering the details enter the captcha and click on the search button. If you are enrolled in the electoral list, then the result will be displayed on screen. 2. You can also search your name through EPIC no. All you have to do is enter your EPIC no., your state and the captcha. Then click on search. The result will be displayed on screen accordingly. Another way is to download the voter list and then search your name in it. Step 1: For downloading the voter list, go to the website of Election Commission of India and then click on menu on the left side of the page. Step 2: After clicking the menu, you get a dropdown. Click on the electoral roll on that drop down. Step 3: Click on Link to PDF E-roll. Step 4: On PDF E-roll page click on your state. Step 5: Select your Assembly Constituency. Step 6: Enter the captcha and click next, you will be directed to the PDF of your electoral list. You can search your name there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-assembly-elections-how-to-check-your-name-on-the-voter-list-970928.html
06-04-2021||National||India logs 96,982 new Covid-19 cases, 446 deaths||The daily rise in new coronavirus infections in India remained above 90,000 for the third consecutive day taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,26,86,049, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 96,982 cases have been reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,65,547 with 446 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. India on Monday recorded an all-time high of 1,03,558 single day new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours. Registering a steady increase for the 27th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 7,88,223 comprising 6.21 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.48 per cent, the data stated.  The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections.     The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,17,32,279, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.30 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,02,31,269 samples have been tested up to April 5 with 12,11,612  samples being tested on Monday. The 446 new fatalities include 155 from Maharashtra, 72 from Punjab, 44 from Chhattisgarh, 32 from Karnataka, 15 each from Delhi, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, 13 from Uttar Pradesh, 12 each from Kerala and Rajasthan, 11 from Tamil Nadu and 10 from Jharkhand. A total of 1,65,547 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 56,033 from Maharashtra, 12,789 from Tamil Nadu, 12,657 from Karnataka, 11,096 from Delhi, 10,348 from West Bengal, 8,894 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,244 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,155 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-96982-new-covid-19-cases-446-deaths-970935.html
06-04-2021||National||Cast your votes, India is counting on you: Rahul Gandhi to voters||With polling taking place for Assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday urged people to cast their vote, saying "India is counting on you". Polling is taking place for 31 seats in the third of the eight-phase West Bengal assembly elections, while 40 seats are at stake in the final and third phase of the Assembly elections in Assam. Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are voting on Tuesday in single-phase Assembly elections. "Do cast your votes today- India is counting on you," Gandhi tweeted. In a tweet, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "As polling begins in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, I request my sisters and brothers to go out and vote in large numbers and ensure a strong, progressive and prosperous future for themselves." As polling begins in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, I request my sisters and brothers to go out and vote in large numbers and ensure a strong, progressive and prosperous future for themselves. In a Facebook post, she also urged people in Assam to vote in large numbers and strengthen the democratic process. "Brothers and sisters in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, it is time to exercise your democratic right, Go Vote! for peace and progress," the Congress tweeted from its official Twitter handle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cast-your-votes-india-is-counting-on-you-rahul-gandhi-to-voters-970937.html
06-04-2021||National||Justice N V Ramana appointed as 48th CJI by President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday appointed Justice N V Ramana, the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court, as next the Chief Justice of India. He would take the oath of office on April 24, on superannuation of incumbent CJI S A Bobde. The Law Ministry on Tuesday issued the notification stating that Justice Ramana would be the Chief Justice of India with effect from April 24. On March 24, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde recommended the name of Justice N V Ramana as his successor. Justice Bobde, who demits office on April 23, closed in-house inquiry against Justice Ramana on a letter by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on October 6, 2020. With the notification, Justice Ramana is all set to become the 48th Chief Justice of India. Justice Ramana, who hails from Andhra Pradesh, was elevated to the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014. He retires on August 26, 2022. He was appointed as judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in 2000. He has also been acting Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court. He has also been Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court. In October, 2020, a huge controversy erupted as the AP CM, wrote to the CJI alleging that the state High Court was being used to "destabilise and topple his democratically elected government". The letter accused Justice Ramana of trying to control the High Court and influence cases affecting the state. In the top court, Justice Ramana has presided over a five-judge bench which heard of petitions related to revoking of special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution. He also dealt with the matter related to ban of 4G in Jammu and Kashmir and declared that access to internet was a fundamental right. He also presided over a bench which dealt with legal questions arising out of resignation of 17 rebel MLAs of Congress and JDS of Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-n-v-ramana-appointed-as-48th-cji-by-president-970945.html
06-04-2021||National||India records highest single-day Covid-19 vaccination coverage||More than 43 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in a span 24 hours, the highest single-day coverage till now, taking the total doses given in the country so far to 8,31,10,926, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 43,00,966 vaccine doses have been given in a span of 24 hours out of which 39,00,505 beneficiaries received the 1st dose while 4,00,461 have taken the 2nd dose, according to the data updated at 7 am. Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala account for 60 per cent of the cumulative vaccine doses given till now. Of the total 8,31,10,926  jabs given in the country, Maharashtra has so far given the highest with 81,27,248 number of doses, followed by Gujarat at 76,89,507, Rajasthan at 72,99,305, Uttar Pradesh at 71,98,372 and West Bengal at  65,41,370 doses, the data stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-970972.html
06-04-2021||National||IMA urges PM Modi to open Covid vaccination for all above 18 years of age||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, the Indian Medical Association has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting that vaccination be allowed for all people above the age of 18 years. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections in India remained above 90,000 for the third consecutive day on Tuesday taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,26,86,049, according to the Union Health Ministry. The country had a day ago reported 1,03,558 new cases. "At present, we are vaccinating the population above 45 years. In view of the rapid spread of the second wave of the disease, we suggest that our vaccination strategy be geared up with immediate effect and on war footing," the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said in its letter to the prime minister. The doctors' body said that "we request following suggestions in the Covid-19 vaccination drive -- all citizens above 18 years of age shall be permitted to receive Covid vaccination and walk-in Covid vaccination should be available for all, free of cost at their nearest possible place". The IMA also suggested that private sector family clinics should be included actively in the vaccination drive along with private hospitals. Making vaccination certificate mandatory for entering public places and to receive products under the public distribution system, was also part of the suggestions made by the association. The IMA stated that the pandemic's second wave surge is reaching record highs and added that "vaccination against Covid-19 stands as a single evidence-based resource for us to restrict cases by raising the personal immune response and pave the way for herd immunity to decrease the severity of the disease". It said that the availability of vaccination with all doctors and family physicians will have a positive impact on the inoculation drive. District level vaccine task force teams should be constituted with public and private participation to enforce mass vaccination, to monitor and mitigate adverse drug events, and to build confidence, the IMA suggested and added that it is willing to actively take part in it. The doctors' body said that in view of rising cases and as an measure to break the transmission chain, "limited period continuous lockdowns" should be implemented, "especially for all non-essential areas like cinemas, cultural and religious events, sports, etc." "Indian Medical Association assures and places its proactive support of its entire manpower and infrastructure facilities for rapid vaccination and stands with the government during this hour of crisis," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-urges-pm-modi-to-open-covid-vaccination-for-all-above-18-years-of-age-970993.html
06-04-2021||National||BJP will get at least 10 seats in Kerala: Nalin Kumar Kateel||The BJP, which opened its account in the Kerala assembly in 2016 with one seat, will get at least 10 seats in the House this time, party's Karnataka president Nalin Kumar Kateel MP said on Tuesday. The polling for the assembly elections in Kerala, which has 140 assembly seats, began at 7 am Tuesday. Addressing reporters at Puttur, Kateel expressed confidence that the party will score victories in Manjeshwar and Kasaragod assembly segments. BJP Kerala state president K Surendran is the party candidate from Manjeshwar. The BJP will also win eight other seats in other districts including its sitting seat of Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram district, he said. Kateel, who was involved in the campaign for the polls, said the BJP has grown popular among women and youth in Kerala. People have lost faith in the CPI(M)-led LDF and the opposition Congress-led UDF, he claimed. He said the believers have turned against the LDF after its adamant stand against the age-old customs at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. The people will also register their protest against the 'murder politics' of CPI-M, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-will-get-at-least-10-seats-in-kerala-nalin-kumar-kateel-971004.html
06-04-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar, Russian foreign minister Lavrov hold talks||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov on Tuesday held extensive talks with a focus on various aspects of bilateral ties and preparations for the annual India-Russia summit. Lavrov arrived here on Monday evening on a nearly 19-hour visit. "A longstanding and time-tested partner! EAM @DrSJaishankar welcomes Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation Sergey Lavrov," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted along with a photograph of the two ministers. 🇮🇳🇷🇺A longstanding and time-tested partner! Ahead of his visit, the Russian embassy said on Monday that Moscow attaches great importance to collective work based on the principles of goodwill, consensus and equality, and rejects "confrontation and bloc-type approaches". It said the Special and privileged strategic partnership with India is one of Russia's foreign policy priorities. The embassy said Lavrov will discuss topical issues of bilateral relations with an emphasis on the forthcoming "highest level" meetings as well as implementation of outcomes of the 20th Russian-Indian summit held in Vladivostok in 2019. Officials said various aspects of bilateral ties and preparations for the annual summit figured in the talks. The India and Russia annual summit was postponed last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Both the countries have a mechanism under which India's prime minister and the Russian president hold a summit meeting annually to review the entire gamut of ties. So far 20 annual summit meetings have taken place alternatively in India and Russia. Russia has been a time-tested partner for India and the country has been a key pillar of New Delhi's foreign policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-russian-foreign-minister-lavrov-hold-talks-971023.html
06-04-2021||National||Venkaiah Naidu calls for building 'new India' by 2047||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday said he is confident that the country would prepare a detailed outline to build a "new India" by 2047, the 100th year of India's independence. Naidu was speaking here at the conclusion of the 25-day-long Dandi yatra, taken out from the Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city by 81 participants as part of the 'Aazadi Ka Amrut Mohatsav' to mark 75 years of India's independence. "From 1947 till now, we have walked on the footsteps shown by our freedom fighters, 'sabka saath sabka vikas' is our motto. We have achieved many things," Naidu said. "Ideas at 75, achievements at 75, actions at 75 and resolve at 75 should be our aim," he added. Naidu said the entire world today respects and recognises the strengths of India, thanks to the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and all the states, irrespective of political parties (ruling the states). "I am confident that on this occasion, taking into account India at 2047, the completion of 100 years of our independence, we will prepare a detailed outline to make a new India in the next 25 years. We will work to achieve it also in the next 25 years," he said. He said one often comes across watershed moments in history and Mahatma Gandhi's 'Salt March' was one such defining milestone, which stands out as an iconic movement of non-violence and civil disobedience against the British empire. "Leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel inspire us to build a new India of our dreams," he said. On March 12 this year, the Dandi yatra was flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Sabarmati Ashram as part of celebrations over the completion of 75 years of India's independence. After travelling a distance of 268 km on foot, 81 participants reached Dandi in Gujarat's Navsari district on Tuesday morning. On March 12, 1930, Mahatma Gandhi along with 78 other people undertook the Dandi March to challenge the salt tax imposed by the British. Gandhi reached Dandi on April 5, 1930, and broke the law on April 6, 1930. The Dandi March is considered a defining movement in the Indian independence movement after which the entire nation stood behind Mahatma Gandhi against the British rule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/venkaiah-naidu-calls-for-building-new-india-by-2047-971025.html
06-04-2021||National||On-site registration for health, frontline workers to be available at govt Covid-19 vaccination centres||The Centre has said that on-site registration for Covid-19 inoculation for healthcare and frontline workers aged 18 to 44 years will now only be available at government Covid vaccination centres. They will have to produce original photo identity cards and a copy of their employment certificate, it said. In a communique to states and union territories (UTs) on Monday, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on-site registration facility for genuinely leftover healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) will be available only at government Covid vaccinations centres (CVCs). The Centre on Saturday had conveyed to states and UTs that no fresh registration of HCWs and FLWs will be allowed with immediate effect since some ineligible beneficiaries were getting their names enlisted and getting inoculated under this category in violation of guidelines. Bhushan said, "Please refer to my letter dated 3rd April, 2021, vide which, in view of vaccination of ineligible beneficiaries in the name of HCWs or FLWs at some CVCs, in complete violation of the prescribed guidelines, the decision of the NEGVAC that, no fresh registration in the categories of HCWs and FLWs will be allowed, has been communicated." "In continuation of the said guidance, following additional directions are issued for vaccination of HCWs or FLWs, aged from 18 years to 44 years: On-site registration facility for genuinely leftover HCWs or FLWs will henceforth be available only in the government CVCs," he said. NEGVAC or the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has been established by the government to provide guidance on all aspects of Covid-19 vaccination. Bhushan said that for on-site registration, it will be mandatory for HCWs and FLWs to produce their original photo-identity card and a copy of their employment certificate. The letter stated that the employer will be responsible to ensure that the certificate is issued to only eligible HCWs and FLWs. "The employer and the HCW or FLW concerned will be personally responsible for the correctness of information in the employment certificate. It will be mandatory for the verifier to capture the employment certificate in the Co-WIN system prior to registration of the HCW or FLW," it said. The verifier or site manager will be responsible for uploading the employment certificate along with necessary details on the Co-WIN app, according to the letter. The app is a platform for citizens to register for Covid-19 vaccination and schedule their vaccination slots at the nearest vaccination centres. Bhushan in his letter to states and UTs also said that various inputs have been received from different sources that in some CVCs, some ineligible beneficiaries are being registered as HCWs and FLWs, and they are getting vaccinated in complete violation of the prescribed guidelines. "This issue was discussed with state representatives and domain knowledge experts in the NEGVAC meeting today, and as per the recommendation of the NEGVAC, it has been decided that no fresh registrations in categories of HCWs and FLWs will be allowed with immediate effect. Registrations of persons aged 45 years and above will continue to be permitted on the Co-WIN portal," he said in the letter. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with HCWs getting inoculated and vaccination of FLWs started from February 2. The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive started on March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with co-morbid conditions.  India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-site-registration-for-health-frontline-workers-to-be-available-at-govt-covid-19-vaccination-centres-971032.html
06-04-2021||National||IAS officer Ajay Seth is new Economic Affairs Secretary||Karnataka cadre IAS officer Ajay Seth has been appointed as the new Economic Affairs Secretary. Seth belongs to the 1987 batch of IAS said the Department of Personnel and Training notification. Seth has been serving as the Managing Director of the state-run Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (BRMCL). He earlier served as Finance Department Secretary in Karnataka. His experience as Secretary in his home cader and BRMCL may help him in the Finance Ministry as the NDA government is pushing for the revival of the economy hit by Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ias-officer-ajay-seth-is-new-economic-affairs-secretary-971039.html
06-04-2021||National||Not wearing mask amounts to crime, says Chouhan amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said not wearing a face mask amounts to crime and appealed to people to follow appropriate "social behaviour" to check the spread of Covid-19. The surge in cases now is due to people lowering their guard, Chouhan said after starting a 24-hour 'sit-in' here to spread the awareness among people about following the Covid-19 prevention guidelines. The CM launched the "Swasthya Agrah" (health request) at the Minto Hall in Bhopal at 12.30 pm on Tuesday and during his 24-hour 'sit-in', he will interact with people online and conduct his official work from the venue. "Wearing masks and maintaining social distance are not in our habit. Besides these, we have to take other measures also to control the pandemic. So, I am sitting here for a moral request to make these things a part of people's habit," Chouhan told reporters. He said it is a "crime" if someone is not wearing a mask, because this also affects the health of others around that person. Chouhan said he launched an awareness campaign for wearing masks on Monday. "I ensured that me and my family wear masks...the word 'mask' means 'mera aapka suraksha kavach' (my and your safety shield)," he said. The coronavirus cannot be controlled only by government's efforts, because the infection is being spread by (inappropriate) social behaviour, he said. "We are making efforts to arrange facilities to fight the pandemic at the government level, but the infection spread has to be stopped by (appropriate) social behaviour," he said. Chouhan said people became complacent when the viral infection was brought under control in the country a few months back due to efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and launch of the vaccination drive. "This has again caused the spread. Lockdown is an easy solution, but I don't consider it right. A limited lockdown is ok, but a permanent one is not a solution," he said. The CM said self-discipline is necessary to prevent the spread of the infection, and urged people to wear masks, maintain social distance, wash hands and adopt other precautionary measures. Chouhan said his office will function during his 24- hour sit-in campaign. "I will review the Covid-19 situation in the state, talk to leaders of various sections of society and religious leaders on awareness about the disease and also hold a cabinet meeting, besides other works, during this Swasthya Agrah," the chief minister said. Chouhan also said he has urged his party (BJP) workers not to come to the venue of his campaign so as to maintain social distance. The state government is also making efforts to take the help of volunteers, who can register themselves for assistance in the vaccination process, spread awareness about the prevention norms, and help patients in home and institutional quarantine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-wearing-mask-amounts-to-crime-says-chouhan-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-971045.html
06-04-2021||National||Chhattisgarh Naxal encounter: Who is Maoist Madvi Hidma?||Last weeks' brutal Naxal encounter in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur, in which at least 22 jawans were killed, has caused a dreaded name in the region to resurface: Madvi Hidma. Hidma is known to be ruthless and a master of guerilla warfare, but who is he? Madvi Hidma was born in Chhattisgarh's Sukma, and joined the Communist Party of India (Maoist) at the age of 10 and quickly rose up the party's ranks as a master strategist. He was arrested in 2016 along with six other Naxals, but not long after, was promoted to the CPI (Maoist)'s Central Committee, and then went on to lead the party's militia actions after the death of Ravula Srinivas aka Ramanna. Hidma reportedly received guerilla warfare training in the Philippines and is also believed to have carried out several attacks in the last decade, the report said. He is also known to be a shadowy figure who avoids media glare, according to the report. “Bastariya muriya tribals are aggressive and Hidma has established himself as a master strategist and successful operational commander,” a police officer told the publication. Before last week's ambush, Hidma was widely believed to be the mastermind behind several attacks, including the 2017 Naxal attack in Sukma, in which over 20 CRPF jawans were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-naxal-encounter-who-is-maoist-madvi-hidma-971049.html
06-04-2021||National||Centre asks all its employees aged 45 years and above to get Covid-19 vaccine||The Centre on Tuesday advised all its employees above 45 years to get themselves vaccinated to contain the spread of Covid-19. In an office memorandum, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said it has been issuing instructions from time to time regarding the preventive measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus. It said the government has been monitoring the situation "very closely" and based on the strategy adopted for prioritising the groups for vaccination, all persons of the age of 45 years and above can participate in the immunisation exercise. "All central government employees of the age of 45 years and above are advised to get themselves vaccinated, so as to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19," the office memorandum said. It also advised to continue to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, even after vaccination, by frequent washing of hands or sanitisation, wearing a mask or face cover and to observing social distancing. The order comes amid an alarming spike in Covid-19 cases across the country in the past few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-all-its-employees-aged-45-years-and-above-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-971053.html
06-04-2021||National||Sergei Lavrov, Jaishankar discuss Russian military manufacturing in India||Russia and India are discussing the possibility of "additional" production of Russian military equipment in India, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said at a news conference on Tuesday while on a visit to New Delhi. In 2018, India agreed a deal with Russia to buy S-400 surface-to-air missile systems despite warnings of sanctions from the United States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sergei-lavrov-jaishankar-discuss-russian-military-manufacturing-in-india-971067.html
06-04-2021||National||J&K govt amends warrant of precedence, places DDC chairpersons as equivalent to mayors||Yielding to the demands of protesting District Development Council (DDC) members, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Tuesday amended its protocol order of precedence. The latest government order has placed the DDC chairpersons as equivalent to mayors at serial number 19A in the amended warrant of precedence. “In supersession of all previous orders issued on the subject, it is hereby ordered that the Warrant of Precedence forming Annexure to this Government Order shall be observed at all ceremonial functions/occasions of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” the order said. Similarly, the DDC vice-chairpersons have been placed at serial number 26 equivalent to administrative secretaries and divisional commissioners, IGPs, chief conservator of forests, joint secretaries to the government of India and officers of equivalent rank and officers of the rank of Major General or equivalent rank within their respective jurisdictions As per the order, DDC members have been placed at serial number 28 and equivalent to District Magistrates, officers of the rank of Brigadiers and equivalent, major heads of department, conservator of forests and district & session Judges. In the earlier order issued in March, the administration had placed the DDC chairpersons equal to administrative secretaries at serial No 26. The deputy chairpersons had been placed at number 27, with protocol equivalent to vice-chancellors of universities within the Union Territory (UT), while the members had been granted protocol equivalent to the block development council chairpersons or presidents of municipal councils and they figured at serial number 28. However, immediately after the issuance of the previous order, the newly-elected members of the DDCs had on March 9 staged protests against what they said was a “humiliating and insulting” protocol announced for them. In a rare show of unity, the DDC members from various political backgrounds, protested together and it was only after he assurances by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha that they called off the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-govt-amends-warrant-of-precedence-places-ddc-chairpersons-as-equivalent-to-mayors-971069.html
06-04-2021||National||Katrina Kaif tests positive for Covid-19||Actor Katrina Kaif on Tuesday said she has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under home quarantine. Kaif, 37, took to her Instagram story and requested those who came in contact with her to also get themselves tested. The "Bharat" star said she is currently following protocols listed by her doctors and thanked fans for their continued support. "I have tested positive for Covid-19. Have immediately isolated myself and will be under home quarantine. I'm following all safety protocols under the advice of my doctors. Requesting everyone who came in contact with me to get tested immediately too. Grateful for all your love and support. Please stay safe and take care," Kaif wrote. The actor is the latest Bollywood celebrity to have contracted the virus after superstar Akshay Kumar, Aamir Khan, Govinda, Alia Bhatt, R Madhavan, singer Aditya Narayan, among others. Earlier in the day, comic Kunal Kamra also tested Covid-19 positive, along with his parents. Yesterday, actors Vicky Kaushal and Bhumi Pednekar tested positive for Covid-19. The duo were shooting Karan Johar-backed upcoming film "Mr Lele" in the city. On Monday, Mumbai reported 9,857 new cases of the infection, taking its tally to 4,62,302, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/katrina-kaif-tests-positive-for-covid-19-971075.html
06-04-2021||National||India should have done more to protect jobs: McKinsey official||India should have done more to protect jobs during the pandemic, a senior official from a global consultancy firm said on Tuesday. Alok Kshirsagar, a senior partner with McKinsey & Company, said the United Kingdom ran a very effective programme to protect employment through the payroll protection initiative, while the US was also not so effective because they were not well-targeted. "I think in India, frankly, we should have done more to protect employment in some way, shape or form," Kshirsagar said while speaking at an event organised by industry lobby grouping CII. It can be noted that unemployment had touched record highs during the pandemic across the organised and unorganised sectors. Analysts are expecting a surge in bad loans from the otherwise resilient retail segment for the banking sectors because of such reverses. Kshirsagar said the boards have to build resilience within a company to withstand shocks and added that it may result in upfront investments for the same. Apart from people, the broad areas where a company needs to invest includes supply chains, distributor relationships or working capital limits, he said, adding the consultancy has received a lot of queries from companies on the cost of such investments, which may create some redundancies as well. "It took a while for the boards to come around and it needs to be a cost which you can explain to rating agencies, equity analysts and investors as actually an appropriate and worthwhile cost because of the resilience it provides and obviously the risk-adjusted returns," he noted. Kshirsagar said it is the strategy implemented during the pandemic and initiatives like partnerships forged, which distinguishes a better performing company from an average one, and underlined that the stress caused by the pandemic is not a sectoral one. A study by the consultancy found that companies across sectors that are in the top quartile by performance, and also command a higher share price, are ones that took decisive actions, he said, pointing out that the same is visible across sectors like banking, IT services and auto. Meanwhile, speaking at the same event Allcargo Logistics' chairman and managing director Shashi Kiran Shetty said his company faced a slew of challenges during the pandemic, which included being hit by a cyberattack. Allcargo got out of the difficulties without paying the ransom, he said, adding that its staff had to put in a lot of effort to get out of it. He said the company, which also operates container freight stations, helped in the de-congestion of ports by taking containers to the CFS, but the government was not allowing it to charge clients for keeping the cargo in the CFS. Meanwhile, private equity major KKR's managing director Rupen Jhaveri said the first focus for investee companies after the lockdowns last year was to draw down on allocated working capital limits. He said the fund had the experience of the global financial crisis in 2008, which made it advise investee companies to be surplus on liquidity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-have-done-more-to-protect-jobs-mckinsey-official-971089.html
06-04-2021||National||Covid-19 spreading at fast pace, next 4 weeks critical: Centre||Covid-19 is spreading at a fast pace with an increase in the intensity of the pandemic and the next four weeks are going to be very critical, the Centre said on Tuesday as it stressed on people's participation to control the second wave of the contagion. At a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said the pandemic situation in the country worsened with a sharp rise in cases and a large part of the population is still susceptible to the virus. The tools to fight the pandemic remain the same. Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment measures, testing have to be implemented more efficiently, medical infrastructure has to be ramped up and vaccination drive intensified, he said. Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, staying away from crowds have to be followed in a campaign mode, Paul reminded people. "The intensity of the pandemic has increased and it is spreading faster than last time. In some states, it (the condition) is worse than others but the upswing (in cases) can be observed across the country," he said. "People's participation is vital to control the second wave. The next four weeks are going to very critical. The entire country has to come together and make efforts to fight the pandemic." He said the number of coronavirus cases is increasing and along with that mortality is also on the rise. "Still, in terms of the population size and in terms of deaths per million we are doing well and the pandemic is in control." Detailing the Covid-19 situation in India, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Chhattisgarh's Durg is among the top 10 districts with high active Covid cases. "Among these 10 districts, seven are in Maharashtra and one in Karnataka. Delhi, counted as one district, is also in the list." The 10 districts with the highest number of new cases are Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur, Nashik, Bengaluru Urban, Aurangabad, Ahmednagar, Delhi and Durg, he said. Bhushan further said that Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh still remain states of maximum concern. "Given their population, the number of deaths being reported by Punjab and Chhatisgarh is a cause of extreme concern," he said. The Centre has constituted 50 high-level multi-disciplinary public health teams and deployed them to districts reporting a surge in cases and mortality in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab, the Union health secretary said. These teams were being deployed in 30 districts of Maharashtra, 11 of Chhattisgarh and nine of Punjab. Maharashtra, Gujarat and West Bengal were among the states that administered the maximum number of Covid vaccine doses, Bhushan said and emphasised that the immunisation drive has to be ramped up in a scientific manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-spreading-at-fast-pace-next-4-weeks-critical-centre-971103.html
06-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: Maharashtra govt moves SC challenging Bombay HC order on CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh||The Centre asked all its employees aged 45 years and above to get themselves vaccinated to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19. The Maharashtra government moved the Supreme Court challenging the Bombay High Court order directing CBI probe against former state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh over corruptions allegations levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Delhi has imposed night curfew till April 30.    Here is the top news of April 5, 2021: The Centre asked all its employees aged 45 years and above to get themselves vaccinated to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19. They are further advised to continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour even after vaccination by frequent washing of hands and sanitisation, wearing a mask or face cover and observing social distancing, etc., an order issued by the Personnel Ministry said. The Maharashtra government moved the Supreme Court challenging the Bombay High Court order directing CBI probe against former state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh over corruptions allegations levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. A division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni on Monday ruled a CBI probe after last week’s hearing of a bunch of public interest litigations and criminal writ petitions. Anil Deshmukh resigned as Home Minister yesterday and Dilip Walse Patil took his place. Amid surging Covid-19 cases, the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government on Tuesday imposed a night curfew in the national capital from 10 PM to 5 AM till April 30 while allowing essential services. With this, Delhi joins Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Odisha, Punjab, and Gujarat where night curfew has been imposed. Government officials, private medical personnel, including doctors and nurses and officials related to functioning of embassies are exempted from night curfew and could travel anytime but will have to produce I-cards. However, exemptions have been provided to persons who are going for Covid-19 vaccination on production of an e-pass, as the national capital immunisation was extended round-the-clock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-maharashtra-govt-moves-sc-challenging-bombay-hc-order-on-cbi-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-971117.html
06-04-2021||National||Indian trafficking victims left destitute by compensation delays||After being trafficked for sex as a girl of 16, Malika hoped that government compensation would get her back on her feet - but the young mother is now jobless, living on the streets and 200,000 Indian rupees ($2,727) in debt. Despite being awarded 150,000 rupees in compensation in 2019, Malika is among thousands of women survivors of trafficking, sexual assault and acid attacks waiting for payment since the Covid-19 pandemic struck last year. "We are living in an open ground with a plastic sheet over our heads," the 20-year-old mother of two, who declined to give her full name, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from her makeshift shelter in India's West Bengal state. "I applied for victim compensation to build a better life but I am living a terrible one instead," she said, adding that her husband had travelled to look for odd jobs, leaving her with the children who kept falling ill. Malika said creditors regularly hounded her to repay loans she has taken to feed her children but when the compensation does arrive, it will not even clear her debts. There were more than 400,000 cases of crimes against women and girls in 2019, government data shows, with sexual assault, rape and domestic violence being the most common. India has a scheme to compensate women and girls who survive sexual assault, acid attacks and trafficking, but only a fraction receive compensation due to low awareness of the scheme and the high burden of proof required, studies show. Government data shared with the Thomson Reuters Foundation shows that more than 12,000 women and girl survivors of these crimes were waiting to have their applications for compensation assessed in January, up from about 11,000 in 2019. West Bengal State Legal Services Authority, which is responsible for paying compensation to survivors like Malika, had "exhausted funds by March 2020 and had just 5,000 rupees in the account", said its member secretary Raju Mukherjee. "We could do nothing, make no payments," said Mukherjee, whose state has among the highest number of trafficking survivors in India. "But we have recently received funds ... and are trying to expedite the process now." No Money Women's rights campaigners have long complained that the compensation scheme is too slow, with survivors waiting years to testify in court to determine the size of their award, while state authorities often run short of funds. This cumbersome process has been exacerbated during the pandemic, said Ashok Jain, member secretary for the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), the umbrella body for all of the state level authorities that make payments to survivors. With courts functioning at limited capacity, survivors unable to travel to follow up on cases and priority shifting to containing the pandemic, compensation applications were not cleared and money was not dispersed, legal aid officials said. "Many acid attack survivors had to stop their ongoing treatment during the pandemic as compensation was not coming through," said Dibyaloke Rai Chaudhuri, coordinator for Acid Survivors and Women Welfare Foundation. Part compensation needs to be paid within 15 days of the application being cleared, Chaudhuri said, adding that the need for money was most urgent in the initial days, particularly for medical treatment. NALSA said that the sums offered do take into account the severity of trauma, physical harm, medical expenses, loss of education, employment and financial condition of the survivor. Frustrated that one of his clients - a child who had been sexually abused - had waited two years for 40,000 rupees in compensation, lawyer Zishaan Iskandari filed a petition in the Delhi High Court last June, during a two-month lockdown. "It was a migrant family who literally had a hand-to-mouth existence and could not even go back to their village," said Iskandari, who provides legal aid to charity HAQ Centre for Child Rights. "It had been two years since the compensation was awarded and I had at least 25 similar cases. It took a court order for the Delhi Legal Services Authority to release the money within 48 hours." Across states, lawyers and charities said that routine checks by legal services authorities before clearing a compensation application is a slow process that was practically halted during the pandemic, with state cash flows badly hit. "Survivors ... are often from the most marginalised communities. How can you tell them there is no money?" asked Iskandari. While Covid-19 infections and deaths have fallen since their peak in September, coronavirus cases are on the rise in India, which has recorded more than 160,000 deaths - the fourth highest globally after the United States, Brazil and Mexico. Survivor networks have urged state governments to step up support during the pandemic as stigma makes it even harder for survivors to get jobs or financial aid amid massive job losses. "Very few (survivors) are aware of the compensation scheme and actually apply for it," said Ram Mohan, secretary of anti-trafficking charity HELP, which supports survivors, mostly poor women and children lured by promises of work. "Those who do, wait endlessly. But the wait during the pandemic was probably the longest for many because there were no jobs and no other source of income." The hardship suffered by survivors during the pandemic has sparked fresh calls for reform of the compensation system, with women's rights campaigners calling for faster, more generous payments. "Survivors are becoming more aware, demanding their rights," said Amina Khatun Laskar, secretary of anti-trafficking NGO Bansra Birangana Seva Samity. "The system is not supporting them. They cannot afford these delays and (states) need to pay up."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-trafficking-victims-left-destitute-by-compensation-delays-971125.html
06-04-2021||National||EVMs found in TMC candidate's house; BJP demands independent inquiry from Election Commission||The BJP on Tuesday demanded an independent inquiry from the Election Commission after electronic voting machines (EVMs) and VVPAT machines were found in a TMC leader's house in a constituency in West Bengal's Howrah district. Four EVMs and a similar number of VVPAT machines were found at the house of the Trinamool Congress leader in the Uluberia constituency following which an election official was suspended by the poll body. Addressing a press conference, senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar said it is a serious matter that a day before the polling EVMs and VVPAT machines were found in the TMC leader's house and were confiscated. "And this becomes more serious that the machines were brought by a car which was on election duty. There should be a full-fledged inquiry in this matter and we are sure that the Election Commission will do a separate and independent inquiry," he said. The EVMs and VVPAT machines were not used in Tuesday's polling and were seized by the poll panel. Meanwhile, BJP candidate from the constituency Chiran Bera alleged that the incident was part of the TMC's plan to rig the election, a charge denied by the ruling party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evms-found-in-tmc-candidates-house-bjp-demands-independent-inquiry-from-election-commission-971137.html
06-04-2021||National||Husband’s duty to maintain wife, support her financially: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court has said it is the duty and obligation of a husband to maintain his wife and to provide financial support to her and their children except if any legally permissibly ground is contained in the statutes. Justice Subramonium Prasad upheld the order of a trial court directing the man to pay a monthly amount of Rs 17,000 to his estranged wife and said he has not been able to point out any perversity in the order. The High Court said the man, who has challenged the trial court order, is an Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) and is earning well so as to pay Rs 17,000 monthly to his wife who has no stable source of income. “No material has been placed on record to show that the respondent (wife) is able to sustain herself. Magazine covers are not sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the respondent can sustain herself,” it said. The High Court noted that the woman, in her statement before the trial court, had said that she was doing modelling on and off but was earning very low income and that her statement by itself does not mean that she was able to sustain herself or that she was earning enough to sustain herself. “A perusal of the law laid down by the Supreme Court would indicate that the proceedings under Section 125 CrPC have been enacted to remedy/reduce the financial sufferings of a lady, who was forced to leave her matrimonial house, so that some arrangements could be made to enable her to sustain herself. “It is the duty of the husband to maintain his wife and to provide financial support to her and their children. A husband cannot avoid his obligation to maintain his wife and children except if any legally permissibly ground is contained in the statutes,” it said, in its order passed on Monday. The man and woman had got married in June 1985 and out of wedlock, two sons and one daughter were born to them. The daughter passed away in 2010 and the two sons are major now and are well employed now. The couple has been staying separately since 2012 and the woman alleged that she was ill-treated by her husband and was thrown out of the house and has been unable to support herself and needs maintenance from the man. The woman claimed that her husband was drawing a salary of Rs 50,000 per month and has also got agricultural land from which also he gets income. The man, however, denied the allegations of cruelty and stated that he has taken care of his children and given them good education and that the woman is a working lady earning handsomely. He claimed that the woman participates in jagrans and does TV serials and she was in a position to take care of and maintain herself. The High Court said that apart from filing a few covers of magazines and one newspaper clipping nothing has been filed by the man to substantiate that the woman was earning sufficient income to maintain herself. “The petitioner (man) at present is working as an ASI, both his sons are majors and are well employed and he is not under any obligation to maintain his two children but he is under a legal obligation to maintain his wife. The respondent (woman) herein is forced to stay alone,” it said. On being asked by the court whether the man has filed any petition for divorce, his counsel stated that the children do not want him to take divorce from his wife. “In view of the above, it becomes the moral and legal obligation of the petitioner/husband to maintain his wife. Considering the fact that the petitioner is an ASI, having virtually no other liability, he can pay Rs 17,000 per month to the respondent/wife who otherwise is not able to maintain herself,” the High Court said while dismissing the man’s revision petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/husband-s-duty-to-maintain-wife-support-her-financially-delhi-high-court-971139.html
06-04-2021||National||Economic recovery still shallow, a month's national lockdown can dent GDP by 2%: Report||India's economic recovery is still "shallow" and a month's national lockdown to curb the rising pace of Covid-19 infections can dent the GDP by up to 2 per cent, an American brokerage warned on Tuesday. Analysts at BofA Securities said there has been a six-times increase in the number of infections to over 1.03 lakh, and state governments have responded with localised lockdowns till now. A national lockdown, which it reckoned as a "last resort", if declared, can have deep impact on the growth process, which is still "shallow", it said. "We grow even more concerned that rising Covid-19 cases pose a risk to our still shallow recovery...We estimate that a month of national lockdown costs 100-200 bps of annual GDP. Needless to say, this also aggravates fiscal risks," it said. The country was kept under a lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19 infections last fiscal, which is going to be the primary reason for an over 7 per cent contraction in GDP. Analysts are expecting double-digit GDP growth in FY22 on the base effect. The brokerage said the infections have crossed the peak and warned that the pace of rise in cases is picking up. In 2020, it took three months for cases to rise from 10,000 levels in mid-June to 90,000 levels in mid-September, whereas in this round, it has taken only six weeks. Overall testing continues to be far from adequate, it said, making it clear that the infections have not risen due to a jump in testing per se. The death rates are mercifully lower, it said, explaining that the 478 fatalities recorded on Monday were 42 per cent lower than what was observed when the daily cases were at the peak of 97,000. "Given the high economic cost, we expect the Center and State governments to try to contain the spread with the tightening of Covid-19 regulations, night curfews and localized lockdowns," it said. "It remains to be seen if this second wave of Covid 19 cases subsides without a national level lockdown," it added. In its base case, the brokerage continues to see a 9 per cent jump in the real gross value added growth for FY22, but there can be a 3 percentage point impact to the estimate in case of a national lockdown, it warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/economic-recovery-still-shallow-a-months-national-lockdown-can-dent-gdp-by-2-report-971142.html
06-04-2021||National||YSRCP rebel MP seeks cancellation of Jaganmohan Reddy's bail in DA case||YSRCP “rebel” MP Raghu Rama Krishna Raju has petitioned the CBI court to cancel the bail of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy. Jagan, arrested in the disproportionate assets case by the CBI in May 2012, is out on bail since September 2013. Jagan has not been attending the court hearings in the special CBI court in Hyderabad since he became the Chief Minister in May 2019, which the MP said has affected the case trial. On Tuesday, addressing reporters in New Delhi, the Narsapuram Lok Sabha MP said that Jagan, “who is the accused no.1 in 11 charge-sheets,” should “attend the court hearings regularly so that the issue can be settled at the earliest.” “We are confident that you did nothing wrong. But by avoiding the trial, space is provided for more accusations. I hope you will be freed from all the charges soon,” Raju said while stating his petition as part of “his effort to protect the party, democracy.” Raju went further and suggested Jagan to consider placing his wife Bharathi, sister Sharmila or mother Vijayamma in the CM seat while he deals with the case. “Like J Jayalalithaa, or Lalu Prasad, you too can decide on a standby, it can be your wife, sister or mother.” Raju reminded that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had to resign recently after the initiation of a CBI probe against him by the courts. An industrialist, Raju began his political career with the YSRCP, when the party was launched a decade ago. However, he moved on to the BJP and later to the TDP. Just ahead of the last general elections, Raju rejoined the YSRCP and won from the Narasapuram Lok Sabha seat in April 2019. Soon after, Raju turned critical of the party, the CM's decisions, government functioning on various issues and earned the leadership's ire. In June last year, averring threat to his life from his own party members, Raju wrote to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeking protection, alleging Andhra Pradesh Police's inaction on his complaints. Soon after, the YSRCP parliamentarians led by their leader Vijayasai Reddy met the Speaker seeking disqualification of Raju on the charges of anti-party activities. On Tuesday, Raju stated that Jagan accommodated several of the co-accused in the DA case in various important positions in his government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ysrcp-rebel-mp-seeks-cancellation-of-jaganmohan-reddys-bail-in-da-case-971143.html
06-04-2021||National||SII to start supplying 1st made-in-India pneumococcal conjugate vaccine to Centre from April 7||The Serum Institute of India (SII) will start supplying the first indigenously developed pneumococcal conjugate vaccine to the Centre from Wednesday, sources said on Tuesday. The vaccine acts against potentially fatal pneumococcal infections such as pneumonia, septicaemia and meningitis. The doses will be sent to government medical stores depots (GMSD) in Kolkata, Mumbai and Karnal on Wednesday. The SII has to supply 2.4 crore doses of the vaccine to the Health Ministry by December 2021. It will be sent to 37 consignees all over India. The supply order was issued on February 3 in the name of Prakash Kumar Singh, the director of Government and Regulatory Affairs at the Pune-based SII. The Health Ministry's order was placed within two days of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announcing in her 2021-22 Union Budget speech that indigenously made pneumococcal vaccines will be rolled out across the country. Sitharaman had said that this would avert over 50,000 deaths annually. India's drug regulator had in July last year granted market approval for the Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Conjugate Vaccine, after reviewing data of all the three phases of the clinical trial submitted by the SII. The trials were carried out by SII in Indian and in Gambia. According to the health ministry, this vaccine is used for active immunization against invasive disease and pneumonia caused by streptococcus pneumonia in infants. "This is the first indigenously developed vaccine in the field of pneumonia," an official source had said, adding this would be much more affordable than the ones produced by Pfizer and GlaxoSmithKline||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-to-start-supplying-1st-made-in-india-pneumococcal-conjugate-vaccine-to-centre-from-april-7-971146.html
06-04-2021||National||Dissent brews in Maharashtra over fresh Covid-19 curbs||Hours after new restrictions came into force in Maharashtra, protests and discontent seems to be brewing against the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. In the financial capital of Mumbai and other cities like Pune, Nashik and Nagpur, there have been small protests by shopkeepers against the ‘Break-the-Chain’ initiative that replaces the earlier ‘Mission-Begin-Again’. Meanwhile, the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis shot off a letter to Thackeray saying that the people are stressed because of the lockdown. MNS president Raj Thackeray too urged the chief minister to have a relook at some of the restrictions. Fadnavis, a former chief minister, said that the government should talk to the small businesses and general public and issue revised guidelines. “When you spoke to me about the need to impose strict restrictions to check the spread of the virus, we agreed since it was lockdown for two days. But the lockdown like restrictions for the other five days had resulted in unrest among the people. Some groups are on the streets to protest against these restrictions,” Fadnavis said. “Due to the undeclared lockdown, retailers, small businesses, saloons will be affected. It is important to check the pandemic, but at the same time, a time shouldn't come where there is a question mark on the livelihood of people," he said. Senior BJP leader Raj Purohit has urged the business community to stand outside their shops with placards on Thursday and wear black badges. “This is political corona,” he said. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) has stated that the Maharashtra government’s latest ‘Break The Chain’ order is equivalent to another complete lockdown. Maharashtra has around 10,500 hotels and 210,000 restaurants. “Even after one year, the Hospitality industry has not received any relief from the government. Of the approximately 30 lakh employees engaged in the industry directly in the state, 40 per cent have faced job loss and the figures are only increasing. Many employees, who have just returned from their homes, will have to be compensated to ensure that their families are not made to suffer all over again. There is no way that the industry can survive another lockdown,” says Sherry Bhatia, president, HRAWI. “If corona crisis does not kill people, lockdown surely will,” said Vasai-based AAP leader Susheel Dwivedi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dissent-brews-in-maharashtra-over-fresh-covid-19-curbs-971147.html
06-04-2021||National||Ex-Armyman's widow to get pension 69 years after husband's death||The 81-year-old wife of an ex-Armyman will get family pension 69 years after the death of her husband, thanks to the efforts of a social worker here in Uttarakhand. The credit for the sudden windfall in the octogenarian's life, who was widowed at the age of 12, goes to social worker D S Bhandari who was the first to notice her plight. When Bhandari learnt that Paruli Devi was eligible for the family pension scheme as her husband, Gagan Singh, had died in an accident while still in service, he ran from pillar to post to ensure that she availed its benefits. "After I came to know about Paruli Devi who lives with her brothers at Lunthura village ever since becoming a widow on May 14, 1952, I could not stop myself from helping her out," Bhandari, who took up social work after his retirement seven years ago as a treasury officer, said.  "I enquired into the matter and found that she was eligible to get pension under ex-servicemen's family pension scheme announced by the Government of India in 1985. "The office of the chief comptroller and auditor general of defences services in Allahabad has finally sanctioned her family pension with retrospective effect from September 22, 1977. She is to get over Rs 20 lakh as arrears besides other dues," he said.   The octogenarian was overwhelmed by tears of joy when she got to know about the development. "I do not need the money, but I am happy that the government has recognized my husband and myself. This gives me the greatest satisfaction," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-armymans-widow-to-get-pension-69-years-after-husbands-death-971152.html
06-04-2021||National||FM Nirmala Sitharaman calls for greater coordination among BRICS nations on IMF's quota review||India on Tuesday pitched for greater coordination among BRICS nations on the issue of the 16th general review of quotas of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to give more say to developing countries. As per an IMF resolution, the 16th General Review of Quotas should be concluded by December 15, 2023. Any adjustment in quota shares would be expected to result in an increase in the voting rights of emerging countries in line with their relative positions in the world economy. It would likely result in an increase in the share of emerging markets and developing countries as a whole, while protecting the voice and representation of the poorest members.  Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while chairing the BRICS Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting, emphasised on the need for the five-nation grouping to respond to the Covid-19 crisis through policy support and enhanced international coordination. Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS) are members of the grouping. As the 2021 BRICS Chair, India's approach is focused on strengthening intra-BRICS cooperation based on continuity, consolidation and consensus, the finance ministry said in a statement. "This was the first meeting of the BRICS Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors under India Chairship in 2021. BRICS Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors discussed financial cooperation agenda set by India for 2021 - Global Economic Outlook and Response to COVID-19 pandemic, New Development Bank (NDB) Activities, Social Infrastructure Financing and Use of Digital Technologies, Cooperation on Customs related issues, IMF reforms, Fintech for SMEs and Financial Inclusion," it said.  On the BRICS priorities and agenda for 2021, Sitharaman said efforts should be made towards delivering outcomes that reflect the needs and aspirations of the group in particular and emerging markets and developing economies in general. She also stressed on thematic priorities for the New Development Bank for discussion during 2021 and the issue of membership expansion. On the Covid-19 pandemic, the finance minister said the world's largest vaccination drive is underway in India and it has supplied 64.5 million vaccine doses to 84 countries.  Speaking on the importance of social infrastructure and the use of digital technologies, Sitharaman underscored the merit in engaging with the private sector and exploring innovative financing models.  Sitharaman also said the Prime Minister's Health Insurance Scheme using an output-based funding model has triggered a major private investment cycle in healthcare infrastructure. This has enabled significant expansion of healthcare services to vulnerable citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-calls-for-greater-coordination-among-brics-nations-on-imfs-quota-review-971167.html
06-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccines not for those below 45 years: Centre rejects demands to vaccinate all people aged 18 and above||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday ruled out Covid-19 vaccination for people below 45 years, observing that the current strategy had been crafted carefully to minimise the deaths and protect the vulnerable. The shots could not be extended to the younger generation at the moment, health officials said, rejecting a demand from the Indian Medical Association, some of the Chief Ministers and a section of health experts who wanted the Covid-19 vaccine for anyone above 18 years. "The basic aim is to reduce death through vaccination. The other aim is to protect the health care system. If doctors, nurses and paramedics are infected then who would run the hospitals. These are the two objectives of vaccination in all countries,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The 45 plus age group was chosen for the vaccines because 88 per cent of Covid-19 mortality in India happened in this category. India for the first time on Monday recorded more than 40 lakh vaccination, which according to V K Paul, NITI Ayog member, calls for celebration. “But vaccinations can't be trivialised. When we talk about opening vaccination to all, our focus reduces on controlling the pandemic. Did you hear about any country that vaccinates those younger than 45 years?" he asked. Bhushan cited the examples of the UK, USA, France, Sweden and Australia to argue that in each of these countries, Covid-19 vaccines were administered to protect the vulnerable population and reduce mortality. "The objective is never to vaccinate those who demand it. Rather, it is to vaccinate those who need it,” he said. The responses from health officials came after Indian Medical Association and Association of Healthcare Providers (India) wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking to widen the vaccination ambit to include anyone above 18 years. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had also made similar demands. The officials noted that Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh remained a matter of grave concern. While Maharashtra presents an overwhelming number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths, the fatality trends of Punjab and Chhattisgarh are worrying because of their smaller population size. Nearly 97,000 new cases and 446 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, whereas the active caseload climbed to 7.88 lakh on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccines-not-for-those-below-45-years-centre-rejects-demands-to-vaccinate-all-people-aged-18-and-above-971186.html
06-04-2021||National||Russia subtly nudges India to stay away from any US-led move to turn Quad into a NATO-like military alliance for Asia||Russia on Tuesday tacitly nudged India to stay away from any move by the United States to turn the Quad into a NATO-like military alliance in order to contain China in the Indo-Pacific region. Moscow dismissed speculation about a Russia-China military alliance. It, however, also indicated that it was aware of similar speculation about India, Japan, Australia and the United States turning the Quad into a NATO-like entity for Asia. After a meeting with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that Moscow and New Delhi shared “a common stance” that such military alliances would be “counterproductive”. Jaishankar, however, apparently justified India’s engagement with Japan, Australia and the United States on Indo-Pacific within the framework of the Quad. “I shared (with Russian Foreign Minister) our view-point on the Indo-Pacific. As our Prime Minister pointed out at the Shangri-La Dialogue some years ago, contemporary challenges require countries to work together in new and different ways,” he told journalists after his meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister. Lavrov reached New Delhi late at night on Monday – less than a month after India joined Japan, Australia and the United States to elevate the Quad to the level of the Heads of Government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 12 virtually joined his counterparts in Japan and Australia – Yoshihide Suga and Scott Morrison – and the US President Joe Biden in the historic first summit of the coalition, which the four nations had originally forged in 2007, but revived in 2011, ostensibly to build a bulwark of democratic nations to counter hegemonic aspirations of communist China. “Russian-Chinese relations have achieved the best level in history, but these relations do not pursue the aim of creating a military alliance,” the Russian Foreign Minister said during a joint news conference with his counterpart in New Delhi. He noted that similar speculation was doing the rounds about the possibility of some other military alliances being forged. “There have been speculations about pushing ahead with projects for creating a Middle Eastern equivalent of (the) NATO. Lately, some have begun to discuss an ‘Asian NATO’,” Lavrov said, adding that he and Jaishankar had exchanged opinions on the issue. He had in December 2020 called the Quad a ‘divisive’ and ‘exclusivist’ tool, which was being used by the US to implement its “devious policy” of engaging New Delhi in games against China as well as to undermine Russia’s close partnership with India. Jaishankar told Lavrov on Tuesday that India’s engagement with Japan, Australia and the US had also reflected the multi-polar and rebalanced character of global politics. “India is strongly committed to ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) centrality and this is underlined by the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative that it has been advocating at the East-Asia summit,” Jaishankar said, adding: “As we implement our Act East and beyond policy, Russia is a very important partner. Whether it is their Far East or whether it is the Chennai-Vladivostok Corridor.” The Quad got a military heft last year amid China’s growing belligerence, not only along its disputed boundary with India, but also in the disputed waters of the South China Sea, East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. India clinched defence logistics sharing agreements with Japan and Australia on the lines of the similar pact it inked with the US in 2016. The Quad also held the Malabar 2020 naval drill in the Indian Ocean, sending out a strong message to China. The stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) started in April 2020 and it is yet to be completely resolved. Russia played a behind-the-scenes role of a mediator between India and China. A meeting between Jaishankar and the Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on the sideline of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Moscow on September 10 last year resulted in a breakthrough. The two sides a few weeks back withdrew front-line troops from the northern and the southern banks of the Pangong Tso lake, but could not yet agree on similar disengagement on other face-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two neighbouring nations in the western sector. India’s growing strategic convergence with the United States in the Indo-Pacific region in the aftermath of the military stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA, however, caused unease in Russia. India sought to strike a balance and had a separate naval drill with Russia in the Indian Ocean region in December 2020. Lavrov and Jaishankar on Tuesday discussed a common understanding of the principles of shaping a reliable security architecture in the Pacific and Indian Ocean, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Government stated. Lavrov left New Delhi for Islamabad after meeting Jaishankar in New Delhi on Tuesday. Moscow apparently sought to send out a message to New Delhi by clubbing his visits to India and Pakistan. New Delhi has been conveying its concerns to Moscow over increasing Russia-Pakistan cooperation, particularly in the defence sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-subtly-nudges-india-to-stay-away-from-any-us-led-move-to-turn-quad-into-a-nato-like-military-alliance-for-asia-971197.html
06-04-2021||National Politics||BJP goes to EC over Stalin's alleged comment on PM Modi||The BJP on Monday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission (EC) over Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader M K Stalin’s alleged comment, accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of distributing money among voters in Tamil Nadu ahead of the assembly polls. Stalin, according to the BJP, said in an election rally at Jayankondam in Ariyalur on April 2 that the PM had a couple of days ago visited Dharapuram “with bundles of money bags”. “He gave those bundles in Dharapuram. Tomorrow Amit Shah will be coming. He will also come with bundles of money bags,” Stalin was quoted by the BJP. The BJP urged the EC to act against Stalin for allegedly violating the Model Code of Conduct with his “unverified” and “baseless” allegation against the Prime Minister and the Union home minister. The party reiterated its request to the EC for action against the DMK leader Udaynidhi Stalin for “spreading lies and casting false allegations” against Modi, blaming him for the death of Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-goes-to-ec-over-stalins-alleged-comment-on-pm-modi-970845.html
06-04-2021||National Politics||Polling in 4 states, 1 UT underway: Will regional parties be able to tide over the BJP wave?||Amid high-octane campaign battle, Assembly polls for 4 states — West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala — and one union territory — Puducherry — began on Tuesday morning. Voting will end at 7 pm.  A total of 475 Assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam, Bengal, Puducherry will go to polls today. This is the third phase of polling in WB and Assam and the single-phase poll in TN, Kerala and Assam. People wearing masks and maintaining social distance were seen queuing outside polling stations as the fate of these polls will decide the wave of BJP's popularity across the country and whether regional parties will be able to counter the ruling party at the Centre. The votes for all Assembly polls will be counted on May 2. Tamil Nadu Polling in 234 Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu to decide the fate of 3,998 candidates including heavyweights like Chief Minister K Palaniswami, deputy CM O Panneerselvam, DMK President M K Stalin, AMMK founder TTV Dhinakaran and Makkal Needhi Maiam President Kamal Haasan began early on Tuesday. Over 6.28 crore voters are gearing up to exercise their franchise in an epic election that will choose the new generation leaders of Tamil Nadu, is being held under the cloud of allegations of rampant use of money by political parties to buy votes.  Due to Covid-19 restrictions, the number of poll booths has been increased to 88,937 from the previous figure of around 67,000. Poll officials said the maximum number of voters in a booth is 1,000 voters. The election to elect the 16th assembly is unique in more ways than one as this is the first state poll without the presence of stalwarts M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. While the DMK alliance has projected M K Stalin as the Chief Ministerial face, the AIADMK made incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami its nominee for the top post this election. While the number of female voters eligible to vote is 3.19 crore, the number of male voters stands at 3.09 crore. As many as 7,192 people from the third gender will also be eligible to vote. Assam In Assam, polling for 40 seats in the final phase of the assembly elections in Assam began at 7 am and this will decide the fate of 337 candidates, including senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. Altogether 79,19,641 voters -- 40,11,539 men, 39,07,963 women and 139 of the third gender -- are entitled to exercise their franchise in 11,401 polling stations. A total of 45,604 polling personnel have been deployed for this phase.  A direct contest between nominees of the BJP-led NDA and Congress-headed Grand Alliance is on the cards in 20 constituencies while there is a triangular fight, including friendly contests, in the remaining seats with the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) being considered as the third force. The fate of 20 sitting MLAs — eight from the Congress, five from the BJP, three each from the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the BPF and one from the AGP -- will be decided in the final phase. Besides Himanta Biswa Sarma, other ministers who are in the fray included Chandra Mohan Patowary, Siddhartha Bhattacharya and Phanibhushan Choudhury. The BJP is contesting in 20 seats while its allies the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) in nine and the United Peoples Party Liberal in eight, including a friendly contest between the BJP and the UPPL in Bijni. The Congress has put up 24 candidates and its partners — the AIUDF in 12, the Bodoland Peoples Front (BPF) in eight and CPI(M) in one. The Congress and the AIUDF are engaged in friendly contests in the five constituencies of Jaleswar, Baghbar, Sarukhetri, Chenga and Barkhetri. Kerala In Kerala voting is underway for the 140 seats in a single phase election to the state assembly, amid heavy security.  'Metroman' E Sreedharan, who is the BJP-NDA candidate from Palakkad constituency was among the early voters in the state. "I have cast my vote, have good expectations", he told reporters after excercising his franchise at a polling booth in Ponnani. Long queues were seen in several polling stations much before the polling began. Kerala had witnessed a fierce campaign in the run up to the polls by the ruling CPI(M) led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Opposition Congress led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the BJP led NDA. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, seven of his cabinet colleagues, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy are among the 957 candidates in fray in the state. 74 crore voters will decide the fate of the contestants. West Bengal In Bengal, polling for 31 seats in the third phase of the assembly elections began amid tight security, officials said. Over 78.5 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 205 candidates, including BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta, state minister Ashima Patra and CPI(M) leader Kanti Ganguly.  The Election Commission has imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC in all the constituencies, declaring them as 'sensitive'. The elections for the 294 assembly seats in West Bengal are being held in eight phases. Puducherry Single-phase elections in the UT are underway simultaneously in all the 30 constituencies spread over Puducherry (23), Karaikal (5) and Mahe and Yanam regions (having one constituency each).   A total of 324 candidates, who are either party-sponsored nominees or independents, are in the fray. The Union Territory has a total strength of 10,03,681 voters with 1,588 polling booths in Puducherry and the outlying regions. (Compiled form DHNS, PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/polling-in-4-states-1-ut-underway-will-regional-parties-be-able-to-tide-over-the-bjp-wave-970893.html
06-04-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi attacks Modi govt on Rafale jet deal||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday took a swipe at the government over the Rafale fighter jet deal, saying karma is the ledger of one's action and no one can escape it. He said this after a French media report claimed that 1.1 million Euros was paid to a "middleman" by the aircraft manufacturer, a charge that was denied by the BJP as baseless. Gandhi has been alleging that commissions have been paid in the Rafale deal, which the government has denied. The Congress said Gandhi's oft-repeated allegations of corruption in the deal were proved correct after the French media report. "Karma = The ledger of one's actions. Nobody escapes it. #Rafale," Gandhi said on Twitter. He also put out a similar tweet in Hindi. Karma = The ledger of one's actions. The Congress had made a big issue of the Rafale deal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but faced a big defeat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-attacks-modi-govt-on-rafale-jet-deal-970996.html
06-04-2021||National Politics||False narratives spun on farm laws, CAA to create political instability: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday cautioned party workers against attempts by opponents to “spin false narratives” and “stoke imaginary fears” to create political instability in the country. Addressing BJP workers on the party's 41st foundation day, Modi said the BJP has been winning elections because of its focus on implementing the promises it made to the people and not because of schemes for appeasing specific groups. “Our government is assessed by its delivery systems. Despite that, it is unfortunate that when BJP wins elections it is called an election-winning machine,” the prime minister said, dismissing an oft-repeated accusation by the Opposition. He accused the Opposition of spreading “outright lies” about various initiatives taken by the government. “False narratives are created sometimes on Citizenship Amendment Act, sometimes on farm laws and labour laws. Every BJP worker should understand that this is part of a well-thought-out politics and a big conspiracy,” Modi said. “The intention is to spread political instability in the country. This is the reason certain individuals and organisations spread myths such as 'Constitution will be changed', 'caste-based reservations will be scrapped' to stoke imaginary fears,” the prime minister said. He asked party workers to be alert to such “false narratives” and spread correct information amongst the masses. Hitting out at the Opposition, Modi said the BJP was not in the habit of practicing political untouchability. “We take pride in building the Statue of Unity dedicated to Sardar Patel and 'Panch Teertha' dedicated to Babasaheb Ambedkar. We also respect our bitter critics and honour them. From Bharat Ratna to Padma Awards are a testimony to it,” Modi said in an apparent reference to the civilian awards bestowed on former President late Pranab Mukherjee, late Tarun Gogoi and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Modi also lauded the contribution of veteran leaders Lal Krishna Advani and Murali Manohar Joshi in shaping and expanding the party. The Prime Minister said his government had fulfilled the vision of Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee by scrapping Article 370 guaranteeing Constitutional rights to Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/false-narratives-spun-on-farm-laws-caa-to-create-political-instability-pm-modi-971008.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi considering proposal to impose night curfew in view of rising Covid-19 cases||A proposal to impose night curfew in the national capital is being considered by the Delhi government in view of rising coronavirus cases, official sources said on Monday. "A proposal for imposing night curfew is under consideration. The details are being discussed, including the time period of the curfew which could be from 10 pm to 5 am," a senior government official said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Friday said that Delhi was undergoing the fourth wave of Covid-19 but a lockdown was not being considered yet. "As per the current situation, we are not considering imposing a lockdown. We are closely monitoring the situation and such a decision will only be taken after due public consultation," the chief minister had said in a press briefing. As per the Delhi government health bulletin on Monday, a total of 3,548 fresh cases of Cpvid-19 infection and 15 deaths were reported within the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-considering-proposal-to-impose-night-curfew-in-view-of-rising-covid-19-cases-970824.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||First Covid-19 death in Noida after three months||Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday recorded its first fatality linked to Covid-19 after a gap of three months and the district's death toll surged to 92, official data showed. The district, adjoining Delhi, also recorded 97 new cases of coronavirus that pushed its infection tally to 26,481, the data showed. The active cases in the district continued its upward trend to reach 544, according to the figures released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period. Also, 36 patients got discharged during the period in Guatam Buddh Nagar with the overall recoveries reaching 25,845 in the district, the fifth highest in the state, it showed. Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 92 with a mortality rate of 0.34 per cent. The recovery rate of patients reached 97.59 per cent on Monday, the statistics showed. The district had last recorded a death linked to Covid-19 on January 5, according to official records. Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in UP rose to 22,820 while the overall recoveries reached 6,02,319 and the death toll mounted to 8,894 on Monday, the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-covid-19-death-in-noida-after-three-months-970825.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||One arrested in ambulance case; Mukhtar Ansari also booked||One person has been arrested in connection with the alleged use of fake documents for the registration of a private ambulance used to ferry gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari to a court in Punjab last week, police said on Monday. The name of Ansari, BSP MLA from Mau, cropped up during investigations into the case and he has been made an accused along with four others, a senior police official said here. Superintendent of Police, Barabanki, Yamuma Prasad said Rajnath Yadav, a resident of Ahiruli police station, was arrested in Sarai Lakhansi, Mau, and legal proceedings are going on against the remaining accused persons. The SP said that a team that had gone to Punjab was bringing back the ambulance, which was found abandoned on a highway there, after completing necessary legal formalities, the SP added. The case was filed against Dr. Alka Rai in the city Kotwali in connection with the registration of the ambulance (UP 41 AT 7171) without proper documents and a valid certificate.  Police teams were formed to investigate the matter. A team headed by inspector Mahendra Singh had gone to Mau while another led by Naveen Kumar Singh went to Punjab. An SIT was also constituted for impartial investigation and supervision, the SP said. Based on the findings of the team which had gone to Mau, names of Dr. Alka Rai of Shyam Sanjeevani Hospital and Research Center, her associate Dr. Sheshanath Rai, Mukhtar Ansari, Mujahid, Rajnath Yadav and others had come to light in the alleged preparation of fraudulent documents as part of a criminal conspiracy and a case was also registered against them, the SP said. Legal proceedings are going on against the remaining accused persons, he said. Meanwhile, BJP Rajya Sabha MP and former UP police chief Brij Lal demanded a thorough probe into the matter of the abandoned ambulance, saying it will "unveil new secrets". "The splendid carrier of Mukhtar Ansari suddenly disappeared and was found abandoned. UP41 AT 7171 will unveil new secrets, and prove to be an obstruction in the throat of Mukhtar. This should be thoroughly probed by a forensic team," he tweeted. Five people from Barabanki, considered close to Ansari, were questioned for over six hours, the police said. After questions were raised on the use of the private ambulance, a Punjab police official had clarified that an inmate can be transported in a private ambulance on medical grounds and the cost of conveyance has to be borne by the prisoner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-arrested-in-ambulance-case-mukhtar-ansari-also-booked-970828.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt to penalise bus drivers, conductors without face masks||Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday said an enforcement drive will be launched to ensure that drivers and conductors in public transport buses wear face masks while on duty. He also said that no stringent step was under consideration regarding capping the number of passengers in public transport buses. "If Covid-19 cases increase, the steps taken earlier would be needed. But, as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said, no stringent steps are being considered now," Gahlot said at a press conference here. Public transport buses did not ply on Delhi roads during the coronavirus-induced lockdown due to surge in cases last year. The service was resumed in May 2020, with passengers allowed to sit on alternate seats. The buses were allowed to run with full seating capacity in November 2020. Currently, no person is allowed to travel standing in the buses. Gahlot said bus drivers and conductors found without face masks will be challaned and necessary action will be taken against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-penalise-bus-drivers-conductors-without-face-masks-970831.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh reports record daily Covid-19 case tally with 7,302 cases||Chhattisgarh on Monday reported the highest number of 7,302 Covid-19 cases in a day, taking the state's tally to 3,76,348, officials said. With 44 more fatalities due to the viral infection and co-morbidities, the overall toll mounted to 4,363. A total of 78 people were discharged from hospitals while 1,150 others completed their home isolation stay in the day, leaving the state with 44,296 active cases, an official said. The number of recoveries in Chhattisgarh now stands at 3,27,689. The worst-hit Raipur and Durg districts accounted for 1,702 and 1,169 of the new cases, respectively. While the total count of infection in Raipur has reached 73,606, including 975 deaths, Durg's caseload increased to 44,053, including 803 fatalities. Rajnandgaon reported 893 new infections, Bilaspur 467 and Bemetara 335 among other districts, the official said. Of the 44 deaths, 20 had occurred on Monday, 18 on Sunday while six others had succumbed to the infection earlier, he said. With 40,053 new tests, the number of samples tested so far in Chhattisgarh has gone up to 59,40,579. Chhattisgarh's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 3,76,348, new cases 7,302, deaths 4,363, recovered 3,27,689, active cases 44,296, tests today 40,053, total tests 59,40,579.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-reports-record-daily-covid-19-case-tally-with-7302-cases-970839.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Two arrested for trying to rape girl in vehicle in J&K||Two men were arrested on Monday while they were allegedly trying to rape a girl in a vehicle in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district, police said. Police Post Mirbazar received specific information about a girl being raped by two people inside a vehicle in Qazigund area of the south Kashmir district, a police spokesperson said. Accordingly, he said, a police party immediately rushed to the spot and rescued the girl. The police arrested two accused and also seized the vehicle, the spokesperson said. He identified the accused as Hafiz Farooq Parray and Ubaid Ayoub Raina, both residents of Gadihama Kulgam. A case has been registered and further investigation initiated, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-arrested-for-trying-to-rape-girl-in-vehicle-in-jk-970847.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||The Lead: Digital boost to Kashmiri Sufi poetry||In this episode of the Lead, Kashmiri lad Saadath Mohi-ud-din talks about Kashmiri Sufi poetry and his podcast and the challenges dealing with it.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio. Imagine walking in the tulip gardens of Srinagar which is surrounded by picturesque sights and listening to poetry in Kashmiri. One youth in the valley has given a digital boost to Kashmiri Sufi poetry. Joining us today is Saadath Mohi-ud-din who has started a podcast dedicated to this genre of poetry Hi Saadat and welcome to DH Radio. Saadath Mohi-ud-din: Hello. How are you? Ahmed: What is the thing about Kashmiri Sufi poetry, what is unique about it and what do you love about it? Saadat: Basically, I have started a podcast in which I recite some Ghazals and 'Kalaams' of a Sufi saint. I love the spirituality of the words that the saints used in their poetry but today's youth feel uncomfortable in verbalising the poetry or while verbalising the simple Kashmiri language. This is my initiative to attract the youth towards the culture and our mother tongue. To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/the-lead-digital-boost-to-kashmiri-sufi-poetry-970890.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh Naxal attack: Missing CRPF Jawan’s family pins hopes on PM Modi to free him||The family of CRPF CoBRA commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, who has reportedly gone missing from the site of the Chhattisgarh ambush, hopes that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will get him released like Wing Commander Abhinandan was from the captivity of Pakistan. The ambush by the left-wing extremists in the Bijapur-Bastar forest area of Chhattisgarh on Saturday afternoon left at least 22 CRPF personnel dead and 31 injured with Manhas reportedly going missing. Though there was no official word on him missing, the family members claimed that IBC 24 (a local channel of Chhattisgarh) informed them on Sunday morning that Manhas is alive and has been abducted by the Naxals. His wife Meenu Manhas hopes that the government of India will get her husband back from the captivity of the Naxals. “My husband has been serving the country for last more than nine years. He participated in several anti-terrorist operations during his posting in Srinagar,” she told reporters. “Now it is Government’s turn to fight for its jawan and get him back from the hostage of Naxals,” she said and appealed the Prime Minister and Home Minister Amit Shah to get back her husband just as they got Abhinandan from the captivity of Pakistan in February 2019. Manhas, a resident of Netar Kothen in Barnai area of Jammu, had got recruited in CRPF in 2011. He was posted in Srinagar three months back before being transferred to CRPF 210 CoBRA Battalion in Chhattisgarh. Vikrant Chib, brother-in-law of the missing jawan said that the family was in shock after claims of the IBC 24 that Manhas was the hostage of Naxals. He said that they have been contacting the CRPF Headquarters continuously on phone but there is no official word from them. “They (CRPF authorities) are just saying that search is on for Rakeshwar, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-naxal-attack-missing-crpf-jawan-s-family-pins-hopes-on-pm-modi-to-free-him-970948.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi imposes night curfew from Tuesday till April 30||Amid surging Covid-19 cases, the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government on Tuesday imposed a night curfew in the national capital from 10 PM to 5 AM till April 30 while allowing essential services. With this, Delhi joins Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Odisha, Punjab, and Gujarat where night curfew has been imposed. "There shall be night curfew on movement of individuals...in NCT of Delhi with immediate effect from 10 PM to 5 AM till 30 April 2021 or further orders, whichever is earlier," an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said in an order. Government officials, private medical personnel, including doctors and nurses and officials related to functioning of embassies are exempted from night curfew and could travel anytime but will have to produce I-cards. However, exemptions have been provided to persons who are going for Covid-19 vaccination on production of an e-pass, as the national capital immunisation was extended round-the-clock. People dealing with shops, banks, insurance, ATMs, media, telecommunication, internet, delivery of essential services, petrol pumps, cold storage chains and private security services can also travel provided they produce e-passes issued by concerned district magistrates. Pregnant women and patients for getting medical services are fully exempted from night curfew. People coming to and from airports, railway stations and bus terminals are allowed to travel on production of valid tickets. There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement for transportation of essential or non-essential goods. No separate permission or e-pass will be required for such movements, the order said. The order noted that the situation of Covid-19 in Delhi has been reviewed and it has been observed that there has been a sudden increase in cases in the recent past along with a high positivity rate. As an increase in cases has been witnessed, Maharashtra has imposed night curfew from 8 PM to 7 AM on Monday. A complete lockdown imposed on weekends from on Friday 8 PM to 7 AM. Ten districts -- Sundergarh, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Balangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput and Nabarangpur -- in Odisha are witnessing night curfew from 10 PM to 5 AM. Gujarat also extended the night curfew in four major cities -- Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot till April 15 . The night curfew will continue between 9 pm and 6 am till April 15. Punjab also extended restrictions till April 10 to curb spread of the virus. Eleven districts in Punjab are having night curfew from 9 PM to 5 AM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-imposes-night-curfew-from-tuesday-till-april-30-970967.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||UP Police team reaches Punjab's Rupnagar to take custody of Mukhtar Ansari||Several Uttar Pradesh Police personnel reached Punjab's Rupnagar district on Tuesday to bring back jailed gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who faces trial in several cases in the state, officials said. Around seven vehicles of the Uttar Pradesh Police reached the Rupnagar Police Lines around 4:30 am, they said. The Police Lines is around four kilometres away from the Rupnagar jail, where Ansari has been lodged since January 2019 in connection with an extortion case. Punjab's home department in a letter had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take custody of Ansari from the Rupnagar jail on or before April 8. It had written to the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home) following a March 26 Supreme Court order that had directed the Punjab government to transfer Ansari to UP's Banda jail in two weeks from the Rupnagar prison. The 150-member Uttar Pradesh Police team, including a company of the Provincial Armed Constabulary, equipped with sophisticated weapons left from Banda on Monday morning to bring back Ansari, the BSP's Mau MLA, from Punjab. Delivering the order on Macrh 26, the apex court had also noted that Ansari was allegedly involved in various cases of attempt to murder, murder, cheating and conspiracy apart from offences under the Gangsters Act, lodged in Uttar Pradesh and 10 of these cases are at different stages of trial. In the letter, the Punjab home department had asked the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home) for suitable arrangements to be made for Ansari’s transfer. "The said handover is to be made at district jail Rupnagar on/before April 8," the letter stated. It also said that Ansari suffered from certain medical conditions and the same may be kept in mind while making arrangements for his transfer. The Supreme Court had directed the Punjab government to handover the custody of Ansari to the Uttar Pradesh police, saying it was being denied on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues. It had also said that a convict or an under-trial prisoner, who disobeys the law of the land, cannot oppose his transfer from one prison to another and the courts are not to be helpless bystanders when the rule of law is being challenged with impunity. The Uttar Pradesh Police has said that Ansari is facing 52 cases in UP and elsewhere, and 15 of them are in the trial stage. Acting Superintendent of the Banda District Jail Pramod Tiwari had said all arrangements have been made in Barrack Number-15 for Ansari and no other prisoner can access the area. "Three prison guards will be deployed inside the barrack," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-team-reaches-punjabs-rupnagar-to-take-custody-of-mukhtar-ansari-970987.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Have not issued notice stating proceedings would be held only via virtual mode: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said it has not issued any notice stating that its functioning would be conducted exclusively through the virtual mode from April 6 to April 17. A clarification sent out by the office of the Registrar General of the High Court said that no such notice, which was being circulated amongst various groups, has been issued by it. Besides stating that the court's functioning would be exclusively through the virtual mode, the notice in question had also said that entry into the high court premises was strictly prohibited. The high court had commenced complete physical functioning from March 15 onwards. Subsequently, it had said that virtual or hybrid proceedings would be held on the request of lawyers. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 in March last year, the court was holding proceedings through video conferencing. Its functioning was restricted to urgent matters from March 16 last year. Thereafter, from March 25 last year, the functioning of the high court and district courts was further restricted and no physical hearing was being conducted due to the spread of Covid-19. Subsequently, from September last year a few benches started holding physical courts everyday on a rotation basis. Some of them, thereafter, also started holding hybrid proceedings, wherein lawyers have the option to attend the hearing via video conference instead of appearing in person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/have-not-issued-notice-stating-proceedings-would-be-held-only-via-virtual-mode-delhi-hc-970989.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Entry to four Delhi metro stations briefly closed, resumed||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital, entry to four major stations on the Yellow Line were on Tuesday briefly closed in the afternoon to ensure social distancing, officials said. The Yellow Line connects Samyapur Badli in Delhi to HUDA City Centre in Gurgaon. "Yellow Line Update Entry for the following stations are temporarily closed to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures: Patel Chowk New Delhi Chawri Bazar Chandni Chowk Exit is allowed," the DMRC tweeted around 12:30 PM. Yellow Line Update Entry for the following stations are temporarily closed to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures: Patel ChowkNew DelhiChawri BazarChandni Chowk Exit is allowed. Nearly ten minutes later, it updated that entry facilities to the four stations were resumed. Yellow Line Update While Patel Chowk and New Delhi metro stations are located in the heart of the city, where a large number of government offices are located, Chawri Bazaar and Chandni Chowk stations are situated in the densely populated old Delhi which is a cultural and commercial hub of the national capital. The city recorded 3,548 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, while 15 more people succumbed to the infection taking the death toll to 11,096, according to the Delhi health department. The order for night curfew will continue till April 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/entry-to-four-delhi-metro-stations-briefly-closed-resumed-971005.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Mukhtar Ansari's wife moves Supreme Court seeking security for husband||Mafia don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari's brother and BSP MP Afzal Ansari on Tuesday said that he feared for the life of the former and that had no 'faith' in the Uttar Pradesh government even as Mukhtar's wife Afshan Ansari approached the Supreme Court seeking security for her husband while being transported to Uttar Pradesh from Punjab, where he was currently lodged, citing similar apprehensions. ''I have full faith in the judiciary but the Uttar Pradesh government can not be trusted... It harbours ill intention toward Mukhtar,'' Afzal Ansari, who was a Lok Sabha member from Ghazipur in the state, said. He said that Mukhtar had been very vocal against Brijesh Singh, another mafia don, who was ''very close'' to the leaders of the ruling party. ''The state government has been conspiring against my brother to save Brijesh Singh,'' he added. He cited the statements of some BJP leaders in this regard in a bid to buttress his contention.  In the meantime, Mukhtar's wife Aafshan Ansari moved the Supreme Court with a petition seeking direction to the Uttar Pradesh government to ensure her husband's safety while being transported to the Banda district jail from Punjab. In her petition, she has expressed apprehension that her husband might be killed in a ''fake encounter''.   Afshan had earlier written a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind expressing similar fears and said that her husband was an eye witness in a case of murder in which Brijesh Singh and one of his accomplices are prime accused persons. A hundred member team of Uttar Pradesh Police was in Punjab to bring Mukhtar to Banda district jail. He would be brought by road.  Mukhtar Ansari is an accused in the murder of the then BJP legislator Krishnanand Rai in 2005. He had been lodged in Ropar jail in Punjab for the past 14 months after being taken there in connection with a case. The Supreme Court recently ordered his transfer to a jail in Uttar Pradesh within two week's time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mukhtar-ansaris-wife-moves-supreme-court-seeking-security-for-husband-971010.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||50-year-old man dead after beam of under-construction bridge falls on 4 trucks in Delhi||A 50-year-old man died after a cement-cum-iron girder installed between two pillars of an under-construction bridge fell on four trucks parked near it, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place in west Delhi's Punjabi Bagh area on Monday night when the victim, identified as Ram Bahadur, was sleeping in one of the trucks, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Prashant Gautam said, adding he was crushed to death in the mishap. Bahadur, a resident of Ashoka Park, was from Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh and used to work as a watchman guarding parked trucks at night, according to the police. The fire department said it received a call at 8.48 am on Tuesday, and two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. A Disaster Management Team, along with police and CAT ambulance, reached the spot and the body was taken out of the debris.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-year-old-man-dead-after-beam-of-under-construction-bridge-falls-on-4-trucks-in-delhi-971019.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Work in full swing on Katra-Banihal rail project to connect Kashmir within 2-3 years: Officials||Work on the Rs 21,653-crore rail project connecting Kashmir with the rest of the country is expected to be completed within two to three years in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement, a senior official said here. General Manager, Northern Railway, Ashutosh Gangal also said there was no issue of seepage in the tunnels under construction as they are horseshoe-shaped to allow water to drain out. The Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link (USBRL) Project, the most challenging railway infrastructure project being undertaken after Independence, has missed several deadlines amid huge cost escalations since 1997, when the then Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda laid its foundation at Udhampur. "When you have a project of this magnitude, you come across various technical challenges and you need to improve knowledge and look for alternative ways to complete it," Gangal said when asked about the delays. He said the project was a learning process for the Railways and "now we have come to a stage where we are confident that we will complete the project as per the prime minister's declaration… possibly in two and a half years". Gangal and other senior railway officers were at Kauri in this hilly district of Jammu and Kashmir to witness the completion of the arch construction on the world's highest railway bridge, which soars 359 metres above the bed of the Chenab river. It has been described by the Northern Railways as a 'milestone'. A short film by the Railways on the achievement also highlighted the prime minister's message that the transporter was making all-out efforts to connect the Valley with rail lines in the next two to three years. Asked about the seepage issue in some tunnels, he said, "It is an issue in one or two tunnels in the Udhampur-Katra section." "We have modified the construction to horseshoe-type to drain out the water. There will be no seepage issue in the tunnels (between Katra-Banihal section)," Gangal said, adding, "In a few old tunnels, seepage was an issue, and we are taking necessary measures to address the problem." Of the 272-km-long USBRL project, 161 km was commissioned in phases. The 118-km-long Qazigund-Baramulla section commissioned in October 2009, followed by the 18-km-long Banihal-Qazigund in June 2013 and the 25-km-long Udhampur-Katra in July 2014. The 111-km-long Katra-Banihal section is under construction, a railway official said. "This project has many firsts. We have the longest railway tunnel with an overall length of 12.75 km, the highest railway bridge in the world which is higher than the Eiffel Tower of Paris, the first cable-stayed bridge, which when completed will be an engineering marvel of the 21st century," he said. About the progress of work on tunnels, he said out of a total 97.64 km, 84.39 km stands completed on the main tunnels. Similarly, he said 12 major bridges have been completed, and work is in progress on 14 more, while 10 minor bridges were completed and work is in progress on the last. He said the construction of over 205-km network access roads stands completed. About the longest railway tunnel (tunnel number 49) between Sumber station yard and Arpinchala station yard, the official said out of a total 12.75 km, work on 11.21 km was completed. Another major tunnel of 11.21 km in Qazigund section was already completed and commissioned. "Eighty-seven per cent length of Katra-Banihal section is in tunnels and the world's most advanced and modern technology is being used for planning and construction," he said. He added that Anji bridge, the first cable-stayed bridge, was being constructed over Anjikhad, a tributary of river Chenab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/work-in-full-swing-on-katra-banihal-rail-project-to-connect-kashmir-within-2-3-years-officials-971040.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Exploring all channels to trace missing jawan, says Chhattisgarh Police||Police are exploring all channels, including contacting local villagers, to trace the missing CoBRA commando whom the Maoists claim to have abducted after an encounter in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region three days back, a senior official said on Tuesday. Police informers have also been activated to gather information about the missing jawan, he said. Constable Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, of the 210th battalion of CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), an elite unit of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), went missing on Saturday after the gunfight along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts. Twenty two security personnel were killed and 31 others were injured in the fierce gun-battle. A journalist from Sukma on Monday said he had got a call from Maoists, claiming that the commando is in their captivity and he will not be harmed. "As of now we cannot confirm that the missing jawan is in the captivity of Naxals as they haven't issued any statementor photographs in this connection. We are trying to trace him through all possible channels," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. The police are also contacting local villagers to check if they have any information related to the missing jawan, he said. Another senior police official posted in Bastar said there is a strong possibility of the jawan being in the captivity of Naxals, because the forces cordoned off the entire encounter site and area around it in the last two days, but could not find him. The CoBRA jawan was part of a squad that had gone for an anti-Naxal operation on Friday night in the forests of Bijapur and Sukma border. On Saturday, the gunfight broke between Tekalguda and Jonaguda villages in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured. Out of the 22 fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven CoBRA commandos and a jawan from its Bastariya battalion, while eight of the other deceased were from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six from the Special Task Force (STF). Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday visited Jagdalpur and Bijapur to review the situation and said the government will intensify its ongoing fight against the Naxal menace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/exploring-all-channels-to-trace-missing-jawan-says-chhattisgarh-police-971083.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||India facing renewed challenges along its borders: Army Chief||India is facing renewed challenges along its borders and armed forces officers, who are under training, must remain abreast of all such developments, said Army Chief General M M Naravane on Tuesday. He was delivering a lecture on 'Developments along the Western and Northern Borders and their Impact on the Future Road Map of the Indian Army' at Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) in Wellington, Tamil Nadu. "He (Army Chief) emphasised that the nation is facing renewed challenges along its borders and exhorted the students on the need to remain abreast of all developments," said the Indian Army's statement.  General Naravane was on a two-day visit to the college. The lecture was delivered to the faculty and officers attending the 76th staff course at the college.  DSSC Commandant Lt Gen M J S Kahlon gave an update to Naravane on the ongoing training activities and incorporation of new initiatives with specific reference to professional military training on "jointmanship" among the three services, the Army's statement said.  The Army chief was briefed on the changes being undertaken in the training curriculum and infrastructural development as a step towards enhancing the role of DSSC as a centre of excellence for professional military education, it noted.  He complimented the college for maintaining a very high state of training in spite of Covid-19 pandemic constraints, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-facing-renewed-challenges-along-its-borders-army-chief-971111.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Women lawyers' body move Supreme Court for due representation in higher judiciary||The Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association has approached the top court seeking adequate representation in the higher judiciary, saying women’s participation in the justice delivery system is an important factor for societal progress and gender equality. In an application, they pointed towards a dismal representation of women as judges in the Supreme Court and the High Courts. Amongst the 1,080 sanctioned posts of judges (including both permanent and additional judges), 661 posts are occupied, of which only 73 are women judges, accounting for just 11.04 per cent, they said. Giving a chart, they said the Madras High Court with 13 female judges had the distinction of having the highest number of women judges. However, out of 25 High Courts, five High Courts namely Manipur High Court, Meghalaya High Court, Patna High Court, Tripura High Court and Uttarakhand High Court did not have a single woman judge as of date. "In the largest democracy where the female-male ratio is still a debatable issue, women need to be protected from female foeticide, assault, domestic violence, trafficking, matrimonial disputes and women’s right to property and so many other female-oriented issues. Thus, a larger representation of women would further advance the cause of justice in this regard as well," their plea said. The application drafted by advocate Sneha Kalita and settled by senior advocate Mahalakshmi Pavani and advocate Shobha Gupta asked the top court to consider meritorious women lawyers practicing in the Supreme Court and High Courts for appointment of judges in High Courts. The association sought to intervene in a pending matter related to the appointment of judges in the higher judiciary. It also sought a direction to the  Union government to incorporate in the memorandum of procedures the provisions for consideration of appointment of women judges in High Court. It also prayed for issuing direction to the Secretary, Department of Justice, Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India to expedite the process of inclusion and appointment of women judges on the meritorious ground to the Supreme Court and High Court benches. They also pointed out since independence, there have been only eight women judges in the Supreme Court out of total of 247 judges appointed so far. Of the total 25 High Courts, only Telangana High Court has a woman Chief Justice Hima Kohli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-lawyers-body-move-supreme-court-for-due-representation-in-higher-judiciary-971150.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Those dealing in drugs worse than murder accused: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said those dealing in deadly drugs are hazardous to society, worse than a murder accused who killed one or two persons, as they inflict death blow to a number of innocent boys and girls with the menace. "Organised activities of the underworld and the clandestine smuggling of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances into this country and illegal trafficking in such drugs and substances shall lead to drug addiction among a sizeable section of the public, particularly the adolescents and students of both sexes and the menace has assumed serious and alarming proportions in the recent years," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The court dismissed an appeal filed by Gurdev Singh, against the Punjab and Haryana High Court's order which had rejected his appeal against 15 years jail term with a Rs 2 lakh fine for having been found in possession of one kg heroin, which was four times higher than the minimum commercial quantity. The bench asked the courts to consider the deadly impact of drugs on society while imposing a sentence on a convict in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. "It should be borne in mind that in a murder case, the accused commits the murder of one or two persons, while those persons who are dealing in narcotic drugs are instruments in causing death or in inflicting death blow to a number of innocent young victims who are vulnerable, it causes deleterious effects and deadly impact on the society, they are a hazard to the society," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-dealing-in-drugs-worse-than-murder-accused-supreme-court-971155.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||PM Modi must order airstrikes to rid country of Naxals: Martyred CRPF jawan’s son||The son and the younger brother of martyred CRPF jawan Raj Kumar Yadav, killed last week in an ambush with Naxalites near Bastar in Chhattisgarh, on Tuesday demanded an airstrike on Naxal strongholds to rid the country of the malady. Ayodhya’s residents Yadav’s son Shivam and brother Ramvilas urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to order airstrikes on Maoists' bastions soon after the last rites of the slain soldier here which was performed with full military honours. Only the elimination of Naxalites in airstrikes will be a true tribute to his father, said a teary-eyed Shivam, 16. His uncle Ramvilas, who lit the funeral pyre of his martyred brother on the Saryu riverbank, too endorsed his nephew’s demand. Raj Kumar Yadav, a general duty head constable in the CRPS, was killed along with at least 21 of his colleagues in Bijapur jungles on Saturday. A native of the Ayodhya district, Yadav’s body was brought to the temple town on Monday night and was cremated on Tuesday at the Saryu bank. Yadav’s body was carried to the riverbank in a CRPF vehicle decorated with flowers and followed by thousands of peoples of Ayodhya and Faizabad from all walks of life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-must-order-airstrikes-to-rid-country-of-naxals-martyred-crpf-jawan-s-son-971158.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Night curfew imposed in Chandigarh as Covid-19 cases rise||The Chandigarh administration decided on Tuesday to impose curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in the wake of the soaring coronavirus cases in the city. The night curfew will be implemented from Wednesday, according to a spokesperson. Chandigarh Administrator V P Singh Badnore directed police to ensure strict implementation of the night curfew and told hospital authorities to ensure all health workers get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. Bandore said stricter measures like weekend curfew and closure of crowded places would be considered if people do not follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. "Keeping in view the rapid increase in the number of Covid cases, a decision was taken to enforce night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am everyday," an official release said. No gatherings, parties and non-essential activities will be allowed during the period. Restaurants will also be required to shut down by 10 pm, it said, adding that the night curfew would be reviewed when the situation improved. Badnore expressed serious concern about the rising number of infections. He appealed to market associations to ensure that their staff are tested and vaccinated. Deputy Commissioner Mandip Brar said 28 new micro-containment zones had been notified and an intense drive to levy fines would be carried out to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. Chandigarh reported 319 more cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 28,798, while the toll to 386 with two more deaths, according to a medical bulletin. There are 3,037 active cases and 342 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 25,375. A total of 3,25,654 samples have been taken for testing so far, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-imposed-in-chandigarh-as-covid-19-cases-rise-971159.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Complete journey by 10 pm: Delhi Metro to commuters||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday advised commuters, who do not fall under essential category, to complete their journey before 10 pm when the night curfew comes into effect. The Kejriwal government has imposed seven hours of night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am with immediate effect till April 30 as the coronavirus cases continue to soar in Delhi. "In view of the imposition of night curfew in Delhi starting tonight, entry in Metro from 10 pm to 5 am will be allowed only to those passengers who fall in essential category, as per govt order, after verification of their valid IDs by DMRC and CISF personnel," the DMRC said in a statement. It advised the commuters who do not fall in the essential category to complete the journey and reach there destination by 10 pm. The exemptions include those travelling to and from airports, railway stations, state bus terminus; pregnant women, patients, officials related to the functioning of offices of diplomats and those holding any constitutional post on the production of valid identity card. Central and Delhi government officials involved in emergency services like health, police, prisons, home guards and civil defence would also be exempted. People travelling during curfew hours for Covid-19 vaccination will require a soft or hard copy of an e-pass, which can be obtained from the Delhi government website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/complete-journey-by-10-pm-delhi-metro-to-commuters-971170.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||CRPF man is our captive, appoint interlocutors: CPI (Maoists)||The outlawed CPI (Maoist) has claimed that CoBRA commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, who went missing after the April 3 ambush in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region, is in captivity of ultras, and asked the state government to appoint interlocutors for his release. The Maoists have, however, not raised any formal demands for the release of the commando. Police are verifying the authenticity of the statement, purportedly issued by the outlaws. The banned outfit also admitted that four of its cadres were killed in the encounter in which 22 security personnel had lost their lives. Constable Rakeshwar Singh Manhas of the 210th CoBRA battalion, an elite unit of CRPF, had gone missing after the gunfight along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts last Saturday. The CPI (Maoist) statement also claimed that 24 security personnel were killed in the encounter. "As many as 2,000 police personnel had reached near Jiragudem village to execute a major attack (on Saturday). To thwart them, PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) retaliated during which 24 security personnel were killed and 31 others injured. We have caught a policeman (CoBRA commando) at the spot while others escaped," said a statement purportedly written by Maoists and being circulated on social media on Tuesday. It said the government should first announce names of interlocutors and the jawan will be released later. He will remain safe in our captivity till then, it said. The two-page statement was issued in the name of Vikalp, spokesperson of the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) of Maoists, which had been instrumental in executing several deadly attacks in south Bastar, including the Jhiram valley attack in Bastar district on May 25, 2013, in which top Congress leaders of Chhattisgarh unit were killed. Maoists admitted that four cadres were killed in the Bijapur gunfight and the body of the slain woman cadre could not be retrieved from the spot. The body of a woman Naxal was recovered by security forces from the encounter spot. The ultras also claimed to have seized 14 weapons, 2,000 cartridges and other materials from the encounter site. The photographs issued with the purported statement shows the looted arms and ammunition. However, sources in police had said at least 12 Naxals were killed in the gunfight that lasted for over 4 hours. According to the police, ten weapons, including seven AK-47 rifles, two SLR rifles and one Light Machine Gun (LMG), of the security personnel went missing after the attack. Meanwhile, a senior police officer said the authenticity of the statement is being verified. "The authenticity of the statement issued by Maoists claiming that they have held hostage the jawan is being verified. Further action will be taken accordingly," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. Police have been continuously carrying out searches to trace Manhas, and local villagers, social organisations, local public representatives and journalists are also being contacted to locate his whereabouts, the IG said. Tribal Activist Soni Sori has appealed to Naxals to release the jawan if he is in their captivity. "If they delay releasing the jawan, then I will head towards the encounter site on Wednesday and will try to talk to them (Maoists) to free him," Sori said. Manhas was part of a squad that had gone for an anti-Naxal operation on Friday night in the jungles on the Bijapur and Sukma border. On Saturday, the gunfight broke out between security forces and ultras between Tekalguda and Jonaguda villages in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured. Out of the 22, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight personnel, including seven CoBRA commandos and one jawan from its Bastariya battalion, eight from the DRG and six from the Special Task Force. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday visited Jagdalpur and Bijapur to review the situation in the aftermath of the deadly attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-man-is-our-captive-appoint-interlocutors-cpi-maoists-971211.html
06-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 scare: AIIMS to lose down walk-in OPD registrations from April 8||The AIIMS has decided to temporarily lose down routine walk-in OPD patient registrations, including speciality clinics and all centres, with effect from April 8 to minimise the possibility of community spread of coronavirus and optimise diversion of available manpower and resources for the treatment of affected patients. It said OPDs/speciality clinics will continue to provide requisite services only for such patients (new and follow-up) having prior appointments. "In view of increased need to minimise the possibility of community spread of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and also to optimise diversion of available manpower and materials, resources for the care and treatment of suspected/confirmed patients of Covid-19 disease, it has been decided to temporarily lose down routine walk-in OPD patient registrations, including speciality clinics in AIIMS hospital and all centres with effect from April 8," a communique sent to all chiefs of Centres and Heads of all clinical departments said. Respective departments may fix the limits of daily new and follow-up patients in the outpatient department (OPD) for the next four weeks, depending on the available strength of residents after contributing to the Covid-19 pool. Departments in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) main hospital have also been requested to inform the same to faculty-in-charge and OPD services through e-mail so that computer facility can be intimated for modifications, the communique added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-scare-aiims-to-lose-down-walk-in-opd-registrations-from-april-8-971212.html
06-04-2021||Oasis||Who is a true yogi?||The concluding portion of the second chapter of the Bhagavad Geeta speaks about the qualities of a Yogi, a being who has transcended all the dualities of this ephemeral existence and attained the supreme bliss of God realization. An oft (mis)used term, its real meaning is best given by the Geeta itself when it says “equanimity of mind is Yoga’ and thus by extension, “he who achieves this state is a Yogi”. The Geeta explains “he who has conquered his senses and is free from the attractions of sensual pleasures attains mental stability. Therefore he is able to take both sorrow and pleasure in his stride. Not being dejected in pain, not elated when pleasure visits, he is free from all attachments, fear and anger. Mental equipoise is his hallmark. Even while living amidst the sensory attractions of this world, he withdraws into himself, like a tortoise that withdraws its limbs into its shell. He is always in full control of his senses, never letting them drag him into the treacherous alleyways of sense pleasures. Like the ocean which remains unchanged even with the continuous inflow of freshwater, the Yogi remains calm and undisturbed in the face of innumerable worldly attractions”. The Geeta calls such a being as a ‘Sthithaprajna’, one who has achieved this state through years of arduous discipline, self-control and devotion. Though it may be asked of what use is all this for ordinary mortals, it must be noted that the lives of such great souls, irrespective of country or religion are guiding beacons for mankind in the  crucial and neglected ‘art of right thinking and right living’.  Maybe everybody might not be able to reach such heights of perfection, but the ideals of sense control, contentment, dedication, dispassion, mental steadiness in the face of life’s misfortunes and control over anger and envy are values worthy of emulation. The Geeta succinctly encapsulates this is, saying ‘when all beings are asleep, the Yogi is awake and when others are awake, the Yogi is asleep”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/who-is-a-true-yogi-970820.html
06-04-2021||Panorama||India’s vaccine diplomacy in Nepal||The coronavirus vaccine has emerged as a new currency for nations to showcase their soft power. India and China now have been competing for influence over neighbouring countries, like Nepal, through vaccine diplomacy. After India curtailed the exports of the vaccines as it faces a surge in coronavirus cases, China stepped in trying to fill the void by supplying additional vaccines to neighbouring countries to resume vaccination. Nepal, which started its vaccination drives after getting donations from India, gave emergency approval to China’s Shinopharm vaccine. A donation of 800,000 doses of a Covid-19 vaccine from China arrived in Nepal on Monday. The spokesperson of the Health Ministry of Nepal said that the drive would resume once the population bracket is targeted. Nepal started vaccination campaigns in January after getting one million doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford manufactured by India’s Serum Institute. Nepal had bought an additional two million doses from the institute. The officials of Nepal halted the campaign citing the shortage of doses as half of the purchase has been delayed. Only half of the follow-up order has been delivered so far. India, the largest vaccine manufacturing country, is leveraging its manufacturing abilities to bolster its image as the pharmacy of the world. This will also boost India’s stature as a vital healthcare provider. India has already rendered free coronavirus vaccines to some of its neighbours and several other countries. The ‘vaccine maitri’ initiative was started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after it began its nationwide campaign in January. India is using its capacity to present itself as an alternative to China’s geopolitical and economic dominance. For years, India has struggled to match the pace with Chinese investment in countries like Nepal, Sri Lanka, and the Maldives. China is building power, ports, and roads in these countries as a part of its Belt and Road initiative. India’s vaccine diplomacy could play a vital role to mend its strained relations with neighbouring countries like Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh and counter China’s rising influence in these regions. The relations between Nepal and India have reached an all-time low due to the border disputes from November last year. India-Nepal relations have soured badly in recent years. When India imposed an unofficial blockade along the border of Nepal citing its unhappiness with Nepal’s newly-released democratic Constitution of Nepal – it opened its door for its other neighbour, China, to reduce its dependence on India. In recent years, China has pumped in millions of dollars into several infrastructure and hydropower projects in the Himalayan nation. Similarly, New Delhi’s relation with Srilanka and Bangladesh has also strained and China has been a factor. As neighbouring countries await the shipment of India’s coronavirus vaccine, India has curtailed the exports of vaccines to prioritise local demand as there is a sharp surge in coronavirus cases. India recorded over 60,000 daily cases, which is the highest in five months. As it was running out of doses for its own people, it curtailed the vaccine exports. This temporary halt in shipment could affect India’s effort of soft power gains. As India suspended the vaccine export to neighbouring countries like Nepal, China is trying to fill the void by supplying additional vaccine doses. Both India and China have a target to vaccinate large swathes of their own population. China too has a target to vaccinate 40% of its population. So, there is pressure to manufacture more doses at home for both countries. If India’s deliveries are affected for a long, it will affect India’s image of vaccine-giving nations and it will also hurt Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s effort for soft power gains. India should ensure that there enough vaccines left for export while fighting its own battle if it doesn’t want to hurt its image and effort. (The writer is an author of two books and op-ed contributor)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/india-s-vaccine-diplomacy-in-nepal-970819.html
06-04-2021||Panorama||West Bengal Elections: BJP has become victim of political violence, says Bengal BJP President Dilip Ghosh||Bengal BJP President Dilip Ghosh tells DH’s Soumya Das that the reason Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee stood from Nandigram was because she felt she could bank on the constituency’s 30% Muslim votes. Ghosh also said that the Citizenship Amendment Act is definitely an issue in the Assembly elections. How hopeful are you of BJP coming to power for the first time ever in Bengal? Since the birth of Jan Sangh and then the BJP, the party has expanded across the country. Syamaprasad Mookerjee started the party (Jan Sangh) but after him, there was no new leadership in Bengal. Following Partition, there was a lot of social and economic instability in West Bengal and Congress and Communists capitalised on it. At that time, Jan Sangh, and then the BJP, could not flourish in Bengal. But in other states, the BJP rapidly expanded and came to power. Even after coming to power at the Centre, it was unable to grow in Bengal. We were unable to adapt to the political culture of Bengal. The political culture of Bengal is different from that of other states. Perhaps we tried to use the tactics of other states here and did not succeed despite having capable leaders in Bengal. But in the last five years, we capitalised on the success of our government at the Centre and the hard work of party workers in the state, along with Amit Shah’s strategic leadership, and that has brought us to a stage where we are a strong contender for power in Bengal. Violence is one of the ‘features’ of politics in Bengal. How are you dealing with it? Violence has become a part of politics in Bengal because of the Communists. But agitation-oriented politics is widely accepted in Bengal and we have got considerable success since we adapted that brand of politics. We have also become victims of political violence. We have lost 136 party workers to political violence. During elections, the common people fear violence. We have seen how women in villages are welcoming the central forces jawans with flowers. They are thinking that with the arrival of the central forces, they will be able to cast their votes freely. During the Lok Sabha elections, there was no violence elsewhere in the country but in Bengal, there was violence and deaths. The BJP and other opposition parties have informed the Election Commission about political violence. They have taken it seriously and central forces were deployed in Bengal a month ahead of the start of elections. I think this election will be peaceful and the Election Commission will remain alert. What do you think of Mamata Banerjee’s decision to contest from Nandigram against Suvendu Adhikari, instead of her current seat, Bhabanipur? Suvendu has won earlier in Nandigram, both as an MLA and as an MP. He was the main leader of the Nandigram land agitation. The people of Nandigram are with him. He is always in Nandigram whereas Mamata Banerjee goes there once in five years. I think she decided to contest from Nandigram thinking that the credit for the land agitation goes to her and people will support her and Trinamool Congress (TMC). She wanted to capitalise on it. Another major reason is the 30% Muslim vote in Nandigram, which her party used to get as a bloc. Perhaps those are the only votes she is going to get in Nandigram. It is not the case in Bhabanipur, and hence she decided to contest from Nandigram. What are the BJP’s key issues in these elections? Our key issue is comprehensive development in Bengal, just like the way we have done in the rest of the country under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Bengal is lagging in terms of democracy, education and industry. We want to change the situation and make it ‘Sonar Bangla’ (Golden Bengal). Earlier, BJP was very vocal about CAA and NRC. Is it still an issue this election? The CAA will definitely be our issue in the Assembly elections because we have passed the CAA in Parliament. Moreover, 50% of the people who came from Bangladesh are yet to become legal citizens of India. We have promised and will provide them Indian citizenship. The Bill has been passed and the process is yet to be completed. The NRC started in Assam under the instruction of Supreme Court, and it has been implemented by our government. First, Bengal needs the CAA. If that gets done, then 50% of the work will be complete. Will the Indian Secular Front (ISF) joining hands with the Left-Congress alliance pose a challenge for BJP? Last time, people rejected the Left-Congress alliance, and from the 30% vote in the 2016 Assembly election, the Left-Congress alliance came down to 13% in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. No-one knows about the future of this so-called front. Their (ISF) leaders have never been in politics. I don’t think it will have much impact. How much impact will TMC leaders who have joined BJP have on the election outcome? Leaders such as Suvendu and Rajib Banerjee are influential in their areas. We will benefit from their joining BJP. There was a lack of experienced, successful people in Bengal. So, we will benefit from such leaders joining our party. Apart from TMC, experienced leaders from Congress and CPI(M) have also joined BJP. What is your take on the alleged attack on Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram? TMC has no other issues. Despite being in power for 10 years, they failed to do anything for the people. They are just trying to create an issue and get sympathy votes. People know it’s a drama. So, who’s going to be CM if BJP comes to power? It will be decided by the central leadership. The leaders and workers in Bengal are fighting to bring change in Bengal. People trusted BJP and blessed us in the Lok Sabha elections. They also want change in Bengal. Our responsibility is to ensure that BJP gets 200 seats in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/west-bengal-elections-bjp-has-become-victim-of-political-violence-says-bengal-bjp-president-dilip-ghosh-970818.html
06-04-2021||Second Edit||Large projects have large consequences||The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and the Centre to link the rivers Ken and Betwa is the first major initiative of the proposed countrywide river-linking project. Both are tributaries of the Yamuna and the plan is to transfer water from the Ken to the Betwa to take it to the water-starved Bundelkhand region. It is a multi-purpose project that is expected to help irrigate 10.6 lakh hectares in 13 districts in the two states, supply drinking water to more than 60 lakh people and generate 103 MW of power. There is also the promise of growth of fishing and tourism. Bundelkhand is a drought-prone area, and the long-discussed Rs 37,500-crore project has been presented as a remedy for its woes. But there are serious reservations about and objections to the project from many quarters, including environmentalists and conservationists. A dam, which will be built in Panna district as part of the project, will submerge over 4,000 hectares of the Panna Tiger Reserve. The Ken Ghariyal Sanctuary will also be affected. Both are rich in biodiversity. The linking will impact water availability and rainfall patterns and destroy local ecosystems. Compensatory schemes have been promised but these have often not worked in other massive projects. There is an organic relationship between the rivers, their banks, the forests or the diverse natural formations along them and the fish and other forms of life that thrive in them. They form a complete ecosystem whose elements depend on and complement one another. Each river is different from the other. Their carriage capacities are different, they serve their ecosystems differently, the quality of water, including the minerals they contain, are different and they cater to different needs of the people on the banks. In short, a river is not just the water that it carries, and so the mechanical transfer of water from one river to another may have unexpected consequences.  The impact of such transfers has not been fully studied and understood. In fact, our knowledge about the country’s rivers and their basins is poor and inadequate. That is why there should be caution in tampering with the course of rivers or otherwise interfering with them. The weather at the micro-level is also influenced by them. These uncertainties have special relevance in times when concerns over climate change are rising. River-linking may seem like a great idea, but it should be realised that certain consequences of changes made in nature may turn out be harmful and irreversible. That is why most experts recommend low-cost, localised schemes instead of grand projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/large-projects-have-large-consequences-970811.html
06-04-2021||South||Voting begins in Tamil Nadu; over 6.28 crore voters to exercise franchise||Over 6.28 crore voters are gearing up to exercise their franchise in an epic election, voting for which began at 7 am.  The election, that will choose the new generation leaders of Tamil Nadu, is being held under the cloud of allegations of rampant use of money by political parties to buy votes.  People queued up outside polling stations even before voting began at 7 am. Tamil actors Ajith and Shalini are some of the prominent people who voted early in the morning.  Voting will end at 7 pm.  More than 1.58 lakh personnel, including those from police and paramilitary, have been deployed to ensure peaceful elections in the state.  Due to Covid-19 restrictions, the number of poll booths has been increased to 88,937 from the previous figure of around 67,000. Poll officials said the maximum number of voters in a booth is 1,000 voters.  The election to elect the 16th assembly is unique in more ways than one as this is the first state poll without the presence of stalwarts M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. While the DMK alliance has projected M K Stalin as the Chief Ministerial face, the AIADMK made incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami its nominee for the top post this election. While the number of female voters eligible to vote is 3.19 crore, the number of male voters stands at 3.09 crore. As many as 7,192 people from the third gender will also be eligible to vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/voting-begins-in-tamil-nadu-over-628-crore-voters-to-exercise-franchise-970884.html
06-04-2021||South||Kerala Assembly elections: Enthusiastic voters queue up to vote as polling begins||Many parts of Kerala witnessed voters turning up in good numbers to exercise their franchise early morning as polling for the assembly elections began at 7 am on Tuesday. Elections to the 140 Assembly constituencies in the state are being conducted at 40,771 polling stations where fates of 957 candidates would be sealed by 2.74 crore voters. Leaders of all political parties who turned up for voting expressed a high level of confidence. 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan, who is the BJP candidate in Palakkad, said that he was very confident of his victory. Elections are being conducted under tight vigil against duplicate voters as the Election Commission had spotted around 35,000 duplicate voter entries in the electoral rolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-elections-enthusiastic-voters-queue-up-to-vote-as-polling-begins-970892.html
06-04-2021||South||Sabarimala Ayyappa and all deities with the LDF, says Pinarayi Vijayan||The initial hours of polling in Kerala Assembly election is witnessing the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple women entry issue being played up by political parties. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Sabarimala Ayyappa and all deities were with the LDF as the LDF government ensured the welfare of all sections of the society. The Chief Minister's reaction came close on the heels of general secretary of Nair Service Society, a forum of the prominent Hindu Nair community in Kerala, Sukumaran Nair, stating that protests of devotees was still prevailing and he felt that people want a change in governance in Kerala. The people shall vote for a government that protects secularism, democracy and social justice. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress soon reacted that the LDF would face the wrath of Sabarimala Ayyappa as well as devotees. Neither Sabarimala Ayyappa nor the devotees would apologise to the LDF that hurt the sentiments of Sabarimala devotees. Is atheist Pinarayi Vijayan now seeking the blessings of Sabarimala Ayyappa to win elections, asked Chennithala. It may be recalled that the BJP was using Sabarimala women entry issue widely in the election campaign. The 'Swamiye Sharanam Ayyappa' chants of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his election speech in Kerala was also considered as an attempt to woo voters on the basis of religion and faith. Lashing out at Vijayan, BJP state president K Surendran said what the CM had done in Sabarimala three years ago was the 'act of demon' and people of the state would never forget his "wicked deeds". Kerala had witnessed violent protests by right-wing activists after the LDF government decided to implement the 2018 Supreme court verdict allowing women of all age groups to offer prayers at the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala, where traditionally women in the menstrual age group of 10-50 are barred from offering worship. The war of words became intense as the polling continued with the several prominent leaders in both fronts coming up with sharp reactions supporting and opposing the statements of the CM. All began when Sukumaran Nair, the general secretary of the Nair Service Society, an outfit of influential Hindu Nair community, on Tuesday said the people of Kerala wanted a change of rule in the state. In a veiled attack against the LDF government, which had faced severe criticism from the majority community against its alleged hastiness in implementing the Supreme Court verdict allowing women of all age group at Sabarimala, Nair said the protest of Ayyappa devotees still persists. When reporters sought his reaction, the Chief Minister said he does not think that Sukumaran Nair would tell anything against the state government. "He is an Ayyappa devotee. Ayyappa and all other gods are with this government which has protected the interest of people belonging to all religions. Gods are always with those who do good for people," Vijayan told reporters in Kannur after casting his vote at a school there. Responding to the CM's statement, Chennithala sought to know whether atheist Vijayan was seeking the blessings of the Lord Ayyappa to win the elections. "Neither Lord Ayyappa nor his devotees would forgive the Left government for hurting their sentiments," the Congress leader said. K Surendran said Vijayan's remarks over Sabarimala show his "weakness". The atheist woman had been sent to Sabarimala misusing the government machinery, he alleged adding that women were escorted by police in an ambulance in the midnight to enter the hill shrine. "Pinarayi Vijayan was the one who had challenged the Ayyappa devotees to hold hartal after the women's entry at Sabarimala," the BJP leader alleged. Former Congress Chief Ministers A K Antony and Oommen Chandy also reacted sharply against Vijayan's Sabarimala comments on the election day. Chandy asked who would believe in Kerala when Vijayan spoke about Sabarimala. "Not a single devotee in Kerala will believe his words. No one will forget his negative reply when the opposition asked him to withdraw the government's affidavit at the apex court with regard to Sabarimala," he said adding that it was out of fear of failure that the CM was talking about Lord Ayyappa during the poll. If the UDF was voted to power, it would take all possible legal measures to protect the faith of devotees in Sabarimala, Chandy added. Congress Working Committee (CWC) member A K Antony urged Vijayan to tender apology to Lord Ayyappa and the devotees for what the government had done at the hillock shrine. If the Chief Minister was not ready to express sincere regret, his words about Sabarimala and Lord Ayyappa were just 'hypocrisy ", he said. Meanwhile, ministers A K Balan and Thomas Isaac came out defending the Pinarayi Vijayan over the Sabarimala remarks. Isaac said not Sabarimala but people are discussing development during the election and expressed confidence that the LDF has the support of people from all walks of life. Balan, however, sought the urgent intervention of the Election Commission against the opposition 'misusing' and flaring up the Sabarimala issue on the election day. Alleging that the propaganda was part of a deliberate attempt to fail the Left government, he said God has never been misused so badly ever in the elections. "It is unconstitutional and a challenge to the Representation of the People Act," the minister claimed. Criticising Sukumaran Nair, he said he did not believe that NSS general secretary would stoop to the level of turning this election to a struggle between believers and non-believers. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-ayyappa-and-all-deities-with-the-ldf-says-pinarayi-vijayan-970946.html
06-04-2021||South||Kerala records 16.07% voter turnout till 9.30 am||Kerala recorded 16.07 per cent voting in the first two hours across 140 constituencies during the Assembly election on Tuesday. Serpentine queues were seen at several booths across the state as polling began at 7 am. While a voter standing in the queue in Aranmula collapsed and died, there have been reports of malfunctioning of EVMs in some places. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is contesting from Dharmadam in Kannur, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala (Haripad), Senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy (Puthupally), BJP state president K Surendran, trying his luck from Konni and Manjewswaram and 'Metroman' E Sreedharan, (Palakkad) were among those who have already cast their votes. According to the Election Commission figures, the polling percentage at 09:30 hrs in the state was 16.07 per cent. Kerala had witnessed a fierce campaign in the run-up to the polls by the ruling CPI(M) led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the BJP led NDA. Talking to reporters after casting his vote, Chief Minister Vijayan expressed confidence that the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF would be voted back to power. "I have full faith in the people, who are with the left," he said adding the front would secure more seats than it had won in the 2016 Assembly polls. "It will be a historical win. The BJP account in Nemom will be 'closed', he said.  Nemom was the lone seat won by the saffron party in the 2016 Assembly polls. "The devotees of Lord Ayyappa and all other gods will be with the LDF", Vijayan said replying to a query. The opposition Congress-led UDF and the BJP had during the campaign said the LDF government would face the wrath of the Ayyappa devotees in the polls. Kerala saw violent protests by activists of BJP and Right-wing outfits after the LDF government decided to implement the 2018 Supreme court verdict allowing women of all age groups to offer prayers at the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala, where traditionally women in the menstrual age group of 10-50 are banned from worshipping. Chennithala said people of Kerala will give a befitting reply to the LDF in the polls and UDF would register a 'historical win'. People are wanting a change from the "corrupt" government which had failed miserably in handling the two floods, Nipha, Ockhi and the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ayyappa bhaktas will not pardon the state government for the manner in which action was taken against the devotees. The LDF will face the wrath of Lord Ayyappa and the people, he claimed. Besides, Vijayan, seven of his cabinet colleagues are among the 957 candidates in the fray in the state. Voting is underway with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol across the 40,771 polling stations in the state where 2.74 crore voters will decide the fate of the contestants. LDF candidates -- M V Shremyams Kumar, seeking his luck from Kalpetta on the Loktantrik Janata Dal and Kerala Congress (M) leader, Jose K Mani, contesting from Pala, Congress candidate K Muraleedharan, (Nemom) were among the prominent persons who have voted in the first two hours. The voting for Malappuram Lok Sabha bypoll, necessitated by the resignation of P K Kunhalikutty, who is contesting for the state Assembly, is also being held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-1607-voter-turnout-till-930-am-970952.html
06-04-2021||South||'Smooth' polling underway in Tamil Nadu amid tight security||Polling is underway in Tamil Nadu with top leaders including AIADMK's O Panneerselvam, DMK chief M K Stalin and celebrities like Rajinikanth exercising their franchise early on Tuesday. Chief Electoral Officer, Satyabrata Sahoo after voting at a polling station here told reporters that polling exercise was on 'smooth' across Tamil Nadu barring 'one or two' places that witnessed issues related to the Electronic Voting Machines and these were attended immediately. 'Free and fair polls are on,' he said adding so far there has been no complaints and observers and zonal parties were monitoring the polling exercise and in case of any 'problem' they would immediately take action. Even before polling opened at 7 am, people could be seen eagerly queuing up before the polling stations and voter information slips were distributed to the people to help them identify their booths. Speaker P Dhanapal voted in Salem, Panneerselvam in Theni district and Ministers including P Thangamani and Sellur K Raju in their respective regions of Coimbatore and Madurai. DMK president M K Stalin, after paying homage at the mausoleum of his party patriarch M Karunanidhi and party founder CN Annadurai cast his vote here. Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan, who is trying his luck for the first time in Assembly polls, cast his vote here before heading to Coimbatore from where he is contesting polls. DMDK leader Premalatha Vijayakanth, Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman were among the other leaders who voted early in the day. Actors Rajinikanth, Ajithkumar and Vijay were among the celebrities who exercised their franchise here. The state has 88,937 polling stations 1,29,165 ballot units, 91,180 control units (which comprise the Electronic Voting Machine) and an equal number of VVPAT (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) units. As many as 4,17,521 polling personnel are on duty and over 1.50 lakh security personnel including those from state police, Central Armed Police Force, and home guards have been deployed. There are 10,813 vulnerable polling stations and 537 critical and webcasting is being done from '50 per cent' of the polling stations. Tamil Nadu Assembly Election Result 2016||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/smooth-polling-underway-in-tamil-nadu-amid-tight-security-970974.html
06-04-2021||South||Kerala sees higher polling in morning hours due to hot weather||A comparatively higher voter turnout in Kerala during the initial hours of the polling seemed to be due to the hot weather rather than the political heat. Polling in Kerala crossed 50 per cent and reached 52.41 per cent by 2.05 pm. 54.31 per cent male voters, 50.63 per cent female and 23.87 per cent transgender voters already exercised their franchise. Many voters who turned up for polling in the morning hours told reporters that it was due to the severe hot weather that they preferred to cast their votes early in the day. The state recorded a maximum temperature of 32 to 38 degrees Celsius during the morning hours on Tuesday. In 2016 Assembly election, the state's polling per cent was 77.35 per cent, while it was 75.12 per cent in 2011. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the polling percentage was 77.67 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sees-higher-polling-in-morning-hours-due-to-hot-weather-971024.html
06-04-2021||South||Kerala records 48.71% polling by noon||Brisk polling was witnessed in various places in Kerala on Tuesday with 48.71 percent of 2.74 crore electorate having already cast their vote by noon in the assembly elections being held under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic. Despite the soaring temperatures, long queues were seen in various constituencies with men accounting for over 50 per cent of the total votes polled till noon. As many as 46.81 per cent women and 20.06 transgender voters have also exercised their franchise. Taliparamba, Dharmadam, Aroor, Chertala, Wadakkanchery and Karunagapally constituencies reported heavy polling. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan (Dharmadam) Opposition leader, Ramesh Chennithala (Haripad), Senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy (Puthupally), BJP state president K Surendran (Konni and Manjeswaram) and 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan, (Palakkad) were among those who had voted before noon. According to the Election commission figures, about 48.71 per cent polling was recorded by 1.30 pm, six hours after polling commenced at 7am for the 140 seats. Mohammed Ashraff Kalathil, a presiding officer of a booth in Payyanur constituency in Kannur was hospitalised after being allegedly attacked by CPI(M) activists as he prevented a man who had come to vote with his ration card. The voting was held up for half an hour and another officer appointed while Kalathil was shifted to the hospital. In another incident, UDF candidate in Andoor, Abdul Raheed, in Kannur was allegedly manhandled by marxist workers. A 65-year-old man and a 75-year-old woman standing in the queue to vote at Aranmula in Pathanamthitta district and Chavittuvary in Kottayam respectively collapsed and died. The state had witnessed a fierce campaign in the run up to the polls by the ruling CPI(M) led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Opposition Congress led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the BJP led NDA. Talking to reporters after casting his vote, Chief Minister Vijayan expressed confidence that the LDF would be voted back to power. "I have full faith in the people, who are with the left," he said adding the front would get more seats than it had won in the 2016 assembly polls, thus registering a 'historical' win. The BJP account in Nemom, the solitary seat won by the saffron party in the 2016 polls, will be 'closed', he said. On the polling day also, sparks flew over the Sabarimala issue with the LDF and UDF locking horns. Vijayan said the devotees of Lord Ayyappa and all other gods will be with the LDF. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala opined that bhaktas will not forgive the left front, which will face the wrath of Lord Ayyappa as CWC member, A K Antony, sought the CM's apology. Kerala had witnessed violent protests by activists of BJP and Right wing outfits after the LDF government decided to implement the 2018 Supreme court verdict allowing women of all age groups to offer prayers at the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala, where traditionally women in the menstrual age group of 10-50 are banned from worshipping. Besides Vijayan, 11 of his cabinet colleagues are among the 957 candidates in fray in the state. The voting for Malappuram Lok Sabha bypoll, necessitated by the resignation of P K Kunhalikutty, who is contesting to the state assembly, is also being held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-4871-polling-by-noon-971038.html
06-04-2021||South||Kerala records 52.41% polling by 2 pm||Brisk polling was witnessed in various places in Kerala on Tuesday with 52.41 percent of 2.74 crore electorate having already cast their vote by noon in the assembly elections being held under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic. Despite the soaring temperatures, long queues were seen in various constituencies with men accounting for 54.31 per cent of the total votes polled till 2 pm. As many as 50.63 per cent women and 23.87 transgender voters have also exercised their franchise. Taliparamba, Dharmadam, Aroor, Chertala, Wadakkanchery and Karunagapally constituencies reported heavy polling. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan (Dharmadam) Opposition leader, Ramesh Chennithala (Haripad), Senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy (Puthupally), BJP state president K Surendran (Konni and Manjeswaram) and 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan, (Palakkad) were among those who had voted before noon. According to the Election commission, 52.41 per cent polling was recorded by 2 pm, seven hours after polling commenced at 7am for the 140 seats. Mohammed Ashraff Kalathil, a presiding officer of a booth in Payyanur constituency in Kannur was hospitalised after being allegedly attacked by CPI(M) activists as he prevented a man who had come to vote with his ration card. The voting was held up for half an hour and another officer appointed while Kalathil was shifted to the hospital. In another incident, UDF candidate in Andoor, Abdul Raheed, in Kannur was allegedly manhandled by marxist workers. A 65-year-old man and a 75-year-old woman standing in the queue to vote at Aranmula in Pathanamthitta district and Chavittuvary in Kottayam respectively collapsed and died. The state had witnessed a fierce campaign in the run up to the polls by the ruling CPI(M) led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Opposition Congress led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the BJP led NDA. Talking to reporters after casting his vote, Chief Minister Vijayan expressed confidence that the LDF would be voted back to power. "I have full faith in the people, who are with the left," he said adding the front would get more seats than it had won in the 2016 assembly polls, thus registering a 'historical' win. The BJP account in Nemom, the solitary seat won by the saffron party in the 2016 polls, will be 'closed', he said. On the polling day also, sparks flew over the Sabarimala issue with the LDF and UDF locking horns. Vijayan said the devotees of Lord Ayyappa and all other gods will be with the LDF. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala opined that bhaktas will not forgive the left front, which will face the wrath of Lord Ayyappa as CWC member, A K Antony, sought the CM's apology. Kerala had witnessed violent protests by activists of BJP and Right-wing outfits after the LDF government decided to implement the 2018 Supreme court verdict allowing women of all age groups to offer prayers at the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala, where traditionally women in the menstrual age group of 10-50 are banned from worshipping. Besides Vijayan, 11 of his cabinet colleagues are among the 957 candidates in fray in the state. The voting for Malappuram Lok Sabha bypoll, necessitated by the resignation of P K Kunhalikutty, who is contesting to the state assembly, is also being held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-5241-polling-by-2-pm-971057.html
06-04-2021||South||Will work with new govt to free Tamil Nadu temples from state control: Sadhguru||Isha Foundation founder and spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev said on Tuesday no matter which party comes to power, he will work with them to free TN temples from state control in the next five years. Responding to a question on his 'FreeTNTemples movement' launched last month, Jaggi Vasudev, after casting his vote, claimed approximately 3.5 crore people have expressed their support for the movement. Urging people to participate in elections which he termed as 'dance of democracy', he said "election is not one more holiday for you and exercise votes with utmost responsibility."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-work-with-new-govt-to-free-tamil-nadu-temples-from-state-control-sadhguru-971107.html
06-04-2021||South||Maharashtra govt cheated people with strict Covid lockdown: BJP||The BJP on Tuesday alleged the Maharashtra government "cheated" people by imposing a "strict lockdown" in the state and demanded a financial package for various sections of the society. Addressing the party workers on the occasion of the BJP's foundation day, state unit president Chandrakant Patil said traders and common people will not tolerate such "cheating" by those in power. Alarmed by the huge rise in cases over the last few days, the state government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30, in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons. The weekend lockdown will start from 8 pm on Fridays and last till 7 am on Mondays. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) had said in a statement. "During the discussion between Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Devendraji (Fadnavis) it was promised that the government will impose a mini lockdown from Monday to Friday, but the actual notification enforced a strict lockdown," said Patil. He said several associations of traders are opposing the new set of curbs. "They told me that even if they get arrested, they will keep their businesses open," he said. Patil said the state government should have realised the impact of the new guidelines on the common man, "as no package of financial assistance has been awarded". Taking a swipe at CM Thackeray, Patil said, "It is very easy to announce a lockdown and close down the trade by sitting at 'Matoshree' (the private residence of the Thackerays in Mumbai)...Givethe package to hawkers, maids and other needy people". "We do not oppose lockdown but the state government should announce a financial package," he added. Patil said the state government has imposed a strict lockdown under the garb of a "mini lockdown". "Such cheating is not at all acceptable. You (the government) can say in other matters that their ministers have not done anything (wrong). But see how the High Court rapped you. Two resignations are tendered (of Home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday and Sanjay Rathod of Shiv Sena earlier) and a third resignation will be out in the next eight days," Patil said. He asked the party workers to strengthen the booth system ahead of the 2024 Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. "In 2019 (Assembly elections in Maharashtra), we fought on 164 (of the total 288) seats and garnered 1.42 crore votes. If we can bag 1.42 crore votes by fighting 100 seats less compare to the 2014 elections, then we can get more than 2 crore votes by fighting all the 288 seats in the next elections. "In the 2024 elections, if the contest lies between the BJP and all others, and if we want to form a government on our own, then we will have to win more than 2 crore votes," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maharashtra-govt-cheated-people-with-strict-covid-lockdown-bjp-971127.html
06-04-2021||South||Actors Vijay and Ajith create frenzy on social media||Actors Vijay and Ajith created a frenzy on social media on Tuesday as they came to the voting booths and Twitter users interpreted their actions.  While Vijay came to the polling station near his bungalow on the East Coast Road (ECR) on a bicycle, Ajith was one of the early voters with an attention-grabbing face mask. Vijay riding a bicycle was interpreted by social media users as his way of highlighting the increase in prices of petrol and diesel. Vijay's PRO clarified that the actor did not bring his car as the street where the polling station was located was narrow. Ajith wore a face mask that was black in colour and the strap in red, something interpreted by DMK supporters as the actor indirectly supporting the party. Red and black were the colours of the party flag.  Ajith also snatched the mobile phone of a fan who violated Covid-19 norms by being without a mask, as he tried to click a selfie with him.  When actor Vikram walked to his polling station from his residence, social media users said he did this in support of migrants who walked hundreds of miles to reach their hometowns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actors-vijay-and-ajith-create-frenzy-on-social-media-971130.html
06-04-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh HC stays parishad polls to be held on April 8||In its interim orders on Tuesday, Andhra Pradesh High Court has suspended the Zilla and Mandal parishad polls scheduled to be held in the state on April 8. A single-judge bench reviewed the petitions filed by Janasean, BJP, etc parties challenging the State Election Commission's schedule following last year's notification. The petitioners contested that, as per earlier Supreme Court ruling, the election code should have been implemented at least four weeks ahead of the poll date. The court has set the matter for further hearing on 15 April, while asking the SEC to file an affidavit. The schedule of the local body polls was issued on 1 April by Nilam Sawhney, who took charge as the new SEC earlier that day. Accusing that the new SEC, who till December last year was Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary, has “become a rubber-stamp in the hands of the Reddy government,” TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu has announced a boycott of the polls The notification for the Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituencies and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies polls was issued in March last year by erstwhile SEC Ramesh Kumar and nominations were also filed. However, the polls could not be held at that time due high prevalence of Covid-19 cases in the state. The opposition parties are demanding that the poll process be initiated afresh, alleging that the ruling YSRCP had resorted to violence and widespread intimidation, disallowing other party candidates from filing nominations. The TDP has complained to the SEC that an unusually high number of seats was “unanimously elected.” The Janasena, in February, moved the AP high court seeking a fresh notification for the ZPTC, MPTC polls. The parishad polls are in continuation of the Panchayat and municipal polls, which were held after a gap of a year in February and March respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-hc-stays-parishad-polls-to-be-held-on-april-8-971160.html
06-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu records nearly 72% voting in peaceful election||People turned up in droves at polling stations across Tamil Nadu on Tuesday to vote in the epic election to elect new generation leaders with nearly 72 per cent of registered voters exercising their franchise till 7 pm. After 6 pm, many Covid-19 patients, including DMK MP Kanimozhi, and AIADMK presidium chairman E Madhusudhanan, arrived at polling stations in personal protective equipment (PPEs) to cast their votes. The election was peaceful except for the alleged attack on DMK men by AIADMK workers in Thondamuthur in Coimbatore district where Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani is locked in an intense battle with jallikattu-fame Karthikeya Sivasenapathy. The latest figure released said 71.79 per cent voters cast their votes with Chennai registering the lowest turnout of around 60 per cent and Kallakurichi in northern Tamil Nadu topping the list having polled 78 per cent. The provisional figure, which will be updated by April 7 morning. is less than the 74 per cent polling registered in 2016 assembly polls. Details released by the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) showed rural districts registering maximum participation from voters in the democratic exercise. The elections were held under the cloud of allegations of cash for votes. People began queuing up at 6.30 am to exercise their franchise in the first assembly election that Tamil Nadu is facing without its stalwarts M Karunanidhi, and J Jayalalithaa. Elaborate arrangements were made at all polling booths to check the body temperature of voters, and provide them with sanitiser and hand gloves before entering the polling booth. DMK President M K Stalin was one of the early voters who exercised his franchise along with his son Udhayanidhi and other family members at SIET college in Teynampet. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami cast his vote at a school just opposite his ancestral house in Siluvampalayam in the Edappadi constituency in Salem district. His deputy O Panneerselvam voted in his native Theni district. MNM chief Kamal Haasan voted in Chennai and flew to Coimbatore to oversee polling in his assembly constituency. While Stalin exuded confidence that DMK would be the winner on May 2, Palaniswami did not comment on the performance of his party by merely asking people to come and vote in large numbers. Not just politicians, but top actors from the tinsel town also came out to vote this election. Popular actor Ajith was among the first to vote, while his contemporary Vijay made a dramatic entry by riding a bicycle to the polling station. Tamil superstar Rajinikanth, who failed to keep his date with politics, exercised his democratic right, while V K Sasikala could not vote due to the deletion of her name from electoral rolls. The day also AIADMK registering a complaint against Udhayanidhi, DMK youth wing chief and party candidate from Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni here, for wearing a shirt that prominently figure Rising Sun, the DMK's election symbol. BJP candidate from Coimbatore (South) Vanathi Srinivasan was also seen sporting a Lotus badge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-nearly-72-voting-in-peaceful-election-971178.html
06-04-2021||South||Covid-19 second wave spreads in Telangana; Chief Secy tests positive||The Covid-19 second wave is spreading fast in Telangana, with the state chief secretary Somesh Kumar also testing positive on Tuesday. Though the intensity is lesser in comparison to neighboring Maharashtra and Karnataka, experts are worried over the state recording more than 1,000 new cases from the past few days. On Monday, the state reported 1,498 new cases while the total recorded active cases shot up to 9,993. Presently, 5,323 individuals are in home or institutional isolation. On Tuesday, reviewing the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state, the Telangana High Court expressed concern over the low levels of RT-PCR mode testing. The court has reportedly directed the health department to ramp up the RT-PCR tests immediately and also sought to know why the bars, pubs, theaters etc socialising spots are still kept open. The high court has also sought a detailed report on the measures taken to curb the virus, cases registered for violation of Covid-19 rules, tests conducted at places like bus stands, railway stations within two days. Asking the K Chandrasekhar Rao government to spread awareness among the people about the Covid-19 resurgence, the court asked the authorities to prevent large gatherings at weddings, funerals etc events. The state has, since the first Covid-19 case confirmation on March 2, 2020, registered a total 3,14,735 positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-second-wave-spreads-in-telangana-chief-secy-tests-positive-971181.html
06-04-2021||South||Around 75% polling in Kerala as fight intensifies among BJP, UDF and LDF||Around 75 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the Kerala Assembly polls on Tuesday that witnessed a triangular contest with BJP emerging as a key player in the state that had been so far dominated by the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) over the years. The highlight of the day was Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan deviating from his earlier stand that Sabarimala row was not an issue in this election. He stated that Sabarimala Ayyyapa and the entire pantheon were with the LDF. Even as most pre-poll surveys predicted LDF retaining power, Congress leaders expressed a high level of confidence during the polling with senior leader A K Antony commenting that favourable results in the state would help the Congress strengthen its fight against the BJP at the national level, too. 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan, who is contesting as BJP candidate at Palakkad, and BJP state president K Surendran, who is contesting from Manjeshwar in Kasargod and Konni in Pathanamthitta, also expressed confidence of forming government in Kerala, even as Pinarayi Vijayan was reiterating that the BJP will even lose its lone and maiden sitting seat Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram. While the state witnessed heavy polling in the initial hours with over 25 per cent exercising their franchise by 11 am, the polling progressed only steadily later. Hot climate in the state was said to be a factor that triggered high voter turnout in the morning hours. As per the latest reports from the Election Commission, the total polling in the state was 74.02. The final tally could be around 77 per cent, almost equal to the 77.35 per cent recorded in 2016 Assembly polls and 77.67 recorded in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Apart from the polling to the 140 assembly seats, a by-poll to Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency was also held on Tuesday. Even as tension was anticipated over widespread bogus voting attempts alleged by Congress, only a few such instances were reported during the polling. Tension prevailed in Kazhakkottam constituency in Thiruvananthapuram with CPM and BJP workers clashing. BJP candidate Shobha Surendran alleged that the CPM camps were quite concerned over BJP's surge. A slight tension prevailed at Thrikkakara in Kochi with a section of BJP local leaders opposing taking pictures of actor Mammootty casting vote. At Kundara in Kollam, Fisheries Minister J Mercykutty Amma, who is seeking a mandate, allegedly made a misleading statement that an independent candidate was arrested by the police. The allegation was raised against Shiju Varghese, director of the US-based firm that engaged into the controversial fishing trawler deal with the government. He was contesting as a mark of protest over the row. He even alleged that there was an explosives attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/around-75-polling-in-kerala-as-fight-intensifies-among-bjp-udf-and-ldf-971201.html
06-04-2021||South||EC notice to DMK's Udhayanidhi Stalin for alleged remarks on Sushma Swaraj, Arun Jaitley||The Election Commission on Tuesday served a notice to the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader Udhayanidhi Stalin for his purported remark that held Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for the death of his cabinet colleagues Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley. The EC acted on a complaint from the Bharatiya Janata Party, which alleged that Udhayanidhi, the son of the DMK Chief M K Stalin, had violated the Model Code of Conduct by levelling unverified allegations against the Prime Minister.  Udhayanidhi, the DMK candidate from the Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni constituency in Tamil Nadu, allegedly said during an election rally on March 31 that both Swaraj and Jaitley had died after being unable to tolerate the pressure and torture by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The EC gave him time till 5:00 pm on Wednesday to explain his position on the allegation of violation of the Model Code of Conduct.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ec-notice-to-dmks-udhayanidhi-stalin-for-alleged-remarks-on-sushma-swaraj-arun-jaitley-971204.html
06-04-2021||State||Caretaker arrested in child sexual assault case||An awareness workshop 'Arivu Neravu' for the children of 30 child care centres recently helped the police in tracing the case of a sexual assault on a minor boy by the caretaker of an institution. Ayub (52), a resident of Konaje, and the caretaker of Noorani Yathim Khana and Darul Maskeen at Kumpala has been arrested on the charges of sexually assaulting a minor boy, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar to mediapersons. The awareness workshop, which was conceived by DCP (Law and order) Hariram Shankar, was attended by 480 children from 30 child care institutions coming under City Police Commissionerate jurisdiction and was organised jointly by the police department, Child Welfare Committee, Child Protection unit and K S Hegde Hospital. It aimed at creating awareness on good touch and bad touch, physical abuse, sexual abuse and counselling the children by the experts. “We had given children a questionnaire and based on the feedback from the questionnaire, the children were counselled by the experts, which helped the child to reveal the trauma he was undergoing,” said the Commissioner. Stating that there were 79 children at Noorani Yathim Khana Darul Maskeen, the Commissioner said during the counselling, four more children have disclosed that they have been sexually abused by the caretaker of the institute. All the victimised children have been counselled by the Child Welfare Committee along with the experts and have been shifted to safer locations. The officials had visited the Noorani Yathim Khana in the guise of creating awareness on Covid-19 and engaged the children in various activities to help them open up comfortably. During the workshop for children, about 20 instances of bullying by senior children, forcing kids to work by the concerned at child care institutes have come to the notice of the police. A detailed compiled report has been submitted to the CWC for further action. The victim has informed the counsellors and police during the counselling that he was being sexually abused and assaulted for the last two months. Counselling of all the children are taken up to bring out more instances to the limelight, said the Police Commissioner. He appealed to parents to interact personally with their children who are staying in orphanages and child care institutions. If they come across any instances of abuse, sexual assault, then it should be brought to the notice of the police. The Police Commissioner said that Deputy Commissioner is also informed on the sexual assault on the child at child care centre. DCP (Law and Order) will be the investigation officer in the case. A case under Pocso Act has been registered at Women’s Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/caretaker-arrested-in-child-sexual-assault-case-971136.html
06-04-2021||State||Our programmes not for Adani, Ambani, asserts C T Ravi||BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi said on Tuesday that his party's programmes were not centered around the Adanis or Ambanis, in a retort to the Congress' repeated attacks over crony capitalism under the Modi administration.  "Our programmes are not centered around Adanis or Ambanis. Our thought is that politics aids change. Power is not the final destination. Our goal is to take the country towards supreme glory," Ravi said while speaking at the BJP's Foundation Day event, according to a statement.   He recalled a statement by former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on corruption. "In 1986, he said only Rs 15 out of every Rs 100 was spent on development. Now, there's no corruption and the full Rs 100 is spent on development," Ravi said.  The BJP, Ravi said, is the biggest political party in the world. "We have the most number of party workers, MPs, MLAs, SC/ST and women legislators," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/our-programmes-not-for-adani-ambani-asserts-c-t-ravi-971176.html
06-04-2021||State||Private hospitals: Karnataka High Court notice to govt over relaxation of norms||The High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the state government and Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Services in response to a PIL challenging the circular relaxing provisions of trade license and occupancy certificate to private medical establishments. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing the PIL filed by Ramanand Sagar, founder president of Bharath Yuvajana Sena. The petitioner claimed that the circular dated August 17, 2020, has relaxed most of the rules and regulations prescribed in The Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (KPME) Act, 2007. The KPME Act was amended and a new portal was for registration and renewal was launched in February 2020. The circular said that the registration and renewal rules have been simplified in view of suggestions received from various associations of private medical establishments.   The petitioner contended that the effect of the circular is such that the private medical establishments all over the state are free from obtaining trade licence not only for the hospitals but also for other services inside the hospital premises.  The restaurants, medical shops, laboratories and physiotherapy centres that operate from inside the hospital premises need no trade license to operate. The petitioner said these services are not free of cost and the government would lose revenue as GST cannot be collected without a trade license. This apart, the circular also dispensed with uploading of occupancy certificate while applying for online registration and also the process of verification prior to registration and renewal. According to the petitioner, several buildings have regularised building bye-law violations making use of this provision. The petition has cited examples of building bye-law violations at certain hospitals. The bench, after perusing the PIL, said that prima facie some clauses virtually relax statutory requirements. It observed that certain clauses, particularly dispensation with regard to trade license and occupancy certificate, defeat the object of the primary Act. The next hearing has been posted to June 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-hospitals-karnataka-high-court-notice-to-govt-over-relaxation-of-norms-971190.html
06-04-2021||State||No wage revision, return to work: Karnataka govt tells transport staff||The B S Yediyurappa administration on Tuesday warned Road Transport Corporation employees of strict action if they go ahead with their strike on April 7 (Wednesday). “The government will not negotiate anymore. Employees should return to work,” Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said, following a meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. While the government has fulfilled eight of the nine demands of the labour unions, it cannot fulfill their demand for wages as per the 6th Pay Commission recommendations -  on a par with other government employees - Kumar said. “The CM has said that the government will deal with the strike strictly. There is no question of hiking the salary more than what is already offered,” he said, noting that Transport department had offered to hike their salaries by 8% as an interim relief. Protesting employees will be dealt with as per the provisions of law. Sections under the Disaster Management Act, which prohibit any gatherings during a pandemic and provisions of IPC will be invoked, Kumar said, adding that the government was also thinking of invoking the stringent Essential Services Maintenance Act. “There will be a no-work no-pay policy,” he said. Private buses and maxi-cabs will be allowed to ply to facilitate public transport. Other alternative arrangements will also be made to help travellers. “We will leave the private buses a leeway. They will be given routes,” Kumar said.  “Since it is the vacation season, we are also requesting the railways to run special trains towards Hubballi, Kalaburagi and Mysuru,” he said. Kumar said that he had already written to the Election Commission to allow the government to implement an 8% revision of wages for transport employees, citing the strike call by them. “We will implement the announced hike if EC allows it,” he said, failing which it would be implemented once the election model code of conduct for the bypolls in the state is withdrawn. Meanwhile, speaking to reporters at Hubballi airport, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa asked the RTC workers not to be “adamant” on their demands. He said that the employees should end their strike considering the inconvenience caused to people. “Don’t force us to take strict action against you for going on strike,” he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-wage-revision-return-to-work-karnataka-govt-tells-transport-staff-971198.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Demand for oxygen rises again as ICU cases spike in Karnataka||Over a seven-day period, the number of Covid-19 patients requiring ICU beds in Karnataka has jumped by 62%, from 204 cases on March 28 to 331 as of Sunday. The spike is pushing up the demand for oxygen. In Bengaluru Urban, the rise of ICU cases was even higher at 100%, from 79 to 158. On Monday, the number of such cases in the city rose to 164. Statewide, there were 345 cases. As per official data, at the height of the pandemic in September 2020, when the state was averaging about 814 ICU cases on any given day, the statewide demand for oxygen was nearly 600 metric tonnes per day — up from 450 metric tonnes per day in August.  ‘Significantly less’ The current demand was described by one senior officer as being “significantly less”. Exact figures were unavailable by the time of going to print. However, several Covid-19 hospitals, oxygen generators plus suppliers all warned that the demand is gradually rising again. As per K C General Hospital in the city, which has 135 oxygenated beds for Covid-19 patients plus 50 oxygenated beds for non-Covid sufferers of Influenza Like Illness(ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), its eight-kilolitre oxygen storage facility is running out sooner than usual. “Previously, the oxygen storage would require three-five days to be expended. Now, we are finding that the unit needs to be replenished every two days,” said Dr B R Venkateshaiah, Medical Superintendent, adding that the increased consumption was due to the fact that 130 of the oxygenated beds were currently occupied. Pavan Murthy of Unity Air, one of several oxygen cylinder suppliers in the city, said that the number of cylinders being ordered has risen sharply, in comparison to January and February 2021. “Last year, we shipped out 1,500 cylinders. Since March this year, we have already shipped out about 400 cylinders,” hesaid. This trend has also been noticed by the large corporates carrying out liquid oxygen generation such as Airwater India Private. According to Kaushik Mukhopadhyay, Executive Director, the company was supplying about 45 metric tonnes per day for consumption during January and February when Covid-19 cases were on the decline. “Now, we are supplying about 53 metric tonnes per day. We are not quite at the stage of last year, at the height of the pandemic when we were supplying 70 metric tonnes. But with Covid-19 being what it is, there is no room for complacency. The demand could increase suddenly,” he said. The government, however, said it is not yet time to worry. “The current numbers of people requiring medical oxygen are relatively low. If they increase, we will take a call,” said Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The number of oxygenated Covid-19 beds in Bengaluru is sizeable, added Rajendra Cholan, Special Commissioner, BBMP. “Out of the 1,200 beds currently in operation in the city, about 70% are oxygenated,” he said. Home use up An oxygen facilitator and an oxygen machine supplier who caters directly to homes said there has been a 10-15% increase in the rental of cylinders and oxygen machines by households. “Most of the units are being rented or bought not for immediate use but for use in a future emergency. People are a lot more aware now that they will need oxygen,” said Afser Ahmed of the NGO Crisis Management India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-demand-for-oxygen-rises-again-as-icu-cases-spike-in-karnataka-970799.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandal: Karnataka govt not in favour of anyone, says Basavaraj Bommai||In the backdrop of the woman, said to be featured in a 'sex video' allegedly involving BJP MLA and former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, accusing the Karnataka government of being biased, state Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the administration was working in favour of truth. Speaking to reporters here, Bommai said, "We are in favour of truth only. We are not in favour of anyone else. So whatever is legal has to be followed. This is the direction I have given to the Special Investigation Team (SIT)." To a question that the High Court has sought details of the development, Bommai said all the procedures will be followed. Asked about the charges levelled by the woman that the government was 'protecting' Jarkiholi, the minister said the SIT will answer those points. Jarkiholi, the Belagavi strongman, had to resign as minister a month ago owing to allegations of sex-for-job followed by a sleaze video going viral in the social media. While Jarkiholi has lodged a complaint of threat and blackmail against unknown people, the woman purportedly seen in the video too filed a complaint of rape on the pretext of giving her a government job. Two days ago, the woman alleged in her letter to the police that she has been grilled thrice whereas the accused has been questioned only once. Jarkiholi was supposed to appear before police on Monday but citing Covid infection, he did not turn up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-karnataka-govt-not-in-favour-of-anyone-says-basavaraj-bommai-971030.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No 6th Pay Commission wages, return to work, Karnataka govt tells transport unions||The B S Yediyurappa administration on Tuesday warned Road Transport Corporation employees of strict action if they go ahead with their strike on April 7. "The government will not negotiate any more. Employees should return to work," Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said, following a meeting with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. While the government has fulfilled eight of the nine demands of the labour unions, it cannot fulfill their demand of wages as per the 6th Pay Commission recommendations, on par with other government employees, Kumar said. "The CM has said that the government will deal with the strike strictly. There is no question of hiking the salary more than what is already offered," he said, noting that Transport department had offered to hike their salaries by 8% as an interim relief. Protesting employees will be dealt with as per the provisions of law. Sections under Disaster Management Act, which prohibit any gatherings during a pandemic and provisions of IPC will be invoked, Kumar said, adding that the government was also thinking of invoking the stringent Essential Services Maintenance Act. “There will be a ‘no work, no pay’ policy," he said. Private buses and maxi-cabs will be allowed to ply to allow passengers to commute. Other alternate arrangements will also be made to help travellers. "Since it is the vacation season, we are also requesting the railways to run special trains towards Hubballi, Gulbarga and Mysuru," he said. Kumar said that he had already written to the Election Commission to allow the government to implement an 8% revision of wages for transport employees, citing the strike call by them. "We will implement the announced hike if EC allows it," he said, failing which it would be implemented once the Election Model Code of Conduct for the by-polls in the state is withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-6th-pay-commission-wages-return-to-work-karnataka-govt-tells-transport-unions-971047.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports over 6,000 new Covid-19 cases, 39 deaths||Karnataka logged over 6,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 39 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 10.26 lakh and the toll to 12,696, on Tuesday. Out of the 6,150 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 4,266 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As per data presented to the union health minister, in the last seven days alone the state added 46% to the current case load but before the past week added only 22% to the current active case load. From March 5 to April 5, as many as 19,378 cases were reported among the 15-29 years age group, 18,853 cases were reported among the 30-44 years age group and 14,978 cases were reported among 45-59 years age groups. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said, "33,697 beds have been reserved for Covid cases in the state. There are 15,733 oxygenated beds available in government hospitals out of which 10,083 beds have been reserved for Covid cases. "We have received requests from the movie industry to remove the restrictions on occupancy and allow 100% seating in cinema halls. I will discuss the issue with the Chief Minister who will then take a decision. The Technical Advisory Committee has submitted a report 20 days back regarding the guidelines to be followed in cinema halls, marriage halls, public transport, schools etc. The Chief Minister has taken the decision after consulting with everyone concerned. Maharashtra has announced strict measures including weekend lockdown. We should not push ourselves to similar situations in our state. People should cooperate in this regard," said the Minister. The day also saw 3,487 patients getting discharged after recovery. Cumulatively, 10,26,584 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,696 deaths and 9,68,762 discharges. Out of 45,107 active cases, 351 are in Intensive Care Units. Among 39 deaths reported on Tuesday, 26 are from Bengaluru Urban, three each from Mysuru and Dharwad, Kalaburagi two, and one each from Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Bidar, Kolar and Mandya. Kalaburagi, with 261 cases, was behind Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru reported 237, Bidar 167, and Tumakuru 157 followed by others. A total of over 2,20,89,452 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,02,021 were done on Tuesday alone. As on April 6, 3.30 pm, 46,44,731 people were vaccinated out of which 49,646 were vaccinated on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-over-6000-new-covid-19-cases-39-deaths-971120.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah challenges Yediyurappa's son to contest from Varuna assembly segment||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday challenged Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's son to contest from Varuna assembly seat, currently represented by his son Yathindra, saying he has faith in the people of the constituency. "I will welcome whoever wishes to contest from Varuna. Not, just B Y Vijayendra, but anybody can contest from there," Siddaramaiah told reporters. The Congress stalwart was replying to a query on Yediyurappa's inclination to pitch his son from Varuna, against his son Yathindra. Siddaramaiah, who was in Raichur to campaign for the Congress candidate in Maski assembly by-election, said it doesn't matter who is fielded from Varuna, because he has faith in the people of his constituency. Ridiculing the idea of Vijayendra contesting from Varuna, the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly said the state BJP vice president was supposed to contest in 2018 itself but did not come forward. "Where was Vijayendra last time? Why couldn't he do any black magic last time? Where was the Chanakya in 2013?" Siddaramaiah asked. Seeking to know the contribution of Yediyurappa and Vijayendra to Varuna segment, Siddaramaiah said he and his son have developed the constituency with the blessings of people. To another question on the BJP's claim that his son has been 'unpopular,' Siddaramaiah said Yathindra won the 2018 assembly election with a victory margin of 59,000 votes, which points to the huge popularity. "Do you know what was the victory margin of my son? It was 59,000 votes! Are we unpopular after winning with a victory margin of 59,000?" Siddaramaiah, who had represented Varuna previously and gave up the seat for his budding son, asked. Asserting that the people's blessings are with him and his son, the Congress leader said the BJP can seek votes in the name of caste because they do not have anything else to offer to the people of his constituency. Recently, Yediyurappa had said that he son would work on Mysuru region to garner 15 to 20 seats instead of contesting the bye election from Basavakalyan assembly constituency. The Mysuru region comprising five districts of Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Ramanagar and Kolar districts are Congress and JD(S) bastions. Varuna in Mysuru district has been a Congress citadel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-challenges-yediyurappas-son-to-contest-from-varuna-assembly-segment-971121.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Universities in Karnataka postpone April 7 examinations||Major universities across Karnataka, including Bangalore University, have postponed the examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate courses scheduled to be held on April 7. The decision was taken due to the strike called by the workers of road transport corporations.The VTU exams, however, will be unaffected. Hours after the strike was confirmed, the Bangalore University, Bengaluru City University and Bengaluru North University announced the postponement. The revised dates will be announced later. At Tumkur University, examinations for post graduate courses, third semester under graduate courses and BA Integrated Kannada Pandit have been rescheduled to April 19.  Officials at Karnataka University, Dharwad, where exams are scheduled on Thursday, said they will decide on the issue on Wednesday. Officials at Mysore University said that no exams are scheduled on Wednesday. However, Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will conduct the examination for the third semester as per the schedule on Wednesday.   Speaking to DH, registrar evaluation of VTU, Dr B E Rangaswamy said, "As it is the last paper of the third semester examination, we have communicated to principals of all colleges to provide necessary support for students to commute to colleges if they face any issue. The exams will be held as per the schedule on Wednesday afternoon."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/universities-in-karnataka-postpone-april-7-examinations-971148.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress Working President Eshwar Khandre tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Congress Working President Eshwar Khandre on Tuesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and is undergoing treatment at hospital. "On slightly developing symptoms, I had undergone a test and the result has come positive. There is no reason to worry. As per Covid protocol I'm admitted in the hospital and undergoing treatment," Khandre tweeted. The former Minister also requested all those who had come into contact with him during the last few days to get tested and take precautions. Khandre had been actively participating in the campaign for April 17 bypolls in Karnataka, especially in the Basavakalyan assembly segment, party sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-working-president-eshwar-khandre-tests-positive-for-covid-19-971166.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cadre IAS officer appointed new Econ Affairs secy in major reshuffle||The Centre Tuesday appointed Ajay Seth, a 1987 batch Karnataka-cadre IAS officer and a veteran tax administrator with a four-year stint as an advisor in Asian Development Bank as the new economic affairs secretary, replacing incumbent Tarun Bajaj, who has been moved to the revenue department. Bajaj, who had been the economic affairs secretary since May 1, 2020, was shifted to the revenue department days after the government faced a major embarrassment when it had to reverse its order on interest rate cut on a dozen of small saving schemes within 12 hours of issuing the same. Seth, who is currently serving as the managing director of the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd, will be the senior-most secretary in the ministry of finance and the principal adviser to the finance minister on all matters of policy and administration within the ministry. More than half of Seth’s career spanning 30 years has been devoted to public finance and taxation. His experience may come handy in the finance ministry at a time when the government is focusing on expenditure push to revive the economy from a record contraction in the past year. It was during Seth’s tenure as commissioner of commercial taxes that Karnataka had issued notice to e-commerce giant Amazon for alleged non-payment of VAT for transactions on its online platform. He was also instrumental in bringing other e-commerce companies into the tax net. Bajaj came to the finance ministery after spending five years in the Prime Minister’s office. In February, Bajaj had been given the additional charge of the revenue department after Ajay Bhushan Pandey superannuated. Another officer from Karnataka, Anil Kumar Jha (1988-batch) who is presently Special Secretary in Department of Revenue, has been promoted as Secretary and posted in the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. The government also promoted six senior IAS officials to the rank of Secretary. Gyanesh Kumar, Kerala cadre IAS officer of 1988 batch who is Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs, has been appointed as Secretary in Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs. He replaces R S Shukla, a West Bengal cadre officer of the 1986 batch, who is retiring on April 30. Ali Raza Rizvi, a 1988 batch officer of Himachal Pradesh cadre, has been promoted as Secretary and posted in the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises. Currently Special Secretary and Financial Adviser in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Rizvi replaces IAS officer Sailesh who has been appointed as Member of Public Enterprises Selection Board. Indevar Pandey of West Bengal cadre, who is Special Secretary in Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region, will be the new Secretary in Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances and Department of Pensions and Pensioners Welfare. He replaces Kshatrapati Shivaji of 1986-batch Maharashtra cadre on March 31. Anjali Bhawra, a 1988-batch IAS officer of Punjab cadre, has been appointed Secretary in the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. She is Special Secretary in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and replaces Shakuntala D. Gamlin. Jatindra Nath Swain of 1988-batch Tamil Nadu cadre, is the new Secretary in Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cadre-ias-officer-appointed-new-econ-affairs-secy-in-major-reshuffle-971169.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Woman in sex CD need not doubt SIT probe: Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday that the woman allegedly seen in the sleaze CD involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi need not doubt the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe and the investigation was proceeding in a fair manner. "We are in favour of truth but not for or against anybody. I won't react on the developments at the SIT. The team itself will inform of any progress," Bommai said. He was speaking to reporters.  The minister also said that the government was working on a policy to check online gambling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/woman-in-sex-cd-need-not-doubt-sit-probe-bommai-971180.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tumakuru tech centre for MSME caught in funding limbo||Four years after land was granted for an MSME technology centre in Tumakuru, the project remains stuck owing to administrative and funding issues. The much-touted project for development of the MSME sector was only the second such centre to be proposed after the one in Bengaluru.  In 2017, about 15 acres of land was allotted for the project, to give a push to the MSME sector. The project was expected to come up with funding from the Centre. However, till date, no funds have been allocated from either by the Centre or the state government. The MSME Technology Centre not only envisions training candidates who want to get into small businesses, but also looks at liaising with the industry. The one in Bengaluru, which is functional at present, handholds MSMEs in areas of product and process development, standardisation of processes and adopting new technologies among other services.  According to officials in the Commerce & Industries department, 15 acres were sanctioned by the government at Amarapura near Tumakuru in October 2017. The land was later transferred to the development commissioner, MSME, New Delhi for further development. In 2018, the government sent a proposal to the Centre, seeking Rs 52.89 lakh towards architecture and other initial expenses for the project. However, there was no response from the Centre, officials said.  In January 2021, officials at the district industrial centre, Tumakuru, sought Rs 7.5 crore from the state MSME directorate to construct a building.  Meanwhile, officials have estimated that they would need a building built over 30,000 sq ft to set up the centre. “The Commerce & Industries department needs to hold a meeting to think through further steps,” an official said.  Speaking to DH, Tumkur MP G S Basavaraju, who has been following up with Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, said the state government was in a tight spot ever since the Centre changed its regulations. “Unfortunately, the government of India has changed the mode of operations. The onus is now on the state government to provide the 30,000 sq ft of land, without which they are not going to start operations of the institute. This is very difficult, owing to the cost of land here. It will cumulatively add up to an estimated Rs 60 crore. So right now, a status quo is being maintained. The project has neither gone forward nor has it been shelved,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tumakuru-tech-centre-for-msme-caught-in-funding-limbo-971189.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Producers want state government to scrap theatre occupancy limit||The Kannada Film Producers’ Association (KFPA) on Tuesday urged the state government to permit 100% occupancy in cinema halls in eight districts even after April 7. On April 3, the government relaxed the 50% occupancy norm till April 7 in response to the request by the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC). A delegation, led by the KFPA president D K Ramakrishna, met Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar and submitted a memorandum in this regard. “The minister stated that he will discuss with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and take a decision. We are confident that the government will permit 100% occupancy even after April 7,” Ramakrishna told DH. The producers told the minister that the Sandalwood was set to suffer losses up to Rs 200 crore in the wake of the new norm. There would be 100% occupancy only for about three days for major movies. It would be around 50% for the rest of the week. Covid-19 guidelines were strictly maintained at theatres. The industry was ready to follow additional guidelines, they said. They clarified that the number of audiences came down daily as major films were released in many theatres. The new norm had caused psychological fear among the audience who might not visit the cinema halls, they said. Ramakrishna said that the producers, exhibitors, actors and KFCC office-bearers would discuss and take a decision on their future course of action if the government did not scrap the guideline. “Uncertainty has continued over the release of the films that have been scheduled. There will be clarity in a day or two,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/producers-want-state-government-to-scrap-theatre-occupancy-limit-971191.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not easy for private operators to match government bus numbers||The government has announced that it is arranging alternative transport services by deploying private operators. But commuters are set to bear the brunt on Wednesday, as it is not easy to arrange enough vehicles to substitute the government buses. The four corporations together not only ran 20,000 buses, but operated the vehicles in such a way as to cater to the needs of about 65 lakh people, even in the middle of the pandemic. Finding private players and tuning their services to such efficiency is a Herculean task. Officials in the transport department said about 50 permits have been issued to run the services, which is too inadequate to fulfill the needs of 65 lakh riders. To a question, Transport Commissioner N Shivakumar said he has sent a proposal for waiving of tax and permit fee for a month, to attract more private players in the market.  “As many as 2,750 contract carriage buses and 3,000 stage carriage buses have been surrendered. We had waived the taxes for them, but so far only about 50 permits were issued. In view of the situation, we have told the government to waive the taxes and fees for buses and maxi cabs which come forward to provide services. This will definitely boost the number of vehicles,” he said. Owners of maxi cabs have to shell out about Rs 2,500 per month as tax and fee, while the amount is much higher for buses. The commissioner said that the government was considering the proposal and may issue a notification in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-easy-for-private-operators-to-match-government-bus-numbers-971192.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BMTC staff stay away from work a day ahead of strike||Thousands of commuters were stranded at various bus stations across the city as drivers and conductors of BMTC started striking the work in the late afternoon on Tuesday, nearly a day ahead of the planned strike from Wednesday. As per the rule, the buses taken out from the depots for the second shift have to be brought back the next morning. However, in December, the drivers who surrendered the vehicles hours before the end of shift had to pay a penalty of Rs 2,000. “We decided it is better not to attend the work during the second shift to avoid paying the penalty,” a BMTC driver working for over 15 years told DH. In the terminals at Yeshwantpur, Shantinagar, Jayanagar, and Banashankari, hundreds of passengers waited for more than two hours even as officials struggled to arrange Volvo buses wherever the drivers were available.  This also put an end to compliance with Covid norms which dictated that a bus should not allow more passengers than its seating capacity. At bus stations, a melee ensued when a bus arrived at the stop as frustrated passengers rushed to the lone vehicle.  Many passengers expressed disappointment and were seen boarding auto rickshaws to reach home, a costly option. However, garment workers, construction workers and students who cannot shell out hefty fares had no option but to wait. In the aftermath of the unlock period, the BMTC had seen a steady growth in daily ridership which had come close to 20 lakh. The indefinite strike means lakhs of commuters will have to find alternative means of travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bmtc-staff-stay-away-from-work-a-day-ahead-of-strike-971196.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Government bus terminals in Karnataka to open up for school, private buses||With a strike by workers of the four road transport corporations (RTC) appearing imminent, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation on Tuesday threw open its bus stations across the state to the private buses and school vans which have come forward to provide alternative public transport. The KSRTC chief traffic manager wrote to the divisional controllers asking them to facilitate the use of the premises by private vehicles. “As per the communication from the Transport Commissioner, private and school vehicles are being roped in to ensure there is no gap in the transport services. In view of this, it has been requested to allow use of the bus stations by the private vehicles,” he said. Taxi services There will be no disruption in the taxi services on Wednesday, when the city bus services are expected be affected by the strike. In a message, Ola, Taxi for Sure and Uber Drivers’ and Owners’ Association president Tanveer Pasha said the taxi drivers have extended only moral support to the cause of the striking road transport corporation (RTC) workers. “Cab services in the state will not be affected,” he said. Metro increases frequency Namma Metro trains will run at higher frequency to cater to the demand for transport services in the wake of the strike called by the BMTC drivers and conductors. In a release, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) said the frequency of trains from 7 am to 9 am will be increased to 4.5 minutes on Purple Line and 5 minutes on the Green Line. The public, however, have to bring metro smart cards or purchase new ones by making payments through digital transaction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-bus-terminals-in-karnataka-to-open-up-for-school-private-buses-971199.html
06-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bus services in Karnataka to come to halt on April 7 as RTC workers, govt clash head-to-head||Karnataka road transport corporation (RTC) workers dug in their heels and decided to go ahead with the indefinite strike from 6 am on Wednesday even as the government sought to bring pressure by threatening to invoke Essential Services Management Act (ESMA), Covid-19 protocol and other stringent measures. Bus services at several cities across the state, including Bengaluru, Hubballi, Mysuru and others, were affected starting from Tuesday afternoon as drivers and conductors decided not to work in the second shift. This forced several universities to postpone exams while institutions conducting offline classes for class 10 and college students were left in the lurch. Earlier in the day, Chief Secretary P Ravikumar ruled out the possibility of providing salary to RTC workers on par with the 6th Pay Commission. "Providing 6th Pay Commission salary is impossible. The transport minister has agreed to an 8 per cent hike in salary as interim relief. If we get approval from the Election Commission, we will implement it. There is no question of negotiating with workers to end the strike. We will deal with the strike very stringent," Ravikumar said after a meeting with the chief minister. In a strong reaction, RTCs saw drivers and conductors not showing up for work on Tuesday afternoon itself. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, the honorary president of the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, rejected the 8 per cent hike and called upon the government to fulfil the promise it made to end the strike in December. "The 1.3 lakh workers of the four road transport corporations (RTCs) will go on strike from 6 am. We will follow the Covid-19 rules. The government claims they have fulfilled eight of the nine demands. In fact, none of the demands has been met. Instead, they have done an eyewash," he said, adding that they were ready to go to jail. About 7,000 buses of KSRTC, 6,000 of BMTC, 5,400 NWKRTC and 4,000 of NEKRTC will remain off the roads. As per the latest data, the four RTCs together recorded a daily ridership of 65 lakh, excluding those owning bus passes. These riders are now forced to make alternative arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bus-services-in-karnataka-to-come-to-halt-on-april-7-as-rtc-workers-govt-clash-head-to-head-971213.html
06-04-2021||West||Covid-19: All shops to stay shut in Pune till April 30||Struggling to bring coronavirus positive cases under control, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday issued a fresh order notifying that barring the essential services shops, other establishments and markets in Pune city will remain closed till April 30. All private offices will also remain shut except the offices of cooperative, public and private sector banks, insurance companies, telecom firms, IT & ITes firms and other offices related to lawyers, CAs and financial entities, it said. As per the order, a curfew (barring essential services) will be imposed in the city from 6 pm on Fridays to 7 am on Mondays as part of the weekend lockdown. "As per the state government's direction, except for the essential services shops, all the shops and markets in the city will remain closed till April 30. The implementation of the weekend lockdown order will also be done in the city effectively," Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol tweeted. The PMC has already closed hotel, restaurants, and bars, except room service in the lodging hotels, within the city limits. Alarmed by the huge rise in cases over the last few days, the state government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30, in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons. The weekend lockdown will start from 8 pm on Fridays and last till 7 am on Mondays. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) had said in a statement. On Monday, Pune district reported 8,075 new coronavirus positive cases, taking the tally to 5,82,904 while 55 fatalities pushed the toll to 10,282, an official said. A total of 3,240 people were discharged during the day. With 2,152 fresh cases, the tally in Pimpri Chinchwad township has reached 1,53,080.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-all-shops-to-stay-shut-in-pune-till-april-30-970809.html
06-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra adds fruit vendors, security to essential services list||Petrol pumps, government and private security services, and fruit vendors among others have been added to the list of essential services being exempted from the ambit of the strict curbs that came into force in Maharashtra from Monday night, as per the revised guidelines. Besides petrol pumps and petroleum-related products, cargo services, data centres, cloud service providers, IT services supporting critical infrastructure and services will also be considered as essential services in addition to the ones mentioned on Sunday when the restrictions were announced. The strict curbs, including a curfew from 8 pm till 7 am, and prohibitory orders during the daytime on weekdays came into force from Monday in the state. The state government had on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30, in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons to curb the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. The weekend lockdown will start from 8 pm on Fridays and last till 7 am on Mondays. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays. Meanwhile, organisations like the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), offices of the SEBI recognised market infrastructure institutions like stock exchanges, depositors, clearing corporations and intermediaries registered with the SEBI, will be allowed to remain open on all weekdays from 7 am to 8 pm, the guidelines issued on Monday said. However, all the personnel attending these offices will have to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. Until vaccinated completely, these staffers will be required to carry an RT-PCR negative report, which will remain valid for 15 days. This rule will come into effect from April 10. In the absence of the Covid-19 negative certificate, the offender will be fined Rs 1,000. Other offices that will be allowed to remain open include RBI regulated entities and intermediaries including standalone primary dealers, financial market participants operating in RBI regulated markets, all NBFCs,microfinance institutions etc. Offices of advocates,custom house agents, licensed multi-nodal transport operators associated with the movement of vaccines, life-saving drugs and pharma products, will also be allowed to function, the guidelines said. Any student requiring to attend the examination physically will be allowed to travel to the examination centre or back home after 8 pm or on weekends subject to carrying a valid hall ticket. Persons arriving or departing by trains, buses or flights during the 8 pm to 7 am period or weekends may travel provided they have a valid ticket, the guidelines said. On Sunday, the government had announced that except for the essential services shops, medical shops and grocery shops, all other shops, markets and shopping malls will remain shut till April 30. It had also announced that all private offices, except in banking, stock market, insurance, pharma, telecommunication and mediclaim sectors, will be shut as part of these restrictions. Work from home is mandatory for private offices, except those in local disaster management, electricity and water supply, the statement had said. Government offices, except those departments involved in Covid-19 management, will function at 50 per cent of their capacity, it had added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-adds-fruit-vendors-security-to-essential-services-list-970817.html
06-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Gujarat govt extends night curfew to 20 cities after HC suggests imposing lockdown||Hours after the Gujarat High Court suggested imposing a lockdown or curfew to control rising Covid-19 cases, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday night announced that the government had extended night curfew to 20 cities in the state. Currently, only Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot were following night curfew from 9 pm to 6 pm. The chief minister said that the curfew has been extended to a total of 20 cities where it will be in place from 8 pm to 6 pm. New cities where night curfew will be imposed from Wednesday are - Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Junagadh, Anand, Nadiad, Mahesana, Morbi, Patan, Godhra, Dahod, Bhuj, Gandhidham, Bharuch, Surendranagar and Amreli. Rupani said that the decision was taken after various consultations with the officers and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.  Earlier in the day,  while noting that the coronavirus crisis has almost reached where it was last year when the pandemic broke out, the Gujarat High Court on Tuesday had told the state government to take urgent measures to control the spread of the virus. The High Court suggested a weekend lockdown or a curfew for the same. Following this, the state government called for a high-level meeting in Gandhinagar and it is expected to inform the court about its decision soon. The division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice BN Karia specially requested Advocate General Kamal Trivedi and government pleader Manisha Lavkumar to appear before the bench to apprise it with the government's steps to control the virus. During the hearing, the Chief Justice said, "The issue is that things are going out of control, the Covid-19 situation. Now this time, Ahmedabad is in a pretty bad state with 700 plus cases yesterday. Some people say that this is not the correct figure and maybe, this is slightly on the lower side than the actual figure." Gujarat had reported 3,160 cases on Monday, its highest in a year, and 15 deaths in the span of 24 hours.  "You may please convey our message to decision-makers that urgent serious steps need to be taken to check this otherwise it is going to go out of hand. It would be a situation where again a lockdown will have to be...it's (the situation) almost reaching there...May be three-four day of curfew or a lockdown may, you know, check the situation at the movement. Then you can after 3-4 days open it. But, two or three days curfew will help I think," the division bench led by Chief Justice Vikram Nath said. The bench said that despite a curfew from 9 pm to 6 am "things are not getting under control". Chief Justice Nath said that even high court staff are panic-stricken. "Of course, I am thankful and grateful to them that they are cooperating. They're working under stress and under pressure. Everywhere, government offices are open.. corporate is open... Now we fail to understand how to control the situation, and this time the mortality rate is also very high despite the government's best efforts. January, February (cases) was very low."  In response, Trivedi said the government is taking steps and it is responsible to control the situation but at the same time "people at large will have to understand that now there is a war between corona and people. So people should understand to avoid gathering. The government is thinking about various options." He also mentioned that a complete lockdown would mean further hardship for people from lower strata. He said that the government will respond to the suggestion of the bench on weekend lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gujarat-govt-extends-night-curfew-to-20-cities-after-hc-suggests-imposing-lockdown-970995.html
06-04-2021||West||Mumbaikars, you can't use Swiggy, Zomato to order food after 8 pm||With Maharashtra witnessing record new Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks, the government has issued curbs to restrict the movement of people in the state. One such restriction pertains to people visiting restaurants. The government has not only shut all the restaurants and hotels baring those inside a campus and integral parts of hotel, but also restricted food delivery after 8 pm through apps such as Swiggy and Zomato.  “Take-away orders, parcels, and home delivery services will only be allowed between 7 am to 8 pm from Monday to Friday. On weekends, only home delivery services shall be allowed between 7 am to 8 pm and there shall be no visiting any restaurant or bar for ordering purposes or pickup,” read the government order. The curbs, imposed on April 5, will be in effect till April 30.  Zomato and Swiggy sent out notifications to users, asking them to place their orders before 8 pm on the first day of the lockdown on Monday, April 5. While ordering food after 8 pm, Zomato's message read, “We're currently not accepting orders online. We'll be back soon,” Swiggy's app said, “We are not delivering here at the moment!” Maharashtra on Monday recorded 47,288 fresh coronavirus positive cases, a day after seeing the highest spike of 57,074 infections, and 155 fatalities, the state Health Department said. With the addition of new cases, Maharashtra's overall caseload reached 30,57,885 while the death toll mounted to 56,033, it said, adding the state is now left with 4,51,375 active cases. Mumbai city reported 9,879 fresh cases and 21 fatalities in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbaikars-you-cant-use-swiggy-zomato-to-order-food-after-8-pm-971021.html
06-04-2021||West||Maharashtra traders wait for respite after new Covid-19 curbs||Merchants' and traders' associations in Aurangabad district are in "wait and watch" mode, following the announcement of a fresh set of curbs issued by the Maharashtra government to control the Covid-19 spread. As per the guidelines issued by the state government, shops that don't sell essential commodities will have to remain shut till April 30. Hospitals, medicals stores, shops selling vegetables, groceries, dairies and bakeries have been permitted to operate. Merchants and representatives from the cloth, automobile and vehicle dealerships met Minister of state for Revenue Abdul Sattar and collector Sunil Chavan on Monday night. "We want the coronavirus spread to come under control and are willing to cooperate for it, but the economy should also run," said Jagannath Kale, president of the Aurangabad District Vyapari Mahasangh. Shops that don't come under the definition of essentials should be permitted to operate with some restrictions, he said. "We have no problem if the timings for these shops are shortened, " he said, adding that merchants and traders are in "wait and watch" mode and expect some relief from the government. "We have started acting on the guidelines by getting RTPCR tests done for employees of shops and getting those above the age of 45 inoculated," Kale said. As many as 1,440 fresh cases of coronavirus were detected in Aurangabad, while 26 patients died of the infection on Monday, an official said. With this, the district's Covid-19 tally has reached 89,929 and the toll stood at 1,814, he said. At least 72,876 patients have recovered from the infection so far, leaving the district with 15,239 active cases, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-traders-wait-for-respite-after-new-covid-19-curbs-971036.html
06-04-2021||West||Maharashtra govt moves Supreme Court challenging CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government as well as former state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday approached the Supreme Court against the Bombay High Court order of preliminary enquiry by the CBI into corruption allegations made by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.  They claimed that the High Court relied upon false, motivated, baseless and belated allegations made on the basis of purely hearsay evidence to order a probe into the matter, causing irreparable damage to the reputation of the state as well as the individual. A division bench of Bombay High Court comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni had on Monday asked the CBI to complete its 'preliminary probe' within 15 days on the issues, including Rs 100 crore collection target by Deshmukh.  Hours after the court verdict, Deshmukh resigned from his post.  In the petition, Deshmukh as the state government sought an immediate stay and setting aside of the order by the High Court, which passed the order without hearing the parties, resulting in drastic consequences on the reputation of the then minister, and state agencies. The plea claimed had the High Court issued notice to the petitioner as well as the state government, they would have demonstrated that the allegations by Singh could not be accepted at face value and why such allegations cannot be acted upon. Raising questions on the CBI, it claimed independence of the outside agency has been a cause of concern, particularly when the state had withdrawn its consent to the central agency to investigate offences under its territory. "The High Court reposed faith in "an independent investigating agency" knowing full well about its credential in the past," it added. The plea further contended if the High Court really wanted, it could have ordered the probe by the state agencies under its own monitoring. Deshmukh, in his plea, also said the reason why the High Court passed the order did no longer survive as he has resigned from the post. He also submitted that the former Commissioner referred to conversations by others which was purely hearsay without any substantive basis. After his transfer, the then Mumbai police Commissioner on March 20 triggered a massive political storm in Maharashtra with his letter raising grave allegations against the then Home Minister. On his plea for a CBI probe into the charges, the top court on March 24 Wednesday asked Singh to approach the Bombay High Court, saying "the matter was quite serious and affected the administration" but "the High Court has the requisite authority to address the issue".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-moves-supreme-court-challenging-cbi-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-971042.html
06-04-2021||West||Hiran murder case: NIA takes Vaze to CST to recreate scene||The NIA took suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai from where he had boarded a train to neighbouring Thane on the day of businessman Mansukh Hiran's murder, a police official said on Tuesday. In a CCTV footage of March 4, Vaze was seen taking a train from the CSMT to Thane, hence a team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took Vaze to the CSMT late Monday night to recreate the scene, he said. Later, the NIA also took Vaze to the Mumbra creek in Thane district were Hiran's body was found on March 5. The NIA is conducting a probe into the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai on February 25 and the subsequent murder of Hiran. The probe agency arrested Vaze last month for his alleged role in planting the vehicle with explosives near Ambani's house. During recreation of the scene at the CSMT on Monday, the NIA sleuths asked Vaze to walk on its platform no. 4 to compare his movement with the man seen in the CCTV footage, the official said. The NIA team, which spent over an hour each at the CSMT and the Mumbra creek, was accompanied by some witnesses, forensic experts and the Railway Protection Force officials. Earlier also, the NIA had taken Vaze to various places, including a five-star hotel where he stayed on a fake identity, an office in suburban Andheri where a conspiracy meeting was allegedly held, and the Mumbra creek. As part of its probe into the case, the NIA has seized a number of high-end vehicles used by Vaze.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hiran-murder-case-nia-takes-vaze-to-cst-to-recreate-scene-971043.html
06-04-2021||West||Over 80 lakh vaccinated against Covid-19 in Maharashtra so far||In a major achievement, Maharashtra – which is the worst-affected Covid-19 state – has crossed the eight million mark of vaccinating people against the coronavirus, the highest in the country. “Vaccination in Maharashtra crossed 80 lakh,” the Public Health Department said on Tuesday. As of now all above the age of 45 are being administered the two Covid vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin – as per the availability. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow vaccination for all above the age of 25 years so that a larger population can be covered under the world’s biggest vaccination programme. Maharashtra has achieved a total vaccination of 81,27,248, including 72,98,206 people who have taken their first jab and 8,29,042 second dose. Maharashtra is followed by Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.  Gujarat has notched a total 76,89,507 (68,17,703 first dose and 871,804 second dose), Rajasthan tally is 72,99,305 (64,00,581 and 898,724). They are followed by Uttar Pradesh with a total of 71,98,372 (60,71,090 and 11,27,282) and West Bengal with a tally of 65,41,370 (57,91,392 and 749,978). Among the smaller states are: Mizoram (73,566), Sikkim (83,797), Puducherry (85,421) and Nagaland (86,221). The lowest on the list are the islands or centrally-administered regions like: Lakshadweep, (8,196), Union Territory of Daman & Diu (22,989), Andaman & Nicobar Islands (25,217), Union Territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli (26,133),   In Maharashtra, the financial capital of Mumbai leads with 14,10,537 people taking the jabs, followed by Pune with 11,14,040 people getting shots. The Mumbai-Pune belt is the worst-affected region of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-80-lakh-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-maharashtra-so-far-971046.html
06-04-2021||West||Goa Speaker's order on plea of disqualification of 10 Congress MLAs on April 20||Goa Assembly Speaker on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that an order on disqualification of 10 Congress MLAs who defected to the BJP would be passed on April 20. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Speaker, agreed before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde that the final order would be passed on April 20. Mehta's submission came after the bench said that the court cannot accept such a long delay in the matter. At the outset, Mehta said the Speaker has completed the proceedings and reserved the orders in the matter.  Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar, contended that this was a mockery of the process as this matter has been pending since 2019. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked Mehta to ensure that the order was pronounced earlier by the Speaker. Mehta agreed that the order would be passed on April 20. The court put the matter for consideration on April 21. Chodankar had approached the top court for a direction to the Speaker to decide upon the disqualification of 10 party MLAs who joined the BJP. The plea for their disqualification under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution (anti-defection law) has been pending since August 2019.  The top court in June 2020 issued notice to the Speaker and the state government on Chodankar's petition. Out of 15 Congress MLA, ten have formed a separate group and merged it with BJP, taking the tally of the ruling party in the 40-member Assembly to 27. Some of the defectors were rewarded with a ministerial berth in the Pramod Sawant-led government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-speakers-order-on-plea-of-disqualification-of-10-congress-mlas-on-april-20-971048.html
06-04-2021||West||Why Maharashtra govt kept mum before announcing Covid-19 weekend lockdown||While the Uddhav Thackeray-led dispensation imposed weekend lockdown in Maharashtra, the Centre had reportedly argued that such curbs have limited impact in combating rising Covid-19 cases. In fact, the state government officials kept mum about its lockdown plans during a high-level meeting with the Centre held on April 5. Maharashtra has been reporting record single-day spikes amounting to nearly 60 per cent of India's daily coronavirus tally. On Tuesday, the state reported 55,469 cases, with Mumbai reporting over 10,000 cases. Meanwhile, India's overall coronavirus cases stood at over 1,26,86,049. A total of 26,291 new cases were registered in a day on March 15, after which Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had shot off a letter to the Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte asserting that "measures such as night curfews, weekend lockdowns etc. have very limited impact on containing/suppressing the transmission". Bhushan had urged the state to focus on strict containment strategies, strengthening surveillance and augmenting testing. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-maharashtra-govt-kept-mum-before-announcing-covid-19-weekend-lockdown-971062.html
06-04-2021||West||Will ensure zero political interference in policing: Dilip Walse-Patil||Rattled by the political drama around allegations of corruption around the state government, Maharashtra’s newly-appointed home minister Dilip Walse-Patil said that there would be zero political interference in policing. “I will ensure a clean police administration and there will be no political interference from my side," Walse-Patil, a senior NCP leader, told reporters soon after taking over as the home minister at Mantralaya, the state secretariat. “It is a very important responsibility…I will try and live up to the expectations,” said Walse-Patil. After the resignation of Anil Dehmukh, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray gave the charge of the home ministry to Walse-Patil, who had earlier held the excise and labour ministries. The Bombay High Court had ordered a CBI probe against Deshmukh, who has been accused by ex-Mumbai Police commissioner and current commandant general of Home Guards Param Bir Singh, of fixing a Rs 100 crore per month collection target for suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the NIA. Before taking over the new job, Walse-Patil, accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, met his mentor and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar at his Silver Oaks bungalow. Walse-Patil said over the next few days, he will meet top bureaucrats of the Home department and senior IPS officers of the state. “Everyone has different expectations. My focus will be the common man….the common man should trust the police force," the 64-year-old seven-term MLA said. Asked about lobbies within the police force, he said: “I have just taken over…will look at each and everything.” He said that the Covid-19 pandemic is a big challenge. “The entire force is in the streets,” he said. A seasoned politician, who had been an ex-speaker, said that the three ruling parties — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — have no issues. "Together we are running the government," he said.  Walse-Patil also said that the Maharashtra government has taken a decision to challenge the verdict of the Bombay High Court on the Param Bir Singh-Anil Deshmukh issue in the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-ensure-zero-political-interference-in-policing-dilip-walse-patil-971065.html
06-04-2021||West||Migrants responsible for spread of coronavirus in Maharashtra: MNS chief Raj Thackeray||Amid the rapidly rising Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) president Raj Thackeray on Tuesday blamed migrants coming from other states for the recent surge in cases across the state. “A large number of people coming from other states are not being tested for Covid-19….the cases in the state are increasing due to these people…Maharashtrians are facing the brunt,” Raj told reporters in Mumbai. “We are not aware how many cases are being reported from other states….. people are coming from outside states and there is no count of such patients in Maharashtra. Once the numbers are counted, we would know how many cases are coming from other states,” he said. Maharashtra is one of the most industrialised states and people regularly come here for jobs, he said. “Many places where they are coming from do not have enough testing facilities,” he added. "During the lockdown last year, I had suggested that migrant workers who returned to their native places should be tested, but it was not done," Raj Thackeray told reporters after a virtual interaction with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Raj Thackeray said he asked the CM to allow sportspersons to join the practice sessions and to permit gymnasiums to function with social distancing. Talking about the new set of restrictions imposed in Maharashtra from Monday night, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) president said all shops should be kept open for at least two or three days during this period. As per the curbs announced by the state government on Sunday, except for the essential services shops, medical shops and grocery shops, all other shops, markets and shopping malls will be closed in Maharashtra till April 30. "The government says manufacturing will be allowed during the time of restrictions but not the shops. If shops are not allowed to remain open then what's the logic behind allowing the manufacturing activity?" he asked. He also demanded that the electricity bills of the people be waived during the lockdown period. "....Industrial production is stopped, offices are being closed and many people are losing their jobs. In such a scenario why should people pay the power bills?" he questioned. Raj Thackeray appealed to the state government to promote all the students of classes 10 and 12, who are supposed to appear for the offline examinations. The government should discuss with banks the issues like recovery of loans and arrears from the people, he added. The MNS leader also said that full fees should not be charged from parents by schools because the education is shifted to the online mode. Replying to questions on the resignation of state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Raj Thackeray said the focus should not be diverted from the main issue of the conspiracy behind the planting of an explosives-laden vehicle outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in February. "Anil Deshmukh is not important. Why did (former Mumbai police commissioner) Param Bir Singh remember the Rs 100 crore target only after his transfer. The allegations that Deshmukh set the target to some police officers to collect Rs 100 crore from hotels, restaurants and bars per month are shameful," he said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migrants-responsible-for-spread-of-coronavirus-in-maharashtra-mns-chief-raj-thackeray-971077.html
06-04-2021||West||'Much, much worse': Maharashtra, India's richest state, swamped by Covid-19 second wave||Hospitals in Maharashtra are running short of beds, piped oxygen and a key anti-viral drug as a second wave of coronavirus infections has swamped India's richest state, doctors and patients' families said. Maharashtra accounts for nearly a quarter of India's 12.7 million coronavirus infections. If the state were a country, its caseload of more than 3 million would be tenth-largest in the world. The state has been reporting the most number of daily infections nationally for weeks. India's overall daily cases rose above 100,000 for the first time on Monday, taking it past the peak of the first wave of infections last September. "This is much, much worse than the September wave," said Sandhya Fernandes, whose SOS Saviours group helps patients and relatives track beds in hospitals in and around Mumbai. "We know of hospitals in Mumbai that are giving out tokens for Covid-19 beds ... but patients end up waiting for three days or more for their turn." Farah Pavri went to hospital after hospital for five hours seeking a bed for her 75-year old aunt on Monday, until a desperate plea on Twitter caught the attention of local authorities and help was extended. "Everywhere I went, there were people already in line, waiting for beds, and there were more coming behind us," Pavri said. Maharashtra's health ministry did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. Desperate to slow the spread of the disease, the state imposed a night curfew since Monday for the rest of the month, shut down restaurants, malls and places of worship and barred the movement of most people on weekends. The plight of Maharashtra, a state where the health infrastructure is among the best countrywide, augurs poorly for rest of the country. It could also delay India's recovery from the economic hit, as Maharashtra is the country's most industrialised state. Black marketing Critical care beds in many hospitals in at least four major cities in Maharashtra - Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nashik - are now full, said six senior doctors Reuters spoke with in the state. They described the situation in their hospitals and what they had heard from patients seeking admission. In Mumbai, 60 per cent of 1,924 intensive-care Covid-19 beds were occupied, according to local authorities. As supplies of oxygen and antiviral drug Remdesivir, made by Gilead Science, dry up in some places, the state has asked police to crack down on sales in the black market, said Rajendra Shingane, minister of food and drugs administration. In the city of Aurangabad, home to several factories including Bajaj Auto, demand for oxygen has risen five-fold in the past month, a local government official said. All 262 ventilator beds in the city were occupied, said the official with direct knowledge of the matter, declining to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the media. Ramanan Laxminarayan, of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy in New Delhi, said Maharashtra's high degree of urbanisation and industrialisation - which means more intermingling of people - could be one reason for the second surge. The other is high testing per capita compared with many other states. "It's hard to fudge any data in these systems, because it's a good system that works well in good times and bad times," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/much-much-worse-maharashtra-indias-richest-state-swamped-by-covid-19-second-wave-971109.html
06-04-2021||West||Maharashtra govt to keep Remdesivir stocks, prices under check||Amid an unprecedented jump in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government has launched measures to keep the prices of antiviral medication Remdesivir and its stocks under check and warned against black-marketing. “We will not allow any artificial shortage to be created,” urban development minister and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde said during a video conference with divisional commissioners, district collectors and municipal commissioners. The medical fraternity has also urged the government to ensure stocks of Ramdesivir.  “Only medicines that work in Covid-19 are steroids and Remdesivir. There is an acute shortage of Remdesivir, possibly due to hoarding and racketeering, especially in Maharashtra. The state government's order to charge only Rs 1,000 per vial is in limbo. It's high time the government steps in,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, the Secretary General of Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-keep-remdesivir-stocks-prices-under-check-971138.html
06-04-2021||West||No need to emulate Mumbai, Bengaluru airports for travel restrictions: Goa CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that only Bengaluru and Mumbai airports have imposed restrictions like mandatory possession of Covid-19 negative certificates and there is no need to emulate such restrictions in the state. His remark came on a day Goa logged 387 cases, the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases recorded in the state in 24 hours over the last several months. Speaking to reporters after a meeting of the State Disaster Management Committee, Sawant also said that government agencies would be cracking down severely on violation of Covid-19 norms such as non-wearing of masks or not maintaining social distancing. "No state has imposed border restrictions and people can still (freely) travel by rail or road. Only two airports, Bengaluru and Mumbai, have imposed restrictions," Sawant said when asked if he planned to impose restrictions on the arrival of tourists to Goa.   The Chief Minister also said that no decision had been taken related to imposing a night curfew yet, even as he announced fresh guidelines related to the assembly of people in public and private places. According to the guidelines, only 200 persons would be allowed in public events, while private affairs like indoor weddings can only invite 100 persons. "At marriage events, less than 100 people should be invited. Past experience shows that cases spread faster during wedding ceremonies," Sawant said. Sawant also issued a warning to the people of Goa and tourists visiting the state about a fresh crackdown on SOP violations. "Police and District Collectors have been told to start fining people who violate SOPs," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-need-to-emulate-mumbai-bengaluru-airports-for-travel-restrictions-goa-cm-971163.html
06-04-2021||West||Mumbai records 10,030 Covid-19 cases, highest deaths since October||Mumbai reported 10,030 new Covid- 19 cases on Tuesday, the second highest daily count so far, while 31 patients succumbed to the infection, the most in a day since October-end, the city civic body said. The new cases took the cumulative tally to 4,72,332, while the death toll jumped to 11,828, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. At 10,030 new cases, Mumbai registered its second highest daily count after a record 11,163 infections were reported on April 4. The 31 fresh deaths were the highest in a 24-hour period since October-end, the data showed. Also, 7,019 more people were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered patients to 3,82,004, the civic body said. According to the BMC, the number of active Covid-19 cases increased to 77,495. The data pointed out that 47,922 more Covid-19 tests were carried out in Mumbai, pushing the number of samples examined so far to 43,53,975. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Mumbai has gone down to 81 per cent, according to the BMC. The growth rate of Covid-19 has increased to 1.79 per cent, while the case doubling rate has dropped to 38 days, it said. The civic body said the city currently has 73 active containment zones in slums and 'chawls' (old tenements) and 740 sealed buildings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-records-10030-covid-19-cases-highest-deaths-since-october-971168.html
06-04-2021||West||Maharashtra sees 55,469 new Covid-19 cases; 297 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 55,469 fresh coronavirus positive cases, the second highest spike in the last two days, taking the tally of infections to 31,13,354while 297 deaths pushed the toll to 56,330, the state health department said. Maharashtra is now left with 4,72,283 active cases. Mumbai recorded 10,040 new cases and 32 deaths. At the same time, 34,256 people were discharged on Tuesday, taking the count of the recoveries in the state to 25,83,331, the department said in a release. The state'srecovery rate now stands at 82.98 per cent and the fatality rate is 1.81 per cent. Maharashtra had reported the highest spike in daily cases on Sunday, when it added over 57,000 infections. With 2,01,693 new tests, the number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra has gone up to 2,09,17,486, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-55469-new-covid-19-cases-297-deaths-971202.html
