07-04-2021||First Edit||EC’s credibility is in question||Questions have been raised about the conduct of the Election Commission (EC) in the management and supervision of the election process in the current round of Assembly elections in various states, as they were during some earlier elections, too. It is the responsibility of the EC to conduct the elections in a free, fair, impartial and efficient manner because the sanctity of elections is the most important requirement in a democracy. Unfortunately, there is a growing impression that the EC is indulgent towards the ruling party at the Centre and its leaders and has different standards to judge the actions of parties and the complaints that arise during the campaign. There have been instances in West Bengal and the other states in which elections are underway where the acts of commission or omission on the part of the EC have attracted criticism.   An electronic voting machine (EVM) was found in the car of a BJP candidate in Assam. Some officials were suspended but the incident hurts the image of the EC and would strengthen the doubts many still have about the reliability of EVMs. The Commission’s explanation for relaxing the campaign ban it imposed on Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for intimidating an Opposition leader is not convincing. This is not a case where an apology would mitigate the offence. The EC has not given such relaxation in the past in the case of Opposition leaders, and did not show any lenience towards the DMK’s A Raja in Tamil Nadu last week. The heavy deployment of central forces in West Bengal is also seen as giving an advantage to the BJP. Aadhaar data was allegedly used by BJP to send bulk messages to voters in Puducherry. The Madras High Court has said there is credible evidence for the alleged misuse and has issued an order to the EC to investigate the matter, but the EC could have taken note of it on its own.  The inaction of the EC over the wanton use of the central investigation agencies against Opposition politicians in poll-bound states is a serious failure. Agencies including the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the CBI and the Income Tax Department have been proactive against Opposition leaders and their relatives and associates in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. This has happened in other states, too, and Opposition leaders were the targets. The law does not take a holiday during elections, but the EC can certainly see how the partisan use of central agencies amounts to interference in the election process and is therefore fit for its attention and action. The Election Commission had earned great credibility in the country over the years. It should not be squandered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/ec-s-credibility-is-in-question-971303.html
07-04-2021||First Edit||Resolve bus strike immediately||With employees of state-owned transport corporations going on an indefinite strike and pulling buses off the roads, millions of commuters have been put to hardship. People have been stranded since Tuesday night without transport to their homes, hospitals or places of work, and travel between villages and towns across Karnataka has come to a halt more or less. The bus transport strike has forced universities to postpone examinations and students who have been attending offline classes that restarted only recently are now unable to do so due to lack of transport. Many stranded commuters have been forced to shell out exorbitant sums to travel in private buses and vans. The bus transport strike has been called by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation Employees’ League (KSRTC-EL), which is demanding wages for employees as per the state government’s Sixth Pay Commission. The government has rejected the demand but said it will give employees an 8% salary hike. Rejecting the government’s offer, the RTC employees went on a flash strike. The government has threatened to invoke the Essential Services Management Act to force the striking employees to get back to work. Chief Minister Yediyurappa has also warned them against violating regulations in place for Covid-19. Neither the government nor the bus employees’ unions are conducting themselves responsibly; the plight of commuters seems to be of little concern to either. The face-off could have been avoided. A revision in the salaries and allowances of RTC employees is long overdue and the government could have come up with a more generous offer. However, the KSRTC-EL’s strike is unreasonable and ill-timed. They had given notice of the strike from Wednesday but took buses off the roads several hours ahead, leaving commuters stranded and without alternative arrangements. Besides, the union’s demand that RTC employees be absorbed as government employees is unreasonable. This is not a demand that can be conceded overnight as it involves policy decisions. Moreover, as the government has pointed out, pay hikes cannot be announced or implemented now as the model code of conduct is in effect due to by-elections in the state. The KSRTC-EL is a recently formed union. Are its leaders flexing their muscles to consolidate control over employees? If this is the case, this strike could extend into next week. Those travelling back to their villages for Ugadi will be impacted, resulting in overcrowding of private buses at a time when a second wave of Covid-19 infections is raging. The bus employees must call off the strike immediately in the public interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/resolve-bus-strike-immediately-971687.html
07-04-2021||In Perspective||TMC: Unused political capital||West Bengal stands out as a state which provided a unique, but misspent, opportunity to a single Left-led coalition for more than three decades (1977-2011). The Left’s eventual decimation and the marginal presence of the Congren the state left the Trinamool Congress (since 2011) a huge political space in which to write its political script. However, the TMC is not identified with any clear ideology or policy position. While its state politics is anti-Left and anti-Congress, at the national level, a strong and consistent critique of the BJP has inclined the TMC towards the ambivalent political space of the so-called Third Front.    Populist in character, the Trinamool Congress government spends a higher percentage of its budget on social welfare than any state other than Kerala. As such, there has occurred some pulling up out of poverty of underprivileged sections in West Bengal. At the same time, the TMC has continued with the state’s tradition of patronising local party-linked mafia. It is the latter who have hugely benefited from and controlled the dispersion of welfare and resources.  This macabre tradition is not the contribution of any single political party, much less that of the TMC. From the 1960s, with industrial stagnation and unemployment, large numbers of disaffected youth were mobilised by political parties in power to represent their local muscle in return for limited largesse.  The decade of TMC rule has thus been a mixed bag, developmentally.  Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee provides the interesting edge to the state’s otherwise humdrum politics. Top Indian women politicians have invariably risen with male props. Politicians like Indira Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, Vasundhara Raje have used their privileged family connections. Others have leaned on powerful male mentors, as Mayawati on Kanshi Ram, Jayalalitha on MGR.   Even second-order politicians, who have not quite made it yet to the top, are connected to male patronage, such as Supriya Sule, the daughter of Sharad Pawar, or Dimple Yadav, the wife of Akhilesh Yadav, to say nothing of Rabri Devi, the wife of Lalu Prasad Yadav. Rarely have women politicians shed the long shadow of patriarchy. The late Sushma Swaraj, a Supreme Court lawyer, and not identified with any particular male sponsor, was strongly associated with the image of a woman well ensconced within the contours of a marriage and family, Indian style.  In contrast, not connected with the name of any male mentor or family, Mamata Banerjee’s image is peculiarly that of a woman who stands alone. While as a person of the highest caste, Mamata was not socially connected to underprivileged communities, hailing from a lower-middle-class family and educated in an ordinary Kolkata college, she lacked access to elite networks in the city.  She rose from being students’ union leader to general secretary of local Congress committees, finally to six Lok Sabha terms, until she became Chief Minister of West Bengal in 2011. Her political rise was partly connected to her advocacy of farmers’ rights to land. Her political career has been self-constructed, sans the support of males, the patriarchal family, caste or community.     Mamata has carried this disconnect into her public self-presentation. Defying the typical garb of many women in Indian politics of her generation, she has never covered her head with the saree pallu. With her signature white saree, sans colour and make up, the strident walk, assertive body language and a strong, if rasping, voice, there is a powerful statement that she has successfully discarded the conventional feminine persona. The sub-text of this is that she is a single woman, both in life and in politics. We need to note the confidence that went into the crafting of the singlehood image, in a culture where even the most powerful woman, Ma Durga, appears annually as the married daughter visiting her parent’s home, along with her children, on a short leave of four days, and departs amidst collective sadness and acceptance that the daughter must, of course, return to her matrimonial home.  The power of Mamata’s defiant image, however, remains unexplored as a potential message for Indian women. At the national level, if the vacuum in the Third Front’s ideas and unity provided an opportunity to offer direction in terms of leadership, the TMC failed to take this opportunity. Currently, amidst the state Assembly elections, accusations of corruption, centralisation of power and several desertions have rocked the party. And Mamata’s newest political coinage, “khela hobe”, flounders in the face of social media-driven images of the Chief Minister playing football with a plastered leg, perhaps representing her fractured mandate.  (The writer is Adjunct Professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/tmc-unused-political-capital-971308.html
07-04-2021||In Perspective||Scrappage policy can be more attractive||Announcing a ‘voluntary’ vehicle scrappage policy in the Lok Sabha on March 18, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari listed its numerous benefits, such as doubling the turn-over of the Indian automobile industry from the present Rs 4.5 lakh crore to Rs 10 lakh crore, the salutary effect on environment due to mitigation of vehicular pollution, a reduction in fuel consumption and fuel import bill, job creation, increased safety on the roads, reining in input costs for industries such as automobile, steel, electronics, etc., increase in GST collection, and so on. Currently, there are 5.1 million vehicles in India which are more than 20 years old, 3.4 million that are between 15 and 20 years old, and 1.7 million vehicles older than 15 years but without renewed fitness certificates. Based on the premise that vehicles older than 15 years are considered to be more polluting and less fuel efficient, the policy architecture is founded on two major pillars: incentivise owners of such vehicles to scrap, and dis-incentivise holding on to such vehicles. The vehicle-owner who opts to scrap will get 4-6% on the ex-showroom price of a new vehicle as compensation (call it ‘scrap compensation’); 5% discount on the purchase of the new vehicle; and rebate on road tax @25% for a personal vehicle (given that states generally collect this tax @4%, the 25% rebate amounts to 1% of the ex-showroom price of the new vehicle). The policy also moots waiver of registration fee for the new vehicle purchased against the scrapped vehicle. As for the disincentives for holding on to old vehicles, the policy suggests a hike in fee for renewal of registration (to Rs 5,000 for a car older than 15 years, up from Rs 600 at present) and fitness certificate renewal fees, stiff penalties for delay in renewals and levy of ‘green tax’ by states. All personal vehicles will have to undergo mandatory automated fitness test after 20 years to ply on the roads (for commercial vehicles, after 15 years). Vehicles that don’t pass the test will be de-registered, declared as ‘end of life vehicles’, and impounded by the transport authorities. Will this policy package lead to the intended outcome? If the owner goes for scrapping, he is promised a total benefit of 11% on the ex-showroom price of a new vehicle. Against this, he can easily realise at least 15% value by selling the old vehicle. So, many won’t opt for scrapping. Even the 11% incentive on scrapping is not guaranteed. Road tax being a major revenue source for states and given their precarious finances, they are unlikely to give any rebate. As for the balance 10%, the onus is entirely on auto manufacturers. If they don’t oblige, the scale will be further tilted against scrapping.   However, a more likely scenario for a majority of old-car owners is one in which they renew the vehicle’s registration and retain the vehicle. Neither the increased re-registration charge nor the imposition of green tax are enough to deter them from this option. The policy, too, is helpful to them: a non-commercial vehicle will have to go for a fitness test only after 20 years. Vehicles between 15 and 20 years old get their registration renewed without a test.      On balance, therefore, the policy may not prompt owners of aged vehicles to go for scrapping. However, things could look different if the GST Council accedes to Gadkari’s suggestion to exempt new vehicles purchased against scrapped vehicles from levy of GST. At present, cars attract GST at 28%. If this becomes zero, it will encourage people to buy new vehicles. But given the huge revenue implications, this is easier said than done. Meanwhile, there is an order of the Supreme Court (2015) validating a National Green Tribunal (NGT) directive that prohibited petrol vehicles older than 15 years from plying in the National Capital Region (NCR) (for diesel cars, the threshold is 10 years). This order is not just a negation of the extant policy which provides for registration renewal on completion of 15 years from the date of first registration but also presumes that all such cars are unfit for plying. Even as the policy lays emphasis on fitness, rather than the age of a vehicle, and is structured around incentives/disincentives, the court order militates against this. In fact, the order renders the policy infructous in so far as NCR is concerned. It also creates an anomalous situation whereby vehicle owners in other states have a choice (scrap versus retain or re-sale), but those in NCR are forced to scrap their aged vehicles or resort to desperate sale. The Centre needs to amend the Motor Vehicles Act (MVA) to reflect the policy intent, i.e., using fitness as the sole criterion – irrespective of its age – to determine whether a vehicle should be allowed to ply on the road or not. As regards scrapping of old and making way for new, more fuel-efficient, less polluting vehicles, it should make the incentives more attractive. The GST exemption idea could be the way forward.      (The writer is a Delhi-based policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/scrappage-policy-can-be-more-attractive-971581.html
07-04-2021||In Perspective||Vice Chancellor: The debased don||A shocking media report recently was that a university professor had paid a huge sum of money to a middleman to secure him the Vice Chancellor’s post in a certain university. The middleman turned out to be an imposter who cheated the ‘learned professor’. The professor chose to complain to the police rather than keep quiet and salvage his reputation. Obviously, he wanted to get back his money. Two hoots to reputation! Who is a bigger culprit -- the academic don who gave the bribe or the criminal don who ran away with the booty? This news might have shocked ordinary mortals, but for academics, this is casual dinner-table talk. They will tell you that most coveted positions in the state universities go to the highest bidder or the most influential ones. One should have loads of money or a weighty godfather to grab these plum posts. Merit can take a walk. Those that spend large sums of money to get a posting will have no qualms about making several times that money while on the job. It’s another clever ‘investment plan’. What a shame! Remember how we once used to look up to a Vice Chancellor (VC) with awe and admiration. The VC was sure to be head and shoulders above others in academic credentials and leadership accomplishments. Today, we can count on the fingers of one hand university VCs who were chosen for sheer merit, without their having to do any lobbying or paying for the job. The above episode will hopefully have embarrassed the entire higher education community, especially those in leadership positions. Anyone with a modicum of self-respect will have hung their head in shame upon reading this report. For every such reported incident, there are likely scores of others not brought to light. This one is just the tip of the proverbial iceberg. Did not another VC aspirant recently end his life upon failing to get the job? What is the solution to this malaise? If governments indulge in dispensing favours like a vice-chancellorship to their favourites for extraneous considerations, it’s not only subversion of democracy but also a malicious attempt to destroy our universities. It’s undoubtedly an unspeakable and heinous attempt to defame and devalue the sacred symbols of a university. The post of VC is one such symbol. The person who adorns the position should be worthy of it. We lament the fact that none of India’s universities rank among the top 100 in the world. Even our much-talked-about IITs and IIMs do not make the grade when matched with the best ones internationally. How do we go up that ladder? We need to get our act together if at least some of our universities are to reach even the league of the top 500. A study undertaken by Jamil Salmi for the World Bank cites three critical components needed to establish world-class universities. Studying the attributes of the top universities in the UK, US, Japan, etc., he concluded that three factors distinguish them from the rest. First, they try to attract the best talents as students and teachers from all over the world, without considerations such as national borders. This helps them make the university a crucible of talents from across the world to create new and exciting vistas. The very term ‘university’ implies universality. Unfortunately, in our country, we promote ‘in-breeding’ and ‘consanguinity’, which can only stunt the intellectual rigour of our universities. Worse, it spawns intellectual dwarfs and midgets. Take the examples of the best-known universities. “Harvard, for instance, has a student population that is 19% international; Stanford, 21%; Columbia, 23%. At the University of Cambridge, 18% of the students are from outside the European Union.” The second factor is the budget of such universities. Quality comes with a price. Our investment in higher education is still meagre. An institution of quality needs vast sums of money, either from government funding or from private endowments. Many of the better-known universities in the US thrive on endowments from generous benefactors. “The third factor of success is a combination of freedom, autonomy and leadership. World-class universities thrive in an environment that fosters competitiveness, unrestrained scientific inquiry, critical thinking, innovation and creativity.” Our State-funded universities need autonomy and must move out of the clutches of the powers-that-be to emerge as world-class universities. Most importantly, our universities must choose excellent leaders, men and women of calibre and commitment, not men and women of straw who fiddle around with moneybags to steal the job. Universities need to grow not only in terms of infrastructure and in numerical terms but in terms of quality. They must be islands of excellence, ever-expanding and influencing the world outside by sheer dint of their creativity, research output and knowledge creation. Sustained leadership with vision and passion of the highest order is most essential to take a university to international standards. That’s why VCs must be the cream of the crop, not incompetent, unethical upstarts. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Institute for Educational Leadership, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/vice-chancellor-the-debased-don-971686.html
07-04-2021||Kalaburagi||NEKRTC buses off Kalaburagi roads amid transport employees strike||Following an indefinite strike called by road transport employees demanding salary on par with the Sixth Pay Commission, the NEKRTC buses remained off the roads as no employees reported for duty in Kalaburagi district on Wednesday. As a result, private buses are being operated on select routes. The number of commuters was less as they were aware of the strike well in advance. Private buses are being operated to Bidar, Humnabad and Ballari from Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/nekrtc-buses-off-kalaburagi-roads-amid-transport-employees-strike-971360.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||25 students in Davangere nursing college test positive for Covid-19||A private nursing college hostel in Davangere has been declared a containment zone after 25 female students tested positive for Covid-19. According to District Surveillance Officer G D Raghavan, the students were under treatment at a private hospital in the city. The throat swab of 134 female students and 15 staff of the hostel had been sent to a laboratory for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/25-students-in-davangere-nursing-college-test-positive-for-covid-19-971233.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga nursing college students from Bengal boycott exam for being denied permission to copy||First-year students of Shivamogga's Subbaiah Nursing College from West Bengal have boycotted the examinations on Tuesday, citing that they were not given permission for mass copying.  The students alleged that they had paid Rs 1.80 lakh each to Modern Nursing Coaching & Consultancy Centre in Kolkata after being promised that they would be passed without appearing for the examinations. The centre's staff, however, failed to stick to their promise.   Subbaiah Institute of Health Sciences Director Nagendra said that 38 students had paid Rs 10,000 as admission fee and returned home after lockdown. They didn't attend any class and have not paid the total fee. So, they don't belong to our institute. The third party had promised the students that they would be passed without appearing for the examinations.  Modern Nursing Coaching & Consultancy Centre staff Acharya said they were given admission tickets after much struggle. Finally, the Karnataka State Nursing Council permitted them to appear for the examinations in an affiliated college. Now, however, they have boycotted the examinations citing they were not given permission for mass copying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-nursing-college-students-from-bengal-boycott-exam-for-being-denied-permission-to-copy-971241.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Appointment of counsellors in schools should be mandatory: Former minister U T khader||In the wake of the recent incident of the murder of a 12-year-old boy, reportedly due to online gaming, the Mahila Congress wing of Dakshina Kannada district has decided to launch training programmes for women on Parental Access Code (PAC), which allows parents to monitor children’s activities on mobile phones. Mangalore MLA and former minister U T Khader said cyber experts will train 100 women leaders from the Mahila Congress who in turn will conduct training camps in various villages in the district. The proposal on the camps will be finalised shortly. The awareness, along with the training programme, will help women monitor the activities of their children while using mobile phones. This in turn will help in preventing the misuse of mobile phones. “There are plans to conduct the training programmes in selected villages within a month,” Khader added. "The government should make the appointment of counsellors in schools mandatory. Each taluk hospital in the state should have a counsellor to address issues related to children. Online games like PUBG should be banned effectively through a policy," he said. Online games are destroying the youth power. Students who are addicted to online games suffer mentally. A long-term policy to ban such games effectively is the need of the hour, Khader added. ‘Bring in law’ The former minister dared the BJP government to bring in Love Jihad law. The BJP government has been only making announcement on the law during elections, he said. He dared saffron outfits to hold protest against the BJP governments in Karnataka and at the Centre demanding Love Jihad law. Law and order situation in Dakshina Kannada has collapsed. A series of thefts and immoral policing incidents have taken place in the district in the last few days, he said. "The BJP executive committee meeting held in Mangaluru recently had resolved to urge the government to pass a law against Love Jihad in Karnataka. Why has the BJP failed to bring in law against Love Jihad?" he asked. The leaders remember the law during elections and later forget it. The leaders from Hindu organisations are instigating the youth to take law into their hands in the name of love jihad, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/appointment-of-counsellors-in-schools-should-be-mandatory-former-minister-u-t-khader-971274.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||NMPT inks pact with IOC to provide bunkering facilities to ships||The New Mangalore Port Trust signed an agreement with Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, Bengaluru for providing bunkering facilities to ships visiting the harbour and ships at anchorage/offshore at the port on Tuesday. The NMPT had invited tenders from firms having experience in supplying bunker fuel for the work of providing bunkering facilities to the ships visiting harbour and ships at anchorage/offshore at New Mangalore Port for a period of five years. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd won the bid H1 by offering the highest minimum volume of bunker fuel offered by a firm. Bunkering is a facility to supply fuel for use by ships and includes shipboard logistics of loading fuel and distributing it among available bunker tanks. The port had aimed to provide all the required facilities to the shipping community in general and for the port users in particular in a phased manner. The NMPT explored the possibilities of improving the facilities in the service sector especially in the area of shipping and in line with the guidelines and directives received from the Ministry of Ports Waterways and Shipping. Based on the present policy of the Central government, the NMPT initiated action to identify infrastructure projects and found that the bunkering facilities for catering ocean-going vessels, coastal vessels etc. if established in this port, will have enough potential since the Port is located on the main Trunk route. Considering the strategic location of the Port among the international sea routes, it is possible to provide bunkering services to the ships within the port area connected to all berths and also those anchored outside the International Waters. The objective was to provide the most appropriate facility from among the resources already available with the Port to serve as a full-fledged bunkering facility by incorporating the required modifications to achieve the intended purpose. After the formal contract agreement, the expected minimum cargo to be handled will be 90,000 MT annually. A V Ramana, Chairman, NMPT, Debabrata Mukherjee, GM – Institutional Business and V Jagadeeshwara Rao, Manager – Institutional Business were present at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nmpt-inks-pact-with-ioc-to-provide-bunkering-facilities-to-ships-971278.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Raichur bus stand wears a deserted look||Following an indefinite strike launched by transport employees, the Central bus stand in Raichur city wore a deserted look on Wednesday as not even a single government bus was parked.  Most of the commuters who got a tip of the strike in advance didn't arrive at the bus stand. Instead of the bus stand, buses have been parked in the seven depots as not even a single driver or conductor reported for duty.  Commuters are going to their destinations in jeeps, autorickshaws parked in front of the bus stand. "We are convincing the drivers and conductors to attend for duty. Some have agreed to report for the duty by today evening", Raichur divisional controller Venkatesh.  Buses from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are arriving in the district. A few passengers are going towards Karnool, Mantralaya and Mehboobnagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/raichur-bus-stand-wears-a-deserted-look-971379.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||RTC workers on strike, passengers in Belagavi look for alternatives||As employees of the Road Transport Corporation (RTC) in Karnataka's Belagavi district launched an indefinite strike, students and office-goers were forced to use autos and other modes of transport to reach their destinations. Bus platforms wore deserted looks with some passengers, who were unaware of the strike, seen waiting for a mode of transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rtc-workers-on-strike-passengers-in-belagavi-look-for-alternatives-971396.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||RTC strike: Transport department presses private buses into service in Mysuru||With KSRTC buses off the road due to a strike by RTC employees, the Transport department has pressed private buses into service. The private buses are ferrying passengers from suburban bus stands to different places. However, the officials have warned private operators not to harras passengers by over-charging. Private buses are operating to Mandya, Malavalli, Gundlupet, Chamarajanagar, Nanjangud among the other places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rtc-strike-transport-department-presses-private-buses-into-service-in-mysuru-971448.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 buses ply in Chitradurga despite RTC employees strike||Despite the strike by transport employees, three KSRTC buses plied with police security on Wednesday. The bus which had come from Pune via Davanagere headed towards Bengaluru. Another bus left for Huvinahadagali via Kottur and the other bus left for Davanagere via Bharamasagar. Regular commuters boarded private buses in the district, but they complained that private bus operators collected excess fare against fixed fare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-buses-ply-in-chitradurga-despite-rtc-employees-strike-971511.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||B R Hill temple priest tests positive for Covid-19||The priest of Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple and his family members have tested positive for Covid-19, creating anxiety among the temple employees and also others who have visited the temple in the last few days. It may be mentioned that homas and other temple rituals were conducted from March 29 to April 2, as part of the reopening of the temple, which remained closed for the last four years due to renovation works. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi too participated in the rituals. As the DC tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago, the priest, who was part of the temple rituals, and his family members underwent necessary tests and have tested positive for the virus. District incharge Minister S Suresh Kumar, MLAs N Mahesh and R Narendra, Assistant Commissioner Girish and others participated in the rituals. Besides, hundreds of devotees have visited the temple since Saturday, when the temple was opened for the public. The Health Department personnel have collected the samples of all the 35 temple employees. As the priest tested positive, the distribution of thirtha and prasad has been stopped. Besides, Dasoha has also been temporarily stalled. The temple premises have been sanitised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-r-hill-temple-priest-tests-positive-for-covid-19-971533.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC employee on padayatra to meet CM||Urging the government to fulfil their demands, a KSRTC employee has taken out a padayatra from Channarayapatna bus stand to Bengaluru, to meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Pradeep of Kantharajapura in the taluk, is the employee. The video clipping of him taking out a padayatra has been widely circulated on social media in the region. The video clip also shows him appealing to the CM to respond to their demands and resolve the issue at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-employee-on-padayatra-to-meet-cm-971623.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Last rites of actor Prathima Devi performed||The last rites of veteran Kannada actor Prathima Devi was held at the burial ground at the foot of Chamundi Hill in the city on Wednesday. The 88-year-old actor passed away due to age-related ailments in Bengaluru on Tuesday. The body was brought to Mysuru on Tuesday and kept for public view at her son, also film maker S V Rajendra Singh Babu’s house in Saraswathipuram.The last rites were conducted at 1.30 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/last-rites-of-actor-prathima-devi-performed-971626.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||3rd convocation of JSS STU tomorrow||The third convocation of JSS Science and Technology University (JSS STU) for the academic year 2019-20 will be held at 11 am on Friday and K K Aggarwal, Chairman of National Board of Accreditation, will deliver the convocation address. Addressing a media conference here, on Wednesday, acting vice-chancellor Siddaramaiah said, "During the last two convocations, only post-graduate students were conferred degrees, but this time, even under-graduate students are included." “A total of 1,363 students, including 49 rank holders, 31 with first rank and 18 endowment prize winners, will receive their degrees, amid restriction on the number of participants to 200, on the campus of Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering. Only rank holders, along with just one parent, are invited to take part in the convocation. Other students and their parents have been asked to join online, on YouTube and other social media platforms of the university,” he said. “The students include 873 of BE, 214 of MTech, 67 of MCA, 26 of MSc Chemistry and 183 of MBA. The certificates of the remaining students will be presented in separate ceremonies in their respective departments later,” he said. Seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swamy, executive secretary of JSS Mahavidyapeetha C G Betsurmath and advisor of the Technical Education division M H Dhananjaya will participate in the convocation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3rd-convocation-of-jss-stu-tomorrow-971628.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||B R Hill temple priest tests positive for Covid||The priest of Biligiri Ranganathaswamy temple and his family members have tested positive for Covid-19, creating anxiety among the temple employees and others who have visited the temple since the last few days. It may be mentioned that homas and other rituals were conducted from March 29 to April 2, as part of the reopening of the temple. The temple had remained closed for the last four years, due to renovation works. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi too participated in the rituals. As the DC tested positive for Covid, a few days ago, the priest, who was a part of the rituals, and his family members underwent Covid tests and have been confirmed as positive. District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar, MLAs N Mahesh and R Narendra and Assistant Commissioner Girish took part in the rituals. Besides, hundreds of devotees have visited the temple from Saturday, after the temple was opened for the public. The Health department personnel have collected samples of all 35 temple employees. As the priest tested positive, distribution of thirtha and prasad has been stopped. Besides, Dasoha has been temporarily stalled. The temple premises has been sanitised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-r-hill-temple-priest-tests-positive-for-covid-971629.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Buses stay off the roads in dists, pvt operators fleece public||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses stayed off the roads on Wednesday, due to the state-wide strike called by the employees’ association demanding implementation of 6th Pay Commission in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts on Wednesday. However, the private vehicles like buses, maxi cabs, cabs and autorickshaws operated at all the districts, minimising the inconvenience to the daily commuters. But, the fare was doubled and the commuters made to pay more. It was a common scene to see the private operators exploiting the public making use of the situation, in all the districts. As the KSRTC buses stayed off the roads from Tuesday evening itself, those returning from schools, offices and others were caught unaware. While the KSRTC bus fare from Hassan to Bengaluru was Rs 193, the private buses charged Rs 500 to Bengaluru, Rs 400 to Mysuru and Rs 100 for Channarayapatna. The passengers had no other option, but to pay hefty fares. Meanwhile, in Mandya, two buses plied as usual amid the protest and served the people, inviting accolades from the public in Maddur. The two buses plied between Maddur and Koppa route. Speaking to the reporters, driver Jayaramu said, “The employees should understand that it is not right to put their demand during the present Covid crisis. Besides, it would affect thousands of people across the state.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/buses-stay-off-the-roads-in-dists-pvt-operators-fleece-public-971630.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC stir: Private operators press buses into service||The buses of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) remained off roads, as KSRTC employees launched an indefinite strike, demanding wage revision, from Wednesday. Private operators were pressed into service, to ferry passengers from Mysuru. Due to the protest, thousands of people, who are dependent on public transport, faced hardship. A large number of people, including students and employees, in Mysuru city as well as rural Mysuru were affected. The city bus stand and sub-urban bus stand wore a deserted look. Employees of garments industries, private factories, and college students faced the heat of the strike and blamed the government as well as the KSRTC crew, for troubling the people. Even the students of University of Mysore (UoM) faced the heat of the strike. There was examination and many students struggled to reach the college on time. The students from rural Mysuru as well as the city, faced hardships to get transportation. The students were forced to pay more for autos and cabs. The students expressed displeasure against the authorities of the UoM for not postponing the examination despite KSRTC employees protest. Sandesh, a student, said, "It is not right on the part of the government to harass its employees. The government had promised of fulfilling the demands, during previous protest, but, failed." The Transport department pressed private buses and maxi cabs into service. Maxi-cabs and private buses operated from KSRTC sub-urban bus stand. Private operators offered services to Malavalli, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Nanjangud and other places from Mysuru. An officer said, “Despite repeated requests, the employees are reluctant. We allowed private operators to ferry passengers at nominal charges. We have allowed private operators to operate as per the directions of the higher officials. The permit of private buses and maxi-cabs will be renewed immediately." The employees must understand the situation of the government and the public. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, KSRTC is facing a financial crunch. It is not in a position to hike the salaries. The employees must understand this and return to work, he said. An officer said, "The officials held a meeting with private bus owners and maxi-cab owners and they are ready to provide service. However, the officials have warned of legal action, if any operator demands higher charges."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-stir-private-operators-press-buses-into-service-971631.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru reports 243 fresh Covid-19 cases||Mysuru reported 243 Covid-19 positive cases and two deaths on Wednesday. The total number of positive cases is 57,169 and the total number of deaths is 1,069. There are 1,453 active cases in the Mysuru district. Among the new cases, 174 are primary contacts of infected persons, while 58 are suffering from Influenza-like illness (ILI) and 11 are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases. While the Health Department authorities have observed a total of 3,42,045 persons till date, 2,79,052 persons have successfully completed quarantine and 5,824 are under quarantine. A total of 54,647 persons have recovered and are discharged from the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-reports-243-fresh-covid-19-cases-971656.html
07-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||New Karnataka CM certain after May 2, says Basanagouda Patil Yatnal||Disgruntled BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Wednesday set another date for Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s replacement even as he mounted a fresh attack on him and his family members for alleged corruption.  “After May 2, the change will happen for sure. It’ll be someone from North Karnataka who will become the CM,” Yatnal told reporters at Vidhana Soudha. May 2 is when the result of the five states’ elections will be out.  “Does Yediyurappa enjoy a special status that Kashmir used to have,” Yatnal asked. “In the backdrop of the party’s policy (of not giving tickets to those above 75 years), it’s a bonus that Yediyurappa got two years extra,” he said, urging Yediyurappa to “voluntarily retire” after April 17, the day when Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan assembly seats have bypolls. Yatnal, a former union minister, said more legislators and ministers will “rise up” after April 17. “Right now, they’re being forced to go before the media and issue statements in support of Yediyurappa,” he said.  The BJP central leadership was taking note of all developments, he said. “They’re noticing scams, transfer mafia and how the High Court is blasting the government,” he said.  The former union minister claimed that BJP vice-president and Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra was summoned to Delhi by the Enforcement Directorate for an inquiry. “Let Vijayendra deny this. Let him say he did not transfer thousands of crores from Federal Bank to a foreign bank. Let the father-son duo make a statement against me instead of speaking through unimportant people,” Yatnal said, adding that “their true colours and the loot will be out soon”.  This is not the first time Yatnal cat-called Yediyurappa. In February, the BJP issued a show-cause notice to Yatnal. However, the notice did little to keep Yatnal from attacking the Yediyurappa administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/new-karnataka-cm-certain-after-may-2-says-basanagouda-patil-yatnal-971592.html
07-04-2021||Main Article||Democracy in danger||Seemingly, the essence of our democratic republic is over. Its legitimacy is being severely eroded. This proposition owes much to the recent Government of National Capital Territory Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, or the Delhi Act for short, hurriedly passed by Parliament, enhancing the powers of the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi. The Constitution allows the President some limited space to check the excesses of the government by asking it to reconsider the Bill, but the President also failed in his duties to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution and gave assent to the Bill on March 29.    The legal deadlock between the elected Delhi government and the Union government appointee Lt-Governor (L-G) is not very old. The political battle turned theatrical when Delhi High Court reduced an elected government merely to a ‘parasitically dependent’ department of the central government. The L-G started acting as an agent of the Centre, a trend that goes against the spirit of a federal constitution. The constitutional issue was resolved in 2018 by the Supreme Court in Government of NCT of Delhi v. Union of India. The Constitution Bench comprising then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra, Justices AK Sikri, AM Khanwilkar, DY Chandrachud and Ashok Bhushan ruled that the “L-G is an administrative head in the limited sense and bound by the aid and advice of NCT Government in areas other than those exempted.” The apex court observed that the elected representatives and the Council of Ministers of Delhi, being accountable to the voters of Delhi, must have appropriate powers so as to perform their functions effectively and efficiently. It further held that “the exercise of establishing a democratic and representative form of government for NCT of Delhi by insertion of Articles 239AA and 239AB would turn futile if the Government of Delhi that enjoys the confidence of the people of Delhi is not able to usher in policies and laws over which the Delhi Legislative Assembly has power to legislate for the NCT of Delhi.” But if the government at the Centre is determined, even decisions of the apex court cannot come in its way. Precedents are several, when the government has got laws passed in order to overcome the difficulties created by court judgements. For instance, in 1986, the Rajiv Gandhi government got passed an act titled ‘The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act, 1986’ that nullified the Supreme Court’s judgement in the Shah Bano case. Diluting the Supreme Court judgement, the Act allowed maintenance to a divorced woman only during the period of iddat, or till 90 days after the divorce, according to the provisions of Islamic law. The Modi government recently enacted a law to overturn a Supreme Court order concerning certain safeguards against arrest under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. This has been done despite clear directives of the Supreme Court that the government cannot dilute its judgements. This time, something more serious is at stake. The Delhi Act not only reflects the frustration of a party – the BJP -- that was badly defeated in the last two elections to the Delhi Assembly and was trying its best to settle a score, but also makes the Delhi government subordinate to Delhi’s L-G, an unelected functionary, by declaring him to be the “Government of Delhi”. It provides that the opinion of the L-G “shall be obtained” on all such matters as may be specified by the L-G, before taking any executive action on decisions of the Council of Ministers of the Delhi government.  The Bill also prohibits the Legislative Assembly from making any rule to enable itself or its committees to: (i) consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the NCT of Delhi and (ii) conduct any inquiry in relation to administrative decisions. Further, any provision in force having the above-said effect will be void. The Delhi Act is a serious blow to our federal system and parliamentary democracy. Ignoring the guidelines of the Supreme Court, pronounced in the 2018 case, it has abducted the democratic power from an elected government and transferred it to an unelected authority that is not accountable to the people of Delhi. This is nothing but a clear case of exercising power without responsibility. It is a misuse of its parliamentary majority by a government that is determined to weaken the Opposition at any cost. Constitutional and political pundits rightly believe that this Act does not only restrict the powers of an elected government, but this is a fraud on the people of Delhi who had chosen a government to serve them while the central government is deliberately creating hurdles in its functioning. Ultimately, it is the people of Delhi who will suffer because of this political confrontation between the Centre and the Delhi government. In addition, this Act also violates the fundamental principles of our parliamentary democracy and federal structure, which are parts of the basic structure of the Constitution. Parliament cannot violate these inviolable principles. Parliament is not above the Constitution. It is bound to exercise its law-making powers within the constitutional framework and well-settled norms. Parliamentary majority cannot be a tool of harassment and exploitation of Opposition-ruled governments that do not fall in line with the ruling dispensation at the Centre. The Delhi Act is ill-advised and dangerous for our parliamentary democracy. A legal challenge appears inevitable. The Supreme Court should reinforce its own ruling in 2018 and thus reinforce democratic principles.    (Malik is advocate, Supreme Court and Singh is Professor of Law at NLU, Odisha)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/democracy-in-danger-971305.html
07-04-2021||Main Article||Indo-Pak dialogue: Tame the spoilers||The Imran Khan cabinet’s reversal of the Pakistan Economic Coordination Committee’s decision to allow imports of cotton and sugar from India, which would have ended nearly two years of suspension of trade, indicates that the road to normalisation between the nuclear-armed rivals is paved with impediments. In a context of conflict resolution where there are deep-seated societal reservations about dialogue, the viability of a top-down approach is predicated on a potent bottom-up strategy. Otherwise, it is easy for spoilers to challenge the top-down approach. The opposition of three ministers in Imran Khan’s cabinet to the resumption of partial trade with India is a manifestation of this reality. In the 1990s, when violence in Kashmir valley was at its peak, Pakistan’s Federal Minister for Human Rights Shireen Mazari was known for her consistent hardline stance on PTV. Sheikh Rasheed Ahmad, who is currently Pakistan’s Interior Minister, and quite popular for his acerbic humour, had embarrassed his government as a minister in 2006. During a visit of Kashmiri separatist leaders to Pakistan, which was facilitated by both India and Pakistan, Sheikh Rasheed boasted that he had given his farmhouse near Islamabad over to Kashmiri militants for arms training in the early 1990s. Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who comes from a lineage of Sufi saints in the south-western Seraki-speaking Punjab province, has shown keenness to score brownie points rather than to exhibit diplomatic finesse. One of his fatal mistakes as foreign minister was when he publicly criticised the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for not acceding to Pakistan’s request to call the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation Foreign Ministers’ meet to criticise India’s revocation of Article 370. Qureshi was criticised for jeopardising Pakistan’s interests with one of its time-tested allies, which is also the de facto leader of the Islamic world. Unlike Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has near-complete control over the polity as the country’s elected leader, the reality in Pakistan is understandably more complex. Pakistan’s army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa retires in 2022, and Prime Minister Imran Khan has a mandate till 2023. The prevailing opposition in some significant segments of Pakistan to dialogue with India, which is exploited by the spoilers, needs to be unpacked and addressed strategically as this will outlast the current dispensation. One aspect is the fear of demographic change in J&K in the post-Article 370 landscape. The practical reality is that no national party in India can politically afford to call for reversing the revocation of Article 370. What Moeed Yusuf, Pakistan’s de facto National Security Adviser, said in an interview may provide a middle path to both countries. He had implicitly stated that revocation of Article 370 per se matters little to Pakistan as it is part of the Indian Constitution and clarified that Pakistan’s opposition is based on fear that “a demographic change will be attempted after revoking (Article) 370.” Evidence since the revocation of Article 370 is that no outsider has bought land in J&K. As per the new rules extant in what’s now a Union Territory, “people who have been living in J&K for 15 years, those who have studied for 7 years, or appeared in Class 10/12 examination from an educational institution in the region, as well as their children, are eligible for domicile.” Around 3.1 lakh certificates were issued to the dependents/holders of erstwhile Permanent Resident (PR) status of Jammu & Kashmir. A total of around 35 lakh applications for domicile certificates have been received and out of these, 32 lakh were accepted, around two lakh applications, which lacked the prescribed documents, were rejected. Only about one lakh people, who did not have PR status earlier, have been given domicile, and all of these had longstanding resident status in J&K. Thus, prima facie, the facts on the ground do not give credence to the charge that demographic change is being effected in J&K post-Article 370 revocation. This reality needs to filter across the border. Another aspect is to inoculate efforts toward normalisation of ties from the electronic media. As soon as the decision to import sugar and cotton was announced by Pakistan, some Indian TV channels attributed it to the weakness of the Pakistani economy. This is coupled with opposition to dialogue with India in the heartland of Pakistan’s Punjab province, which needs to be addressed in a more strategic manner. The bulk of migration of Muslims in 1947 -- including of some prominent Pakistani icons such as singer Malika Pukhraj, economist Mahbub ul Haq, who is known for his work at the UNDP introducing the concept of Human Development Index, and former Pakistan Air Force (PAF) Chief Air Marshal Asghar Khan -- took place from the southern part of J&K to Pakistan -- the highest outside East Punjab. Some 1.5 million people living in the Punjab province of Pakistan are descendants of migrants from this area. The contesting position of the two countries on J&K has kept the institutionalised trauma of the Partition riots alive for them, unlike for other categories of refugee families on either side. In this context, a low-hanging fruit is the opening up of the Suchetgarh (Jammu)-Sialkot (Pakistani Punjab) route for movement of families with a J&K connection. This could help reduce some of the misconceptions of Punjabi Muslims about J&K. It will also showcase J&K’s huge diversity -- ethnic, regional as well as religious. At the same time, there will be more awareness in Pakistani Punjab about the 1947 en masse migration of Hindus and Sikhs from Pakistan-controlled J&K, whose descendants now live in Jammu and Delhi. They will find a similar institutionalised trauma of the Partition riots that exists among Hindus and Sikh refugee families. By factoring in the role of spoilers, including a polarising media, the two countries should work to create simultaneous top-down and bottom-up strategies that could complement each other to create a more amicable environment for making progress on contested issues. (The writer is the author of ‘Across the LoC’, published by Columbia University Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/indo-pak-dialogue-tame-the-spoilers-971689.html
07-04-2021||National||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan reviews Covid-19 situation of 11 states||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that most of the Covid-19 deaths in the second wave have taken place in the 60-plus age group even though people in the 15-44 age bracket were getting infected more this time. At a review meeting with health ministers of 11 states — Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan — with rising Covid-19 numbers, Vardhan also shared his concerns on Chhattisgarh, which has been emerging as a big troubling area on the Covid-19 front. While Maharashtra overwhelms all the other states on the number of fresh daily cases and death count, the situation in Chhattisgarh is worsening every day. “The worst-affected state (after Maharashtra) is Chhattisgarh with a positivity rate of 20% and growth rate of 8%. There has been a 10-fold rise in cases. In Punjab, 80% of the UK variant cases were found, which was confirmed by genome sequencing,” Vardhan said at the review. Earlier, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said the central Indian state witnessed a weekly positivity rate of nearly 17% in the current week. But still, its share of RT-PCR tests in the mix of diagnostics remains in the range of around 30% instead of recommended 70%. The 11 states together contributed to 54% of India’s total Covid-19 cases and 65% of deaths in the country, with a disproportionately high number of deaths in Maharashtra and Punjab and a high test positivity rate in Maharashtra (25%) and Chhattisgarh. Vardhan noted since February 2021, these states witnessed a steep increase in cases and a majority of such cases have been reported in the younger population of 15-44 years. But the majority of the deaths have been reported among the 60-plus population. The minister observed that a large part of the reason for the surge in cases in almost all parts of the country, more specifically in these 11 states, was that people’s lax behavior towards Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-reviews-covid-19-situation-of-11-states-971232.html
07-04-2021||National||Allahabad HC's Lucknow bench stops physical hearing of matters due to rising Covid-19 cases||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court has stopped physical hearing of matters due to a recent spike in COVID-19 cases in the state capital. It has decided to conduct a hearing of only urgent cases through video conferencing and as of now, the decision is for this week. The senior registrar of the court issued an administrative order to this effect on Tuesday. The court deferred regular hearings on Monday and only urgent matters were being taken up with strict guidelines on the entry of lawyers in court rooms. But considering the COVID-19 situation, the court administration passed a new order, restricting itself to only video conferencing. In the order, the senior registrar said that a link would be sent on registered mobile numbers to those lawyers whose urgent cases would be listed on a particular day. The lawyers would be at liberty to join the video conference from their chambers. In case, any lawyer has difficulty joining the viceo conference from his chamber, she can use the VC cabins prepared at the mediation centre in the court premises, according to the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allahabad-hcs-lucknow-bench-stops-physical-hearing-of-matters-due-to-rising-covid-19-cases-971260.html
07-04-2021||National||High-stakes Assembly polls see impressive turnout; clashes reported in several areas||A high voter turnout of 65 percent to over 82 percent was recorded in Assembly elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Assam and West Bengal on Tuesday, with the Congress along with its allies like the DMK locked in a keen contest to regain turf in South India. Polling was held in 475 seats across the four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry, and the remaining phases will cover only West Bengal, before the counting of votes on May 2. In Kerala, where the Left is hoping to beat anti-incumbency to retain power, a feat unseen in four decades, and the BJP is making efforts to build inroads, nearly 74 percent polling was recorded in the 140 seats till 7 PM. There was nearly 65 percent voting in Tamil Nadu for 234 assembly constituencies and around 80 percent in Puducherry's 30 seats. The three-phase assembly election culminated in Assam with 82.33 percent in 40 seats polling in the final round in the state where the ruling BJP is battling the Congress-led alliance to retain power. The trend of high turnout and violence during polling continued in West Bengal as the ruling Trinamool Congress, the BJP and the Left-Congress alliance put up an intense fight in the high-stakes contest. Five candidates, including two women, were assaulted in poll-related clashes as over 77 percent voting was recorded in 31 seats in West Bengal in the third phase. Violence was reported in areas like Uluberia, Khanakul, Falta, Canning Purba, Durbrajpur and Hooghly, where a BJP supporter's family member was killed. The state is having eight-phase elections. Stray incidents of clashes between workers of rival parties were also reported in other states. The massive polling exercise following Covid-19 health protocol and involving lakhs of personnel began at 7 AM and the last hour from 6 PM to 7 PM was set aside for Covid-19 patients and those under isolation. DMK Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi, who is being treated for Covid-19, voted at a polling station in Chennai while wearing a Personal Protective Equipment kit. In Tamil Nadu, both the Dravidian parties AIADMK and DMK went into the election without their stalwarts, J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi. Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam will cement their position as successors of Jayalalithaa if the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazagham (AIADMK) retains power though it faces an uphill task especially after the rout in the 2019 Lok Sabha election when the DMK-led alliance won 38 out of 39 seats. The AIADMK had scored successive wins in 2011 and in 2016, when Jayalalithaa bucked the anti-incumbency trend -- the first by anyone in nearly three decades in the state. After a narrow defeat in the last assembly election where several exit polls had predicted his party’s win, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief M K Stalin spearheaded a determined election campaign this time and vigorously toured the state to take on the ruling AIADMK. He is seeking re-election for the straight third term from the Kolathur segment here while his son and party youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin is debuting from Chepauk- Triplicance constituency. AIADMK Lok Sabha MP P Ravindhranath alleged that he and his supporters were attacked by DMK men on Tuesday. DMK's Thondamuthur constituency nominee in Coimbatore district, Karthikeya Sivesenapathy alleged that ruling AIADMK and BJP people tried to attack him when he was travelling in a car. Makkal Needhi Maiam, founded in 2018 and led by actor-politician Kamal Haasan, is trying its luck in Assembly polls for the first time. AIADMK ally BJP, which had not won any seat in the last polls, is contesting in 20 constituencies. Another AIADMK ally PMK is contesting from 23 constituencies. The Congress, an ally of the DMK, is in the fray in 25 Assembly segments. Celebrities like Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan were among the early voters. Chief Minister Palaniswami cast his vote in his native Salem district and Stalin, after paying homage at the mausoleum of his party patriarch M Karunanidhi and party founder CN Annadurai, voted in Chennai. In Kerala, where the Left Democratic Front (LDF) is seeking to break the state's four-decade-old trend of swinging between the communists and the Congress-led United Democratic Front, the electors decided the fate of 957 candidates in 140 Assembly constituencies across the state. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, health minister K K Shailaja, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, Power Minister M M Mani and Higher Education Minister K K Jaleel are among the prominent personalities trying their electoral luck from the ruling side. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, senior leaders K Muraleedharan, P T Thomas and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan are among those contesting from the UDF fold. The BJP, which has failed to make a dent in the state, has fielded former Mizoram Governor Kummanam Rajasekharan, 'Metroman' E Sreedharan, who joined the saffron party recently, state president K Surendran , senior leader Shobha Surendran and Rajya Sabha members Suresh Gopi and K J Alphons. The poll is significant for Kerala Congress (M) chief Jose K Mani who recently snapped decades-long ties with the UDF and joined hands with the Left front. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had camped in the state for several days and taken part in dozens of corner meetings and rallies, with the party hoping that the state will herald a turn in its electoral fortunes after a series of disappointments in recent years. Two voters, including a woman, standing in the queue in Aranmula in Pathnamthitta and Chavittuavary in Kottayam collapsed and died. Tempers ran high at Kattayikonam in Kazhakootam constituency, a stronghold of the Marxist party in Thiruvananthapuram district, as CPI(M) and BJP workers clashed. Four BJP workers were injured and their car was damaged. Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who is the LDF candidate from the constituency, told reporters that the protestors aimed to disrupt the voting procedure and alleged that police had acted as "BJP agent". Three Marxist workers, including the minister's personal staff, have been taken into custody. Sobha Surendran, the BJP candidate from Kazhakootam constituency, had earlier in the day held a sit-in in front of a polling booth in the area. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, seeking re-election from Dharmadom in Kannur, expressed confidence that the LDF would be voted back to power and register a 'historic win'. The BJP account in Nemom, the solitary seat won by the saffron party in the 2016 polls, will be 'closed', he said. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, however, said that a high turnout always augurs well for the UDF. Puducherry witnessed a contest between the AINRC-led NDA and the Congress-led Secular Democratic alliance. While AINRC fielded candidates in 16 of the total 30 constituencies the BJP is contesting nine seats while the AIADMK is contesting five seats. Yanam, where the AINRC leader N Rangasamy is contesting, registered a higher percentage of polling than other regions. The Congress has fielded candidates in 14 out of the 15 seats; The national party is supporting an independent in Yanam. The DMK, its main alliance partner, has fielded candidates in 13 seats and the VCK and CPI are contesting from one constituency each. The Congress-led government in the Union Territory had collapsed just before the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-stakes-assembly-polls-see-impressive-turnout-clashes-reported-in-several-areas-971264.html
07-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India cross 8.4 crore: Union Health Ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country have crossed 8.40 crore, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. These include 89,60,966 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 53,77,011 HCWs who have taken the second dose of the vaccine. A total of 97,30,304 frontline workers (FLWs) have received the first dose and 42,68,788 FLWs the second dose. Besides 2,00,51,197 and 3,96,769 beneficiaries, from 45 years to 59 years old, have been administered the first and second doses, respectively, while 3,44,18,802 and 8,61,520 beneficiaries above 60 years have been given the first and second doses, respectively, it said. "A total of 8,40,65,357 vaccine doses have been given so far in the country," said the provisional report till 8 pm on Tuesday.   The ministry said 5,62,807 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm on Tuesday, the eighty-first day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme. Out of which, 4,57,749 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 1,05,058 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine as per the provisional report. It said final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of the drive commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.  India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-cross-84-crore-union-health-ministry-971270.html
07-04-2021||National||Serum Institute of India can resume Covid-19 vaccine export by June if cases ease, says Adar Poonawalla||The world's largest vaccine maker, based in India, will be able to restart exports of AstraZeneca doses by June if new coronavirus infections subside in the country, its chief executive said Tuesday. But a continued surge could result in more delays because the Serum Institute of India would have to meet domestic needs, Adar Poonawalla warned in an interview with The Associated Press. The company is a key supplier for the UN-backed COVAX program that aims to distribute vaccines equitably in the world. On March 25, COVAX announced a major setback in its vaccine rollout because a surge in infections in India caused the Serum Institute of India to cater to domestic demand, resulting in a delay in global shipments of up to 90 million doses. Since then, daily new infections in India have almost doubled, with the biggest single-day spike of over 100,000 new cases on Monday. Infections are being reported faster in India than anywhere else in the world, prompting tougher virus restrictions in New Delhi and its financial capital, Mumbai. India initially immunised the most vulnerable, but broadened that to anyone over 45 on April 1 because of the surge in cases. The resulting increased demand forced the halt in exports. Since then, several top state officials have urged the federal government to further expand vaccinations. Poonawalla said the company has "chosen to prioritise India temporarily for two months” and hopes to then restart exports. If India's surge in infections doesn't subside, "I am scared of what ... we will have to do, and what will happen,” he said. “We are going to have to keep supplying to India, and not anywhere else. Because we have to protect our nation.” He acknowledged that has put a “strain on our contractual obligations” to provide vaccines to other countries, and that he has been fielding phone calls from various heads of state. “I've had to politely explain to everybody the situation,” he said, adding that most world leaders understood because they were facing the same issues — the needs of domestic politics and questions raised by opposition parties and the public. “Nationalism is happening ... to a certain extent, everywhere,” Poonawalla said, pointing to vaccine export controls imposed by Europe, and the use in the United States of the Defense Production Act to prevent exports of critical raw materials needed to scale up vaccine manufacturing. He said the unavailability of these raw materials, such as the specific medium needed to grow microorganisms, could affect the Serum Institute's production of another vaccine, Novavax, which is still being tested in India. It has signed a deal to supply Novavax to COVAX, but pivoting to different suppliers of the raw materials would result in a delay of five to six months, he said. “The crunch ... for supplies is today," he said. Dr. Bruce Aylward, a senior adviser to World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said vaccine supplies for COVAX remain fluid. “Obviously, if we have an interruption with any one of our suppliers for a short time, a month or so, we can find ways to try and manage as best we can with the countries. And if it's longer than that, obviously it would be a big challenge,” he said at a WHO briefing Tuesday. “Clearly were there a complete interruption from any supplier, that would be a real problem,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-can-resume-covid-19-vaccine-export-by-june-if-cases-ease-says-adar-poonawalla-971280.html
07-04-2021||National||India logged record 1.07 lakh daily Covid-19 cases for first time on Tuesday||The number of coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country with over 1.07 lakh new infections reported on Tuesday, according to the data provided by governments of various states and Union territories. The number of coronavirus cases breached the 1-lakh mark for the second time in three days with the central government asserting that one of the major reasons for the surge in infections was people becoming lax towards following Covid-appropriate behaviour. According to the daily numbers announced by various states and UTs, the nationwide tally of new cases reported on Tuesday crossed 1.07 lakh mark, the highest ever in India since the first case of the deadly virus was reported in January 2020. The states and UTs reporting a large surge included Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Punjab, Chandigarh, Gujarat and Rajasthan, while several other states also reported a lot more new cases than in the recent past in what is being called the second wave of this deadly pandemic. Among the states with a rapid surge in infections, Maharashtra reported 55,469 cases, Chhattisgarh 9,921 cases, Delhi 5,100 cases, Gujarat 3,280 cases and Rajasthan 2,236 cases. Among southern states, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana also reported high daily figures. Some states or UTs were yet to announce their tallies for new cases during the day and therefore the overall nationwide tally for the day could be higher than 1.07 lakh. The Health Ministry data updated at 8 am on Tuesday morning showed that a total of 96,982 cases have been reported in a span of 24 hours. The data on Monday morning showed 1,03,558 single day new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who reviewed the Covid-19 situation and the progress of vaccination in Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan, said these 11 states together contributed 54 per cent of the total cases and 65 per cent of the total deaths in the country, with a disproportionately high number of deaths in Maharashtra and Punjab. Vardhan noted that since February, these states have witnessed a steep increase in cases, the majority of which have been reported in the younger population of 15-44 years, the Health Ministry said in a statement. The minister highlighted that one of the major reasons for the surge in cases in almost all parts of the country, more specifically in these 11 states, was people becoming lax towards following Covid appropriate behaviour and urged them take up mass awareness campaigns to re-instill the importance of such measures among the masses. The health minister chaired a comprehensive and detailed review of the Covid-19 cases, vaccination status and challenges being faced by the states in management of coronavirus. At a media briefing, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said the pandemic situation in the country has worsened with a sharp rise in cases and a large part of the population is still susceptible to the virus. The tools to fight the pandemic remain the same and Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment measures, testing have to be implemented more efficiently, medical infrastructure has to be ramped up and vaccination drive intensified, he said. Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, staying away from crowds have to be followed in a campaign mode, Paul said. Amid the spike in coronavirus cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers on Thursday to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive. Modi's last interaction with chief ministers was on March 17 during which he had expressed concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in parts of the country and called for "quick and decisive" steps to check the "emerging second peak". The Centre also said on Tuesday an increase in the intensity of the pandemic has led Covid-19 to spread at a faster pace than last year and the next four weeks are very critical.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logged-record-107-lakh-daily-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-on-tuesday-971283.html
07-04-2021||National||Padmashree awardee and journalist Fatma Zakaria passes away||Noted educationist and journalist Fatma Zakaria, a Padmashri awardee, died here in Maharashtra on Tuesday. Zakaria, 85, was the wife of the former minister, MP and writer late Rafiq Zakaria, and mother of noted journalist Fareed Zakaria. She was the chairman of the Maulana Azad Educational Trust. She breathed her last on Tuesday evening, a senior official of the Maulana Azad College said, adding that she was undergoing treatment at a hospital here for the last one week. "Her last rites will be performed in Maulana Azad Campus on Wednesday morning," Maulana Azad College principal Mazhar Farooqui told PTI. Fatma Zakaria headed several other educational institutions. She had a long career in the fields of journalism, social work, publishing and education spanning over 50 years, another official said. After completing her education in Lucknow and Mumbai, she established childcare and a women's industrial home in Mumbai in 1958 where over 500 underprivileged children were given day-care and education while their mothers were trained to support the income of their families. In 1963, Fatma Zakaria started writing for children in The Illustrated Weekly of India. From 1970 to 1980, she worked with the prestigious English magazine on different posts. She also worked as Assistant Editor with The Times of India. She was awarded Sarojini Naidu Integration Award for journalism in 1983. She is survived by two sons- Arshad Zakaria and Fareed Zakaria. "An innovative, personality which was active in society. My Condolences are with Arshad and Fareed Zakaria," NCP MP Supriya Sule tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padmashree-awardee-and-journalist-fatma-zakaria-passes-away-971295.html
07-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Gehlot writes to Modi, seeks integrated SOP for states||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to finalise an integrated standard operating procedure (SOP) for Covid control to ensure better coordination among states, an official release said on Tuesday. The chief minister also suggested that the vaccination of people aged above 18 be started in the country, it said. At present, India is vaccinating people aged above 45. In the first two phases of the vaccination drive, healthcare and frontline workers and people over 60 were inoculated. In his letter to Modi, Gehlot stressed the need for integrated and holistic efforts to effectively control the spread of Covid-19, the release said. The chief minister said there is a lack of coordination among states regarding different strategies for Covid control, inter-state issues such as mandatory Covid-19 test for travel, lockdown, night curfew and functioning of educational institutions, due to which there is confusion and fear among the public. There is a need for an integrated SOP to overcome this, he added. Gehlot said there has been an "unprecedented" increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in almost all the states of the country including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan in the last one month. Covid control needs to be made more effective, he said. Gehlot also urged the prime minister to open vaccination for people over 18. So far, India has administered 8,31,10,926 Covid-19 vaccine doses as part of the nationwide vaccination drive which began on January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-gehlot-writes-to-modi-seeks-integrated-sop-for-states-971320.html
07-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Over 20 crore people exercise franchise||A high voter turnout of 65 per cent to over 82 per cent was recorded in assembly elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Assam and West Bengal on Tuesday, with the Congress along with its allies like the DMK locked in a keen contest to regain turf in South India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-over-20-crore-people-exercise-franchise-971328.html
07-04-2021||National||External Affairs Minister Jaishankar holds talks with John Kerry||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday held talks with US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry with a focus on issues relating to global climate action. Kerry is currently on a visit to India. "Good to see US @ClimateEnvoy John Kerry again. Discussed issues of global climate action. As always, passionate and interesting on this subject," Jaishankar tweeted. The US Embassy said over the next few days, Kerry will meet with representatives of the Indian government, private sector, and non-governmental organisations. Climate change has been a major area of focus for President Joe Biden. After taking charge as the US president, Biden on January 20 announced the return of the US to the Paris climate accord. Biden has invited 40 world leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to a virtual summit on the climate crisis later this month. Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin were among the key leaders invited to the two-day conference beginning April 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-john-kerry-971334.html
07-04-2021||National||The Lead: Issues surrounding police reforms in India||In this episode of The Lead,  Ramnivas Gurjar, a research scholar at the Centre for the study of law and governance at JNU, speaks about the issues surrounding police reforms in the country.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to The Lead by DH Radio. Today we will talk about police reforms. To talk about that we are joined by Ramnivas Gurjar, who is a research scholar at the Centre for the study of law and governance at JNU. Ramnivas is currently pursuing his research on the role of the police in times of majoritarian politics.  Hi Ram and welcome to DH Radio. Ramnivas Gurjar: Hi. Ahmed: Could you explain the police structure in the country before we speak about the reforms. Ramnivas: First we have to look into the history of how this agency was established. This agency was established in colonial times and its structures was even in the Mughul period too. It was consolidated in colonial times. The purpose of establishing this is clear that the colonial masters wanted to simply control the subjects... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-issues-surrounding-police-reforms-in-india-971349.html
07-04-2021||National||1 commando our hostage, ready to negotiate with government for release: Maoists||The outlawed CPI (Maoist) has claimed that CoBRA commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, who went missing after the April 3 ambush in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region, is in captivity of ultras, and asked the state government to appoint interlocutors for his release. The Maoists have, however, not raised any formal demands for the release of the commando. Police are verifying the authenticity of the statement, purportedly issued by the outlaws. The banned outfit also admitted that four of its cadres were killed in the encounter in which 22 security personnel had lost their lives. Constable Rakeshwar Singh Manhas of the 210th CoBRA battalion, an elite unit of CRPF, had gone missing after the gunfight along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts last Saturday. The CPI (Maoist) statement also claimed that 24 security personnel were killed in the encounter. "As many as 2,000 police personnel had reached near Jiragudem village to execute a major attack (on Saturday). To thwart them, PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) retaliated during which 24 security personnel were killed and 31 others injured. We have caught a policeman (CoBRA commando) at the spot while others escaped," said a statement purportedly written by Maoists and being circulated on social media on Tuesday. It said the government should first announce names of interlocutors and the jawan will be released later. He will remain safe in our captivity till then, it said. The two-page statement was issued in the name of Vikalp, spokesperson of the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) of Maoists, which had been instrumental in executing several deadly attacks in south Bastar, including the Jhiram valley attack in Bastar district on May 25, 2013, in which top Congress leaders of Chhattisgarh unit were killed. Maoists admitted that four cadres were killed in the Bijapur gunfight and the body of the slain woman cadre could not be retrieved from the spot. The body of a woman Naxal was recovered by security forces from the encounter spot. The ultras also claimed to have seized 14 weapons, 2,000 cartridges and other materials from the encounter site. The photographs issued with the purported statement shows the looted arms and ammunition. However, sources in police had said at least 12 Naxals were killed in the gunfight that lasted for over 4 hours. According to the police, ten weapons, including seven AK-47 rifles, two SLR rifles and one Light Machine Gun (LMG), of the security personnel went missing after the attack. Meanwhile, a senior police officer said the authenticity of the statement is being verified. "The authenticity of the statement issued by Maoists claiming that they have held hostage the jawan is being verified. Further action will be taken accordingly," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. Police have been continuously carrying out searches to trace Manhas, and local villagers, social organisations, local public representatives and journalists are also being contacted to locate his whereabouts, the IG said. Tribal Activist Soni Sori has appealed to Naxals to release the jawan if he is in their captivity. "If they delay releasing the jawan, then I will head towards the encounter site on Wednesday and will try to talk to them (Maoists) to free him," Sori said. Manhas was part of a squad that had gone for an anti-Naxal operation on Friday night in the jungles on the Bijapur and Sukma border. On Saturday, the gunfight broke out between security forces and ultras between Tekalguda and Jonaguda villages in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured. Out of the 22, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight personnel, including seven CoBRA commandos and one jawan from its Bastariya battalion, eight from the DRG and six from the Special Task Force. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday visited Jagdalpur and Bijapur to review the situation in the aftermath of the deadly attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-commando-our-hostage-ready-to-negotiate-with-government-for-release-maoists-971353.html
07-04-2021||National||India sees highest-ever single-day spike of 1.15 lakh Covid-19 cases||The number of new coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the outbreak of the pandemic with over 1.15 lakh new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, pushing the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,28,01,785, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The single-day rise in coronavirus cases breached the 1-lakh mark for the second time in three days. A total of 1,15,736 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,66,177 with 630 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 28th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 8,43,473 comprising 6.59 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.11 per cent, the data stated.  The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections.     The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,17,92,135, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.30 per cent, the data stated.   India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,14, 39,598 samples have been tested up to April 6 with 12,08, 339 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 630 new fatalities include 297 from Maharashtra, 61 from Punjab, 53 from Chhattisgarh, 39 from Karnataka, 30 from Uttar Pradesh, 18 from Madhya Pradesh, 17 each from Delhi and Gujarat, 15 from Tamil Nadu, 14 from Kerala, 13 from Rajasthan. A total of 1,66,177 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 56,330 from Maharashtra, 12,804 from Tamil Nadu, 12,696 from Karnataka, 11,113 from Delhi, 10,355 from West Bengal, 8,924 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,251 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,216 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-highest-ever-single-day-spike-of-115-lakh-covid-19-cases-971370.html
07-04-2021||National||Variants may be driving India's Covid-19 surge; can't know without tests||By Bibhudatta Pradhan and Dhwani Pandya India’s failure to quickly examine Covid-19 samples for new variants risks hurting its battle against a record surge of infections, with scientists warning the delays could damage everything from vaccine efficacy to effective hospital treatments. The South Asian nation has tested less than 1% of its positive samples, according to government data, compared to the UK which has sequenced 8% of infections, and 33% in the last week, the Covid-19 Genomics UK Consortium said. The US last month reported it was sequencing about 4% of its 400,000 weekly new cases, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention noted. India crossed 100,000 new daily infections on Sunday, and its wealthiest state Maharashtra has emerged as the epicentre. It halted all non-essential services, ordered private companies to work from home, and shut malls and restaurants through April. Other states have also imposed restrictions though none as severe. After new variants from the UK were discovered in several inbound passengers, India set up a consortium of 10 state-run laboratories to sequence positive tests samples in December. However, between January and March the country has only studied 11,064 of its samples, the Ministry of Health said at a briefing on March 30, which is less than 0.6% over that period. The resurgence in cases could hurt nascent growth in Asia’s third-largest economy, which had slumped into a historic recession last year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a strict nationwide lockdown. Genetic sequencing of test samples helps catch new variants quickly as the virus mutates, allowing countries to rework their virus strategies based on the new strains. But surveillance is patchy globally and scientists warn that dangerous mutations are probably spreading undetected. Variant Worries India doesn’t have enough data on the new variants to explain the steep, nine-fold jump in infections from around 11,000 daily new cases in early February, said Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor at the School of Public Health at the University of Michigan. “We are essentially reverse engineering to explain the features of the virus curve as we do not have credible data on variants of concern and genomic surveillance,” Mukherjee said. “The more you let the infection spread the more chances of the virus mutating.” In India, 807 cases related to UK variants, 47 from the South African strain and one from the Brazilian form have been detected as of March 30, according to the Health Ministry, which has maintained the rise in new infections is not linked to new variants. Studies suggest some of these new strains are more contagious, with evidence pointing to one of them being more deadly and another driving reinfections. A spokeswoman for the Ministry of Health did not respond to emailed requests for comment. India has enough laboratory capacity for genome sequencing, but getting a widespread of regular samples from across the country -- including the rural hinterland and potential super-spreader events -- has been a problem, said Rakesh Mishra, the director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad, one of the labs working to sequence positive virus samples. “We are not sequencing for the sake of numbers, we are sequencing in a meaningful way,” Mishra said. More needs to be done, he said, noting the government was mobilising resources to get suitable samples from all regions. Virus Surge As infections spiral, five states are in the middle of elections with thousands of voters thronging to campaign rallies, while the northern Uttarakhand is marking the month-long Hindu pilgrimage of the Kumbh Mela, which draws hundreds of thousands of people to the banks of the Ganges river. It is this increased movement of people, along with the slow pace of vaccinations and slipping compliance with masking and social distancing that’s contributing to the new spike, said Rijo M. John, a Kerala-based economist and public health policy analyst who consults for the World Health Organization. “While the second wave so far has been less lethal, it is all set to be worse than the first wave.” The word’s biggest vaccination drive, which began on January 16, has failed to reach the government’s own target, dogged by an over-dependency on technology and the absence of proactive measures to reduce vaccine hesitancy, John said. India is vaccinating at an average rate of 2.6 million doses per day. At this pace, it will take another two years to cover 75% of its population. About 5% have received one dose and only about 0.8% have received the two shots required, according to the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker. People had dropped their guard after seeing those with mild Covid-19 cases recover, said Jayaprakash Muliyil, chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee in the National Institute of Epidemiology. “So the group of people who were very careful, who were taking utmost precautions, they suddenly changed behaviour,” Muliyil said. “For three months there was this tantalizing fall in cases, and the average person believed it was gone.” Modi, who on Sunday described the virus surge as “alarming,” is scheduled to meet state chief ministers on Thursday to discuss the brewing health crisis. “It is much easier to roll out vaccination when the infection is not so high,” said Mukherjee. “Now the health care capacity is stretched between vaccination and Covid care.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/variants-may-be-driving-indias-covid-19-surge-cant-know-without-tests-971378.html
07-04-2021||National||RBI maintains FY22 GDP growth rate forecast at 10.5%||The Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday retained the economic growth projection for the current financial year at 10.5 per cent, while cautioning that the recent surge in COVID-19 infections has created uncertainty over the economic growth recovery. In its last policy review, the RBI had projected a GDP growth rate of 10.5 pc for FY'22. Taking various factors into consideration, it said, "the projection of real GDP growth for 2021-22 is retained at 10.5 per cent consisting of 26.2 per cent in Q1, 8.3 per cent in Q2, 5.4 per cent in Q3 and 6.2 per cent in Q4." In a statement after the first Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said the recent surge in COVID-19 infections adds uncertainty to the domestic growth outlook amidst tightening of restrictions by some state governments. The RBI said that though the firms engaged in manufacturing, services and infrastructure sectors were optimistic about a pick-up in demand, "consumer confidence, on the other hand, has dipped with the recent surge in COVID infections in some states imparting uncertainty to the outlook." Das noted the recent surge in infections has imparted greater uncertainty to the outlook and needs to be closely watched, especially as localised and regional lockdowns could dampen the recent improvement in demand conditions and delay the return of normalcy. Das said that the increase in international commodity prices since the February monetary policy and recurrence of global financial market volatility like the bout experienced in late February accentuates the downside risks. He noted that global growth is gradually recovering from the slowdown, but it remains uneven across countries and is supported by ongoing vaccination drives, sustained accommodative monetary policies and further sizable fiscal stimulus. The upside risks, however, come from the vaccination programme being speeded up and increasingly extended to the wider segments of the population; the gradual release of pent-up demand; and the investment-enhancing and growth-supportive reform measures taken by the government, he said. "In India, we are now better prepared to meet the challenges posed by this resurgence in infections. Fiscal and monetary authorities stand ready to act in a coordinated manner to limit its spillovers to the economy at large and contain its fallout on the ongoing recovery," he said. He further noted that "in the domestic economy, the focus must now be on containing the spread of the virus as well as on economic revival - consolidating the gains achieved so far and sustaining the impulses of growth in the new financial year (2021-22)". Das stressed that the focus of the Union Budget 2021-22, on investment-led measures with increased allocations for capital expenditure, the expanded production-linked incentives (PLI) scheme, and rising capacity utilisation will reinforce the process of economic revival. "Juxtaposition of high frequency lead and coincident indicators reveals that economic activity is normalising in spite of the surge in infections," he said, and added rural demand remains buoyant and record agriculture production in 2020-21 bodes well for its resilience. Urban demand has gained traction and should get a fillip with the ongoing vaccination drive. The National Statistical Office (NSO) in its update on February 26, 2021 placed the contraction in real GDP at 8.0 per cent for 2020-21. The IMF on Tuesday projected an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021, stronger than that of China, the only major economy to have a positive growth rate last year during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Washington-based global financial institution, in its annual World Economic Outlook ahead of the annual Spring meeting with the World Bank, said the Indian economy is expected to grow by 6.9 per cent in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-maintains-fy22-gdp-growth-rate-forecast-at-105-971386.html
07-04-2021||National||BKU lays foundation for 'martyr memorial' to honour farmers who died protesting farm laws||The BKU has laid the foundation for a 'martyr memorial' at the agitation site on the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border to pay tributes to the farmers who died during the course of the protest against the Centre's three agri laws. The BKU claimed that soil for the memorial was brought by social workers from the villages of "320 farmers who died during the protest against the farm laws". Soil collected from the martyrs of the freedom movement has also been brought to the protest site, where the foundation for the memorial was laid by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and social activist Medha Patkar on Tuesday. The memorial would later be constructed permanently, BKU media incharge Dharmendra Malik told PTI. Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, however, said the foundation for the 'martyr memorial' is "just symbolic and not permanent". A group of 50 social activists brought soil from all the states, and a 'Mitti Satyagrah Yatra' was also held, according to the BKU. The soil from the villages of freedom fighters Bhagat singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru, Chandra Shekhar Azad, Ram Prasad Bismil and Ashfaqullah Khan was also brought to the agitation site, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bku-lays-foundation-for-martyr-memorial-to-honour-farmers-who-died-protesting-farm-laws-971390.html
07-04-2021||National||India's single-day Covid-19 cases breach one-lakh mark for second time in three days||The number of new coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the outbreak of the pandemic with over 1.15 lakh new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, pushing the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,28,01,785, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The single-day rise in coronavirus cases breached the 1-lakh mark for the second time in three days. A total of 1,15,736 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,66,177 with 630 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 28th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 8,43,473 comprising 6.59 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.11 per cent, the data stated.  The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections.     The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,17,92,135, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.30 per cent, the data stated.   India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,14, 39,598 samples have been tested up to April 6 with 12,08,339 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-single-day-covid-19-cases-breach-one-lakh-mark-for-second-time-in-three-days-971412.html
07-04-2021||National||A complete lockdown in India will have terrible consequences, says WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan||Speculations of a lockdown are rife in the country as the Covid-19 infections in India touched a record high of 1,28,01,785 cases on Wednesday. Partial lockdowns and night curfews are already in place in Delhi, Pune, Mumbai and other cities which are reporting a spike in infections. However, the chief scientist of the World Health Organisation, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, has advised against a complete lockdown in India. “The consequences are terrible", she said referring to a potential lockdown. “We have to manage the second wave before thinking of a third wave and till enough people are vaccinated, there definitely can be more waves in the pandemic", she was quoted saying by The Indian Express. Since the WHO recommends a gap of 8-12 weeks between two jabs of the Covishield vaccine, more people stand a chance to get inoculated in the meantime. “Vaccination is not recommended yet for children but yes, the gap between two doses can be stretched to eight to 12 weeks", she said. The WHO chief scientist thinks that complete lockdowns will do more damage until most people are vaccinated. Experts in Pune have also chimed in agreement.  In conversation with The Indian Express, Prof L S Shashidhara, a professor at IISER, Pune and Ashoka University, said, "Last year, even during the lockdown, Pune had many hotspots. As soon as the lockdown was lifted, albeit partially, the numbers started going up. Then there was a 10-day lockdown which did not help. Numbers went up even further. With community transmission rampant, during the lockdown, the virus would still be spreading within smaller groups in a locality and as soon as the lockdown is lifted, it will spread even more rapidly as people tend to relax more after the stress of the lockdown". The occasion of World Health Day on April 7 this year naturally focused around pandemic-centric discussions. While speaking on the occasion, the regional director of WHO Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh emphasized on accelerated vaccine rollouts to counter the new wave of Covid-19 cases in Pune. Currently, India stands second when it comes to the number of vaccine jabs administered daily - 26 lakh doses. In the first place is the US with above 30 lakh jabs per day. The US also became the first country to administer 150 million vaccine jabs and fully vaccinate 62 million people. With Covid-19 varients surfacing, infections are increasing and so is mass panic, says Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. “Needless to say, the government has to take some steps to restrict Covid-19 spread as the pressure is on private hospitals. The good things now are that many small hospitals are becoming Covid centres. Last year, there was a huge scare and several facilities had displayed boards stating they were not Covid-19 hospitals… but this time, more than 25 small hospitals have come forward and we can expect more beds opening up in Pune for treating Covid-19 patients. Currently, there are 4,000 beds in Pune city and all hospitals have been increasing the bed strength daily", he was quoted telling The Indian Express.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-complete-lockdown-in-india-will-have-terrible-consequences-says-who-chief-scientist-soumya-swaminathan-971415.html
07-04-2021||National||Delhi court grants exemption from personal appearance to Chidambaram in INX Media case||A Delhi Court on Wednesday granted exemption from personal appearance to former union minister P Chidambaram and his son Karti for the day in the INX Media scam-related money laundering case. Special Judge M K Nagpal granted relief to the Chidambarams after an application in this regard was moved by their lawyer, saying the accused were busy in the Assembly election campaign in Tamil Nadu. The accused were summoned by the court on March 24 after taking cognisance of a supplementary charge sheet filed by the ED. The court will further hear the matter on April 16. Both are star campaigners, their lawyer Arshdeep Singh said. The court also issued notice to the ED on a bail application moved by co-accused Peter Mukharjea in the case. P Chidambaram was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the INX Media corruption case on August 21, 2019. On October 16, 2019, the ED arrested him in a related money-laundering case. Six days later, on October 22, the apex court granted bail to Chidambaram in the case lodged by the CBI. In the ED case, he got bail on December 4, 2019. The CBI had registered its case on May 15, 2017, alleging irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to the INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of Rs 305 crore in 2007, during Chidambaram's tenure as finance minister. Subsequently, the ED had lodged the money-laundering case. Karti was arrested by the CBI in February 2018 and he was granted bail in March 2018 in the INX Media corruption case. He was granted interim bail from the Delhi high court in the money laundering case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-grants-exemption-from-personal-appearance-to-chidambaram-in-inx-media-case-971423.html
07-04-2021||National||Sharad Pawar gets second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||NCP chief Sharad Pawar received the second dose of vaccine against Covid-19 at his residence here on Wednesday, on the occasion of World Health Day. The 80-year-old leader got the first dose on March 1, a statement from the party said. A medical team from the government-run J J Hospital was present at Pawar's residence to complete the vaccination procedure. Pawar appealed to people to get their inoculation completed, as per Centre's guidelines, at the earliest. The NCP chief recently underwent a procedure for the treatment of a stone in the gall bladder and is likely to undergo a surgery soon. After the medical procedure at the Breach Candy Hospital here, he was advised to rest. The NCP shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharad-pawar-gets-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-971429.html
07-04-2021||National||Chhattisgarh Maoist attack: Villagers allege they were beaten up by cops||Last week, India witnessed a brutal Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur, in which at least 22 jawans were martyred. The gruesome incident once again brought forth Chhattisgarh's long and violent struggle with the Maoists and the plight that the common people have to face because of the attacks. "When we saw the police personnel approach, we locked ourselves in our houses. Those who didn’t, they got beaten up. After a few hours, we heard the noise of heavy firing and we fled," said Bhima Korsa, a resident of the village. According to PTI, a senior police official said that the Naxals were strategically positioned on a hillock in front of Tekalguda village and around it. When the battle ensued, its residents took shelter in the forest, and then to Poovarti, around 30 minutes from the village on the other side of the hills. Villagers started to trickle back to Teklagudam on Tuesday, two days after the incident, as some of them feared police retaliation, as per the IE report.  Bastar I-G P Sundarraj took note of the accusations and said, "We have no information of villagers being targeted, our forces were engaged in combat with Maoists. I will look into the allegations." According to police officials, joint teams of security forces, comprising over 2,000 personnel, launched an anti-Maoist operation in Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered as a Maoist stronghold, on the night of April 2. And it was during the operation, that the teams were ambushed. The ambush was led by some 400 Maoists who surrounded the jawans from three sides in an area devoid of vegetation and rained on them machine gunfire as well as IEDs for several hours. Some 10-12 Maoists are also believed to have died in the fierce gunbattle that ensued. A long-drawn war The April 2 attack comes after the March 23 incident when five DRG personnel were killed as the Maoists blew up a bus carrying the security personnel with an IED in the Narayanpur district of the state. On March 21 last year, 17 security personnel were killed in a Naxal ambush in the Minpa area of Sukma district. On April 9, 2019, BJP MLA Bhima Mandavi and four security personnel were killed after Naxals blew up their vehicle with an IED in Dantewada district. On April 24, 2017, 25 CRPF personnel died in a Naxal ambush in Burkapal area of Sukma district. In March 2017, 12 CRPF jawans were martyred in a Maoist attack in Sukma district. In November 2016, two CRPF jawans were injured in a bomb blast triggered by Naxals in the dense forest of Sukma district. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-maoist-attack-villagers-allege-they-were-beaten-up-by-cops-971432.html
07-04-2021||National||Supreme Court to hear matter related to Italian marines on April 9||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to consider on April 9 a plea by the Centre to close the criminal case against two Italian marines who allegedly killed two fishermen off Kerala coast in 2012, in view of an international Tribunal's decision and payment of compensation to victims families. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde for listing of the case due to an urgency. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, agreed to consider the matter on Friday. Mehta also pointed out that on last occasion, the top court had asked the Centre to contact the victims. Following this, we contacted the victims families and they had already been given the compensation, so nothing has to be adjudicated in the matter, he said. On August 7, 2020, the court had asked the Centre to bring on board members of the families of two fishermen, as they were required to be paid adequate compensation. The government had then said it was willing to withdraw the prosecution against the marines as Italy has agreed to prosecute them over there following the decision by an international tribunal. In July, 2020, the Centre has informed the court that it has taken a decision to accept and abide by the International Tribunal's award. The Tribunal set up under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) had on May 21, 2020 ruled that the criminal investigation into the matter involving two Marines would take place in Italy due to sovereign immunity enjoyed by them, and India would be entitled for grant of compensation. The Centre has asked the top court to close the matter pending before it. On August 26, 2015, the top court had stayed the proceedings before it against the NIA probe, in view of the pendency of the issue before International Tribunal on Law of the Sea (ITLOS). Marines Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, who were aboard the Italian-flagged commercial oil tanker 'Enrica Lexie', were accused of killing two Indian fishermen off Kerala coast on February 15, 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-matter-related-to-italian-marines-on-april-9-971433.html
07-04-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi bats for 'Covid-19 vaccine for all'||Calling for a "vaccine for all" policy, Congress on Wednesday picked holes in the government's vaccination and Covid-19 strategy and alleged that a grave catastrophe awaited the country due to its "stubborn" stance. Stressing on the Covid-19 vaccine for all in the country, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said every Indian "deserves the chance to a safe life". The Health Ministry on Tuesday said the vaccine needs to be given to those who need it and not those who want it. The Covid-19 vaccine is currently available to all Indians above the age of 45 years. "It's ridiculous to debate needs and wants. Every Indian deserves the chance to a safe life," Gandhi said on Twitter, using the hashtag "#CovidVaccine". Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said if a free vaccine for all can be announced in elections, then why can't vaccines be given to all. It’s ridiculous to debate needs & wants. "If a free vaccine for all can be announced in the manifesto in elections, then this is the right time that the government should arrange vaccines for everyone on priority. The most beneficial step for the people of our country is that everyone should get the vaccine," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and chief ministers have called for universal vaccination, yet the Central government is not agreeing and due to its "stubborn" stance infections are rising in the country. "IMA has called for universal vaccination. Several CMs have demanded universal vaccination. Yet the central government says there is no need for universal vaccination. The need of the hour is walk-in vaccination to all age groups without any pre-registration. "Because of its unscientific and stubborn stance, the government has allowed the number of infections to gallop every day. A grave catastrophe awaits the country," he tweeted. "There is no government of any democratic country in the world that has been so callous as the Modi government. From demonetisation to the botched vaccination programme, Indians are paying a huge price for the wrong policies of the BJP government," he also said. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera accused the government of not taking adequate steps to contain the spread of the virus and called for engagement with all stakeholders, including convening an all-party meeting, to increase vaccination. He raised concern over the high wastage of vaccines in some states and asked the government why it is not allowing more vaccine trials in the country for enabling a diversified pool of vaccines that can help prevent this second wave of Covid-19 from turning into a tsunami. He said in the first wave of Covid-19, India recorded 97,894 cases during its peak on September 17, 2020, but on Wednesday we surpassed that and reported a staggering 1,15,736 new cases. The Congress leader said India has surpassed both the USA and Brazil to bag the number one position in terms of the highest number of daily new cases as one in every seven new cases across the world are from India. Calling for including more categories in the list of vaccine beneficiaries, he said people with respiratory infections, which get accentuated due to air pollution, need to be given early vaccination. "Vaccine is the right of every Indian. Like polio vaccination was for everyone and the government ran a universal vaccination drive, this also has to be universal and for everyone. Today when there is shortage of health facilities and infrastructure and the virus is spreading fast, this vaccine has to be for one and for all," he told reporters. Khera said the government needs to answer many critical questions. "If having cases in excess of what we saw during the peak of first wave in September 2020 is not a testimony to it, we wonder what else it would take for the government to accept this fact and re-strategise accordingly," he said. "The spike in COVID-19 cases is alarming, and the width (duration of the spike) of the cases needs to be curtailed now before this wave turns into a tsunami," Khera said. Highlighting the drawbacks in the current vaccination protocol, he said the government has to curtail vaccine wastage which stands at 6.5 per cent and allow greater access to people willing to get vaccinated. He expressed concern over vaccine wastage of 17.6 per cent and 9.4 per cent in states like Telangana and Uttar Pradesh respectively that surpassed the national average. Khera also asked why the government did not plan the nuances of vaccine logistics and supply chain in advance to ensure that there were no shortage of vaccines. "Why is the government by not bridging the innovation gap and insisting on local trials in the time of a pandemic, making it even more difficult for various vaccine manufacturers to enter India," he asked. The Congress leader also termed "insensitive" a remark made by the health secretary who said that the vaccine will be made available to "those who need it and not those who want it". He also criticised police high-handedness and exorbitant challans in Delhi, saying it is not the answer to ensure adherence to Covid-19 norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-bats-for-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-971434.html
07-04-2021||National||Mukhtar Ansari denied food, water during Punjab-UP transfer, alleges brother||Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari's brother alleged on Wednesday that inhuman treatment was given to him while being transferred to Banda jail from Punjab, saying it could have been better had he been shot dead at a road crossing. The Uttar Pradesh government, however, said a team of doctors of the Banda Medical College examined Mukhtar Ansari at the jail and no "immediate" health issues were found by it. "Inhuman treatment was meted to Mukhtar while being shifted from Punjab to Banda jail. In over 15 hours journey, he was not given water and food on the way and was also denied medical aid. Due to this, he became unwell and reached Banda jail in a semi-unconscious state," Afzal Ansari, the BSP MP from Ghazipur, told PTI. Afzal Ansari, however, did not elaborate on how did he get to know about the treatment meted out to his brother during his transfer to the Banda jail. "The Yogi Adityanath government has left behind Britishers by such acts. Contrary to the jail manual, Mukhtar has been kept in isolation barrack. Those who have to protect laws are creating terror. It would have been better that he (Mukhtar) was made to stand at some road crossing and shot dead." he said. The Uttar Pradesh government in a statement issued here said, "Undertrial Ansari was brought from Punjab's Ropar jail at about 4.50 am to Banda prison gate by a special team and he finally got entry at 5 am. All his belongings were checked and no objectionable items were found. A team of Banda Medical college doctors did his check-up and found no immediate health issues." "Mukhtar Ansari would be tested for Covid-19 later in the day inside the jail. According to the Supreme Court orders, with the help of district administration and Chief Medical officer, Banda, his health arrangements are being ensured," the statement said. ADG, Prison Anand Kumar has given strict instructions for round-the-clock security of Mukhtar Ansari, who is also Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Mau. Elaborate arrangements have been made inside the prison, where he will be kept in barrack number 16, which will be under 24-hour camera surveillance, the statement said, adding the entire Banda jail is covered with CCTV cameras and is being monitored by senior officers from jail headquarter command centre in Lucknow. For outer security of the jail, additional force of PAC has been deployed and Banda city magistrate has been made incharge jail superintendent for administrative and security arrangements, it said. Two new deputy jailors have been deputed and additional head jail warder and jail warder have been made available to the prison, the government statement said. Afzal Ansari also claimed that the blood-sugar level and blood pressure of Mukhtar Ansari, who has diabetes, have increased and alleged that the jail administration is not accepting the request to provide him a doctor. "Instead of treating him, he was being administered injection to put him to sleep," Afzal Ansari alleged. He further claimed that his brother was kept in the ambulance for over one-and-half-hours even after reaching the Banda jail. "At around 9 am, some persons known to Mukhtar reached the jail to meet him but were returned from the prison premises. Mukhtar is an undertrial and despite this he is getting treatment like a convict," he said, adding "such a treatment was never given to any undertrial in the history of the country". After spending over two years in a Punjab prison, Mukhtar Ansari was brought back to Banda jail in the early hours of Wednesday. He was ferried in an ambulance guarded by a strong posse of gun-toting security personnel throughout his 900-km journey from Rupnagar to the Uttar Pradesh town in the Bundelkhand region. Mukhtar Ansari was lodged in Rupnagar jail in January 2019 in connection with an extortion case. He is facing 52 cases in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere, and 15 of them are in the trial stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mukhtar-ansari-denied-food-water-during-punjab-up-transfer-alleges-brother-971442.html
07-04-2021||National||Satabhaya: 7 villages disappearing from Odisha's coast||A 17 km stretch along the coast of Odisha was once home to 700 families. Today that area is barren with sand all around with only a few things strewn here and there, and most of the families have been rehabilitated. Satabhaya, or a cluster of seven villages, once a bustling area now has no sign or livelihood for as far as the eye can see. Everything that stood here, was been washed away due to costal erosion.  “The administration will provide 10 decimals of land and Rs 1.5 lakh each for construction of houses under Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana to each family,” said Additional District Magistrate (ADM) Basant Kumar Rout, according to the report. Up untill 10 years ago, the main sources of livelihood were farming and fishing. But the sea took away all the farm lands and homes and increased the salinity of the land, making it infertile. “Around 6 six years ago, my 2-acre land became infertile. After the rehabilitation, our family moved to Bagapatia, but I stayed back because it is difficult for all of us to live in the house built on a 10 decimal plot. My elder son has started working in a plywood factory in Kerala. My younger son will join him after his studies. I try to fish whenever I can,” says Prabhakar Behera (61), who used to live in one of the seven villages with his family.  Many living here had to leave and take up jobs in big cities like Kerala, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.  “As the villagers here moved out, I shifted my family to another village. The school was also moved to the new colony and there was no point staying back. My family shifted to a rented accommodation and I went to Kerala to earn a living. But after the lockdown, I had to come back. Since then, I have been living here alone. I catch and sell fish to make a living. This was my source of income earlier as well,” Pavitra Kumar Sahoo (45), who is yet to be rehabilitated and stays in Barahipur, one of the seven villages, told the publication. Satabhaya now mostly an island, lacks basic facilities like electricity and clean drinking water. For facilities like food and ration, people have to walk across a 5 km stretch crossing a stream that has crocodiles, and walking on an unpaved road.  Some like Brahmananda Dalai (70), take this journey every month.  “I have two daughters and both of them are married. I do not have the strength to move at this age. I have been earning a living through fishing and I want to continue to do so. My wife and I eat the fish I catch and we depend on the ration I get every month. I also manage to sell some fish. I cannot leave my home,” he says According to a study conducted by the National Centre for Coastal Research in Chennai, Odisha lost 28 per cent of its 550-km coastline to the sea between 1990 and 2016, with Kendrapara alone losing 31 km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/satabhaya-7-villages-disappearing-from-odishas-coast-971443.html
07-04-2021||National||India becomes fastest Covid-19 vaccinating country in the world||India has surpassed the US to become the fastest Covid-19 vaccinating country in the world with an average daily rate of 30,93,861 vaccine doses, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 8.70 crore. Cumulatively, 8,70,77,474 vaccine doses have been administered through 13,32,130 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 89,63,724 health care workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 53,94,913 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 97,36,629 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the 1st dose, 43,12,826 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose. Besides, 3,53,75,953 and 10,00,787  beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the 1st and 2nd dose respectively while 2,18,60,709  and 4,31,933  beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 were given the 1st and 2nd dose respectively. More than 33 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. As on Day-81 of the vaccination drive (6th April), 33,37,601 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 30,08,087 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 41,396 sessions for 1st dose and 3,29,514 beneficiaries received 2nd dose of vaccine. India's daily new cases continue to rise and 1,15,736 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Eight states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have shown a rise in the Covid daily new cases accounting for 80.70 per cent of the new cases reported in a day. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 55,469. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 9,921 while Karnataka reported 6,150 new cases. The daily positivity graph is on a steady incline and currently stands at 8.40 per cent, the ministry said. India's total active caseload has increased to 8,43,473 and now comprises 6.59 per cent of the country's total cases. A net increase of 55,250 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh cumulatively account for 74.5 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 56.17 per cent  of the total active caseload of the country, the ministry said. The Centre is actively engaging with all states and UT governments, especially those showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases.  Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting through video conference to review the situation of Covid-19 and progress of vaccination in 11 states and UTs that are showing very large numbers of daily cases and high mortality due to coronavirus. The Cabinet Secretary chaired a high-level review meeting on Friday last with chief secretaries, DG Police and health secretaries of all States/UTs, with focus on 11 states and UTs that have been reporting very high rise in daily cases and daily mortality because of Covid-19 in the last two weeks.  Regular review meetings are taken by Union Health Secretary with secretaries of all States and UTs.  The Centre has rushed 50 high level teams to Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh to assist the states in Covid control and management measures. These teams will be stationed in the states for 3-5 days.  India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,17,92,135 with 59,856 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.  A total of 630 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Eight states account for 84.44 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (297). Punjab follows with 61 daily deaths.  Eleven states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours.  These are Odisha, Ladakh (UT), D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Mizoram, Andaman and nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-becomes-fastest-covid-19-vaccinating-country-in-the-world-971449.html
07-04-2021||National||India's single-day Covid cases second-highest in the world||India on Wednesday reported over 1.15 lakh Covid-19 cases. This is the second-highest spike in daily coronavirus cases reported across the world, surpassing Brazil and only behind the United States The highest-ever Covid-19 spike was reported by the United States with 3,13,829 cases on January 8 this year, according to Worldometer data. Brazil, in third place, reported 97,586 new Covid-19 cases on March 25 this year. France reported the fourth-highest Covid-19 daily cases with 88,790 single-day infections on November 7, 2020. The single-day rise in coronavirus cases in India breached the 1-lakh mark for the second time in three days. The previous highest was reported on April 4, 2021, with 1,03,793. The fresh spike in India pushed the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,28,01,785, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. New Scare Amid rising coronavirus cases, a new scare came up for the worst-hit state in the country, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said that a new strain could be afflicting the state and affecting people in a shorter duration of time. India doesn’t have enough data on the new variants to explain the steep, nine-fold jump in infections from around 11,000 daily new cases in early February, said Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor at the School of Public Health at the University of Michigan. Health officials blame more infectious variants that were first detected in the United Kingdom and South Africa, along with public fatigue with lockdowns and other restrictions. Covid-19 deaths on the rise Coronavirus-related deaths worldwide crossed 3 million on Tuesday, according to a Reuters tally, as the latest global resurgence of Covid-19 infections is challenging vaccination efforts across the globe. Brazil is leading the world in the daily average number of new deaths reported and accounts for one in every four deaths worldwide each day, according to a Reuters analysis. The World Health Organization acknowledged the nation's dire condition due to coronavirus, saying the country is in a very critical condition with an overwhelmed healthcare system. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-single-day-covid-cases-second-highest-in-the-world-971457.html
07-04-2021||National||Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release Hindi translation of 'Odisha Itihaas' on April 9||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the Hindi translation of the book Odisha Itihaas  written by Utkal Keshari Harekrushna Mahtab, on Friday at the Ambedkar International Center here. The PMO said in a statement that the book, available in Odia and English so far, has been translated into Hindi by Shankarlal Purohit. Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and BJD leader Bhartruhari Mahtab, Lok Sabha MP from Cuttack, will also be present on the occasion.  The event marking the release of the Hindi version has been organised by the Harekrushna Mahtab Foundatio||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-release-hindi-translation-of-odisha-itihaas-on-april-9-971468.html
07-04-2021||National||Maldives is Indians’ choice holiday spot to escape Covid-19 pandemic||By Ragini Saxena Indians are jetting off to the Maldives in ever greater numbers to escape the coronavirus pandemic. India reached a grim milestone on April 5 when the government reported over 100,000 new cases on a single day for the first time. The second wave has shuttered businesses once again and sent some cities back into lockdown, triggering a desire to holiday in far-flung destinations.  “The Maldives remains the top pick for Indians,” said Pradeep Sharma, owner of Kolkata-based Agwani Travels. “It used to be a high-end destination but now the Maldives is offering good deals on hotels and people have limited options. Southeast Asia has not opened up.” Local airlines are sensing opportunity, too. Vistara, a joint venture between Tata Sons and Singapore Airlines Ltd., started non-stop Mumbai to Male flights under a travel bubble agreement between India and Maldives last month, becoming the only airline to offer premium economy class on the route. Dubai Too Hot “Maldives is one of the most popular holiday destinations among travelers, not just in India, but from around the world,” Vistara’s Chief Executive Officer Leslie Thng said. Nishant Pitti, a co-founder of Easy Trip Planners Ltd., said the Maldives and Dubai were the two hot spots right now for Indians wanting to travel overseas. “One thing that’s panned out very well for the Maldives is that Dubai has imposed restrictions where you have to get the Covid test done before you arrive,” Pitti said. “Because of this, Dubai numbers dramatically decreased in March and this is why we’ve seen a very good increase in Maldives vacation numbers from April onward. Dubai isn’t a great place to travel in the hot time anyway, and pretty much these are the only two direct flight locations available,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maldives-is-indians-choice-holiday-spot-to-escape-covid-19-pandemic-971499.html
07-04-2021||National||Huge crowds unlikely on major bathing days during this Kumbh: Mela officials||Kumbh Mela officials have made all arrangements for the three key bathing dates on the banks of Ganga but said they do not expect any huge turnout of devotees due to anti-Covid restrictions imposed amid the rising cases of infection. "We always make arrangements for the Kumbh in accordance with the largest estimated turnouts. So, we are well prepared to tackle any situation,” Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal said. “But with the second wave of coronavirus infection getting stronger and the SOPs in force, we don't expect huge crowds on the ghats on the Shahi Snan days," he added. Over 12,000 police and 400 paramilitary force personnel are keeping an eye on Kumbh Kshetra spread over an area of 670 hectares from Haridwar to Devprayag to maintain law and order and ensure that the anti-Covid protocol is strictly followed. Held every 12 years from January to April, this year's Kumbh has been curtailed to just one month from April 1 to 30 due to the surge in Covid-19 cases in many states including Uttarakhand which is reporting more than 500 cases daily. During the month, the three major bathing days (shahi snan or royal baths) fall on April 12, 14 and 27. Top priority is being accorded to stop the spread of the coronavirus infection during the religious congregation with RT-PCR tests of devotees being conducted at 30 places in the Kumbh area which is spread over 670 hectares from Haridwar to Devprayag, Mela official (Medical) Arjun Sengar said. A total of 12 labs are testing samples and a dedicated Covid hospital with 550 beds is also ready, he said. Meanwhile, seers representing 13 Akhadas have also been asked to encourage devotees and their disciples and followers to take anti-Covid precautions. Garhwal Commissioner Ravinath Raman also said following the SOPs issued by the central and state governments because of the second wave of infection is the only effective safeguard against the virus. People are being made to adhere strictly to anti-Covid protocols in compliance with the orders of the Uttarakhand High Court which has made it compulsory for devotees coming to Kumbh to bring a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours with them, Raman said. Devotees are not being allowed to proceed to the Mela Kshetra without a negative RT-PCR test report and a health certificate from a competent authority that they are not suffering from any serious medical condition, he said. Around 35,000 RT-PCR tests are being conducted daily in the Kumbh Mela area and efforts are being made to increase the numbers of testing to beyond 50,000 per day, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/huge-crowds-unlikely-on-major-bathing-days-during-this-kumbh-mela-officials-971508.html
07-04-2021||National||People's faith in judiciary can't be frittered away by show of power: SC on Allahabad HC's order||The Supreme Court has expressed its "shock" over the Allahabad High Court's order summoning Uttar Pradesh government officers before it in a contempt case, despite the proceedings having been stayed by it. The top court said trust, faith and confidence of the common man in the judiciary cannot be frittered away by unnecessary and unwarranted show or exercise of power. "Once the order of which contempt was alleged was stayed, there would be no cause for calling the officers as there was no question of any non-compliance of the order which had been stayed," a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta said. Taking up a plea filed by the Uttar Pradesh government through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, the bench pointed out the court has even on various occasions through judicial pronouncements deprecated the practice of unnecessarily calling officers to court. "Greater the power, greater should be the responsibility in exercising such power. The frequent, causal and lackadaisical summoning of high officials by the court cannot be appreciated. We may add that this does not mean that in compelling situations the same cannot be done but the object cannot be to humiliate senior officials," the bench added. In the present case, the bench asked if the operation of the order was stayed, what purpose was being served by calling the officers for the next date.  "We do believe that this is unnecessary harassment of the officers and there was no occasion to pass the order," the bench said.  The top court stayed the order passed by the High Court's Lucknow bench and made it clear no presence of officer was required in the matter.  "As and when, if the occasion so arises, for restarting the contempt proceedings, the matter will be placed before a bench of another judge," the top court directed, sending the copy of the order to the Chief Justice and the judge concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/peoples-faith-in-judiciary-cant-be-frittered-away-by-show-of-power-sc-on-allahabad-hcs-order-971510.html
07-04-2021||National||Water taxis to be part of Mumbai transportation soon; RoPax ferries on four routes by December: Mandaviya||Mumbai's public transportation system is set to get a major boost with water taxis on 12 routes by May and RoPax ferries on four routes to be operational by December 2021, Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday. The development follows launch of a roll-on roll-off (RoRo) cum passenger ferry service, also called 'RoPax', between Mumbai and Mandwa near Alibaug last year which saw one lakh passengers in 20 weeks besides transportation of 20,000 vehicles. "After successful operation of Mandawa RoPax service that reduced the journey time between Mumbai and Mandawa from three hours to 45 minutes, we are going to operate RoPax service on four more routes by December 2021," Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mandaviya told PTI. Mandaviya said RoPax services, to be launched by December 2021, will be on Mumbai-Nerul, Mumbai-Karanja, Mumbai-Mora and Mumbai-Rewas routes. These when operational will significantly reduce travel time from Mumbai, he said. Citing example, the minister said presently Mumbai to Rewas distance by road is 70 km which takes 1.3 hours and after launch of the RoPax service the distance between both the places will be barely three km via water transport and Rewas could be reached in 15 minutes. He said similarly water taxi services will be launched on 12 routes including from Domestic Cruise Terminal in Mumbai to Nerul, Belapur, Vashi, Airoli, Rewas, Karanja, Dharanmtar, Kanhoji Angre Island and Thane. In addition, other water taxi routes will be Belapur to Thane and Gateway of India and Vashi to Thane and Gateway of India. "Travel time on these routes by road at present ranges between 40 minutes to two hours 45 minutes and after the launch of water taxis it will range between 15 minutes to 1.3 hours in a few cases," the minister said. Water taxis will have a seating capacity of 14 to 45 passengers at a time and will be operated by private players, he said. Earlier, he chaired a meeting for reviewing the Urban Water Transportation projects for Mumbai in this connection. Senior officials of ministry, Chairperson Mumbai Port and officials of Maharashtra Maritime Board were present in the meeting. The RoPax jetty and terminal at Mandwa has been built by Maharashtra Maritime Board at a cost of Rs 135 crore. The minister said that the proposed services will not only boost tourism in the state but also employment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/water-taxis-to-be-part-of-mumbai-transportation-soon-ropax-ferries-on-four-routes-by-december-mandaviya-971514.html
07-04-2021||National||GST should be citizen-friendly: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has slammed the tax authorities for resorting to "draconian" provisional attachment under the Goods and Services Tax regime, saying taxmen cannot see all businesses as fraudulent. “Parliament had intended the GST to be citizen-friendly tax structure…..the purpose of the Act is lost in the manner in which it is enforced in our country," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The court made the oral observations during the hearing of a plea filed by Radha Krishna Industries challenging powers of provisional attachment under the Himachal Pradesh GST Act. The petitioner was represented by senior advocate Puneet Bali and advocate Surjeet Bhadu. Reserving the judgement, the bench noted that tax authorities cannot go on attaching as a pre-emptive strike.  The company submitted before the bench that power of attachment under Section 83 was draconian. According to this provision, during the pendency of tax proceedings, the department can attach any property (including bank accounts and accounts receivable), as a provisional attachment. The tax officers used it as a measure to guarantee the satisfaction of a later judgement by the courts. The bench observed that a balance has to be maintained between protecting the interests of revenue and protection of genuine businesses. “The country needs to come out of this tax culture that all businesses are fraudulent….even when 12 crore tax has been paid, just because some tax is still due, you cannot start attaching property," the bench said.  The court stressed that tax officers raised huge demands from businesses with no accountability. The law needs to be structured and the tax authorities have to abide by the mandate of law, it said. The Himachal Pradesh High Court in January this year, dismissed the plea seeking quashing of the Section allowing provisional attachment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-should-be-citizen-friendly-supreme-court-971517.html
07-04-2021||National||36 persons, including 24 athletes, test Covid-19 positive in SAI Bhopal; none Olympic bound||As many as 24 sportspersons and 12 support staff members have tested positive for the coronavirus at the Sports Authority of India's (SAI) Bhopal centre but none of the athletes are Olympics-bound. According to SAI, the positive cases came to light during two rounds of precautionary tests on April 3 and 6. The SAI Bhopal Center doesn't house any Olympic probable. "In the two rounds of testing, a total of 36 people have tested positive for Covid-19, out of whom 24 are athletes, and the other 12 who are staff of NCOE (National Centre of Excellence)," a SAI official told PTI when enquired about the tests. "None of the athletes who have tested positive are Olympic-bound. Some of the athletes who tested positive had returned from wushu and judo competitions." In order to contain the spread of the virus, the athletes, who have tested positive, have been shifted to a hospital as a precautionary measure. "None of the athletes are critical." The SAI had further instructed all the NCOEs to strictly follow its existing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) with stress on conducting regular precautionary tests. On March 31, 30 sportspersons and support staff across disciplines were found to be Covid-19 positive after 741 precautionary tests were conducted at the National Centres of Excellence in Patiala and Bengaluru. However, the positive results in both the centres did not include any Tokyo Olympic-bound athlete.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/36-persons-including-24-athletes-test-covid-19-positive-in-sai-bhopal-none-olympic-bound-971546.html
07-04-2021||National||Militants open fire on security personnel in J&K's Shopian; no casualty||Militants opened fire on security personnel in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district on Wednesday but there was no damage in the incident, officials said. The ultras opened fire on a mobile check party of the police and CRPF at Imamsahib in Shopian town around 3.20 pm, they added. There was no report of any casualty and the assailants managed to flee, taking advantage of the chaos triggered by the firing, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/militants-open-fire-on-security-personnel-in-jks-shopian-no-casualty-971548.html
07-04-2021||National||Amit Shah eats lunch at 'rickshawala's' house at Domjur in Bengal||Union Home Minister Amit Shah had lunch at the home of a 'rickshawala' in Howrah district on Wednesday after winding up a roadshow at Domjur Assembly constituency. Sitting on the floor of the modest house, Shah had a simple fare of rice, dal, vegetables and salad made by the womenfolk of the house. The Union Home Minister was accompanied by BJP candidate for Domjur Rajib Banerjee and other leaders. During the lunch, the host sat in front of the guests taking care of them. Earlier, Shah held a roadshow through the narrow roads of Domjur town with a large crowd in attendance. Standing atop a lorry decorated with flowers, cutouts of Narendra Modi and BJP flags, Amit Shah, with BJP president J P Nadda, and party's candidate from Domjur Rajib Banerjee, waved at people who had queued up on both sides of the road. With bands playing 'Sare jahan se accha', Shah threw flower petals at the crowd, which surged as the show proceeded from Jagdishpur Haat to Kona crossing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-eats-lunch-at-rickshawalas-house-at-domjur-in-bengal-971549.html
07-04-2021||National||Night curfew: People opting for walk-in Covid-19 vaccination will need e-pass in Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination beneficiaries choosing to go for a walk-in vaccination facility will have to acquire an e-pass to travel during the night curfew hours in Delhi, officials said on Wednesday. The Delhi government on Tuesday imposed a night curfew in the national capital from 10 pm to 5 am till April 30 in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The city had recorded 5,100 fresh cases on Tuesday, while 17 more people succumbed to the infection taking the toll to 11,113, according to the Delhi health department. Earlier on Wednesday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain justified the imposition of night curfew, saying people were organising parties and social gatherings in the city at a time when Covid-19 cases have surged and stressed that it was "not a harsh step" as there were various categories of exemption. According to officials, people going for vaccination are exempted too while those who have registered themselves can show the message received via CoWIN app and move to a vaccination centre. Those going for on-site registration during curfew hours will have to acquire an e-pass first, they said. "As per DDMA guidelines, anyone going out for vaccination during night curfew will be allowed provided they have an e-pass with them," a senior police officer said. The officer, however, said the number of people usually stepping out during night hours is fewer. Meanwhile, interacting with reporters, Jain had feared that if the positivity rate escalated and safety norms were not followed by people, the new cases could breach the last single-day spike record registered in November last year. However, he added that it will be too early to speculate on that as of now, and government efforts are to contain the incidences as effectively as possible. On e-passes procurement issues faced by people, the minister told reporters, it is a "teething problem" and should be sorted out soon. Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Jain on Tuesday had said the city government was alert on the pandemic situation and keeping a "close watch" on it. Over 12 lakh people have been vaccinated in Delhi, he had said. He reiterated his demand that vaccination should be made open to all adults, except those who are not medically compliant with the norms for inoculation against Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/night-curfew-people-opting-for-walk-in-covid-19-vaccination-will-need-e-pass-in-delhi-971566.html
07-04-2021||National||SC to pronounce order on plea against detention of Rohingyas in Jammu||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its order on Thursday on a plea against detention of 150-170 Rohingyas at Jammu last month and their possible deportation to their home country, Myanmar. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian would deliver the order on an application filed by Mohammad Salimullah, a Rohingya refugee. The court had on March 26 reserved its order. The Centre had opposed the plea, saying that India is not capital of illegal immigrants. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the applicant, contended that Rohingyas might face atrocities if they were deported to Myanmar, as the current military government in Myanmar was unfavourable to them.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said Rohingyas, who had fled persecution in Myanmar, would be deported only after confirmation of their nationality from the government of that country.    Bhushan, for his part, contended how could a confirmation from a military government, which seized power in Myanmar through a coup, can be trusted for deportation. The bench, however, said that the court cannot refuse to recognise the sovereignty of another nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-order-on-plea-against-detention-of-rohingyas-in-jammu-971574.html
07-04-2021||National||Election Commission notice to Mamata for appealing to Muslims for votes||The Election Commission (EC) on Wednesday issued a show cause notice to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for allegedly “demanding votes on communal grounds” for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and violating the model code of conduct. The poll panel has asked her to reply within 48 hours. The development comes following a complaint by the BJP against her to the EC. The EC stated in the show cause notice that on April 3, it received a complaint from a BJP delegation led by Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi. The BJP delegation alleged that Mamata, a candidate from the Nandigram Assembly seat, “appealed to Muslim voters not to let their votes be split among different political parties while delivering a speech to the public during the election campaign in a meeting at Tarakeshwar in Hooghly telecasted on the TV channel ABP Ananda and openly demanding votes on the communal ground for Trinamool Congress in current West Bengal Assembly elections.”  According to the transcript of Mamata’s speech attached with notice, she had appealed to the minority community not to let their votes split and if the BJP comes to power they will be in “severe danger.” “I am requesting my minority brothers and sisters with folded hands; after listening to the devil (Shaitan) who had taken money from the BJP... He is one of the apostles of the BJP comrade... Keep in mind that if the BJP comes into the Government then you will be in severe danger…,” the transcript quoted Mamata. The EC stated that if Mamata fails to reply within 48 hours then it would take a decision without further reference to her. “Now, therefore the Commission gives you an opportunity to explain your stand in making the above said statement, within 48 hours of receipt of this notice, failing which the Commission shall take a decision without further reference to you,” the EC stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-notice-to-mamata-for-appealing-to-muslims-for-votes-971575.html
07-04-2021||National||India's leadership displayed political will and determination to uphold national interests: CDS Rawat||India's leadership displayed political will and determination to uphold vital national interests in the face of "unprovoked assault" on its security and dignity, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said on Wednesday, remarks seen as an apparent reference to the border row with China in eastern Ladakh. He said the country is facing multiple and varied security threats and challenges across the full spectrum of conflicts-- from proxy war to hybrid to non-contact conventional war, and asserted that India will have to develop capabilities to deal with such challenges firmly and vigorously without creating any insecurity among its friends. In an address at a think tank, Gen Rawat also referred to evolution of India's military, and said the country must come out of the temptation of looking at the western world for security solutions, and instead, tell the world to come and learn from its vast experience in dealing with diverse challenges. Gen Rawat said India's external threats can be met with effective diplomacy and adequate defence capability but at the same time noted that strong political institutions, economic growth, social harmony, efficient law and order machinery, expeditious judicial relief and good governance are "prerequisite for internal stability". He was speaking at the Vivekananda International Foundation on 'shaping the armed forces to meet likely current and future challenges'. "Our leadership has displayed the political will and determination to uphold our vital national interests in face of unprovoked assault on our security, values and indeed our dignity," he said. The CDS, however, did not elaborate further. "We can't just return to the way things were before. Therefore, change has become the need of the hour. There is a need to overcome and shed the colonial era syndrom completely," he added. Talking about regional dynamics, he said it has witnessed military conflicts, civil wars, liberation movements, military dictatorship and challenges of emergencies, religious fundamentalism, terrorism and poverty. "Our backyard, hence, continues to remain full of contradictions, disparities and paradoxes. Hence there is an emergent need to develop a vision for the region,"Gen Rawat said. "However, one must be careful to not bite more than what one can chew. Hence, the vision for the region, even our global vision must be intrinsically linked to our national interests with a direct link to our national security," he said. The CDS also mentioned that the higher defence organisation in India has been witnessing "incremental reforms''. He said the restructuring of the Ministry of Defence has provided an opportunity to embrace forward looking strategies to set in motion a dynamic transformation process that gives the country the desired capabilities to prepare for future wars in an era of high-technology. He also said that time has come for the military to look towards technology in a big way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-leadership-displayed-political-will-and-determination-to-uphold-national-interests-cds-rawat-971579.html
07-04-2021||National||Kazakhstan defence minister on four-day visit to India for bilateral talks||Kazakhstan Defence Minister Lieutenant General Nurlan Yermekbayev is on a four-day visit to India from Wednesday, the Defence Ministry said. "The Kazakh defence minister is scheduled to arrive in Jodhpur today and is expected to travel to Jaisalmer, New Delhi and Agra for meetings and visit defence establishments," the ministry said in a statement. Yermekbayev will hold a bilateral meeting with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi on Friday, it noted. The two ministers had last met in Moscow on September 5 last year on the sidelines of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) defence ministers' meeting.  Yermekbayev is in India on Singh's invitation, the Defence Ministry noted.  This will be his first meeting with Singh after his reappointment as the defence minister of Kazakhstan, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kazakhstan-defence-minister-on-four-day-visit-to-india-for-bilateral-talks-971588.html
07-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Centre allows Covid-19 vaccination at workplaces from April 11||The Centre has allowed Covid-19 vaccination at the workplaces in private and public sectors if there are more than 100 employees willing to take the shots. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to the states advising them to talk to the management of business houses so that on-site vaccination camps can be launched from next Sunday (April 11). "In order to increase the access of vaccine, Covid-19 vaccination sessions may be organised at workplaces (both public and private), which are having about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries by tagging these workplaces with an existing Covid-19 vaccination centre,” he wrote in a letter to all the state administrations. This has been decided because a substantial proportion of the population aged between 45-59 years (in some cases up to 65 years) are in the organized sector of the economy. Since they are involved in formal occupation in offices (government and private), in manufacturing and services sectors organising such vaccination camps at the workplace will not only be convenient to the staff but also help avoid travel and reduce the risk of exposure to SARS-CoV-2. Only the employees aged 45 years or more will be eligible for vaccination. No outsiders including eligible family members can be vaccinated at such on-site camps. Since April 1, India expanded Covid-19 vaccination for anyone above 45 years after restricting the shots for healthcare workers, front line staff, senior citizens and people in the 45-59 age with chronic illnesses for two and half months. After opening up, India’s daily vaccination doses crossed more than 40 lakh for the first time on April 5. More than 33 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. The Centre shared a detailed guideline on how to conduct such camps. An emphasis has been given on the presence of 100 persons at least for optimal utilisation of vaccine dosage and reduces wastage. The District Task Force chaired by District Magistrate and Urban Task Force chaired by Municipal Commissioner will identify such government and private workplaces after due deliberations with relevant employers. The workplace management will designate one of their senior staff to work as “Nodal Officer” to coordinate with district health authorities and private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres and support vaccination activities. Each site will get one type of vaccine to avoid mix up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-allows-covid-19-vaccination-at-workplaces-from-april-11-971593.html
07-04-2021||National||Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan meets US special envoy John Kerry||Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday discussed efforts to revamp strategic energy partnership between India and the US with the visiting US Presidential Special Envoy for Climate John Kerry. Calling his meeting "productive", Pradhan tweeted that the discussions focused "on collaborating on technology and finance to further develop mutually beneficial low-carbon pathways in fast-growing India's energy market, including in gas, RE, biofuels & in hydrogen." RE stands for renewable energy. "Also, discussed the ongoing efforts to revamp the strategic energy partnership with Energy Secretary @SecGranholm with focus on cleaner and green energies, including through the deployment of future technologies for carbon capture, battery storage and hydrogen," he added. Late last month, Pradhan had a meeting with US Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm to discuss revamping strategic energy partnership between the two nations with a greater focus on cleaner energy sectors. The two leaders had agreed to prioritise greater collaboration in the cleaner energy sectors of biofuels, CCUS (carbon capture, utilisation and storage), hydrogen production and carbon sequestration through technology exchange, joint R&D through Partnership to Advance Clean Energy Research (PACE-R), among other initiatives. "Both sides agreed to convene the third meeting of a revamped India-US Strategic Energy Partnership at an early date," an official statement issued after that meeting had said. "They decided to intensify the efforts to take advantage of the complementarities of both the countries - advanced US technologies and rapidly growing India’s energy market, for a win-win situation through a cleaner energy route with low carbon pathways." On his meeting with Kerry, Pradhan said the US envoy appreciated India's climate commitments. "Mr. @JohnKerry appreciated India's significant progress in its climate ambition and lauded Prime Minister @narendramodi's spiritual and emotional commitment to climate change," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oil-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-meets-us-special-envoy-john-kerry-971598.html
07-04-2021||National||Dream big, exams an opportunity to shape life, says PM Modi during 'Pariksha Pe Charcha'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday exhorted students to dream big and consider examinations not as a final milestone, but an opportunity to shape life in the long run. In a 90-minute virtual interaction on ‘Pareeksha Pe Charcha’ with students from across the country, Modi answered questions on a range of topics related to studies, examinations, learning under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic and coping with pre-examination stress. “We have one word for examination – kasauti. It means to test yourself. It doesn’t mean that examination is the last chance, rather it is the perfect opportunity to test oneself to lead a better life,” Modi said. “Examinations become a problem when we assume it to be the end of our dreams for life, when we make it an issue of life and death. Actually, we should keep looking at such opportunities to test ourselves and not run away from it,” the prime minister said. He also advised parents to bridge the generation gap with children by trying to understand their likes and dislikes and by getting involved in their world. “Don’t tell them what to do, be their friend and let them explore the world around them,” Modi said disapproving the tendency of some parents to become instructors or inspectors of their children. The prime minister said it was okay not to like a particular subject or be weak in it and underscored the importance of focusing on strengths. “Those who are successful may not be perfect in all subjects, but they have mastered one,” Modi said citing the example of singer Lata Mangeshkar. “Would Lata Mangeshkar be able to teach Geography? Maybe not. But she is perfect in her art,” he said. This was the first virtual edition of 'Pareeksha Pe Charcha', Modi’s annual interaction with students ahead of the Board examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dream-big-exams-an-opportunity-to-shape-life-says-pm-modi-during-pariksha-pe-charcha-971607.html
07-04-2021||National||PM Modi, Seychelles President to participate in online event to inaugurate projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Seychelles President Wavel Ramkalawan will participate in a virtual event on Thursday during which a range of Indian projects in the Seychelles will be inaugurated.  The high-level virtual event will feature a joint e-inauguration of the new Magistrates' Court building in the Seychelles, the handing over of a Fast Patrol Vessel to the Seychelles Coast Guard, the handing over of a 1-MW solar power plant, the inauguration of 10 high-impact community development projects (HICDPs), the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement on Wednesday. Modi will take part in the virtual event with Ramkalawan on Thursday to inaugurate a range of Indian projects in the Seychelles, it added. The new Magistrates' Court building in the capital city, Victoria, is India's first major civil infrastructure project in the Seychelles built with grant assistance. The Magistrates' Court is a state-of-the-art building that will substantially enhance the capacity of the Seychelles' judicial system and aid in better delivery of judicial services to people, the PMO said. The 50-metre Fast Patrol Vessel, which is a modern and fully-equipped naval ship, has been made in India by M/s GRSE, Kolkata and is being gifted to the Seychelles under Indian grant assistance to strengthen its maritime surveillance capabilities, it added. The 1-MW ground-mounted solar power plant at the Romainville Island of the Seychelles has been completed as part of the "Solar PV Democratisation Project" being implemented in the Seychelles by the Indian government under grant assistance. The virtual event will also see the handing over of 10 HICDPs implemented by the High Commission of India in collaboration with local bodies, educational and vocational institutions. The Seychelles occupies a central place in the prime minister's vision of "SAGAR" -- Security and Growth for All in the Region -- the PMO said.  The inauguration of these key projects demonstrates India's privileged and time-tested role as a reliable partner of the Seychelles for meeting its infrastructural, developmental and security requirements and is a testimony to the deep and friendly ties between the people of the two countries, it added. The Seychelles is an archipelago of 115 islands in the Indian Ocean, off East Africa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-seychelles-president-to-participate-in-online-event-to-inaugurate-projects-971612.html
07-04-2021||National||WHO chief appreciates PM Modi for spreading awareness to curb Covid-19 transmission||WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday appreciated Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message on the World Health Day in which he highlighted the importance of following precautions and taking care of one's own health to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. On the occasion of the World Health Day, Prime Minister Modi reiterated the country's commitment to supporting research and innovation in healthcare. He urged people to focus on fighting the Covid-19 pandemic by taking all precautions, including wearing a mask, regularly washing hands and following other protocols. His appeal comes amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in India with over 1 lakh daily cases reported twice in the last three days. He asked the people to take all possible steps to boost immunity and stay fit. World Health Organization Director-General Tedros took to Twitter to comment on Modi's message on the World Health Day. "Namaste, #India Prime Minister @narendramodi, for highlighting that each and every one of us has a role to play in stopping #Covid19 transmission, as well as the importance of taking care of our own health," Tedros tweeted. "Happy #WorldHealthDay!" he wrote. More than 132,597,200 people have been infected by the virus across the world and over 2,876,500 have also died, according to Johns Hopkins University Covid tracker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-chief-appreciates-pm-modi-for-spreading-awareness-to-curb-covid-19-transmission-971621.html
07-04-2021||National||National Road Safety Board to come up soon||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways is likely to set up a National Road Safety Board soon, aimed at guiding the government for promoting road and vehicle safetyas the Department of Expenditure in the Finance Ministry approved the proposal on Wednesday. The Union Road Transport Ministry had earlier issued a draft notification for establishing the National Road Safety Board. The proposed Board will be tasked to perform several responsibilities on road safety, including promoting road safety, innovation and adoption of new technology for regulating traffic movements and vehicles. The Board will consist of a Chairman and a maximum of 7 other members. It is being formed in accordance with the new Motor Vehicle Act The board will also have experts and different technical committees. These committees will help the Road Transport Ministry to formulate specific standards for road safety, registering and licensing of motor vehicles and deciding on the standards of vehicle design.  The board will also help the ministry to formulate specific standards for road safety, building roads in hilly regions. It will have a frequent consultation with other departments and state governments on road and vehicle safety issues, said an official in the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-road-safety-board-to-come-up-soon-971642.html
07-04-2021||National||Government asks drug makers to ramp up Remdesivir production to full capacity||The government on Wednesday said that all seven manufacturers of Remdesivir in the country have been asked to ramp up production to full capacity by next week. The direction comes against reports of shortages of the critical drug. Remdesivir is considered a key antiviral drug in the fight against Covid-19, especially in adult patients with severe complications. "There are seven players who produce Remdesivir. I have asked all players to ramp up production to full capacity by next week. The drug's API is manufactured in India so there won't be a problem," Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State for Chemical and Fertilizers, told PTI. Mandaviya said these seven manufacturers - Mylan, Hetero, Jubiliant Life Sciences, Cipla, Dr Reddy's, Zydus Cadila and Sun Pharma - have a monthly production capacity of 31.60 lakh vials. Letters have been despatched to all these drugmakers to ramp up production, he added. Of the 31.60 lakh vials, Hetero produces 10.50 lakh vials a month, Cipla makes 6.20 lakh vials, 5 lakh vials are produced by Zydus Cadila and 4 lakh vials are produced by Mylan, Mandaviya said. The remaining drugmakers produce vials in the range of 1 lakh and 2.5 lakh a month, he added. The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to procure Remdesivir injections so that they could be provided free of cost for the treatment of critical COVID-19 patients from the economically weaker sections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-asks-drug-makers-to-ramp-up-remdesivir-production-to-full-capacity-971643.html
07-04-2021||National||Amid standoff over DBT payment to farmers, Piyush Goyal to meet Punjab food minister on Thursday||Union Food Minister Piyush Goyal will meet his Punjab counterpart Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Thursday in a bid to resolve the ongoing deadlock between the Centre and Punjab over direct online MSP payments to farmers. The Centre has been insistent that the Punjab government initiate DBT (Direct Bank Transfer) payments to farmers from the Rabi procurement season beginning April 10, whereas the state has been demanding relaxation and continuation of the existing system of making MSP payments to farmers through "arhtias" (commission agents). After a Cabinet briefing, Goyal confirmed that he was meeting the Punjab minister on Thursday. Government sources say that three exemptions have already been given to Punjab and further extensions are not feasible considering that all other major procurement states have shifted to the DBT module in line with the Finance Ministry's guidelines. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has written two letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard but has not received a positive response. The sources said the central government is in no mood to grant further extensions to Punjab, considering that the DBT system in the state has been chalked out and is ready for rollout. The Centre has also been accusing the Punjab government of misleading farmers on the issue of DBT payments as farmers tilling the land will get direct payments from the Centre on procured foodgrains as is being done in other states. The sources said the Centre has stated that making direct payments to those farmers who are not landowners will not affect the land-holding pattern and has been questioning the Punjab government on why it is insisting on making payments through 'arhtias'. With the procurement season starting in the next three days, the current standoff between the Centre and the state government may affect the procurement of foodgrains from Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-standoff-over-dbt-payment-to-farmers-piyush-goyal-to-meet-punjab-food-minister-on-thursday-971645.html
07-04-2021||National||Covid-19 second wave: India stares at over 1,000 daily deaths in coming weeks||The subdued mortality seen in the second wave of the Covid-19 epidemic so far notwithstanding, India may be staring at more than 1,000 daily deaths in the coming weeks as an astounding number of new cases piles up every day. Even with a low fatality rate of 1.3 per cent and 90,000 to 100,000 plus new cases every day – this was the trend in the past week – India may soon be dealing with 1,000 plus Covid-19 deaths daily. “If you let the disease spread in an unleashed way, you are looking at a huge number of infections and deaths even with a low case fatality rate of 1.4 per cent (it is 1.3 per cent as per the Health Ministry) because the total number of deaths is a product of infections and fatality rates. And please remember, each number is a person,” Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan told DH. There are early signs. Since the beginning of March, there has been a five-fold increase in average daily deaths in the six weeks as the growth in the Covid-19 pandemic approached the second peak in April. In the week of February 24-March 2, there were on average 111 Covid-19 deaths daily. The number jumped to 529 deaths in the week of March 31-April 6. On the basis of the seven-day average, the peak of the second wave touched the first wave on Wednesday with more than 93,000 cases on an average for the past seven days. Two of the last seven days saw reporting of more than 1 lakh new Covid-19 cases and a new grim record was set in the last 24 hours with the reporting of 1,15,736 fresh cases. While the bulk of the cases and deaths were from Maharashtra, with nearly 10,000 new cases in the last 24 hours, Chhattisgarh is a new worry. “Any assumption that the current surge is linked to low case fatality is a misconception. The health infrastructure in many places will face a stiff challenge in the next few weeks due to the pace at which the test positivity rate is skyrocketing. When there is a huge rise in demand for oxygen, ICUs and high dependency care the fatality rate will rise exponentially,” commented Oommen John, a public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi. The lessons that doctors had learnt in the past year may have helped so far in keeping the toll on the lower side. But with the pandemic spreading to smaller towns where the health care infrastructure is below par, the experts are keeping their fingers crossed. “There is no evidence that case fatality rates are lower at this time but it may seem that way because doctors are better prepared this time and some people may have been vaccinated at least for one dose,” said Ramanan Laxminarayanan from the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy in Washington DC. “Real-time monitoring of caseloads and health systems capacity will help plan and augment the capacity. This is critical to avoid preventable deaths due to Covid-19,” added John.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-second-wave-india-stares-at-over-1000-daily-deaths-in-coming-weeks-971646.html
07-04-2021||National||Odisha suspends classroom teaching for class 9 & 11 students||In view of the rise in coronavirus cases in the state, the Odisha government on Wednesday decided to suspend physical teaching of Class 9 and 11 students at all schools including private and aided institutions. The School and Mass Education Department issued an order suspending classroom teaching which will come into effect from April 8 and will remain in force till April 30. Secretary of the School and Mass Education Department, Satyabrata Sahu in a letter to Directors and District Education Officers said that the schools can take up online classes for students of class 9 and 11. It said that the students of these two classes residing in hostels and residential schools are allowed to go back home immediately. The classes of standard 10 and 12 students will, however, continue as usual till April 25, as decided earlier. Covid appropriate behaviour like use of mask, maintaining social distancing norms and hand hygiene must be ensured for the Class 10 and 12 students staying in hostels, the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-suspends-classroom-teaching-for-class-9-11-students-971647.html
07-04-2021||National||SC to hear pleas by Maharashtra government, Anil Deshmukh against CBI probe on April 8||The Supreme Court is to hear on Thursday a plea by the  Maharashtra government as well as former state home minister Anil Deshmukh against the Bombay High Court order of preliminary enquiry by the CBI into corruption allegations made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta would take two separate petitions filed by the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and Deshmukh, an NCP leader. In their plea, the petitioners contended the High Court in its order on April 5 relied upon false, motivated, baseless and belated allegations made on the basis of purely hearsay evidence to order a probe into the matter, causing irreparable damage to the reputation of the state as well as the individual. A bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni had on Monday asked the CBI to complete its 'preliminary probe' within 15 days on the issues, including Rs 100 crore collection target by Deshmukh. Hours after the court verdict, Deshmukh resigned from his post. In the petition, Deshmukh as the state government sought an immediate stay and setting aside the order by the High Court. They claimed the order by the High Court was without hearing the parties, resulting in drastic consequences on the reputation of the then Minister, and state agencies. The plea also claimed had the High Court issued notice to the petitioner as well as the state government, they would have demonstrated that the allegations by Singh could not be accepted at face value and why such allegations cannot be acted upon. Raising question mark on the CBI, it claimed independence of the outside agency has been a cause of concern, particularly when the state had withdrawn its consent to the central agency to investigate offences under its territory. "The High Court reposed faith in "an independent investigating agency", knowing full well about its credential in the past," it added. The plea further contended if the High Court really wanted, it could have ordered the probe by the state agencies under its own monitoring. Deshmukh, in his plea, also said the reason why the High Court passed the order did no longer survived as he has resigned from the post. He also submitted that the former Commissioner referred to conversations by others which was purely hearsay without any substantive basis. After his transfer, the then Mumbai Police Commissioner on March 20 triggered a massive political storm in Maharashtra with his letter raising grave allegations against the then Home Minister. On his plea for CBI probe into the charges, the top court on March 24 Wednesday asked Singh to approach the Bombay High Court, saying "the matter was quite serious and affected the administration" but "the High Court has the requisite authority to address the issue".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-pleas-by-maharashtra-government-anil-deshmukh-against-cbi-probe-on-april-8-971649.html
07-04-2021||National||Kerry meets Modi, pledges US support for India's climate action plan||The United States will support India’s plans to deal with the challenge posed by climate change by facilitating affordable access to green technologies and requisite finance, American President Joe Biden’s special envoy John Kerry told Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Kerry called on the Prime Minister in New Delhi on Wednesday. Modi told the US Special Presidential Envoy on Climate that India was committed to meeting its nationally-determined contributions under the Paris Agreement. Kerry briefed the Prime Minister on his “fruitful and productive discussions” over the last two days in India, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs. He positively noted India’s climate actions including its ambitious renewable energy plans. He briefed the Prime Minister about the upcoming Leaders’ Summit on Climate, which the US President would host on April 22 and 23. Biden already invited Modi to take part in the virtual summit.  The Prime Minister agreed that cooperation between India and the United States particularly on financing innovation and faster deployment of green technologies would have a positive demonstration effect on other countries. Kerry conveyed greetings of the US President to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister fondly recalled his recent interactions with the US President, including during the first summit of the Quad on March 12. He requested Kerry to convey his best wishes to Biden and the US Vice President Kamala Harris.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerry-meets-modi-pledges-us-support-for-indias-climate-action-plan-971664.html
07-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Indore witnesses shortage of remdesivir||Indore in Madhya Pradesh has been facing a shortage of remdesivir injection used for treating coronavirus patients, with the authorities saying that as against the daily demand of 7,000 vials of the anti-viral drug in the district, they are getting less than half that number at present. Pictures and videos of people thronging medicine shops in Indore to purchase remdesivir are going viral on social media. Eyewitnesses said that a drug store located in Dava Bazar in the city had to down its shutters for some time as huge crowd gathered in front of the outlet. Talking to PTI, Additional District Magistrate (ADM) Abhay Bedekar said that scant supply of remdesivir injection by pharmaceutical companies has led to the problem. "Currently, about 3,000 vials of remdesivir injections of different pharmaceutical companies are coming to Indore everyday, while its daily demand in the district is around 7,000 vials. So, only half the supply is being met as against the actual demand," he said. Meanwhile, speaking during a programme here, District Collector Manish Singh said, "As a result of rising cases of coronavirus infection in (neighbouring states) Maharashtra and Gujarat, the availability of remdesivir and oxygen has dropped in Indore. We are trying to ensure sufficient availability of resources in the ongoing war against the pandemic." There is a shortage of remdesivir and medical oxygen in Indore at a time when the district has been witnessing a spike in coronavirus cases. In the last 24 hours, 866 new Covid-19 patients were found in the district, the highest single day spike, they said. With this Indore's infection count rose to 74,895, of whom 981 patients have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indore-witnesses-shortage-of-remdesivir-971667.html
07-04-2021||National Politics||RSS, BJP may also 'adopt' Nehru like they did Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot took a dig at the BJP and the RSS on Tuesday, saying if needed, they would "adopt" former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru just like Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel. Addressing a ceremony after unveiling a statue of Gandhi in Hanumangarh, Gehlot said maybe 10-20 years later, the BJP and the RSS would also "adopt" Nehru when it suits them. "Now, the BJP and RSS have adopted Gandhi ji, they have adopted Sardar Patel and are adopting everybody," Gehlot said. "Time will come when they will adopt Pandit Nehru." The chief minister said Gandhi was more relevant today because of the situation that had been created inside the country. "It cannot be expressed in words. People are afraid to talk over the phone (call) and it is said that talk on FaceTime or WhatsApp," Gehlot said. Gehlot accused the Centre of misuse of investigative agencies to "bring down governments or take revenge". People of the country understands everything and will give a reply on an appropriate time, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-bjp-may-also-adopt-nehru-like-they-did-mahatma-gandhi-sardar-patel-gehlot-971337.html
07-04-2021||National Politics||I was cornered in TMC for resisting cut money culture: Rajib Banerjee||Former minister Rajib Banerjee, considered to be one of BJP's prized scalps in its quest to assume power in Bengal, alleged that he was relegated in the TMC for opposing "cut money culture" and had to face "step-motherly" treatment throughout his second term, which ultimately prompted him to sever ties with the ruling party. Banerjee also mocked the Trinamool Congress government for promoting the state's numero uno position in implementation of the MGNREGA, contending that the distinction is testimony of the lack of jobs for the youth of West Bengal. The former forest minister, once a key figure in the Trinamool Congress, said he had considered retiring from active politics, but took up the challenge to contest in the assembly elections with the hope that the BJP will usher in a new era of development in the state. Banerjee, 51, who switched over to the saffron camp in January, is vying for a third term from the Domjur constituency, where he has won twice as a TMC candidate since 2011. Referring to his "bitter experiences" in the Backward Classes Welfare Department, Banerjee said he had once received a complaint of irregularity in distribution of cycles among students under the 'Sabuj Sathi' project, and flagged it to the chief minister's office. "The result of pointing this out was I was removed from the department, as I tried to put an end to the cut money culture," the former Backward Classes Welfare Department Minister told PTI in an interview on the sidelines of hectic campaigning. Accusing the TMC dispensation of not clearing files for development projects for his constituency, Banerjee claimed that he was shunted out of every ministry that he headed whenever he tried to come in the way of vested interests of a section of senior officials and party members. "I had worked hard to get the nod for drinking water projects in Domjur, but then, a Rs 33-crore proposal for free water connection to households was not approved. The local TMC administration is now demanding money from people to go ahead with it. I wanted to execute the project without charging a penny," he said. Attacking the TMC government over its "failure" to create job opportunities, Banerjee sought to punch a hole in the ruling party's poll plank of securing the the top spot for implementation of the 100-day rural job scheme, declaring it as "a reflection of West Bengal, a failed state". "There are over 5.5 lakh vacancies in state government departments, and no efforts were made to recruit people for the posts. Instead, the TMC dispensation hired a few thousand contractual workers. "People do not have jobs, and that is why they sought work under the MGNRGA scheme. Youths are leaving the state," Banerjee, who holds an MBA degree, said. Asked about allegations that he enjoyed all the power and perks of his position before ditching the TMC prior to the elections, the former Irrigation Minister said people of the constituency are well aware of his development work in the area. "Let the TMC leaders say whatever they want. People will decide on April 10 (the day of polling in Domjur)... I know they will not disappoint me, said Banerjee, who is believed to have considerable influence in several seats of Howrah district. The TMC turncoat, however, maintained that he has immense respect for TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and had to desert the party with a heavy heart as he was cornered. "Unfortunately, I was not allowed to work independently in the second term and sidelined in the party. I had to face personal attacks for airing grievances against a section of top leaders. "I was also meted out a step-motherly treatment ever since winning from the constituency with more than one lakh votes for a second term in 2016," he claimed. Banerjee also took a swipe at TMC's 'khela hobe' (game will happen) poll slogan, insisting that such a discourse by the ruling party shows it has become politically bankrupt. Attired in a traditional 'kurta pyjama', Banerjee, the nephew of former state minister in the Congress government Mritunjay Banerjee, has been traversing the length and breadth of Domjur, around 16 km from Kolkata, exuding confidence of a hat-trick win.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-was-cornered-in-tmc-for-resisting-cut-money-culture-rajib-banerjee-971567.html
07-04-2021||National Politics||Government's unscientific and stubborn stance has allowed Covid-19 cases to rise: P Chidambaram||Congress on Wednesday lashed out at the Narendra Modi government, accusing it of mishandling the second wave of Covid-19 infections across the country and warned that the situation could turn into a tsunami if not dealt with properly. Congress alleged that there are several drawbacks in the Centre’s Covid-19 strategies, particularly the ones dealing with Covid-19 vaccinations as several states are reporting shortages of vaccines and have called for speedy approvals for newer vaccines. “Because of its unscientific and stubborn stance, the government has allowed the number of infections to gallop every day. A grave catastrophe awaits the country,” senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said. The former finance minister alleged from demonetisation to the botched vaccination programme, Indians are paying a huge price for the wrong policies of the BJP government. Chidambaram said that the Indian Medical Association and several chief ministers had demanded universal vaccination, which has been rejected by the Centre. "The need of the hour is walk-in vaccination to all age groups without any pre-registration," the senior Congress leader said. Congress also accused the government of delays in approving newer vaccines for use. “There is a dilly-dallying on the vaccine approval and regulatory protocols that have held back many globally accepted and approved safe vaccines from entering the Indian market, this ensures over-dependency on limited vaccines, therefore, delaying the nationwide vaccination program,” Congress spokesman Pawan Khera told reporters in Delhi. He claimed that countries with a diversified pool of Covid-19 vaccines have witnessed ease in immunisation drives that has led to a decrease in the number of fresh cases. “The spike of the Covid-19 cases is alarming, and the width (duration of the spike) of the Covid-19 cases needs to be curtailed now before this wave turns into a tsunami,” Khera said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/governments-unscientific-and-stubborn-stance-has-allowed-covid-19-cases-to-rise-p-chidambaram-971584.html
07-04-2021||National Politics||TMC leaders swindled Central funds: Yogi Adityanath||Kolkata, DHNS: Launching a two-pronged attack on Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said she deprived the people of the state for 10 years by not implementing Central schemes and her party has swindled aids from the Centre. “Mamata didi has deprived the people of West Bengal for 10 years by not implementing the welfare schemes of the Centre. Moreover, the TMC leaders swindled everything sent by the Centre whether its fund or aids,” said Yogi. He addressed back to back rallies in Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling district. Cautioning TMC leaders, Adityanath said after coming to power in Bengal, the BJP government will recover every paisa and use it for development work. He further alleged that the TMC government was aloof to the plight of tea garden workers. Adityanath said while in other states the daily wage of tea garden workers is Rs 350 along with land rights but in Bengal, it is not even Rs 200. “The BJP will ensure the development of the tea garden workers and the Gorkha community living in the region,” said Adityanath. He also said a “double engine government” which will work hand in hand with the Centre was the need of the hour for Bengal’s development.  “Didi has not allowed the benefits of Central schemes from reaching the people. For BJP it was not just about coming to power in Bengal but to create ‘Sonar Bangla’ (golden Bengal),” said Adityanath. Wondering why the TMC supremo gets annoyed with slogans of ‘Jai Shree Ram’, he said: “Those who have spoken against Lord Ram have suffered from failures. Didi will face a similar fate.” He said more than 130 BJP workers were killed in Bengal by TMC goons adding that after the BJP comes to power in the State these goons will be dealt with according to law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-leaders-swindled-central-funds-yogi-adityanath-971587.html
07-04-2021||National Politics||Centre's Covid-19 vaccination policy in 'total mess': Maharashtra Congress||The Congress in Maharashtra on Wednesday slammed the Centre for rejecting the demand to open Covid-19 vaccination for more age groups and accused it of adopting a non-cooperative attitude towards the state, which is the worst hit by the pandemic in the country. State Congress president Nana Patole said the Centre and the BJP will have to face serious consequences if adequate doses of Covid-19 vaccines are not provided to Maharashtra, which is in the grip of a raging second wave of the pandemic. Responding to the demand for opening up vaccination to everyone above the age of 18 or to lower the minimum age criteria, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said the current inoculation strategy has been drawn up after extensive deliberations. At present, everyone above the age of 45 is eligible to get vaccine doses against Covid-19, which has seen a resurgence in the last few weeks, triggering demands to open the inoculation drive for all adults. Vardhan, in a statement, said the current vaccination strategy has been drawn up after extensive deliberations and consultations with all state governments. Given a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases across the country, there is no option but to accelerate and expand the vaccination drive, Patole said. He said due to the Centres indifferent attitude, only three states have completed vaccination of 5 per cent of their total population. So far, only 8.30 crore people have been vaccinated (partially or fully) in the country. Congress leader Anant Gadgil saidVardhan's comments criticising Maharashtra, a non-BJP-ruled state, over its handling of the pandemic and the vaccination drive was politically motivated. He said the Centres vaccination policy was in a "total mess". Gadgil said Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Topes statement, that only3-day stock of the vaccines left and the Centre has not yet supplied the required doses, clearly indicates a deliberate design to malign the state's image. "Ideally, the Centre should have given more stocks to Maharashtra and permitted the state government to entirely vaccinate badly affected districts instead of insisting on 60 or45-plus age group and people with co-morbidities," Gadgil said. "The vaccine producing capacity of Bharat Biotech and SerumInstitute is2.5 crore doses per year put together as per news reports. At this rate it will take years for all Indians to get vaccinated," Gadgil said. He sought to know why the Centre was not permitting foreign pharma companies who have successfully produced COVID- 19 vaccines to supply their jabs in the Indian market. Gadgilraised the question of low Covid-19 case counts in election-bound states and asked why the entire national media is talking only about the situation in Maharashtra. "Has anyone heard the PM or the home minister appealing to people to maintain social distancing in any of their election rallies," Gadgilasked? State Congress spokesman Atul Londhe said the people of Maharashtra, too, are citizens of the country. The central government should clarify what kind of coronavirus is causing widespread infection in the state so that the right kind of treatment can be given to patients, Londhe said. "We expect that the lives of common people are not comprised just to ensure you return," Londhe said, alluding to BJP leader Devendra Fadnaviss "I will return" remark of 2019 about coming back to power in the state. Meanwhile, Fadnavis said Vardhan has set the record straight with his comments on the vaccination drive even as he slammed the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in the state. The Leader of Opposition in the assembly tweeted, "An eye-opener by Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan ji, to set the record straight, especially for MVA Govt leaders desperate to hide their fallacies by spreading lies about GoI on COVID19 management & vaccination. "To play politics is always easy, but improving governance is the real test!".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-covid-19-vaccination-policy-in-total-mess-maharashtra-congress-971668.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Parts of Delhi witness heavy traffic as residents rush home before night curfew||Unusually heavy traffic was seen at several places in the national capital post 8.30 pm on Tuesday as people scrambled to get home before the night curfew began at 10 pm. Many who were caught off guard by the government's night curfew announcement and tried to get e-passes complained that websites of both the Delhi government and police were choked due to heavy traffic. "I tried for several hours to get an e-pass but the sites had crashed. I started early to get home in time for the curfew but the traffic was unusually heavy today," a commuter said. Stuck in traffic, some commuters took to Twitter to share their ordeal. "There is massive traffic congestion at the Delhi-Meerut Expressway near Ghazipur," a commuter tweeted. Another said there was heavy traffic at the Delhi-Ghaziabad elevated highway. Sachin Singh, who works with a Noida-based private organisation, said, "There was heavy traffic near Ghazipur on Tuesday evening when I was returning home from office. I managed to reach my place by taking a shortcut." In view of rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the Arvind Kejriwal government on Tuesday imposed a seven-hour night curfew, from 10 pm to 5 am, with immediate effect. The curfew will continue till April 30. Those exempted from the curfew include pregnant women; patients; those travelling to and from airports, railway stations, state bus terminus on showing tickets; officials related to the functioning of offices of diplomats; and those holding any constitutional post on the production of valid identity card. Central and Delhi government officials involved in emergency services such as health and family welfare and all related medical establishments, police, prisons, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services are also exempted. Officials of district administration, pay and accounts office, electricity, water and sanitation, public transport, disaster management and related services, NIC, NCC and municipal services, and all other essential services will also be exempted from the night curfew on the production of a valid identity card. People travelling during curfew hours for Covid-19 vaccination will require a soft or hard copy of an e-pass which can be obtained from the website www.delhi.gov.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parts-of-delhi-witness-heavy-traffic-as-residents-rush-home-before-night-curfew-971263.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||UP takes Ansari’s custody, security tightened at Banda jail||The Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday took custody of Mukhtar Ansari, leaving with him from Punjab’s Rupnagar jail in a convoy headed 900 km away for a prison in Banda where security has been tightened to hold the gangster-turned-politician. The transfer of the Bahujan Samaj Party MLA takes place after an order by the Supreme Court, approached by the Uttar Pradesh government which cited the series of criminal cases Ansari faces in his home state. The BJP-run Uttar Pradesh government has accused the Congress government in Punjab of “shielding” Ansari for several months by not letting the state take custody. As UP prepared to take charge of the high-profile undertrial, his wife Afshan Ansari moved the Supreme Court seeking directions to the state authorities to ensure his safety, including from a police encounter. Transfer formalities took about two hours on Tuesday before the MLA from Mau was handed over to the UP team at Rupnagar jail, where he has been lodged since January 2019 in connection with an extortion case. The police convoy entered Uttar Pradesh through the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Baghpat around 6.00 pm, Allahabad zone Additional Director General of Police Prem Prakash told PTI. Ansari was taken from the Rupnagar jail in an ambulance and was also medically examined, a Rupnagar jail official said. A convoy of seven Uttar Pradesh police vehicles, including an ambulance and an anti-riot Vajra van, left the jail premises at 2:08 pm. The vehicles left through another gate, while most of the media waited outside the main gate. Strict arrangements were in place with barricades put up by the Punjab Police on the road leading to the jail. As the convoy took the Ambala road some media vehicles gave chase. The Uttar Pradesh team had reached Rupnagar police lines at 4.30 a.m. on Tuesday and left for the jail around noon for the transfer. According to the UP police, Ansari faces 52 cases in the state and elsewhere, and 15 of them are at the trial stage. Punjab's home department had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take Ansari’s custody by April 8, following the March 26 Supreme Court order that had set a two-week deadline. The apex court had noted that Ansari was allegedly involved in cases of murder, attempt to murder, cheating and conspiracy, apart from offences under the Gangsters Act. It said his custody was being denied to the UP police on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues. The SC also said a convict or an undertrial who disobeys the law of the land cannot oppose his transfer from one prison to another and the courts cannot be helpless bystanders when the rule of law is being challenged with impunity. Ansari will be kept in barrack number 15 of the Banda district jail when he reaches there on Wednesday morning, an official said. Additional police force has been deployed at the jail at the request of prison authorities. Ansari will be guarded by three security personnel round the clock inside the barrack, the official said on Tuesday. "Security personnel have been posted inside as well as outside the jail premises,” Banda jailor Pramod Tiwari said. “In barrack number 15, where Mukhtar Ansari will be kept, arrangements for light, drinking water and cleanliness have been spruced up," he said. He said access to the barrack has now been denied to other jail inmates. The main prison complex gate, which generally remains open, will now be kept closed. Only the jail staff reporting on duty will be allowed in after proper screening, he added. In her plea filed before the Supreme Court on Monday, Ansari’s wife claimed there are “very high chances” that he will be eliminated if directions are not given for his protection. It said in the past several attempts were made on his life by political rivals in Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, Banda Government Medical College principal Dr Mukesh Kumar Yadav said a panel of four doctors has been formed, following the Supreme Court directions regarding Ansari’s health. Earlier, a row had also erupted over Ansari being ferried in an ambulance from Rupnagar jail to a Mohali court on March 31 in connection with the 2019 extortion case in Punjab. A Punjab police official clarified that a jail inmate can be transported in a private ambulance on medical grounds at his own cost. UP police, meanwhile, launched a probe into the registration of the ambulance, saying fake documents were submitted for the vehicle at that time. In another twist to case, the same ambulance was found abandoned outside a roadside eatery on Chandigarh-Nangal highway in Rupnagar district on Saturday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-takes-ansari-s-custody-security-tightened-at-banda-jail-971272.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Rohtak teacher ends life in support of farmers||A teacher allegedly committed suicide here by consuming poison on Tuesday in support of the farmers protesting against the farm laws, police said. Shortly before his death, Mukesh uploaded a video on social media, expressing his solidarity with the farmers who are protesting against the Centre's farm laws. Rohtak Deputy Superintendent of Police Gorakhpal said as soon as police received information that a middle-aged man had uploaded some video on a social networking site stating that he wanted to take the extreme step, they immediately swung into action. "However, when we reached the site, he had consumed poison. We rushed him to the PGIMS, but he had already died," the DSP said. The body has been handed over to the deceased's relatives, he said. In the video, Mukesh stated that he stood with the farmers and was saddened as their demand had not been met. Mukesh also thanked all those, including some opposition parties' politicians from Haryana, for standing behind the farmers against the farm laws. Mukesh's was upset as farmers had been sitting on protest for many months without any resolution to their demands. He had also visited the farmers protest site near the Delhi borders on a few occasions, according to his brother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohtak-teacher-ends-life-in-support-of-farmers-971279.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Gatherings during marriages, funerals restricted in Himachal Pradesh||With the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, the Himachal Pradesh government has decided to restrict gatherings at marriage ceremonies to 50 people indoors and with a maximum of 200 for outdoors, an official spokesperson said. The decision was taken during a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to review the Covid-19 situation here on Tuesday. Besides, only 50 persons will be allowed to attend the funeral. Meanwhile, the hill state recorded five deaths and 428 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the fatalities to 1,068 and the total number of cases to 66,237, the data issued by the state health department said. The state has currently 3,740 active cases, it added. The government also decided to postpone the Swarnim Himachal Rath Yatra, which was scheduled to begin on April 15 on the occasion of Himachal Diwas, as a part of celebrations of the golden jubilee of the statehood of HP. Thakur directed the Health department to take effective steps for enhancing the bed capacity in the government hospitals so that if the cases rise, the infected people could be provided with better treatment facilities. Health Minister Rajiv Saizal emphasised that district-level action plans would be implemented strictly to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gatherings-during-marriages-funerals-restricted-in-himachal-pradesh-971284.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||People question efficacy of Delhi's night curfew order||People in Delhi wondered whether the move to impose night curfew would be effective in checking the spread of the coronavirus cases, which are shooting up over the past few days. They argued that there was a need for better implementation of guidelines and heftier fine against violators during the day instead of imposing a night curfew when "most of the population is already indoors". Some also supported the decision, saying people were likely to step out in the night with increasing temperatures. The Kejriwal government on Tuesday imposed night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am with immediate effect till April 30 as the coronavirus cases continue to soar in Delhi, which recorded 5,100 new cases, the highest since November 27. "For common people, there is no point of going out after 10. It was only certain people who were out partying," Dhriti Singh, a private firm employee. "There are no markets after 10 and fewer places to visit. This move won't help much." Singh suggested that imposing a heftier fine on those not following coronavirus guidelines might do the trick. Another local, Adnan Saifi, said it was in the day when people usually meet each other and the focus should be on the "best practices" like social distancing, sanitisation and wearing mask. "Night curfew won't make much of the impact as it is the day time when there is a gathering," Saifi said. Social media users also voiced their opinions, mostly against the decision, some mocking and some questioning the motive. "Night curfew is to corona virus, what green tea is to weight loss," wrote one Twitter user. Another Twitter user, Vidhi Arora, said people should be asked to strictly work from home and public transport should be stopped as less people would go out then. Software engineer Madhvi Sehra Pathak shared her concern about how people would be able to take late-night flights during the curfew. "Instead of applying night curfew make people understand that corona is still there and they need to be cautious," Pathak wrote in response to a tweet by the ruling Aam Aadmi Party. The Delhi government has announced exemptions for various categories of people, including include those travelling to and from airports, railway stations and bus terminuses. Questioning the efficacy of the night curfew, Sarthak Gulati suggested that closing shops earlier might help reduce crowds. "First, the efficacy of night curfew in itself is questionable. Fine, early closing of shops, malls, restaurants at say 8 pm might reduce crowding, agreed. But what is this 10 pm-5 am night curfew. Next, states will say curfew from midnight - 2 am will stop increasing cases," Gulati tweeted. While supporting the decision, Delhi-based homemaker Neha Awasthi argued that the night curfew would restrict those who like to go for dinner or drives. "It is good because people were more likely to step out late as the temperature is high during the day. There was a possibility that people would step out in groups for walk and maybe for late night drives and dinner, at least with this they will be forced to reach home by 10 pm," Awasthi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-question-efficacy-of-delhis-night-curfew-order-971292.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh sees new all-time high of 10,000 daily Covid-19 cases||With the detection of 9,921 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, Chhattisgarh saw its highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the infection in March last year, taking the state's caseload to 3,68,269, a health department official said. With 53 more deaths caused due to the viral infection and co-morbidities, the statewide toll mounted to 4,416, the official said. The state has witnessed 54,171 coronavirus cases and 561 deaths in the last one month. As many as 65 people were discharged from hospitals while 1,487 others completed their home isolation period in the day, leaving the state with 52,445 active cases, he said. With this, the number of people who have recovered from the infection increased to 3,29,408. The worst-hit Raipur and Durg districts accounted for 2,821 and 1,838 of the new cases, respectively. While the cumulative count of the infection in Raipur has reached 76,427, including 1,001 deaths, Durgs caseload has increased to 45,891, including 812 fatalities. Rajnandgaon recorded 940 new cases, Bilaspur 545 and Mahasamund 468, among other districts, he said. Of the latest fatalities, 15 took place on Tuesday and 38 on Monday, he said. With 47,973 samples examined on Tuesday, the number of tests to detect coronavirus in the state went up to 59,88,552. Chhattisgarhs coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 3,86,269, new cases 9,921, deaths 4,416, recovered 3,29,408, active cases 52,445, people tested so far 59,88,552.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-sees-new-all-time-high-of-10000-daily-covid-19-cases-971294.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Mukhtar Ansari back in Banda jail, ferried from Punjab in ambulance||After spending over two years in a Punjab prison, gangster- turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari was brought back to Banda jail early Wednesday morning. He was ferried in an ambulance, part of convoy carrying gun-toting policemen, throughout the 900-km journey from Rupnagar to this Uttar Pradesh town in the Bundelkhand region. Hours later, his brother Afzal Ansari accused the police of treating him in an “inhuman” manner during the journey, claiming he was not given food or water. But he did not substantiate the allegation and, according to the UP government, a medical panel examined the 57-year-old after his arrival and found no immediate health concerns. The Bahujan Samaj Party MLA from Mau faces trial in Uttar Pradesh in several cases, including attempt to murder and murder. His transfer from Punjab was ordered by the Supreme Court after the UP government approached it, seeking the politician's custody from Punjab. An Uttar Pradesh Police team arrived on Tuesday at Punjab’s Rupnagar jail, where Ansari was lodged in connection with an extortion case in Punjab. The hand-over formalities at the jail took about two hours The police convoy – which including the ambulance equipped with life-saving equipment and an anti-riot Vajra vehicle – raced across newly built expressways on an over 14-hour journey. At 4.30 am Wednesday, the ambulance and three other UP police vehicles entered the Banda jail premises. Afzal Ansari, who is the BSP MP from Ghazipur, accused police of ill-treating his brother. “In the over 15-hour journey, he was not given water and food and was also denied medical aid. Due to this, he became unwell and reached Banda jail in a semi-conscious state," he alleged. Afzal Ansari, however, did not elaborate how he got to know about the alleged treatment meted out to his brother. The Uttar Pradesh government, however, said a team of doctors from the Banda Medical College examined Mukhtar Ansari at the jail and found no immediate health issues. The family has earlier expressed concern over Ansari’s safety while in UP, expressing apprehension about possible attempts to eliminate him. The Supreme Court will hear on Friday Afshan Ansari's plea seeking directions to the Uttar Pradesh authorities to ensure protection for her husband. On the way to Banda, at Kanpur Dehat, the police convoy was forced to a stop around 1.30 am with stray animal blocking the road between Bhognipur and Ghatampur. Policemen stepped out from their vehicles to drive them away. Minutes later, the vehicles stopped at Satti police station. Policemen there evaded questions from reporters about the sudden halt, but a police official later said it was just a five-minute bathroom break for Ansari. The Banda prison area looked like a cantonment zone with policemen keeping a strict vigil. The five-time MLA will spend time as an undertrial in barrack number 15 of the district jail, where he was lodged in the past before being shifted to Punjab. Additional police force has been deployed at the request of prison authorities. He will be guarded by three security personnel round-the-clock inside the barrack. "Security personnel have been posted inside as well as outside the jail premises," Banda jailor Pramod Tiwari had said earlier. High towers have been put up outside the jail and extra police pickets have also been set up to keep watch on visitors. The legislator is facing 52 cases in the state and elsewhere, and 15 of them are at the trial stage, according to UP authorities. The BJP-run Uttar Pradesh government had earlier accused the Congress government in Punjab of shielding Ansari for several months by not letting the state take custody. The Punjab's home department had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take Ansari's custody by April 8, following the March 26 Supreme Court order that had set a two-week deadline. The apex court had noted that Ansari was allegedly involved in cases of murder, attempt to murder, cheating and conspiracy, apart from offences under the Gangsters Act. It said his custody was being denied to the Uttar Pradesh Police on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues. The SC also said a convict or an undertrial who disobeys the law of the land cannot oppose his transfer from one prison to another and the courts cannot be helpless bystanders when the rule of law is being challenged with impunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mukhtar-ansari-back-in-banda-jail-ferried-from-punjab-in-ambulance-971327.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Farmers gherao BJP MP in Haryana, smash car windscreen||Protesting farmers on Tuesday blocked a BJP MP's car, smashing its windscreen as he tried to leave a party worker's home, police said. Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini said police had a tough time getting him away from the protesters at Shahbad Markanda, 20 kms from here. In two separate incidents, groups of farmers raised slogans against Women and Child Development Minister Kamlesh Dhanda in Kaithal district and state BJP chief O P Dhankar shortly before he was to arrive for a party event in Panipat. Describing the attack on Saini as "murderous", Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said while it is the democratic right of farmers to hold a protest, violence will not be tolerated. Farmers protesting over the three new farm laws were sitting on a 'dharna' in front of Jannayak Janta Party MLA Ram Karan Kala's home when they learnt that Saini had reached a BJP worker's home in nearby Majri mohalla. They then gathered outside the BJP worker's home while Saini had tea inside, police said. According to Saini, when he sat in the vehicle and tried to leave the place, over 50 protesters 'gheraoed' it. A few of them jumped over the vehicle's bonnet while someone smashed the windscreen with a stone or a lathi. He said it was with great difficulty that the police got him out of the area in the SUV. The MP said those who indulge in acts of violence against elected representatives cannot be farmers. Such people are defaming farmers, he added. Police were deployed in large numbers in the area after the incident. Kurukshetra Superintendent of Police Himanshu Garg said police are investigating the matter and would file a case against those found responsible for the violence. In another incident, a group of farmers raised slogans when Women and Child Development Minister Kamlesh Dhanda's cavalcade was passing through Kaithal district to attend an event in a village. Another group of farmers raised slogans against state BJP chief Dhankar shortly before he was to arrive for a party event in Panipat. The police had to take an alternate route to make him reach the event venue. On the Kurukshetra incident, Khattar said, "It was a murderous attack on the MP. This is not a small incident." The farmers have been saying they will hold a peaceful protest, which is their democratic right, but any incident of violence will not be tolerated, the chief minister told reporters in Chandigarh. Asked about farmer leaders' call for the boycott of BJP-JJP leaders, Khattar targeted the opposition parties, saying they have not condemned this, "which means they are extending their silent support (to the boycott call)". Tuesday's incidents are the latest in a series of protests by farmers against ruling BJP-JJP coalition leaders in Haryana. On Saturday, farmers had held a protest against Khattar in Rohtak, resulting in a lathicharge by the police and forcing authorities to shift the landing site for his helicopter. Asked about the Rohtak incident, Khattar said, "I have got video clippings. Was it a peaceful protest? When you see the clips you will understand." On the police action against the protesters, he said, "They tried to clash with the police. The police will have to take some steps in self-defence. Will they sit silent when stones are being pelted at them? Three cops were injured in the incident. Those who claim protests will remain peaceful should ensure they remain so." Notably, farmers also held a protest last week against Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala outside the Hisar airport. Farmer leaders have said they would continue their "peaceful social boycott" of leaders from the BJP and its allies. The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops. The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-gherao-bjp-mp-in-haryana-smash-car-windscreen-971359.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Mask mandatory even if you are driving alone in Delhi, HC rules||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday ruled that a car or a private vehicle would be a public place, warranting even the lone occupant to wear a mask to prevent exposure to the coronavirus. Maintaining that wearing masks cannot be made an ego issue, the court explained it is a 'Suraksha Kavach' (protective shield) for preventing the spread of the coronavirus. "A vehicle even if occupied by only one person would constitute a ‘public place’ and wearing of a mask therein would be compulsory. The wearing of a mask or a face cover in a vehicle, which may be occupied by either a single person or multiple persons is thus, held to be compulsory in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic," Justice Pratibha M Singh said. The court explained that a vehicle that is moving across the city, even if occupied at a given point in time by one person, would be a public place owing to the immediate risk of exposure to other persons under varying circumstances.  "If a person is travelling in the car alone, the said status is not a permanent one. It is merely a temporary phase," it said. Such a person may have visited a market, or workplace, or hospital or busy street, prior to entering the car or vehicle. Such person may be required to keep windows open for the purposes of ventilation. The vehicle may also be required to be stopped at a traffic signal and the person could purchase any product by rolling down the window. The person may thus, be exposed to a street-side vendor, it said. "The wearing of a mask is like a 'Suraksha Kavach' to prevent the spread of Covid-19," the court said, noting that a mask protects the person wearing it and also those exposed to him or her. The wearing of a face mask was "one measure which saved millions of lives" during the pandemic, it pointed out. The court further noted in its verdict that upon the outbreak of the pandemic, globally as well as nationally, scientists, researchers, international organizations and governments emphasised the importance of wearing facial masks to control the spread of the disease. "In the absence of a complete definitive cure, the world continues to wrestle with the pandemic. The challenge of the pandemic was enormous at the outbreak of the same and even with the introduction of a few vaccines, the emphasis continues to be laid on wearing face masks. The wearing of masks is necessary irrespective of whether a person is vaccinated or not," it said. The lawyers, in their pleas, had contended that the District Magistrates who were vested with the powers to impose fines could not have sub-delegated the powers to others. Disagreeing with the contention, Justice Singh said that the definition of 'authorised persons' being inclusive and expansive in nature, District Magistrates were also vested with powers to further authorise any officers to issue challans. "The list of officers, who were authorised is broad and in the opinion of this court, it has to be interpreted expansively and not restrictively...The challans have been issued by duly authorised officers. The prayer for quashing of the challans is thus not sustainable," the court said. It further said that being lawyers and advocates, the petitioners "ought to recognise and assist in the implementation of the measures for curtailing the spread of the pandemic, instead of questioning the legality of the same". Compliance with the measures by lawyers would encourage the general public to also comply with the same. During the proceedings, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, represented by advocate Farman Ali Magray, had told the court that it has not issued any direction asking people to wear masks in a car when they are alone. The ministry said health is a state subject and the Delhi government has to take a decision on it.   The Delhi government had told the court that wearing masks while driving an official or personal vehicle was made compulsory through an office order in April last year and it remained in force. It also said a private vehicle was held to be a public place by the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mask-mandatory-even-if-you-are-driving-alone-in-delhi-hc-rules-971399.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||J&K police bars journalists from carrying live coverage of encounters||In a major decision, Jammu and Kashmir police has barred media persons from carrying out live coverage of encounters and law-and-order situations. The police have asked the journalists not to interfere in professional and bonafide duty of police and security forces at encounter sites. “The freedom of speech and expression is subject to reasonable restrictions that should not violate other people’s right to life guaranteed under Article 21 or putting the national security in jeopardy,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said. He advised the media persons that no operational content should be carried which is likely to incite violence or contain anything against maintenance of law and order or which promotes anti-national sentiment. From 2016 onwards stone-pelting protests at the encounter sites had emerged as a major problem for security forces in Kashmir. In 2017 then Army Chief Bipin Rawat had to issue a warning that the civilian protesters obstructing encounters, would be treated as “overground workers of terrorists” and dealt with “harshly.” Dozens of stone-pelting protesters were killed at encounter sites in police firing in 2017, 2018 and 2019. However, stone-pelting incidents have come down and people rushing to encounter sites to help the trapped militants have drastically gone down since the abrogation of J&K’s special status in August 2019. A senior police officer said the crackdown on separatists and their sympathisers have broken the backbone of militancy in Kashmir. “The efforts of the lawbreakers, stone pelters and violent mobs has been effectively blocked and hence not only pelting, but other violent incidents, have gone down,” he said. However, the officer said that in recent weeks incidents of stone-pelting have re-emerged at some encounter sites in south Kashmir. “The live coverage by the media at encounter sites encourages those who want to create trouble and due to this reason the decision has been taken,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-bars-journalists-from-carrying-live-coverage-of-encounters-971441.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Overnight militants search operation in Srinagar called off||Security forces on Wednesday called off an overnight search operation on the outskirts of Srinagar city as no militant was reportedly found in the area. The operation was launched in the Gulab Bagh-Zakura area on the city outskirts late Tuesday night following “specific inputs” about the presence of militants in the area even as additional security forces were rushed to further seal all entry and exit points. Reportedly two militants were believed to be trapped in the area. Quoting unnamed sources, a local news gathering agency KDC reported that security forces, this morning, fired some warning shots towards the building in which they were suspecting the presence of militants. However, there was no response from inside the house, after which the operation was called off this afternoon as no militants were found in the area, it added. After years of a relative calm spell, militancy in Srinagar is on the rise again. Even as militants fired gunshots or lobbed grenades at some places, there was no major militant strike for over 18 months in Srinagar till May 2020. However, since then over 10 encounters between militants and security forces have been reported in Srinagar in which 20 ultras were killed. The militants also carried several attacks on security forces, police and civilians in the city in the last year. In March, J&K Police had released a list of eight most wanted militants operating in Srinagar city and its outskirts. However, since then no encounter has taken place in the city or its outskirts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/overnight-militants-search-operation-in-srinagar-called-off-971446.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court to hear plea of Mukhtar Ansari's wife for his protection in Uttar Pradesh on April 9||The Supreme Court is set to take up on Friday a plea by the wife of gangster-turned-BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari to ensure that he would not be killed in Uttar Pradesh during his trial in pending cases over there. Mukhtar was on Tuesday taken from Roopnagar jail to Banda jail under the protection of a heavy contingent of police personnel, on a direction issued by the top court on March 26. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy would consider the writ petition filed by Afshan Ansari. She sought a direction for the protection and safety of her husband to ensure a free and fair trial in all pending cases against him at a special court in Prayagraj. She claimed since her husband had fought elections against the present ruling party, there was "grave political acrimony" and pressure was being exerted to get him killed. The petitioner claimed that she has been informed by sources that some sharpshooter in the guise of a lawyer will carry out murder/ruthless killing of her husband during the course of his appearance before the special court of MPs/MLAs.  She also listed a number of incidents when her husband was attacked, even though he has been in judicial custody since October 25, 2005. Her plea also apprehended some of the gangsters, who have become highly influential despite being in jail, could conspire to kill Mukhtar Ansari. She also pointed out several statements allegedly issued by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath among others showing an imminent threat to his life. "The petitioner is in complete fear that now any time an untoward incident may happen to her husband but for protective directions issued by this court," her plea stated. Notably, the BSP MLA from Mau was lodged in district jail Roopnagar since January 2019 in connection with an extortion case. The Uttar Pradesh police were denied custody of Ansari 26 times between February 14, 2019, and February 14, 2020, forcing it to approach the top court. He faced trial in as many as 14 cases in Uttar Pradesh. The state government claimed more than 30 FIRs, including those related to heinous crimes of murder, under the Gangster Act were lodged against Ansari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-of-mukhtar-ansaris-wife-for-his-protection-in-uttar-pradesh-on-april-9-971451.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Chandrashekhar Azad among 150 booked for flouting Covid-19 guidelines||A case has been registered against 150 people, including Azad Samaj Party leader Chandrashekhar Azad, for allegedly taking out a roadshow in this district, in violation of the prohibitory orders issued to curb the spread of Covid-19. Police said the roadshow was held in Charthawal police station area on Tuesday evening. Azad and his supporters were booked under relevant sections for violation of prohibitory orders and Covid-19 guidelines, they said. The Bhim Army chief allegedly took out the roadshow that passed through several villages in support of his party candidates in the panchayat elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chandrashekhar-azad-among-150-booked-for-flouting-covid-19-guidelines-971456.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh Maoist attack: Photo of abducted Jawan surfaces on social media||A photograph of Rakeshwar Singh Manhas sitting in a hut is purportedly released by Naxals who abducted the CoBRA commando after the fierce gun battle in the Bastar region of Chhattisgarh on April 3 in which 22 security personnel lost their lives. In this photograph, which is being circulated on social media, Manhas, a commando with the 210th CoBRA battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), is seen sitting in a hut alone without any Naxal in the frame. When asked about this photograph, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI on Wednesday, "We are closely monitoring the situation. All best possible efforts are being made to secure the safe return of the jawan". On Tuesday, the outlawed CPI (Maoist) had issued a statement in Hindi saying its cadres had abducted Manhas from the site of the ambush and demanded that the Chhattisgarh government appoint interlocutors to ensure his safe release. The state government has so far not reacted to the demand raised by the Maoists. In the statement, which was issued in the name of Vikalp, spokesperson of the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) of Maoists, Naxals had also said that Manhas will be released after the government names mediators. "He will remain safe in our captivity till then," it had said. The Maoists, however, had not raised any formal demands for the release of the commando. Police had said the authenticity of the statement was being verified. In a bid to obtain leads on the whereabouts of Manhas, police are carrying out searches and also contacting local villagers, social organisations, public representatives and journalists, an officer had said on Tuesday. Meanwhile, tribal activist Soni Sori has left for the encounter site on Wednesday to appeal to Naxals to release the abducted jawan. "The government should have taken some steps by now to secure the release of the jawan. I cannot wait now. I just want that that jawan should be freed safely for which I am going to the incident site," Sori told reporters. Manhas was part of a squad that had gone for an anti-Naxal operation in the jungles on the Bijapur and Sukma border on the night of April 2, hours before the deadly ambush. On Saturday, the gunfight broke out between security forces and ultras between Tekalguda and Jonaguda villages in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured. Out of the 22, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight personnel, including seven CoBRA commandos and one jawan of its 'Bastariya' battalion, eight from the DRG and six from the Special Task Force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-maoist-attack-photo-of-abducted-jawan-surfaces-on-social-media-971479.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Night curfew imposed in Delhi as people were organising parties, gatherings: Jain||The Delhi government on Wednesday defended its decision to impose a night curfew in the national capital, saying it was forced to do so following reports that parties and social gatherings were being organised in the night hours without following proper protocol. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain also expressed fear that the new cases could breach the last single-day spike record registered in November last year if the positivity rate escalates and safety norms are not followed by people. While he emphasised it was too early to speculate, Jain said the government is taking all steps to contain the spread of the virus infection. "We took the decision to impose a night curfew in the city, as reports were coming about parties and gatherings being held in various parts of the city. Given the situation right now, one person can spread to everyone else in a gathering and to more people, so we took the step," Jain told reporters. On Tuesday, the Delhi government imposed a night curfew in the national capital from 10 pm to 5 am till April 30 amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. Jain said the imposition of the night curfew should not be seen as a "harsh step" as there are various categories of exemption. He said restaurants in the city usually operate till 11 pm, so in view of public safety, they have to close only one hour early. When asked about the efficacy of night curfew in curbing cases, Jain said, "Let's wait and watch". Jain also repeated his demand that vaccination should be made open to all adults, except those who are not medically compliant with the norms for inoculation against Covid-19. Amid an increase in cases, he said around 2,000 beds have been added in the last few days at various hospitals, and another 2,000-2,500 beds will be added in the next couple of days. "The trend of cases needs to be monitored, and we are keeping a close watch on it. Currently, the positivity rate has crossed the 5 per cent mark for the entire country. However, in Delhi, we are completely alert and are being cautious," Jain said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-imposed-in-delhi-as-people-were-organising-parties-gatherings-jain-971495.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||MP govt to procure Remdesivir injections for poor patients: CM Chouhan||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to procure Remdesivir injections so that they could be provided free of cost for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients from the economically weaker sections, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Wednesday. Remdesivir is considered a key anti-viral drug in the fight against Covid-19, especially in adult patients with severe complications. Chouhan said the state government has also decided to set up one Covid-19 care centre in each district of state so that the infected people (who are advised home quarantine) having smaller houses can stay there. He also said private hospitals will need to put up the rates of tests and treatment outside their facilities. Chouhan announced various measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus at the end of his 24-hour-long 'sit-in' which was aimed at raising the awareness among people about following the Covid-19 prevention guidelines. "During the interaction with people, some of them raised concerns about the price and availability of Remdesivir injections. So, I have issued directives that a protocol be set for its use," Chouhan said after the end of his "Swasthya Agrah" (health request) campaign at the Minto Hall here. As part of the protocol, doctors should determine which patient needs the Remdesivir injection, he said. "This injection (Remdesivir) should be administered whenever necessary. I directed the officials to procure this injection at the government-level to deal with its shortage, so that the poor and middle-class people can be provided the injection free of cost," he said. At several places, the Remdesivir injections are being administered without any need, he noted. Chouhan informed that about 4,000 new cases of coronavirus were reported in MP on Wednesday, and said the second wave of the viral infection in the state is "stronger and entire families are getting infected". A lockdown is the last solution and before resorting to it, all other steps should be taken, he said. "I believe that people can protect themselves if they adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour...I want 'Meri Suraksha Mera Mask' to become a public movement," the CM said. The administration cannot fight this battle alone, the society also needs to come forward, he said, while informing about his interaction with religious leaders and social workers from across the state during his sit-in. Chouhan said 34,000 people have registered themselves to serve as 'volunteers' for assistance in the vaccination process, to spread awareness about the mask rule and other prevention norms, and help patients in home and institutional quarantine, he said. The number of Covid-19 patients has been going up and the state government will increase the availability of beds to 36,000 from the present 24,000. This will include 15,000 beds providing free treatment, he said. Chouhan said the state government is also taking the help of private hospitals and allotting beds there. In Bhopal, the government is reserving two private hospitals for the free treatment of people from lower and middle income groups. Similarly, hospitals will be reserved in other affected cities of the state, he added. Chouhan said people have also raise concerns about the higher rates of treatment in private hospitals. "The state government has decided that such hospitals will need to display the rates of treatment and tests outside their facilities. We need their help. We will take action if such hospitals overcharge the patients. This is not the time to make money," the CM said. He also announced to run the 'Kill Corona Campaign-2' in rural areas of the state under which house-to-house survey will be carried out to control the spread of the coronavirus. Chouhan also said a protocol will be prepared for the admission of coronavirus patients in hospitals. "Those who don't need hospitalisation will be quarantined at home and monitored through video calls twice a day," he said. Health officials will also monitor such patients by conducting surprise visitsto their homes, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-to-procure-remdesivir-injections-for-poor-patients-cm-chouhan-971496.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||UP BJP leader Priyamvada Tomar resigns over farm laws||In an embarrassment to the BJP, one of its senior leaders and Uttar Pradesh Women's Commission member Priyamvada Tomar resigned on Wednesday in protest against the new farm laws. Tomar, who hails from the western UP region and a BJP state executive member, accused the state government of being 'apathetic' toward the farmers, who had been holding agitation against the farm laws for more than one hundred days on the Delhi border. In her resignation letter to the UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, she said that she herself came from a farmer's family and that she could understand the agony of the farming community. ''The farmers have been agitating for the past 131 days....more than 300 farmers have died but the government is indifferent,'' she said. ''Corruption is at its peak in the state.....crimes against women have risen sharply.....farmers are agitating...I am anguished at this apathetic attitude of the government,'' Tomar said in her letter. She also said that she was 'unable' to ensure justice to the women despite being a member of the Commission and lamented that women were not given their due place in the state BJP organisation. ''I am therefore resigning from the Commission membership also,'' she added. According to the sources in the BJP, Tomar's resignation was a big setback for the saffron party and her departure could adversely impact the party's performance in the forthcoming panchayat polls. The opposition was quick to pounce on the BJP after Tomar's resignation saying that it had been stating the same thing about the state government for the past several months. ''We have been saying that women do not feel safe in this regime....we have been proved correct,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader. Tomar's was the first resignation by a senior BJP leader in the state in support of the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bjp-leader-priyamvada-tomar-resigns-over-farm-laws-971498.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: HC directs trial court to send unredacted statements of witnesses in sealed cover||The Delhi High Court Wednesday directed a trial court to place before it the unredacted statements of protected witnesses in a sealed cover for a case related to larger conspiracy in the northeast Delhi riots last year in which Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha is facing prosecution. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani said the statements be placed before April 14, the next date of hearing. “The trial court is directed to forward the original unredacted statements of protected witnesses in a sealed cover to this court on or before the next date of hearing, that is, April 14,” the bench said. With this direction, it allowed and disposed of an application by Delhi Police seeking to call for unredacted statements of protected witnesses in a sealed cover from the trial court. Names and personal details of protected witnesses are redacted in their statements. The high court, which had on March 18 reserved its order on Tanha’s plea seeking bail in the case, had asked the police to file written submissions, unredacted copies of witnesses statements and other relevant documents. When the court asked how is it possible that the prosecution does not have copies of statements of its witnesses, Special Public Prosecutor Rajat Nair, representing the police, said these are protected witnesses and the unredacted copies are with the trial court only. He said when the investigating officer had applied for protection of witnesses, the statements were signed and sealed by the trial court judge and redacted copies were given to the IO. Tanha was arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the case in May last year for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots. Tanha has challenged a trial court’s October 26, 2020 order by which his bail application was dismissed on the ground that he allegedly played an active role in the entire conspiracy and that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the allegations against were prima facie true. In the high court, the bail plea was opposed by the Delhi Police on the contention that the riots were premeditated and a conspiracy was hatched of which Tanha was a part. The counsel for police had said the accused should not be granted bail as there were statements of protected witnesses in the case which clearly showed the alleged role of Tanha in the conspiracy. Tanha’s counsel had submitted that they have challenged the refusal to grant him bail and added that the accused shall be granted the relief as he has been in custody since May 2020 and even the charge sheet has been filed. The trial court, in its order of October 26 order last, had said that since there were reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations against Tanha were prima facie true, hence, the embargo created by Section 43D of UAPA applied for grant of bail to the accused and the bail application was dismissed. Under section 43 D of UAPA, an accused should not be released on bail or on his own bond if the court was of the opinion that the accusation against such person was prima facie true. Tanha’s counsel had claimed before the trial court that he was not present in Delhi during the riots and did not visit any of the protest sites where rioting and violence occurred. The counsel had further contended that there was no physical evidence connecting Tanha to the riots and no allegations with respect to any funds being received by him for terrorist activities. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injure||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hc-directs-trial-court-to-send-unredacted-statements-of-witnesses-in-sealed-cover-971509.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Convinced of safe return of CRPF commando abducted by Naxals: J&K LG Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday expressed confidence that the abducted CoBRA commando held hostage by Naxals after a recent gun battle with security forces in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur district would "return safely". Sinha said efforts being made for the release of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) commando Rakeshwar Singh Minhas cannot be made public. “I want to tell you that the Union home minister (Amit Shah) and Chhattisgarh chief minister (Bhupesh Baghel) are keeping an eye on the situation. Our sympathies are with the (abducted) jawan and we are convinced that he will return hale and hearty. The god will return him safely (to us),” the Lt Governor told reporters on the sidelines of a function in the Kathua district. Relatives of the CRPF jawan blocked the Jammu-Poonch highway here on Wednesday, demanding an assurance from the government for his safe release.             Thirty-one jawans were injured while CoBRA commando Minhas, belonging to its 210th battalion, went missing after the gunfight that took place along the Bijapur-Sukma border on Saturday and was stated to have been taken hostage. Twenty-two personnel from various security forces like the Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) of the CRPF, its Bastariya battalion and those from the District Reserve Guard and STF of the Chhattisgarh Police were killed in the ambush. “The efforts (for the release of the jawan) are not such that can be made public,” the Lt Governor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/convinced-of-safe-return-of-crpf-commando-abducted-by-naxals-jk-lg-manoj-sinha-971532.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Army hands over boy from PoK, who strayed across LoC, to Pakistani authorities||The Army handed over a boy to Pakistani authorities at the Titwal crossing point along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district on Wednesday, a defence spokesperson said here. Mausam, the son of Manzoor Ahmad and a resident of the Lipa area in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), was handed over to the Pakistani authorities at 11.50 am, he added. "On the night of April 5, the youngster inadvertently crossed the LoC into Kupwara's Karnah. He was identified as Mausam, son of Manzoor Ahmad from the Lipa area of PoK," the defence spokesperson said, adding that the Indian troops took due care of the boy and the Pakistani authorities were informed of his whereabouts. Following an interaction between the authorities of both countries on the hotline, the Indian side handed over the boy to Pakistani officials at the Titwal crossing point as a humanitarian gesture, he said. "The boy was presented with clothes and sweets. On the occasion of his repatriation, representatives of the Karnah civil administration were present," the spokesperson said.  He said such instances of inadvertently straying across the LoC have been reported earlier also due to the proximity of villages along the LoC on either side. "However, the Indian side has always been prompt in returning the individuals, keeping the humanitarian issue in mind," he added. The Titwal crossing bridge located on the Kishanganga river has been acting as a point of peace between the two sides, the spokesperson said. He said the site is visited by a number of people from either side and is emerging as a tourist spot, especially after the recently-agreed ceasefire between India and Pakistan. "The peace and tranquillity as a result of the agreement is being appreciated by the civil population on either side of the LoC," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-hands-over-boy-from-pok-who-strayed-across-loc-to-pakistani-authorities-971547.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi: Students of South Asian University go on strike demanding disbursal of scholarships||The first-year master and PhD students of South Asian University (SAU) in the national capital have gone on a strike to demand immediate disbursal of scholarships/freeships with arrears, issuance of bona fide certificates for non-Indian students for visa purposes, and phased accommodation in the university campus, a statement said on Wednesday. The students, boycotting classes since March 28, alleged that the university is mandating a "physical registration" in order to disburse scholarships without clarifying when such verification would occur in these uncertain times of the Covid-19 pandemic, read a statement issued by the first-year students of the university. "The first-year students were forced to decide on class boycott after the university’s uncaring and unresponsive attitude towards our emails demanding what we were promised in our admission offer letters. Also, the students were shocked to know that the university administration is mailing the Indian Embassies in the SAARC Countries requesting them not to provide visas to the first-year students," it added. The students, supported by the South Asian University Researchers Association (SAURA), an elected student organisation in the SAU campus, and the Progressive Students Group (PSG), said they were shocked by the "callous attitude" of the university's administration and have resolved to continue their strike until the fulfillment of their demands. "Even one of our demands which was to convene a 'Grievance Redressal Committee' as per the SAU by-laws was not heeded," they noted. The university, established, funded, and maintained by governments of the eight-member nations, according to the students’ note, enjoys certain privileges and immunities, which hinder the students from approaching the national courts to get their grievances redressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-students-of-south-asian-university-go-on-strike-demanding-disbursal-of-scholarships-971553.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Lockdown in Raipur district from April 9 to 19||In view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, the Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday announced a lockdown in Raipur district with effect from April 9 to 19, an official said. Raipur Collector S Bharathi Dasan has issued the order declaring the entire area of the district, including the state capital, as a containment zone and restricted several activities from 6 pm on April 9 till 6 am on April 19. Because of the steady rise in Covid-19 cases, it has become necessary to impose stricter restrictions on the movement of people and other activities to contain the spread of infection, the collector said in a press conference. Accordingly, during the lockdown period, the border of the district will be completely sealed and all shops, including those selling liquor, and commercial establishments will remain closed except medical stores. Offices of Central government, state government, semi-government, as well as private offices and banks will remain closed while those related to telecom, railway and airports will be allowed to function, the order said. All religious, cultural and tourism spots will remain shut and all kinds of public meetings, social, religious and political programmes will be banned during this period, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-lockdown-in-raipur-district-from-april-9-to-19-971557.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Noida admin asks residents to inform it about arrival of outsiders||The Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration here has urged residents of Noida and Greater Noida to inform it about the arrival of outsiders in their area for Covid-19 surveillance amid a spike in coronavirus infections. Residents can use the Covid-19 control centre's helpline number, 18004192211, for conveying this information, Additional Chief Medical Officer Bharat Bhushan said. He said the helpline number can also be used for various other services and queries related to Covid-19. "People can use the helpline number to inform officials if they or anyone in their family tests positive for the virus and callers will be helped by the Self-Declaration Cell. Callers can also get help with an ambulance, surveillance, contact tracing, home isolation and sanitisation using 18004192211," Bhushan told PTI. Administration officials appealed to the residents to collectively support the government's surveillance and contact tracing efforts to check the spread of the infection. "People can just call on the helpline number and government officials will take care of the rest. The response on the helpline number has been better in urban areas as compared to rural areas in the district in terms of providing information about the arrival of outsiders," said an official who did not wish to be named. District Magistrate Suhas L Y had recently directed all concerned officials to ramp up contact tracing of new Covid-19 cases and ensure their surveillance in order to check the spread of the deadly virus. He had also formed a 10-member dedicated team for contact tracing comprising of officials from education, GST and health departments. The team on Wednesday traced contacts of 116 new Covid-19 patients in Gautam Buddh Nagar, with an average of 25 to 30 contacts of each infected person being traced, Bhushan said. "Their reports have been sent to the RRT (rapid response team) and the sampling team for further action," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-noida-admin-asks-residents-to-inform-it-about-arrival-of-outsiders-971564.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Prospectus can't be given go-by in admission process: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has held prospectus of a higher learning institution cannot be given a go-by in allowing a plea for extension of time for admission to academic courses. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Amit Bansal said the court cannot interfere in the running of the educational institutions and academic courses. "The interference by the courts in academic matters, which are best left to be governed by the education bodies, has to be minimal," the bench said. After hearing advocates Dushyant Parashar and Manu Parashar and others on behalf of AIIMS, the court declined a plea for extension of time for admission to MSc and PhD courses in the academic year 2020-21. The court said there has to be a finality to admissions. The appellants participated in the admission process, in terms of the prospectus published. As per the terms and conditions of such admission process, the appellants are not eligible for admission. Others, though placed lower in merit in the result of the entrance examination, are eligible for and entitled to admission. The court cannot displace those who have already been admitted or whose admissions have been crystallized, to admit the appellants, the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prospectus-cant-be-given-go-by-in-admission-process-delhi-hc-971572.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt approves age relaxation for EWS category candidates in state services||The Rajasthan government on Wednesday approved a proposal to give relaxation in the maximum age limit to the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) similar to other reserved classes for appointment to state services. Several other important decisions were taken in the state cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, including amendment in various service rules and approval of the proposal to allot land to NTPC for setting up a solar power plant, an official statement said. The cabinet has approved the proposal to give relaxation in the maximum age limit to the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) like other reserved categories. Candidates of this category who have crossed the age limit prescribed in the service rules for appointment in state services will also get the benefit of age relaxation like the candidates of other reserved classes. According to the statement, with this decision, the male candidates of EWS category will be given five years relaxation in the maximum age limit and 10 years for women candidates like other reserved classes. It is to be noted that CM Gehlot had made the announcement in the state budget 2021-22 with a view to give relief to the candidates of EWS category. Similarly, the cabinet gave approval to regular appointment for dependents of three persons, who died during the Gurjar agitation, according to their educational qualification in the city council of Dausa. The cabinet has amended the Rajasthan Horticulture Subordinate Services Rules, 1965 for the purpose of recruitment for the post of Inspector, Horticulture and Assistant Inspector, Horticulture in the Public Works Department through written examination in place of interview and get recruitment done to the posts through Rajasthan Staff Selection Board. The cabinet also approved allotment of 93.48 hectares of land to NTPC Limited for the establishment of a 150 MW solar photovoltaic power plant at Devikot village in Jaisalmer district. This will increase the production of renewable energy in the state. At the same time, employment opportunities will also be created at the local level and the revenue for the state will be increased, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-approves-age-relaxation-for-ews-category-candidates-in-state-services-971580.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah discharged from hospital||Veteran politician and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah was on Wednesday discharged from a Srinagar hospital, where he was admitted last week as a precautionary measure after testing positive for Covid-19, officials said. Abdullah, a former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, was discharged as doctors were of the opinion that he could recover at home since all his parameters were fine, they said. The NC president will, however, continue to remain in self-isolation at his residence for some time, the officials added. "Five days after being admitted to SKIMS, Srinagar with Covid my father was discharged this evening. He will continue the rest of his recovery and recuperation at home. My father and the entire family are indebted and deeply grateful to the doctors, nursing staff & others at the institute," his son and NC vice-president Omar Abdullah wrote on twitter. "My father has been instructed by his doctors to focus on his recovery & for the time being will not be allowed visitors. He looks forward to completing his recovery so he can resume a full schedule of work," Omar Abdullah said in another tweet. The 85-year-old NC president tested positive for Covid-19 on March 30. He was kept in home-isolation initially, but doctors on Saturday decided to shift him to a hospital for better medical care. Several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wished him a speedy recovery. Farooq Abdullah received his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on March 2. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had visited the SKIMS Hospital on Sunday to enquire about his health from Omar Abdullah. "In Srinagar, I met Omar Abdullah at SKIMS Hospital, Soura. Enquired about Farooq Sahab's health and instructed the doctors to provide best treatment. I pray for his long and healthy life," the L-G's office had tweeted. The L-G had also offered to shift the senior Abdullah to another facility or hospital for better monitoring and care. Omar Abdullah expressed his gratitude to Sinha for inquiring after his father's health, and said the NC president was getting the best possible care at the facility. "Thank you for your visit to enquire after my father @manojsinha_ ji. We are grateful for the offer to shift my father, the doctors & other medical staff at SKIMS Srinagar are amongst the best anywhere and my father is getting the best possible care," he had written on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-conference-president-farooq-abdullah-discharged-from-hospital-971601.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi bats for Covid-19 vaccination for all||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday made a strong pitch for the universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. “If free vaccination can be announced in election manifestos, then this is the right time for the government to make vaccines available to all. Vaccines for all would be a beneficial step for the entire nation,” Priyanka said echoing the views of some chief ministers to relax guidelines for vaccination. The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday ruled out Covid-19 vaccination for people below 45 years, observing that the current strategy had been crafted carefully to minimise the deaths and protect the vulnerable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-bats-for-covid-19-vaccination-for-all-971635.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi records this year's biggest single-day jump of 5,506 Covid-19 cases||Delhi on Wednesday recorded 5,506 fresh Covid-19 cases, the sharpest daily spike this year, that pushed the infection tally to 6,90,568, while 20 more people succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 11,133, according to the health department. This is the second consecutive day when Delhi has seen a rise of over 5,000 cases. The city had reported 5,100 fresh cases on Tuesday. The positivity rate jumped to 6.1 per cent on Wednesday from 4.93 per cent the day before, according to the bulletin. A total of 90,202 tests, including 52,477 RT-PCR tests and 37,724 rapid antigen tests, were conducted the previous day, the bulletin said. So far, over 6.59 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. Twenty more people died due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 11,133, the bulletin stated. The number of active cases in Delhi stands at 19,455. The number of people under home isolation increased to 10,048 on Wednesday from 8,871 on Tuesday, while the number of containment zones surged to 3,708 from 3,291 the day before.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-this-years-biggest-single-day-jump-of-5506-covid-19-cases-971644.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Night curfew in urban areas of Madhya Pradesh from April 8 as Covid-19 cases spike||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday announced the imposition of night curfew in all urban areas of the state from April 8 and also decided to operate the government offices for five days every week for the next three months. The government also announced a lockdown in urban areas of all districts on every Sunday till further orders, and a lockdown in the entire Chhindwara district for the next seven days beginning from 8 pm on Thursday. "In view of increasing cases of Covid-19, all the government offices of the state will be open 5 days a week (Monday to Friday), from 10 am to 6 pm for the next 3 months. The government offices will remain closed on Saturday-Sunday," the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a tweet while informing about the decisions taken in a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. "Night curfew will be clamped in all the urban areas of the state till further orders from 10 pm to 6 am every night from April 8. In the urban areas of all districts of the state, there will be a lockdown on every Sunday till further orders," it tweeted. In another tweet, CMO said that there will be a "complete lockdown in the entire Chhindwara district for the next 7 days from 8 pm on Thursday. There will be a complete lockdown for the next 2 days from 8 pm tonight (Wednesday) in Shajapur city".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-in-urban-areas-of-madhya-pradesh-from-april-8-as-covid-19-cases-spike-971650.html
07-04-2021||North and Central||Over 41,000 people vaccinated in Delhi on Wednesday amid spike in Covid-19 cases||Over 41,000 beneficiaries received shots of Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday in Delhi, even as the city recorded 5,506 fresh cases, the sharpest daily spike this year. Out of these, 33,867 people got their first jab while the second dose was administered to 7,545 people, while 22,951 beneficiaries in the age group of 45-59 received shots, the official said. Lesser sessions were held as dispensary-based session sites are not functional on Wednesday and Friday, he said. The third phase of the vaccination drive will span 65 lakh people aged above 45 in the national capital. By 6 pm, at least 41,412 people had received jabs, the senior official of the Delhi health department said. The final figures at 9 pm wasn't immediately available. Three cases of minor adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were reported, the official said. The inoculation drive is taking place at a time when the coronavirus cases have again mounted in the last few weeks.    In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, were vaccinated in Delhi. Jabs were given to people aged 60 and above, and those in 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities in the second phase. "In the third phase, people aged 45 and above as on January 1, 2022 are eligible for vaccination, irrespective of their comorbidity status," a senior government officer had earlier said. Seeking to accelerate the pace of vaccination against Covid-19, authorities on Monday had ordered that one-third of session sites at all Delhi government hospitals will run round-the-clock from Tuesday onwards. Meanwhile, officials on Wednesday said, Covid-19 vaccination beneficiaries choosing to go for walk-in facility will have to acquire an e-pass to travel during the night curfew hours in Delhi. People eligible for vaccination also have to carry their photo identity cards, including Aadhaar and voter cards. The city has seen a surge in case in the last few weeks. Delhi on Wednesday recorded 5,506 fresh Covid-19 cases, the sharpest daily spike this year, that pushed the infection tally to 6,90,568 while 20 more people succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 11,133, according to the health department. This is the second consecutive day when Delhi has seen a rise of over 5,000 cases. The city had reported 5,100 fresh cases on Tuesday. The positivity rate jumped to 6.1 per cent on Wednesday from 4.93 per cent the day before, according to the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-41000-people-vaccinated-in-delhi-on-wednesday-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-971651.html
07-04-2021||Oasis||Live and let live||When God bestowed human beings with supreme intelligence and placed them on the top of the ladder, he probably knew that the hierarchy will survive only till all mortals respect one another.  Today, when news is inundated with reports of crime, theft, diseases, rape and injustice, it is time for others to show the way. Pictures speak more than what words can express. From the middle of a dense forest in Borneo, Indonesia,  a  picture of an orangutan lending his hand to help the warden who was soaked in chest-deep water created a stir of sorts in the social media.  The photographer aptly titled it, “At a time when mankind is dying inside humans, animals lead us to the principles of humanity.”  On the list of the endangered species, this orangutan is ready to teach a lesson to humans on humanity and yet we call them wild animals.   Accounts of lions protecting a little Ethiopian girl from her captors,  dolphins and seals helping innumerable persons reach the shores and an elephant that rescued an eight-year-old when the tsunami hit Thailand by carrying her on its back to safety, are stories that never made it to the front page yet deliver a powerful message that animals know how to care. They strike only if their natural surroundings, important for their survival, is in danger.  Power in the human kingdom has paved the way to insatiable greed and selfishness thus resulting in many animals losing their natural habitats and are on the verge of extinction. In the words of Mahatma Gandhi, “The day the power of love overrules the love of power, the world will know peace.” It is time to introspect how power has actually made us ignorant of our basic human nature, to live and let live, and appraise how these ‘wild’ animals show us the right way to do it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/live-and-let-live-971692.html
07-04-2021||Opinion||Likely legal, 'vaccine passports' are the next Covid-19 divide||Cathay Pacific Airways, convinced that digital proof of coronavirus vaccination will bring about the return of safe international travel, asked its pilots and crew to try out a new mobile app that showed their vaccination status on a recent flight from Hong Kong to Los Angeles. New York has rolled out “Excelsior Pass,” billed by the state as “a free, fast and secure way to present digital proof of Covid-19 vaccination” in case reopening sports and entertainment venues require proof of attendees’ status. And Walmart, the nation’s largest private employer, is offering electronic verification apps to patients vaccinated in its stores so they “can easily access their vaccine status as needed,” the company says. Around the country, businesses, schools and politicians are considering “vaccine passports” — digital proof of vaccination against the coronavirus — as a path to reviving the economy and getting Americans back to work and play. Businesses especially fear that too many customers will stay away unless they can be assured that the other patrons have been inoculated. But the idea is raising charged legal and ethical questions: Can businesses require employees or customers to provide proof — digital or otherwise — that they have been vaccinated when the coronavirus vaccine is ostensibly voluntary? Can schools require that students prove they have been injected with what is still officially an experimental prophylaxis the same way they require long-approved vaccines for measles and polio? And finally, can governments mandate vaccinations — or stand in the way of businesses or educational institutions that demand proof? Legal experts say the answer to all of these questions is generally yes, although in a society so divided, politicians are already girding for a fight. Government entities such as school boards and the Army can require vaccinations for entry, service and travel — practices that flow from a 1905 Supreme Court ruling that said states could require residents to be vaccinated against smallpox or pay a fine. “A community has the right to protect itself against an epidemic of disease which threatens the safety of its members,” Justice John Marshal Harlan wrote in Jacobson v. Massachusetts, the 1905 case. Private companies, moreover, are free to refuse to employ or do business with whomever they want, subject to only a few exceptions, ones that do not include vaccination status. And states can probably override that freedom by enacting a law barring discrimination based on vaccination status. But as the nation struggles to emerge from the worst public health crisis in a century, the arrival of digital vaccine verification apps — a modern version of the World Health Organization’s “yellow card” that provides international proof of yellow fever vaccination — has generated intense debate over whether proof of vaccination can be required at all. On Tuesday, Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas became the latest Republican governor to issue an executive order barring state agencies and private entities receiving funds from the state from requiring proof of vaccination. The World Health Organization, citing equity concerns, also said Tuesday that it did not support mandatory proof of vaccination for international travel. Others are moving forward. Universities like Rutgers, Brown and Cornell have already said they will require proof of vaccination for students this fall. The Miami Heat this week became the first team in the NBA to open special “vaccinated only” sections. And though businesses have yet to announce outright bans on unvaccinated clientele, some states and technology firms are preparing: At least 17 companies or nonprofits are developing websites or apps that might be used by sporting venues, restaurants and other businesses seeking to keep their customers and employees safe, according to Joel White, executive director of Health Innovation Alliance, a broad coalition of health providers, tech companies, employers and insurers. Airlines including JetBlue and United are testing the “CommonPass” app, developed by The Commons Project, a nonprofit trust dedicated to using technology to help people control their personal information. Airlines for America, the trade group for the nation’s major carriers, opposes making proof of vaccination mandatory for air travel but would like a clean, easy way for travelers to show their status. Other countries may require proof of vaccination, and the apps can also be used to prove negative coronavirus test results, which the United States requires for international travelers. “On the face of things, requiring proof of vaccination seems a lot like, ‘No shoes, no shirt, no service,’” said Mark Tushnet, a law professor at Harvard. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention already provides everyone who is vaccinated a card that can serve as proof, and people can always carry paper records of negative coronavirus tests. But industry leaders liken digital vaccination apps to security screening services like TSA PreCheck; it is not required, but it might make the travel experience smoother. In Israel, a “Green Pass” is in place that allows vaccinated citizens to go to restaurants, concerts and sporting events. Backers of digital vaccination cards are pressing the Biden administration to become involved, at least by setting standards for privacy and for verifying the accuracy of the records. The White House is clearly skittish. “The government is not now nor will we be supporting a system that requires Americans to carry a credential,” Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, said Tuesday. “There will be no federal vaccinations database and no federal mandate requiring everyone to obtain a single vaccination credential.” She promised that the administration would provide some form of guidance — most likely in the form of questions and answers — about privacy, security, discrimination and concerns. Last week, the chief technology officer of the Department of Health and Human Services held a conference call with state and local health officials, who are mystified by the administration’s reticence. “It’s going to be necessary to have this, and there is going to have to be some kind of system where it’s verified,” said Dr. Marcus Plescia, the chief medical officer of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials. “I think everybody in our network is a little bit perplexed by the way the federal government seems to be at arm’s length with this.” One arm of the government has offered some help: The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has told employers that they can mandate coronavirus vaccination because public health comes first. But if an employee cannot get vaccinated because of a disability or a sincerely held religious belief, and the company cannot make an accommodation, the agency said, “then it would be lawful for the employer to exclude the employee from the workplace.” Conservatives and libertarians, though, are resisting such mandates. Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida on Friday signed an executive order barring businesses from requiring patrons or customers to show vaccine documentation, under penalty of losing state contracts. Mississippi’s Republican governor, Tate Reeves, said Sunday that he, too, opposed the idea. That has left technology executives like Stanley Campbell in the lurch. His firm, EagleForce, which specializes in health records, has created “myVax,” a digital platform that, he said, might even be used by farmers to screen their workers. Campbell, a Florida native, pitched the idea to Florida’s agriculture commissioner last week — a day before DeSantis issued his ban. “It’s not really a political football, which is what they keep using this thing as,” said Campbell, whose wife, Cheryl Campbell, a health care technology expert in her own right, recently joined the Biden administration. “It’s sad, because Florida could lead the nation in this if we just took a minute to talk and think it through.” DeSantis’ order has already altered the back-to-school plans for Nova Southeastern University, based in Fort Lauderdale, which had announced a policy for returning students to be vaccinated. The university’s president and CEO, George Hanbury, said the university was reviewing the order and planned to follow it. “We’re not trying to do anything but protect our students,” he said. Republican critics say vaccine passports raise the specter of centralized databases of vaccinated people, which they view as a government intrusion on privacy. “A vaccine passport — a unified, centralized system for providing or denying access to everyday activities like shopping and dining — would be a nightmare for civil liberties and privacy,” Justin Amash, a former Republican congressman who is now a libertarian, wrote on Twitter last week. But, in fact, every state already has a database, or an “immunization registry.” And under “data use agreements,” the states are required to share their registries with the CDC, though the agency de-identifies the information and not all states have agreed to provide it. And digital vaccine cards are not new. STChealth, an Arizona-based health care technology company, created an app called MyIR — my immunization record — about five years ago with the idea of helping parents who need their children’s vaccination records for school or camp. The app, which is free, connects with the immunization registries of five states and can verify vaccination data for those states’ residents. “We never built it as a digital passport kind of thing because that wasn’t an issue at the time,” the company’s CEO, Mike Popovich, said in an interview. “But here in Arizona, I got my Covid shot and four hours later, I could use that to take a look at my record that had been reported to the state information system — and there it was.” With apps already proliferating, the Health Innovation Alliance sent a letter last month to Jeff Zients, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, calling on the administration to set standards. White, the organization’s executive director, said the group had not gotten an answer. He said he understood his fellow Republicans’ concerns, but disagreed. “We live in a free society where people are free to work or not, to go to concerts or not, to go to restaurants or not,” White said. “And when you are dealing with a highly infectious disease that is transmissible particularly in closed spaces — and that can kill you — it is not unreasonable for businesses in a free society to protect their employees and protect their patrons by asking people if they have been vaccinated.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/likely-legal-vaccine-passports-are-the-next-covid-19-divide-971318.html
07-04-2021||Panorama||Bringing the minimum wage movement to India||President Joe Biden’s administration was able to push through a major coronavirus-relief fiscal package recently. It is worth $1.9 trillion and includes another round of $1,400 stimulus cheques for individual Americans, $350 billion in grants to states and local governments, and $160 billion for coronavirus testing, tracing and vaccines. But it failed to get the voting support needed to raise the nationwide minimum wage to $15 an hour. Democrats have a comfortable majority in Congress (the lower house), but it is a knife-edge situation in the Senate (the upper house). And within the party itself, there are voices opposing what they consider a steep increase in the minimum wage, which is currently $7.25 per hour. This minimum wage was set in 2009. However, individual states in the federal system are free to add to that and have done so. For instance, in New York, Washington, etc., the minimum wage is far higher. For the rest who follow the 2009 number, in inflation adjusted terms, the minimum wage is now even below what prevailed in the 1970s. Surely, that needs a correction? But Republicans, and a significant number of Democrats, feel that this increase would put an undue burden on employers at a time when the economy is coming out of a deep recession. As a compromise, don’t be surprised if an $11 wage is voted on successfully. But that is yet to happen. It may also subsequently get indexed to the inflation rate. That this is happening in capitalist America is a very significant development. Even in the United Kingdom, which has had a conservative, pro-business, pro-employer government for more than 10 years, the minimum wage has been raised to £8.7 for all adults above the age of 25. This may go up further. This wage is roughly two-thirds of the median wage earned by all workers in the UK. In America, too, if the $15 minimum wage is imposed, it would be close to two-thirds of the national median. As such, the total income (i.e., earnings from wages, salaries and other sources) for a median American household has stagnated for nearly four decades. This has happened despite the growth in national income, and a roaring stock market. Which means that substantial gains of income and wealth were going to the top tier in society, and for the vast majority, incomes were stagnating. This has lessons for India. Wages have to grow, if incomes and standards of living have to improve. Will a higher minimum wage help? Will that crimp employers and lead to lower employment, or will it help workers? While per capita incomes in India rose by nearly 7% per year during 2003-2012, subsequently this growth has slowed down. This was also a period when rural wages were rising. India’s labour market has 90% of its workforce in the informal or unregistered sector. Which means that they work either without a written contract, or without any health and retirement benefits. Even in sectors where there is a significant registered (“permanent”) employment, the ratio of permanent to contract workers is very skewed, which is also reflected in their respective benefits and pay. Sometimes, this creates a de facto caste system, where for the same work, a contract worker is paid much less than a permanent worker. Such conditions can create stress and unrest, sometimes leading to intemperate outcomes, like the violence a few years ago in an auto plant in Manesar. Due to the large number of informal and seasonal workers, the data on wages and earnings is notoriously bad. Anecdotally, and according to survey data, too, wages have stagnated in recent years. Of course, during the pandemic, there have been large-scale job losses, too. When surplus labour moves out of agriculture, it is coming from disguised unemployment, so productivity is nearly zero. Hence, even a small wage is a decent improvement on zero. This process of absorbing surplus labour from zero wage can continue for a long time, until agriculture no longer has any surplus labour. Indeed, this was the strategy of sustaining high growth and high exports, at low and constant wages, in China. The low-wage workers were taking away higher wage jobs from advanced countries. The low wages in China meant that much of the benefit of high GDP growth was going to capitalists, in this case mostly State-owned enterprises. That profit was continuously re-ploughed, leading to high GDP growth rate. To some extent, it can work in India, too, only if industrial employment increases continuously like it did in China. But unlike China, India’s services sector is nearly 60% of the GDP (national income). It employs only 25% of the workforce. Besides, India’s consumption expenditure as a share of GDP is much larger than in China. It is not as if raising the minimum wage in India will make jobs vanish out of the country. This is because these low-paying jobs are mostly in the services sector, which is a non-tradable sector. Besides, if the increase in the minimum wage is not very large, it does not even affect the demand for those services. Think of the wages paid to farm labour, or security guards, or courier services workers. Even the gig economy workers such as app-based taxi drivers feel the squeeze. An increase in their wages surely will not affect the demand for those services, nor will it lead to a decrease in employment. This has been amply documented by researchers in America, who show that contrary to populist caricaturing, the increase in minimum wages in most sectors just means that consumers pay more. When a McDonald worker gets a 50% higher minimum wage, the burger price goes up by 25 cents. This is a social tug of war. This is a way of transferring incomes from consumers to workers, without causing a burden to the exchequer. It is similar to increasing the minimum support price to farmers, so that urban consumers pay a bit higher for food, and the farmer earns a bit more. This removes the urban bias of the food policy. Similarly, an increase in minimum wage will remove the pro-employer bias of the wage policy. The current national minimum wage of Rs 176 per day certainly needs to be revised upward. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bringing-the-minimum-wage-movement-to-india-971307.html
07-04-2021||Panorama||The Indian toy story||In a push to the Indian toy industry, the government hosted the “India Toy Fair 2021” in March. The toy fair saw participation from several toymakers across India including toys that are protected as ‘geographical indications' (GI). In keeping with the go-green theme of the fair, eco-friendly toys made of wood and natural dyes are of particular interest.  Internationally, it was reported that the toy industry performed well in 2020. Wooden toys have gained special popularity. In the West, sellers such as Grimms, Grapat etc. are renowned for their non-toxic wooden toys. Their products are developed keeping in mind the learning requirements of children. There is evidently a big market for wooden toys. Unfortunately, while the global toy market is estimated at $90 billion, India’s share is just 0.5% ($500 million). India is not a newcomer to the wooden toy-making industry. Toy-making clusters have existed in India for centuries. So much so, at least five wooden toy clusters are protected as GIs in India. These include Channapatna toys (Karnataka), Nirmal toys (Telangana), Kinhal toys (Karnataka), Varanasi wooden lacquer and toys (Uttar Pradesh) and Etikoppaka toys (Andhra Pradesh). In order to obtain GI protection, these clusters have shown that toy making is a legacy that has been inherited and passed down through centuries. Hundreds of artisan families are engaged in this craft and have settled down in local regions conducive for their craft. Their toys are eco-friendly and are made from locally sourced wood and natural dyes.  Given GI protection and the increased demand for eco-friendly toys, there is potential for these rural clusters to develop. GI protection is aimed at empowering local communities. It is a ‘collective right’ that is granted to associations of manufacturers or organisations that represent the interest of such manufacturers. Through GI registration, local toy manufacturers can brand their toys with a GI tag. The tag is reflective of the craftsmanship, environment and heritage of a particular region. This makes the toys exclusive and exotic. The owners of the GI control the marketing of the toys and also benefit from the increased sale. It is therefore in the interest of the local communities to register GIs in a collective capacity as associations of manufactures.  It is, however, surprising to see that artisans from most of these toy-making clusters haven’t formed their own associations to register, control and directly benefit from the use of their GI tags. Instead, state governments have registered and are therefore in control of the GIs. For instance, the GI for the famous Channapatna toys is owned and controlled by the Karnataka State Handicrafts Development Corporation Limited. A study showed that out of 100 GI registrations, 57 belonged to the state or central government. Since producers themselves may not own/control their GI tags, it is not clear how the objectives of a GI registration as a ‘collective right’ will be fulfilled.  In addition to the ownership conundrum, there is also the question of quality. To remain competitive, quality assurance is important. A quality control order had been issued by the government for electronic and non-electronic toys. In December 2020, however, the government exempted toys registered as GIs from following these standards. Such a move may be detrimental since consumers expect a certain quality of products. Especially when they pay premium prices accompanying GI tags. If quality varies, the credibility of GI bearing toys may be impacted. While the Toy Fair was a good marketing step, much needs to be done to revive and realise the true potential of GI registrations. In doing so, we may also achieve the “Make in India” dream, at least for wooden toys. Insightful product development is the need of the hour. Toys that combine modern education, learning techniques and that are eco-friendly are more attractive in this day and age. Governments that control GIs should be made accountable to toy manufacturers and ensure that benefits flow to the local communities.  Hoping for a happy Indian toy story.  (The writer is a lawyer based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-indian-toy-story-971309.html
07-04-2021||Panorama||Life is to be enjoyed, not endured||There is a story about a man who undertook severe penance and intense meditation seeking God’s presence. Finally, God appeared and asked what he wished. The man requested that he may be given a hint before he dies, that he is dying. God granted his wish. After a few decades, the man fell ill and was on his deathbed. He was very angry and cursed God for not having kept His word. Once again, God appeared and told him - Remember those times, when you first noticed your greying hair, your first visit to the ophthalmologist for correcting your vision, your initial visit to the dentist, the weakness you felt in your limbs curtailing your activities and the weariness thereafter, your inability to consume sumptuous meal and digest as usual, your mental efforts to remember things and events of the past, and most importantly your dependence on others, for attending to daily chores and movement. All the above are some of the hints I gave you, as a preparation or dress rehearsal to grow old gracefully, and face death without fear, in a controlled and dignified manner. In the words of Samuel Ullman- People grow old only by deserting their ideals. Years wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul. You are as young as your faith, as old as your doubt; as young as your self confidence, as old as your fear; as young as your hope, as old as your despair.  In our overly-ambitious lives, many of us have lost our sense of perception, placing importance on material things and personal achievement. Endlessly we worry and strive, watch the passage of time with dread, fear of growing old. An assured income or enormous wealth will not spare anybody from growing old or the inevitable death, today or tomorrow. If wealth were to save humans from old age and death, then there are many who would live forever. We must accumulate friends and enhance our mental pleasures, plan for maintaining reasonably good health that is extremely important to happiness during old age.  Hunter S. Thompson says “Life should not be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in a pretty and well preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside in a cloud of smoke, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming “Wow! What a Ride!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/life-is-to-be-enjoyed-not-endured-971310.html
07-04-2021||Panorama||Between House and home, Odisha’s Patnaik bested BJP in political point-scoring||The BJP’s much improved performance in Odisha in the 2019 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections has prompted the party to make repeated efforts to pin down the Naveen Patnaik-led Biju Janata Dal (BJD) government on different issues. These exercises are aimed at scoring the maximum political points before the final showdown between the former allies in the next Assembly and Lok Sabha elections, three years from now. The saffron party has so far not had much success in its attempts, primarily because of some excellent political moves and manoeuvring by Chief Minister Patnaik, who also heads the BJD. The moves have not only stumped the leaders of the BJP, now the principal opposition party in the state, but sometimes have even surprised the strongest of Patnaik’s critics. A case in point is the recent, unprecedented high-voltage political drama staged on the streets of Bhubaneswar during the budget session of the state Assembly. After raising an issue in the House relating to alleged irregularities in the purchase of food grains from farmers by the state government, the BJP legislators decided to take up the issue with Patnaik and discuss the matter with him. When they found that Patnaik was not in attendance yet and was still at his residence, the MLAs decided to walk to Naveen Niwas, the chief minister’s home. The saffron legislators’ intention was clear. They thought they would definitely be stopped by the police on the way, particularly when they reach the CM’s residence. Then a scuffle would follow and the political disturbances on the streets of the capital would immediately make headlines in the newspapers and local TV news channels, giving them political mileage. But that was not to be. Patnaik, who also heads the Home department, ordered the police not to go anywhere near the BJP legislators. Instead, he directed his own party MLAs, including ministers, to escort the opposition legislators to his house and personally invite them inside. Contrary to what the BJP had planned, what Odisha got to see was a scene of BJD and BJP MLAs walking together to the CM’s residence. Once near Naveen Niwas, some senior BJD legislators and ministers requested the BJP MLAs to go in and speak to Patnaik. “The Chief Minister is waiting for you. Please come inside and discuss whatever problems you have,” Education Minister Samir Ranjan Dash was seen telling the BJP legislators. Realising that the situation was slipping out of their hands and they would not be able to make any political capital out of it, the BJP lawmakers suddenly decided to sit on the road in protest. Their complaint: Why were there gates in their way?! The BJD leaders explained to them that the gates had been put up as permanent structures for the CM’s security. The BJP MLAs were not satisfied. Some of them insisted that the CM should come to them immediately. They perhaps expected that Patnaik would refuse to do so and they could carry on their high-voltage political show. But the astute Patnaik seemed determined to puncture their plan. He came out of his residence, walked up to the squatting BJP MLAs and invited them in. The stunned MLAs had no option but to follow him in. The drama did not end there. As soon as the BJP legislators entered Naveen Niwas, they found members of the BJD Mahila Morcha, the ladies wing of the regional outfit, including a couple of woman legislators, waiting to give them a traditional welcome, anointing them with tilak on their foreheads. The next day, the BJP’s Pradipta Naik, the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, conceded to reporters that they had made a mistake in marching to Naveen Niwas. Political analysts believe that by handling the entire episode cleverly, Patnaik killed two birds in one shot. First, he foiled the BJP’s attempt to score a political point by their antics. Second, he exposed the infighting in the BJP over how to handle him (Patnaik). Some disgruntled BJP legislators did not accompany their colleagues, including Naik, into the CM’s house. It is a well-known fact that the state unit of the BJP is divided into two camps -- one that is extremely hard and critical of the BJD and Naveen Patnaik, and another that is a little soft towards the CM and his party. And that suits Patnaik perfectly. Independent observers are of the view that the fissures in the saffron party over Patnaik could be one of the reasons why the BJP has not been able to come out with an effective strategy against his government. The BJP and BJD were allies in Odisha for more than a decade and shared power in the state for two consecutive terms between 2000 and 2009. On the eve of the 2009 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, the BJD decided to go it alone. It has since maintained its position successfully. Fighting alone, the BJP had performed poorly in 2009 as well as the 2014 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections in the state but managed to put up a much better performance in the 2019 polls, pushing Congress to the third spot and rising to become the principal opposition party in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/between-house-and-home-odisha-s-patnaik-bested-bjp-in-political-point-scoring-971690.html
07-04-2021||Panorama||Hong Kong courts the rich as China tightens its grip||Political opposition has been quashed. Free speech has been stifled. The independent court system may be next. But while Hong Kong’s top leaders take a tougher line on the city of more than 7 million people, they are courting a crucial constituency: the rich. Top officials are preparing a new tax break and other sweeteners to portray Hong Kong as the premier place in Asia to make money, despite the Chinese Communist Party’s increasingly autocratic rule. So far, the pitch is working. Cambridge Associates, a $30 billion investment fund, said in March that it planned to open an office in the city. Investment managers have set up more than a hundred new companies in recent months. The Wall Street banks Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley are increasing their Hong Kong staffing. “Hong Kong is second only to New York as the world’s billionaire city,” Paul Chan, Hong Kong’s financial secretary, said at an online gathering of finance executives this year. Beijing can’t easily afford to scare away Hong Kong’s bankers and financiers. The former British colony remains a major gateway to the international financial system. Chinese companies need it for raising money from global investors; those companies and wealthy Chinese also rely on it to move their money overseas more readily. So Beijing is striking a careful balance. It is stripping liberties from Hong Kong’s people to stop brazen challenges to Communist Party rule, like the sometimes violent anti-government protests that erupted two years ago. At the same time, it is trying to charm the city’s financial class to keep it from moving to another business-friendly place like Singapore. “It is a one-party state, but they are pragmatic, and they don’t want to hurt business,” Fred Hu, a former chairman of Goldman’s Greater China business, said of Chinese officials. For apolitical financial types, the changes will have little impact, said Hu, who is also the founder of the private equity firm Primavera Capital Group. “If you’re a banker or a trader, you may have political views, but you’re not a political activist,” he said. To entice the wealthy, Hong Kong is completing work on a big tax break that will primarily benefit private equity, hedge funds and other investors. Officials are moving to make it easier to connect the city’s money managers with affluent mainlanders. Chinese companies are selling tens of billions of dollars’ worth of shares in Hong Kong, padding the profitability of Wall Street banks. In its most recent move, Hong Kong last week proposed limiting how much companies must disclose about their ownership, which could shroud wealth in a city where the families of the Communist Party’s elite have long parked their money. Not everybody has been won over. More than 1% of residents have left since Beijing imposed a broad national security law last summer. Tens of billions of dollars have flowed out of local Hong Kong bank accounts and into jurisdictions like Singapore. Tensions run taut inside Hong Kong’s gleaming office towers. Even executives who are sympathetic to the government have declined to speak publicly for fear of getting caught in the political crossfire between Beijing and world capitals like Washington and London. Hong Kong’s tough rules on movement in the pandemic may also prompt some expatriates to leave in the summer once school ends. For now, however, financial firms are doubling down on Hong Kong. Neal Horwitz, an executive recruiter in Singapore, said finance was likely to remain in Hong Kong “until the ship goes down.” In its biggest offering to the investor class, Hong Kong has proposed eliminating taxes on investment income called carried interest, which is typically earned by private equity investors and hedge funds. Officials had discussed the plan for years but didn’t introduce a bill until February, and it could pass in the coming months through the city’s Beijing-dominated legislature. Similar tax breaks have spurred criticism elsewhere, including in the United States. But Hong Kong fears a financial exodus without such benefits, said Maurice Tse, a finance professor at Hong Kong University’s business school. “To keep these people around, we have to give a tax benefit,” he said. Mainland money has already helped Hong Kong look more attractive. Chinese firms largely fueled a record $52 billion haul for companies that sold new shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange last year, according to Dealogic, a data provider. New offerings this year have already raised $16 billion, including $5.4 billion for Kuaishou, which operates a Chinese video app. The record start has been helped in part by Chinese companies that have been pressured by Washington to avoid raising money in the United States. Investment funds, too, are flocking to Hong Kong after officials in August lowered regulatory barriers to setting up legal structures similar to those used in low-tax, opaque jurisdictions like the Cayman Islands and Bermuda. Government data shows that 154 funds have been registered since then. City officials last week also proposed to allow companies to conceal sensitive ownership data, in a move that could benefit companies and Communist Party officials alike. The measure could take effect as soon as May and does not need to be approved by lawmakers. Critics say the move would make it nearly impossible to track the individuals behind companies that register in Hong Kong. “The proposed law will facilitate corruption, fraud and other crimes,” said David M. Webb, a former banker and longtime investor in Hong Kong. It could also help those in China’s top leadership, who are sensitive to any accusation that they have used their status for personal gain. The families of Xi Jinping, China’s top leader, and Li Zhanshu, the Communist Party’s No.3 official, at one point owned Hong Kong property, according to a trail that can be traced partly through public records. While officials have welcomed business, they have made clear to the financial and business worlds that they will brook no dissent. In March, Han Zheng, a Chinese vice premier, praised the stock market’s performance and the finance sector in a meeting with a political advisory group but made its limits clear. “The signal to the business community is very simple,” said Michael Tien, a former Hong Kong lawmaker and businessman who attended the closed-door session. “Stay out of politics.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/hong-kong-courts-the-rich-as-china-tightens-its-grip-971691.html
07-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Webinar woes||Covid-19 has been transformational in all our lives and apart from the problems it has brought, there seem to be some things that happened for the better. Digital connectivity suddenly acquired new meaning. It was exciting to re-connect to old friends, to meet on-line and to exploit social media in so many hitherto unknown ways. However, there has also been the flip not so nice side to getting digital. Now, my eyes droop, my shoulders sag and I feel a horrible sense of ennui when I hear what I think should be branded the two most hated phrases of 2020 – ‘Can you hear me? Am I audible’.  It’s not just the techies! Webinars are now consuming our daily lives, both working and personal in a variety of professions, including that of medical professionals like me. Classes, discussions, committee meetings, continuing professional sessions-- name it and there’s a webinar around it. There’s something for everyone, every day. Monday musings, Tuesday thoughts, Wednesday warm-ups, Thursday tournaments (Blitzes, debates and what have you), Friday fraternities, Saturday sessions and Sunday samvada.  It’s not unusual to be sitting on the computer in one part of the house, straining to hear the sounds or the person speaking and the interruptions caused by listeners who simply love to interrupt, or are yelling at kids or spouses and forgotten to mute.  Of course, we know that there have been rather serious consequences of web-meetings as well, including the odd scandal of ‘being caught in the act’ while attending such meetings, or turning on the video without realising that you are in your nightwear or not even in that! It’s now referred to as zoom fatigue, although I still prefer webinar woes. That’s somewhat unfair to that amazing online platform which has been phenomenal and has connected millions worldwide. The new entrants to the online meeting platform repertoire bring new symptoms too-- irritation because these platforms hang, impatience because they don’t offer quite the same menu of options and frustration because they stop working in the middle of an important discussion. Performing both our professional and social obligations remotely has helped us connect up, save money spent on physical meetings and kept us networked during these tough times. And of course, if one is alone, one can actually see the other kind of face-to-face, unmasked. But any day, I’d rather do a real face to face connect, occasionally travel for a meeting, have a cup and a laugh with a colleague after a trying meeting or have a cosy chat and lunch with my buddies. Covid, what plans do you have for these plans in 2021?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/webinar-woes-971306.html
07-04-2021||Right in the Middle||School time humour||In the '60s, my younger brother had just joined the first standard at school. Somehow, my parents had got him a pair of pants in royal blue cotton. My brother and I studied at a school where our father was the headmaster. One day, the PTI told my sibling that the colour of his pyjamas was fit for girls and not for boys. That was an insult to the young man of six. The boy came home and complained to his mother about the wrong choice of cloth. She told him that it was the colour that both boys and girls of his age could wear. The boy was not convinced. Mother asked him to forget about it. He insisted that the PTI would punish him. She insisted that his father was the headmaster and the PTI was his junior, so there was no reason for the boy to be afraid of punishment. The next day the teacher again played the prank and asked why he had turned up in the wrong colour. The boy was in high spirits. He confronted the teacher, “Why do you say so? Aren’t you afraid of my father?” The teacher asked, ”Why should I be?” The boy quipped innocently, “My mother said so!” The cat was out of the bag. There were giggles all around. Later, in 1963. We shifted to a new station and I had joined the eighth standard in the school, where my father, once again, was the headmaster. The local MLA, trusting my father’s reputation as a good disciplinarian, put his son in our school in the same class. Both of us felt important for different reasons. On a couple of occasions, I was made to stand up for ten minutes for not wearing the prescribed uniform. My VIP friend asked me the reason for such default and I confided in him that father had never cared to get me a uniform. He commented, “That is very stingy on your father’s part.” I had to pocket the unpalatable comment. Only a few days later, as during a period for physical education, we were told to play a game of Kabaddi, I noticed that my VIP friend’s vest had a dozen small holes. This was my chance for a payback. I asked him how an MLA’s son could be so poorly clad. He told me in a hushed tone, “Yaar, my father is also mean and stingy like yours.” His reply left me silent and satisfied but then I realised that he had defended himself without taking back his earlier negative comment for the headmaster. It left both of us laughing no end!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/school-time-humour-971693.html
07-04-2021||Second Edit||India-Pak ties: Delhi must persist||Normalisation of relations between India and Pakistan has hit an early road bump with the Pakistani government recently doing a dramatic about-turn on a decision it made only a day before regarding resumption of trade with India. Last week, its Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) gave its green signal for importing cotton and sugar from India. However, a day later, Prime Minister Imran Khan’s cabinet shot down the decision. Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said that so long as India doesn’t review its decision to revoke Jammu & Kashmir’s autonomy, Pakistan would not resume trade with India. When the two countries announced in February that they would firmly adhere to the ceasefire along the Line of Control, it did seem that they were looking to normalise ties, but Qureshi connecting talks to the reinstatement of Article 370 suggests that there are contradictory interests asserting themselves in Pakistan’s complex politics. It is likely that pressure from the Pakistan military prompted the Imran Khan government to make the U-turn on trading with India, with the military top brass itself perhaps under pressure after it made the surprise move on the ceasefire deal. The military has much to gain from keeping relations with India hostile. It can not only justify endless hikes in budget allocations for weaponry but the ‘India threat’ also helps the military leadership keep both its own officers and the country’s politicians in check. It is unfortunate that the civilian government did not stand up to the military. After all, restoring trade with India would be beneficial to the Pakistani economy. Pakistan is battling serious inflation and importing basic commodities was among the measures that the ECC, its top economic body, decided on to keep inflation down. By suspending trade again, Pakistan stands to lose. Islamabad has once again cut off its nose to spite its face. Hawks in India will use Pakistan’s volte-face to argue that Delhi must abandon the effort to normalise relations with Pakistan as this is not productive. That is not true. Developments over the past year have shown that India’s big strategic challenge is China. A return to Vajpayee-era wisdom clearly dictates that it is best to normalise relations with Pakistan so as to be able to play in the bigger league. India must persist with talks with Pakistan, however frustrating it may be to do so. Normalisation of relations is never a smooth, trouble-free process. There are spoilers in both countries who are keen to derail the process. Delhi must be patient in dealing with Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/india-pak-ties-delhi-must-persist-971302.html
07-04-2021||Second Edit||India's worsening gender gap worrying||India has not been known for gender equality and gender justice, but it has been assumed that its performance on these fronts has been improving. But the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2021 shows those assumptions to be misplaced and wrong. India has slipped 28 places to rank 140 among 156 countries and is the third-worst performer in South Asia, ahead of only Afghanistan and Pakistan. The region is the second-lowest performer on the Global Gender Gap Index. The index is based on four parameters: economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment. Women in the country have suffered on all these counts, and the Covid-19 pandemic has aggravated the situation for them. Every social and economic catastrophe hits women more than men because of the institutionalised discrimination against them, the prejudices working against them and their vulnerability. There was a steep fall in the political empowerment sub-index. The number of women ministers halved and the count of women in Parliament and in other similar positions remained stagnant. This was not just because of the pandemic, because the refusal to give political space to women has always been there. The idea is not even being talked about now. Economic participation of women has declined sharply. The gap on this count is very wide. The situation of women is the same both in skilled and unskilled jobs. During the pandemic, more women lost their jobs than did men. It has been noted that women are seven times more likely to lose their jobs than are men. Data shows that the participation of women in the labour force is just 26.4% in rural areas and 20.4% in urban areas. In education, 34.2% women are illiterate compared to 17.6% of men. The inequalities of online education hurt girl students most. India also ranks among the bottom five countries with respect to health and survival. The skewed sex ratio at birth, violence within the family and outside and the discrimination in access to food and health are some reasons. The survey says that South Asia will take 195 years to close the gender gap at the current pace of performance. The backwardness and the lack of status of women affect the overall progress of the country. The IMF has estimated that equal participation of women in the workforce will increase India’s GDP by 27%. More effective social, economic and political initiatives are needed to improve women’s situation. This is easier said than done, because the habits, prejudices, practices and policies that work against women are well-entrenched. The indifferent implementation and poor outcomes of the central government’s much-talked-about Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao programme is one indication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/indias-worsening-gender-gap-worrying-971688.html
07-04-2021||South||IUML worker killed in post-poll clash in Kerala's Kannur||One person was killed in election-related violence at Kannur district in Kerala on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) worker Paral Manzoor, 21, of Koothuparamba. His brother also suffered injuries in the attack. IUML accused CPM workers of the deed. Some CPM workers were also reportedly held by the police in this connection. Tensions were prevailing between the IUML and CPM workers in the locality over the last couple of days over setting up of election posters and other campaign materials. The attack on Tuesday night was suspected to be a sequel to it. A gang allegedly barged into the house of the victim and hacked him to death. His brother suffered injuries while trying to resist the attack. Though the two were rushed to hospital, Manzoor was pronounced dead by 1 am on Wednesday. Police sources said that around ten people who were involved in the attack were identified and a search is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iuml-worker-killed-in-post-poll-clash-in-keralas-kannur-971366.html
07-04-2021||South||Padikkal joins RCB team after recovery from Covid-19||IPL franchise Royal Challengers Bangalore on Wednesday said their young batsman Devdutt Padikkal has joined the team's bio-bubble here after recovering from Covid-19. RCB and defending champions Mumbai Indians will start the IPL in Chennai on Friday. "We are pleased to inform that Royal Challengers Bangalore, left-handed batsman Devdutt Padikkal, has joined the team on 7th April 2021 with negative reports for Covid-19 as per BCCI protocols," the franchise said in a statement. "RCB medical team was in constant touch with Devdutt to ensure his safety and well-being." The 20-year-old batsman has been quarantining at his home since returning positive for Covid-19 during a test conducted on March 22. Padikkal was RCB's highest scorer last season with 473 runs from 15 matches. He has also been in tremendous form in the domestic circuit. He is only the second uncapped player in IPL's history to score more than 400 runs in his debut season. The development comes on a day when RCB's Australian all-rounder Daniel Sams tested positive for Covid-19. According to a statement issued by RCB on its Twitter handle, the 28-year-old all-rounder arrived in India on April 3 and had a negative Covid-19 test report at that time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/padikkal-joins-rcb-team-after-recovery-from-covid-19-971421.html
07-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu records 72.78% polling on April 6||Tamil Nadu recorded 72.78 per cent polling to 234 Assembly constituencies held on April 6, the Election Commission said. According to district-wise "close of poll" data released by the EC on Wednesday, Karur recorded the highest of 83.92 per cent polling, while Chennai saw the lowest turnout of 59.06 per cent of voters. The state has over 6.28 crore voters. Ariyalur, Dharmapuri an Kallakurichi were the other districts where over 80 per cent of the voters exercised their franchise, while a number of others recorded polling in excess of 75 per cent. Among the Assembly constituencies, many semi-urban and rural assembly segments saw a good turnout, with Palacode in Dharmapuri topping the charts with 87.33 per cent polling, followed by Kulithalai (86.15) in Karur and Edappadi in Salem with 85.60 per cent. Chief Minister K Palaniswami is trying his luck yet again from Edappadi, after winning from there in 2011 and 2016. DMK President M K Stalin is seeking a third term from Kolathur, while Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan is making his electoral debut from the Coimbatore South, located in western Tamil Nadu. As many as 37 assembly constituencies recorded polling in excess of 80 per cent, while in about 130 segments, the turnout was between 70 and 80 per cent, the data showed. Villivakkam in Chennai had the lowest voting percentage of 55.52. Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said the Assembly constituency-wise "final voter turnout ratio" may "slightly change after scrutiny by ROs in the presence of observers." Elections to 234 Assembly seats were held on Tuesday, with 3,998 contestants including heavyweights like Palaniswami, deputy CM O Panneerselvam, Stalin, Haasan and Naam Tamizhar Katchi founder Seeman among others contesting from various seats in a multi-cornered fight. Counting of polled votes will be taken up on May 2. The ruling AIADMK is seeking a third ter, while DMK is aiming to return to the ruling saddle after being trounced in 2011. Incidentally, this was the first Assembly polls to be held in the absence of late stalwarts M Karunanidhi and J Jaylalithaa. While Palaniswami steered the AIADMK-led NDA, Stalin was at the forefront of DMK's challenge to its archrival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-7278-polling-on-april-6-971466.html
07-04-2021||South||Elections to 3 RS seats from Kerala will be held before expiry of term of 3 MPs: EC tells HC||The Election Commission on Wednesday informed the Kerala High Court that elections to the three Rajya Sabha seats from Kerala will take place before the expiry of the term of the three MPs. The Commission submitted that the notification for the polls will be issued before the retirement of MPs from Kerala--Abdul Wahab of the IUML, K K Ragesh(CPI(M)) and Vayalar Ravi (Congress) on April 21. The Court, which recorded the submission made by the EC, however, directed it to file a statement disclosing the reasons based on which it was decided to postpone the Rajya Sabha elections for the three seats. The court gave the direction after counsel for the petitioners--Kerala Legislative Assembly and CPI(M)--pointed out that the Election Commission has not cited the reason why it has kept in abeyance proceedings for the proposed election to three vacancies. The case has been posted for further hearing on Friday. In their pleas, the State Legislative Assembly and ruling CPI (M) in the state, challenged the EC's decision to keep in abeyance proceedings for the proposed election to three vacancies from the state in the Rajya Sabha. The elections to the three seats from Kerala falling vacant was to be held on April 12. The poll panel had initially announced that the elections for the three seats will be held on April 12 but later the commission said it is being kept in abeyance following a communication received from the Union Ministry of Law and Justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elections-to-3-rs-seats-from-kerala-will-be-held-before-expiry-of-term-of-3-mps-ec-tells-hc-971542.html
07-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu: 23-year-old man fatally assaults step-daughter, in judicial custody||A 23-year-old man was remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday for allegedly fatally assaulting his five-year-old step-daughter, police said. Alex Pandiyan, a native of Tamil Nadu's Sivakasi, was arrested on Monday from his house near here based on a complaint from the child's mother. Pandiyan, an alleged drug addict, had assaulted the child on Monday, killing her, the police said. "It seems like he himself informed the mother about the incident. When she came home, the child was lying on the floor, injured. The mother took her to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared her as brought dead," they told PTI. Police arrested Pandiyan on Monday night but on early Tuesday morning, he escaped from the police station, though handcuffed. After nearly six hours, the police and the locals apprehended him from a nearby locality.  A police officer of the Pathanamthitta station, who was in-charge of the station at the time of his escape, was suspended on Wednesday. Police said the preliminary autopsy report showed that the child was brutally assaulted by the accused and there were injury marks across the body of the child. The child, also a native of Tamil Nadu, was staying with her mother and grandmother at a rented house at Kumbazha. The mother, who was estranged from her husband was in touch with the accused for the past year, police said. The deceased child has a sibling who is staying with the father of the children in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-23-year-old-man-fatally-assaults-step-daughter-in-judicial-custody-971545.html
07-04-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh high court lifts stay orders; parishad polls to be held on Thursday||A division bench of the Andhra Pradesh high court on Wednesday lifted the stay on the parishad polls imposed a day before by a single judge bench. While allowing the polls to be held as per the schedule on 8 April, the court has barred the state election commission from declaring the results till further orders are issued in the case. The interim orders suspending the polls were issued based on the petitions filed by Janasena, BJP, TDP etc., leaders challenging the State Election Commission's schedule following last year's notification. The petitioners contested that, as per earlier Supreme Court ruling, the election code should have been in implementation for at least four weeks before the poll date. The single judge stay orders were challenged by the SEC, which stated that the 28 day election code would not apply for the parishad polls. The schedule of the local body polls was issued on 1 April by Nilam Sawhney, who took charge as the new SEC earlier that day. The notification for the Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituencies and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies polls was issued in March last year by the then SEC Ramesh Kumar and nominations were also filed. However, the polls could not be held at that time due to the spread of the Covid-19 infections in the state. The opposition parties are demanding that the poll process be initiated afresh, alleging that the ruling YSRCP had resorted to violence and widespread intimidation disallowing other party candidates from filing nominations. The TDP has complained to the SEC that an unusually high number of seats were “unanimously elected.” With the SEC deciding to go ahead with the polls despite the various objections raised, TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu has announced boycott of the polls. Meanwhile, preparations are made for the elections to about 515 ZPTC and over 7,200 MPTC seats on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-high-court-lifts-stay-orders-parishad-polls-to-be-held-on-thursday-971554.html
07-04-2021||South||Hopes and concerns in political camps in Kerala after polling||A day after the polling at 140 Assembly seats in Kerala, all the three major political fronts are expressing confidence of forming government and raised allegations of nexuses. Raising BJP's hopes, Kerala PCC president Mullapally Ramachandran said that the reports he received from the grassroot level at Manjeshwar was "disturbing". Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would be responsible if the BJP wins at Majeshwar, he said. BJP Kerala state president K Surendran is contesting from Manjeshwar and the polling per cent at Majeshwar was comparatively higher. BJP's Palakkad candidate 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan predicted up to 40 seats for the saffron party and was anticipating to be decisive force in a hung Assembly. Being highly confident of his victory, he already started steps to open MLA office in Palakkad. While Congress leaders, including A K Antony and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, had expressed hopes of a thumping victory of the UDF, LDF convenor A Vijayaraghavan said that the Congress would suffer major setback in the elections and the BJP would also be a loser. Meanwhile, BJP camps continued their attack on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over his Sabarimala remark during the polling day. BJP state vice president and candidate at Kazhakkoottam in Thiruvananthapuram, Shobha Surendran said that Vijayan was afraid of Ayyappa's "curse" and claimed that his wife had even offered special poojas to overcome it. On the other side, LDF and UDF leaders reiterated that BJP would lose its lone sitting seat Nemom. While, the LDF camps hope that the social welfare and development initiative of the government may work in their favour, the UDF camps are hopeful that they could trigger an anti-incumbency factor by highlighting the corruption allegations against the government. The BJP is hopeful of emerging as an alternative to the UDF and the LDF. Both UDF and Congress hope to get benefit of the Sabrimala women entry issue also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hopes-and-concerns-in-political-camps-in-kerala-after-polling-971556.html
07-04-2021||South||LDF, rival UDF upbeat about forming government in Kerala||A day after Kerala went to the polls, the CPI(M)-led LDF and its rival, the Congress-headed UDF, on Wednesday were upbeat on forming the government, while the BJP-led NDA expressed hopes of becoming a prominent third front. Polling to elect 140 MLAs to the 15th Kerala Legislative Assembly was held on Tuesday. A 74.02 per cent voter turnout was recorded, as per the preliminary assessment by the Election Commission. The final voting percentage is yet to be published. LDF convener and CPI(M) state secretary in-charge A Vijayaraghavan told the media that the Left Front will bag more seats this time. "The Left Democratic Front will bag more seats than the last time. The Congress-faction will face the worst defeat this time. LDF and Jose K Mani will win the Pala seat. LDF will retain power," Vijayaraghavan said. Party sources claimed the campaign focusing on developmental aspects alone and avoiding controversies helped the Left front to garner votes. Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran, who fought a fierce battle at Kazhakootam constituency where the BJP had fielded its firebrand leader Shobha Surendran, claimed the Left front got more votes than expected in Thiruvananthapuram district. He said once the results are out, it will be clear that the Sabarimala matter was not an issue for the people of the state but for development and welfare. The Sabarimala issue resonated in the run-up to polls and also on polling day, with various leaders stating that the outcome will be the result ofthe fight between believers and non-believers, as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan claimed that Lord Ayyappa and other gods were with the LDF. As the LDF vainly tried to keep the Sabarimala women's entry issue on the backburner, the opposition kept up the heat on the CPI(M) by vigorously attacking the Left government. Kerala had witnessed violent protests by right-wing activists after the LDF government decided to implement the 2018 Supreme Court verdict, allowing women of all age groups to offer prayers at the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala, where traditionally women in the menstrual age group of 10-50 are barred from offering worship. Surendran, who is also the Devaswom Minister in the incumbent government, claimed the BJP will lose the Nemom constituency, the lone BJP seat in the Kerala Assembly, where the saffron party had put up former Mizoram governor and former BJP state chief Kummanam Rajashekharan as its candidate. The UDF leaders, on the other hand, have been reiterating that the front will bag enough seats to return to power as the "people have voted for the UDF and against the anti-people rule of the LDF." "All the allegations raised by us were true and the people know it. The voting trend of the people shows that they trust the opposition which has brought out the corruption and scams in the government," senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala told the media at Haripad. The BJP-led NDA is hoping to bag at least one to three seats in the state compared to the one it got last time. Nemom was captured by BJP which fielded veteran leader O Rajagopal in the 2016 elections. "We will come up as a prominent force in Kerala politics once the election results are out. We will be there in the Assembly as a major correctional force," BJP state chief K Surendran said at a press conference in Kozhikode. The Assembly elections in 2016 saw a 77.53 per cent voter turnout, while the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 saw a participation of 77.84 per cent electors. The LDF rode to power with 91 seats, while the UDF garnered 47 in the 2016 polls. The BJP got one seat while an independent P C George won one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldf-rival-udf-upbeat-about-forming-government-in-kerala-971600.html
07-04-2021||South||Did not breach MCC by remarks on Swaraj, Jaitley: Udhayanidhi||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin on Wednesday denied he had breached the Model Code of Conduct during the poll campaign for the just concluded Tamil Nadu Assembly elections by making some remarks about late BJP leaders Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley. Responding to an Election Commission notice, issued on Tuesday, he said it "has not taken the whole alleged speech into consideration and only referred to two lines" from his speech. The EC had issued the notice to Udhayanidhi Stalin for his alleged remarks that Swaraj and Jaitley died as they were "unable to tolerate the pressure and torture" given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The EC had asked him to respond to the notice before 5 pm on Wednesday, "failing which the Commission shall take a decision without any further reference to you". In his reply, Udhayanidhi Stalin said the "tenor and intention of his entire speech must be appreciated" to decide the context of the extracted two lines uttered and urged the EC to furnish a transcript of the entire speech for him to furnish a full and proper reply. "At the outset, I deny that I have committed any breach of the Model Code of Conduct," he said. The clause referred by the Commission only prohibits criticism of private life of leaders and workers of other parties, he said and added that the said lines if appreciated in spirit of the delivery of the entire speech taken as a whole, do not breach the MCC. The notice had said the EC received a complaint from the BJP alleging that Udhayanidhi Stalin, while addressing a political gathering at Dharapuram on March 31, made a statement that "Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley (both Union ministers) died unable to tolerate the pressure and torture given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi". The Commission said it is of the view that the contents of the speech made by him violated the provision of MCC which states that "criticism of other political parties, when made, shall be confined to their policies and programme, past record and work." "Parties and candidates shall refrain from criticism of all aspects of private life, not connected with the public activities of the leaders or workers of other parties. Criticism of other parties or their workers based on unverified allegations or distortion shall be avoided," it had said. Elaborating, Udhayanidhi Stalin said he was only responding to Modi's accusation against him at a poll rally that he had reached high political office in DMK through short cut methods. "The impugned speech is nothing but the answer to that criticism wherein I have said that Mr Narendra Modi became Prime Minister only through short cut methods overlooking other senior leaders in BJP party while he was Chief Minister of Gujarat." "I said that I was having a list of senior leaders who were sidelined by him. I gave the names of Mr (LK) Advani, Mr Yashwant Sinha, Late Mrs Sushma Swaraj and Mr Arun Jaitley. The words pressure and torture were not used by me in the said context as sought to be projected in the show cause notice," he claimed. His entire speech in Tamil conveyed a "totally different" meaning, he claimed, adding, the notice did not establish he spoke about anyone's private life. Stating that he held Modi, Swaraj and Jaitley in "high esteem in their public life and personal capacity," Udhayanidhi Stalin said he had no ill will against them. Many "unsavoury and tasteless" comments had been made against him but his party chief MK Stalin had asked him to take them in his stride and questioned why the EC has not taken action against those who had commented on his personal life and family, including his grandfather and late DMK president M Karunanidhi. He requested the Commission to accept his "interim reply" and permit him to give a detailed one after he received the full text of the speech in contention and the BJP's April 2 complaint. After a high octane campaign for the Tamil Nadu elections ended on April 4, voting in 234 Assembly seats was held on Tuesday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/did-not-breach-mcc-by-remarks-on-swaraj-jaitley-udhayanidhi-971615.html
07-04-2021||South||Tirupati temple suspends sarva-darshan tokens from Monday||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has announced the suspension of issuance of Sarva Darshan tokens at Tirupati from April 12, Monday. The decision, the temple board officials said, was taken in the wake of the steep spike in Covid-19 cases across the country, and also locally. On Wednesday, Andhra Pradesh reported 2,331 new cases – the highest figure since November. 296 of these fresh positive cases are from the Chittoor district where the revered Lord Venkateshwara temple is located. Out of the 11 Covid-19 related deaths reported on Wednesday, four are from Chittoor. “A large number of Covid-19 cases are being reported again in Tirupati city. Since thousands of devotees have to wait at the Bhudevi complex and Vishnu Nivasam for the time slot tokens, there is a big threat of virus spread,” TTD officials stated on Wednesday. After easing of the Covid-19 restrictions, the TTD was allowing over 50,000 pilgrims inside the temple every day. “While the Sarva Darshan tokens will be issued only till the evening of April 11, the online quota of Rs 300 darshan tickets would be continued. About 15,000 tickets would be available online daily,” a senior TTD official told DH. TTD said the decision was taken keeping in view the safety of the devotees. “A resumption in issuing sarva darshan tokens will be informed accordingly.” The celebrated shrine on the Tirumala hill was closed for about three months last summer due to the rising Covid-19 cases across the country. Earlier, the temple used to attract about 75,000 pilgrims, on average, daily. The Sai Baba temple at Shirdi was closed from Monday night because of the alarming Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-temple-suspends-sarva-darshan-tokens-from-monday-971617.html
07-04-2021||South||Telugu Desam Legislature Party merges with TRS in Telangana||In a jolt to the Telugu Desam Party in Telangana, its two sitting legislators on Wednesday gave a letter to the Assembly Speaker indicating their intention to merge the TD Legislature Party with the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi Legislature Party (TRSLP). Accepting that, the Speaker's office issued a notification today allowing the two-member TDLP to merge with the TRSLP. In the 2018 Assembly polls, the TDP won two seats in Khammam District. TDP MLAs Mecha Nageshwar Rao and Sandra Venkata Veeraiah, who represent Ashwaraopeta and Satthupalli Assembly constituencies respectively, had a few days ago called on Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao and expressed their desire to merge with the TRSLP to which the CM agreed, sources close to them said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telugu-desam-legislature-party-merges-with-trs-in-telangana-971620.html
07-04-2021||South||Medtronic opens its largest R&D center outside the US in Hyderabad||Medtronic plc, a global company in medical technology, has announced the opening of its newly expanded Engineering and Innovation Center in Hyderabad. The research and development facility was inaugurated on Wednesday by KT Rama Rao, Telangana Minister for Industries and Information Technology. The facility is stated as the largest R&D center outside the US for Medtronic. In August last year, Medtronic had announced its decision to invest Rs 1200 crore over the next five years to expand its Hyderabad R&D center into a state-of-the-art engineering and innovation center. The captive engineering R&D center was established in June 2011. The 150,000 square feet center employs engineers currently in the areas of software development and testing, test automation, mechanical design, analysis and hardware. “Globally, Medtronic has spent about $ 2.3 billion annually in research and development in recent years. MEIC has received an investment of Rs 1200 crore ($160 million) for expansion in Hyderabad, which is planned over five years with the aim to foster global innovation and create job opportunities,” the company said in a statement. “Over the years, Medtronic has expanded its footprint, while significantly contributing to the healthcare ecosystem. Given the market size and availability of a high-class talent pool, India is transforming into a global R&D hub,” said Geoff Martha, Medtronic chairman and CEO. Rama Rao said that the medical devices sector has been identified as one of the key focus areas by the state government. “Inauguration of the new MEIC site will boost Telangana’s MedTech plans and cement Hyderabad’s position as the medical devices hub in India,” the minister said during the inauguration. Headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, Medtronic claims to be among the world’s largest medical technology, services and solutions companies. “Medtronic employs over 90,000 people worldwide, serving physicians, hospitals and patients in more than 150 countries.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/medtronic-opens-its-largest-rd-center-outside-the-us-in-hyderabad-971654.html
07-04-2021||South||Clipping of Kamal Hassan allegedly trying to hit scribe goes viral||A video of Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan purportedly trying to hit a reporter of a TV channel with his walking stick has gone viral. According to Coimbatore Press Club sources, the reporter was videographing Hassan arriving at a polling centre in Coimbatore south Constituency on Tuesday from where he has contested. Hassan reportedly did not like being videographed and hence, pointed the lower end of his walking stick at the neck of the reporter and tried to press in a filmy style, the sources said. The reporter, however, did not react and slipped away from the scene, but the video went viral. The club has demanded an apology from Hassan for his act failing which it would take legal action against the actor-turned-politician, the sources said. MNM activists were not available for their comment. Haasan has been using the walking stick after he had a surgery on his leg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/clipping-of-kamal-hassan-allegedly-trying-to-hit-scribe-goes-viral-971657.html
07-04-2021||South||Puducherry recorded 81.70% polling in Assembly election||The Union Territory of Puducherry registered 81.70 per cent polling in the Assembly elections held on April 6 for all the 30 segments, according to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO). Puducherry has 23 constituencies, Karaikal 5 and Mahe and Yanam having one seat each. Of the total 10,04,197 voters in the whole Union Territory, 8,20,446 exercised their franchise marking 81.70 per cent polling. Yanam region having one segment registered the highest percentage of 91.28. Founder of the AINRC and former Chief Minister N Rangasamy, heading the NDA here, contested from Yanam. All along, Malladi Krishna Rao was getting returned to the Assembly from Yanam without a break since 1996. This time, he abstained from contesting and extended support to Rangasamy. Rao was the Congress leader in Yanam. He quit the post of Health Minister in the previous Ministry headed by V Narayanasamy. Rao also quit the MLA post in February intensifying the crisis for the Narayanasamy-led government. Rangasamy contested the Thattanchavady seat too and the segment recorded a 75.09 percentage of polling. Senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister V Narayanasamy abstained from the poll battle as he wanted to coordinate poll-related works in the party. The counting of votes is slated for May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-recorded-8170-polling-in-assembly-election-971666.html
07-04-2021||State||RTC strike: Private buses ferry passengers in Shivamogga||Following the strike by transport employees, private buses arrived at the KSRTC bus terminal in Shivamogga to ferry passengers on Wednesday.  KSRTC bus terminal in charge Siddesh told DH that conductors and drivers boycotted their duty. But the officials are trying to convince them to report for duty. For the convenience of the passengers, the district administration has made arrangements for private buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rtc-strike-private-buses-ferry-passengers-in-shivamogga-971398.html
07-04-2021||State||Passengers face the heat of Mysuru bus strike call||KSRTC buses stayed off the road in Karnataka's Mysuru district following the indefinite protest called by the employees on Wednesday. The passengers are facing the heat of the bus strike and largely depend upon private buses and vehicles to reach their destination. The transport department warned the private buses ferrying passengers against collecting excess money.  However, compared to normal days, the passenger flow is slightly less in the city but a large number of employees of private firms depend on private vehicles as no KSRTC buses are operating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/passengers-face-the-heat-of-mysuru-bus-strike-call-971404.html
07-04-2021||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa warns of ESMA against RTC workers' bus strike call||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that the state government might review implementing the Essential Services Management Act (ESMA) against the employees of Road Transport Corporation (RTC) in Karnataka to force them back to work. The RTC employees called an indefinite strike on April 7 demanding a salary on par with 6th pay commission recommendations. The Chief Minister told reporters in Belagavi on Wednesday that RTC employees are adamant about their demands. "We want the employees to come for talks and explore possibilities of their grievances being resolved," Yediyurappa said adding that to ensure hassle-free commute for passengers across the state, the government has made arrangements for private bus services, he said Pointing out that the public was inconvenienced, he called on striking employees to get back to work. The CM also alleged that the "selfish motives" of some people were behind the strike. "We have fulfilled 8 of their (workers) nine demands, despite this they are adamant and have stopped buses, and are creating trouble for the public. I appeal to them, get back to work, we can talk," Yediyurappa said.  If employees do not withdraw from the strike and do not come to the negotiation table, the government will review implementing ESMA, he cautioned adding that the government will wait and see today and tomorrow and take strict action depending on the situation.  He informed that the state government has proposed to give an eight per cent hike to the RTC employees and has sent a proposal to the centre. However, before going forward with the decision, the Chief Minister added, he will have to avail permission from the Election Commission of India with the Model Code of Conduct in place for the by-elections. Yediyurappa also warned private bus operators of action if they try to exploit commuters by charging more fare. The Chief Minister also expressed confidence about the win of BJP candidate Mangala Angadi in the by-election of Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who holds the Transport portfolio too said despite the government stating that it was ready for pay hike after permission from the election commission, some people have intentionally pushed for strike. "I won't say those behind it are from political parties or others, it will be known in the days to come.." he said without revealing much. The DCM said some buses are operating and their numbers will increase in all the four corporations in two days. "Private buses are being provided facilities at our bus terminals to operate from. They have been allowed to operate without permit, but with insurance for the convenience of the passengers. In two days we will increase their numbers and from tomorrow about 4,000 private buses, those who have surrendered permits, will operate" he added. Appealing to employees to get back to work, Savadi said income has completely stopped. "It will be difficult to pay salary in the days to come, as long as you continue the strike it will harm you.." (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-warns-of-esma-against-rtc-workers-bus-strike-call-971420.html
07-04-2021||State||Yediyurappa is my leader, says Eshwarappa||Karnataka Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K S Eshwarappa on Wednesday played down his differences with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. A week ago, Eshwarappa created a huge row after he met Governor Vajubhai R Vala with a five-page letter describing Yediyurappa's "serious lapses and authoritarian way of running the administration” apart from the indiscriminate release of funds. Eshwarappa said he met the Governor to seek clarification and not lodge a complaint as was perceived.  Eshwarappa’s attempt to put an end to the controversy came ahead of BJP national general secretary Arun Singh’s visit to the state. "To claim that I filed a complaint against the CM is a lie. The question of lodging a complaint (with the Governor) does not arise at all. Yediyurappa is our CM. He is my leader," Eshwarappa said. According to the Karnataka (Transaction of Business) Rules, the chief minister cannot directly intervene in the distribution of funds, once they are allocated to a department. The CM, according to the Eshwarappa, released funds bypassing him. "In order to seek clarification on this, I approached the Governor, as he had served as Finance Minister for 17-18 years in Gujarat," he said. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of the party's affairs in Karnataka, is scheduled to arrive Thursday for a three-day visit. He will land in Bengaluru post-noon and head to Mangaluru and Puttur to take part in a programme. Singh then will participate in the bypolls campaign at Belagavi on April 9, Maski on April 10 and Basavakalyan on April 11 before heading back to New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yediyurappa-is-my-leader-says-eshwarappa-971589.html
07-04-2021||State||Govt plans Gujarat-like fintech hub near Bengaluru airport||The state government has decided to woo big financial technology firms to occupy the Bengaluru Signature Business Park, the flagship infrastructure project coming up near the city’s airport that authorities say will rival the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City.  The project, which is in the works for over a decade now, received a fresh lease of life when it figured in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s 2021-22 Budget.  “Work is going on and it will hopefully be ready by next year,” Additional Chief Secretary (Infrastructure Development) Kapil Mohan told DH.  According to Mohan, the park will focus on financial technology with investments to the tune of Rs 4,000-5,000 crore. “It will be swanky, stylish...we’d like to have the world’s who’s who inside. Allotments will start in about 3-4 months,” he said.  According to the Karnataka State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (KSIIDC), which is anchoring the project, the Bengaluru Signature Business Park will be developed as a business district comprising corporate offices, parks, mall, multiplex and so on.  The KSIIDC has 407.08 acres of land adjoining the city’s airport in Devanahalli for the project. The built-up area will be about 247.13 acres. “This is one of the last major pieces of land that we have,” Mohan said, referring to the prime Bengaluru International Airport area.  In his Budget speech, Yediyurappa said that the development of “trunk infrastructure” of this project was underway at a cost of Rs 168 crore. “The total development cost will be about Rs 370-400 crore, excluding land cost. The park will have a dedicated 4-lane road, which in itself will cost Rs 200 crore,” Mohan said.  The government will provide only common infrastructure and allot plots where the incoming companies will set up their facilities.  The Yediyurappa administration will bank on this big-ticket project to hop onto the post-pandemic recovery bandwagon. “We have received many expressions of interest,” Mohan said.  The government has also tweaked the Bengaluru Signature Business Park plan by excluding the Bengaluru International Convention Centre (BICC), for which 35 acres were earmarked.  The BICC is proposed to have a state-of-the-art 6,000-seater capacity hall with food courts and other supporting facilities such as star category hotels and premium service apartments. “The BICC was part of the original plan, but now we’ve decided that it will come up somewhere else in the BIAL area,” Mohan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-plans-gujarat-like-fintech-hub-near-bengaluru-airport-971655.html
07-04-2021||State||Karnataka moms who adopt to get 180 days maternity leave||In a significant move, the state government has notified an order allowing its employees who adopt children to avail maternity and paternity leaves on par with biological parents.  The new rules will allow mothers who have adopted a child to take 180 days of maternity leave, while granting 15 days of paternity leave for fathers, same as that given to biological parents.  According to officials in the Finance Department, which regulates employee leaves, earlier adoptive parents had to use their own leaves. In the earlier system, women were given 60 days of leave, which included their own commuted leaves and casual leaves.  “The government has recognised that even adoptive parents need time to bond with the child. In certain cases there might be a single parent adopting too. Keeping this in view, it was important to extend maternity leave benefits for all,” an official, who did not want to be named, explained. The leave will be applicable to adopted children below the age of one year, the official specified.  The state government had first issued a government order in this regard in February 2020, which has been published in the official gazette now.  Speaking to DH, T R Vedavathi, treasurer, Akhila Karnataka State Government Employees Association, hailed the move. “The state government’s decision will definitely benefit many employees. Since the order was first issued ahead of the onset of the pandemic last year, not many employees are aware about it. We need to create more awareness about the provision,” she said. In many instances, taboo surrounding adoption also prevents women from declaring it officially. “If they have adopted at an older age, there is still some stigma about announcing it and they may opt for using their own leaves. Awareness has to be created even about this issue,” she added.  Child rights activist Vasudeva Sharma opined this would help in fighting against the stigma attached with adoption. “This will help emphasise that adopted children are just like biological children. In several instances, people even shift houses after they adopt, owing to the stigma. The government’s move is a welcome step in fighting this stigma,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-moms-who-adopt-to-get-180-days-maternity-leave-971659.html
07-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SIT conducting Jarkiholi CD case probe impartially, says Karnataka DGP Praveen Sood||Director General & Inspector General of Police (DG & IGP) Praveen Sood has stated that the Special Investigation Team is probing the sleaze CD case involving BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi without any bias. But, he added, the details of the investigation should not be discussed in public. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday after holding a meeting with the police, he said the team would submit a probe report to the court. Later, people could discuss probe strategies. Referring to the Hunasodu blast incident that claimed the lives of six persons, he said, police are likely to file a charge sheet in connection with the case in court soon. There is no question of shielding culprits and they would be brought to justice. On the establishment of a police commissionerate in Shivamogga, the DG & IGP said, as per the norms, the City must have a population of ten lakh to have a commissionerate. The state government would take a call on it, he said. More than 80% of police have been vaccinated against Covid-19. The number of cases is rising in the state. Police have been directed to educate people on the need to follow the guidelines without fail, he informed. He said, police in Shivamogga are facing residential quarters problems and many stations lack staff. The issues would be addressed soon.  Some police stations had been upgraded and additional staff had been appointed. Hence, there should not be law and order issue in the district. Superintendent of Police B M Laxmi Prasad, Additional Superintendent of Police H T Shekhar were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sit-conducting-jarkiholi-cd-case-probe-impartially-says-karnataka-dgp-praveen-sood-971235.html
07-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BBMP to propose mandatory self-isolation, RT-PCR test for Bengaluru visitors||The rapid spike in Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru has prompted the city’s civic body, the BBMP, to propose mandatory self-isolation followed by Covid testing for all out-of-state visitors to the state capital.  Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Tuesday told reporters that Bengaluru is seeing a huge influx of travellers from various parts of India and there is a need to keep a tab on them. “There are more people coming from other states. We need to review the decision on testing all of them,” Gupta said. Already, the state government has made negative RT-PCR report, not older than 72 hours, mandatory for travellers from Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab and Chandigarh.  “We have discussed the issue and decided to have mandatory self-isolation for visitors followed by an RT-PCR test before they can resume normal work in the city,” Gupta said. The Chief Commissioner added that it is a “dynamic situation” and a decision will be taken as per the situation at the government-level. “We will submit it to the government for a decision in this matter,” he added. The civic body’s proposal for returnees comes amid residents returning to Bengaluru from poll-bound states. “Almost all states are reporting high number of Covid cases. It is high time that we revisited the earlier decision and enforce self-isolation for all returnees,” Gupta said.  Gupta also said that more and more people are gathering at one place during evenings with utter disregard to Covid rules, warning that such places will be identified and shut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bbmp-to-propose-mandatory-self-isolation-rt-pcr-test-for-bengaluru-visitors-971254.html
07-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Health Minister Sudhakar appeals to Centre to provide more doses of Covid-19 vaccines||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday appealed to the Union Government to provide more doses of Covid-19 vaccines to the state in order to control the pandemic. He also explained about the need to increase in availability of oxygen for the patients and uniform Covid guidelines across the country. Sudhakar on Tuesday participated in the Union Health Minister's video conference with the Health Ministers of 11 states/Union territories. The Minister explained the measures taken in the state including speeding up of testing to control the second wave in the state, his office said in a release. Speaking on the Covid guidelines, Sudhakar insisted that there should be uniform guidelines across the country regarding cinema halls, inter-state travel, meetings and other public gatherings. This will help in more clearer instructions and easy to follow. Therefore, all affected states should have a uniform guidelines to make people aware of the seriousness of the situation, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/health-minister-sudhakar-appeals-to-centre-to-provide-more-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-971291.html
07-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ramesh Jarkiholi discharged from hospital after Covid-19 treatment||Former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi who had been admitted to Gokak Taluk Hospital for treatment of Covid-19 was discharged from the hospital on Wednesday. He was admitted to the hospital on Sunday night after complaints of breathing difficulties. He was treated in the intensive care unit of the hospital. Special Investigating Team investigating the alleged CD scandal involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi had visited the hospital on Tuesday and availed information of his health condition and treatment given.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ramesh-jarkiholi-discharged-from-hospital-after-covid-19-treatment-971381.html
07-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bus services hit as RTC workers go on strike||Normal life was disrupted across Karnataka as the strike called by the workers of the road transport corporations brought to halt the operation of bus services, leaving commuters with no option but to pay hefty fares for alternative arrangements. The state government threatened to invoke Essential Services Management Act (Esma) to force the employees back to work. However, officials on Wednesday were yet to issue any communication in this regard. Meanwhile, the BMTC, KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC have invoked the 'no work, no pay' principle and decided to cut salaries of those who fail to turn up for work. On their part, the protesting workers heeded the advice of their honorary president Kodihalli Chandrashekhar and avoided taking to the streets for protests, to avoid violation of the Covid-19 guidelines. What we know The workers have decided not to give up their struggle without getting salary on par with 6th pay commission recommendations. The government, however, has offered only an 8% increase in existing salaries with the chief secretary ruling out any more negotiations with the protesters. The B S Yediyurappa administration on Tuesday warned Road Transport Corporation employees of strict action if they went ahead with the strike. "The government will not negotiate any more. Employees should return to work," Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said, following a meeting with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. While the government has fulfilled eight of the nine demands of the labour unions, it cannot fulfil their demand of wages as per the 6th Pay Commission recommendations, on par with other government employees, Kumar said. Private buses and maxi-cabs will be allowed to ply to allow passengers to commute. Other alternate arrangements will also be made to help travellers. Kumar said that he had already written to the Election Commission to allow the government to implement an 8% revision of wages for transport employees, citing the strike call by them. Services dirupted in Bengaluru In Bengaluru, commuters who came to bus stations waited more than an hour in the hope of boarding alternative private buses or maxicabs arranged by the government. However, except for a handful of major routes, the alternative arrangement was absent. However, the number of commuters in bus stations was less compared to regular days. The crowded bus terminals at Yashwanpur, Mysore Road, Shivajinagar, Shantinagar and Banashankari had less than half the usual crowd. However, in a very rare development, the terminals played host to the private buses whose presence nearby had previously prompted officials to write to the transport commissioner. The travelling public seemed to have shifted to auto-rickshaws, taxis and other modes realising the futility of waiting in the terminals. However, thousands who can't shell out hefty fares decided to wait for the alternative arrangements promised by the government. Across Karnataka, passengers stranded Bus services across Karnataka were disrupted and bus stations wore a deserted look. Private buses, however, continued to ply. The situation is not different in other parts of the state. In some districts, cab and auto services are in high demand. A family including women and children which was on its way to Ilkal (Bagalkot district) from Panaji was stranded at Bagalkot bus stand. The movement of private buses has begun from the old bus stand at Hubballi. Private buses are also plying between the twin cities of Hubballi and Dharwad. Mangaluru The KSRTC buses remained off the road, following the indefinite stir called by the KSRTC employees in Mangaluru on Wednesday. All the buses to various destinations have been parked in the KSRTC bus stand at Bejai in Mangaluru.   A few passengers who were unaware of the strike had arrived at the bus stand and are waiting for the buses to reach their destination. Nagarj from Ilkal had arrived in Mangaluru for the educational needs of his son. “After completing the work, I stayed back on Tuesday to start the journey on Wednesday morning. Without the bus services, I remained stranded at the bus stand,” he told DH. The RTO has issued temporary permits for the private buses, contract carriage vehicles, maxi cabs and mini buses to operate. Accordingly, the private buses have come forward to provide alternative public transport including on long routes like Mysuru.   As private buses are operating on all the routes in Udupi district, the passengers were unaffected by the strike called by KSRTC employees. The daily passengers travelling between Udupi and Mangaluru also remained unaffected following the operation by private buses. Only those who had planned their travel outside the district were affected in Udupi. Raichur Following the indefinite strike, the Central bus stand in Raichur city wore a deserted look on Wednesday as not even a single government bus was parked. Instead of the bus stand, buses have been parked in the seven depots as not even a single driver or conductor reported for duty. Commuters are going to their destinations in jeeps, autorickshaws parked in front of the bus stand. "We are convincing the drivers and conductors to attend for duty. Some have agreed to report for the duty by today evening", Raichur divisional controller Venkatesh.  Buses from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are arriving in the district. A few passengers are going towards Karnool, Mantralaya and Mehboobnagar. Shivamogga Amid the strike call, private buses arrived at the KSRTC bus terminal in Shivamogga to ferry passengers on Wednesday. KSRTC bus terminal in charge Siddesh told DH that conductors and drivers boycotted their duty. But the officials are trying to convince them to report for duty. For the convenience of people, the district administration made private bus arrangements.  Major universities across Karnataka postponed examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate courses scheduled to be held on Wednesday due to the lack of public transport in the wake of the strike called by the workers of road transport corporations.  Kalaburagi Although the NEKRTC buses were off the roads in Kalaburagi, with prior information about the strike, there were hardly any passengers in the bus stand. Private buses are being operated to Bidar, Humnabad and Ballari from Kalaburagi. Meanwhile, Raichur Divisional Controller Venkatesh said that attempts were being made to convince drivers and conductors. “Some have agreed to report for the duty by today evening", he said. Buses from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are arriving in the district. Hassan, Mandya, Chamarajanagar The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation buses stayed off the roads due to the statewide strike in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts on Wednesday.  However, the private vehicles like maxi cabs, cabs and autorickshaws operated at all the districts, with the commuters made to pay more. It was a common scene to see the private operators exploiting the public making use of the situation. The KSRTC buses stayed off from Tuesday evening causing a lot of inconvenience to the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bus-services-hit-as-rtc-workers-go-on-strike-971387.html
07-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Normal life affected across Karnataka as RTC buses stay off roads||Normal life was disrupted across the state as the strike called by the workers of the road transport corporations brought the operation of bus services to a halt, leaving commuters with no option but to pay hefty fares for alternative arrangements. In Bengaluru, commuters who came to bus stations waited more than an hour in the hope of boarding alternative private buses or cabs arranged by the government. However, except for a handful of major routes, alternative arrangements were absent. However, the number of commuters in bus stations was less compared to regular days. The crowded bus terminals at Yeshwantpur, Mysore Road, Shivajinagar, Shantinagar and Banashankari had less than half the usual crowd. However, in a rare occurrence, the terminals played host to private buses whose presence nearby had previously prompted officials to write to the transport commissioner. The travelling public seemed to have shifted to autorickshaws, taxi and other modes realising the futility of waiting in terminals. However, thousands who can't shell out hefty fares decided to wait for the alternative arrangements promised by the government. The state government threatened to invoke Essential Services Management Act (Esma) to force the employees back to work. However, officials on Wednesday were yet to issue any communication in this regard. Meanwhile, the BMTC, KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC have invoked the 'no work, no pay' principle and decided to cut salaries of those who fail to turn up for work. On their part, the protesting workers heeded the advice of their honorary president Kodihalli Chandrashekhar and avoided taking to the streets for protests, to avoid violation of Covid-19 guidelines. The workers have decided not to give up their struggle without getting salary on par with 6th pay commission recommendations. The government, however, has offered only an 8% increase in existing salaries with the chief secretary ruling out any more negotiations with the protesters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/normal-life-affected-across-karnataka-as-rtc-buses-stay-off-roads-971389.html
07-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt requests railways to run over 10 more trains amid RTC strike||The state government has requested the railways to run more than 10 additional trains from Bengaluru to Belagavi, Kalaburagi and five other destinations. In a letter written to the South Western Railways, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar cited the strike called by the road transport corporation (RTC) employees to seek additional trains to improve connectivity to Bengaluru. Two trains each from Bengaluru to Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Karwar; one each to Bidar, Vijayapura and Shivamogga and increased frequency of trains on the Bengaluru-Mysuru route are among the new trains sought by the railways. Officials said the railways is expected to respond positively to the request.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-requests-railways-to-run-over-10-more-trains-amid-rtc-strike-971484.html
07-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar pledges to donate eyes||Underlining the importance of eye donation, Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar Wednesday pledged to donate his eyes on World Health Day. "The decision to donate eyes on this World Health Day has given me a sense of fulfilment. Eyes can bring a ray of hope and light in the life of others after our death," the minister said as he registered himself for donating eyes during a walkathon organised by the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences in front of Vidhana Soudha. Appealing to the people to come forward and donate eyes, Sudhakar said the eye donation proves to be a boon for others. Minto Eye Hospital Director Dr Sujatha Rathod handed over the certificate to the Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-pledges-to-donate-eyes-971491.html
07-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to start vaccination at workplaces from April 11||Karnataka would start administering Covid-19 vaccines at prominent government and private workplaces from April 11, state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Wednesday. "Starting April 11, the Covid-19 vaccines can be distributed in all private and government workplaces which have at least 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries above 45 years of age," K Sudhakar told reporters. The Minister was with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa during their video conference held with the authorities of districts of Bidar, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Hassan, Mandya, Mysuru and Chitradurga to review the Covid-19 situation. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Sudhakar said the objective to start vaccination drive at workplaces would accelerate the vaccination drive and ensure quicker and better coverage. According to him, several large IT firms and industries had requested the government to allow vaccination on their premises. "Companies can now provide vaccination to their employees at their offices if there are more than 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries," the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-start-vaccination-at-workplaces-from-april-11-971653.html
07-04-2021||West||Factory gutted in fire in Thane's Bhiwandi; no deaths||A fire on Tuesday destroyed an artificial pearls manufacturing factory in Bhiwandi town of Thane district, but no casualties were reported, civic officials said. Santosh Kadam, chief of the Thane Municipal Corporation's Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), said the fire broke out at around 4 pm in the factory located in Shastri Nagar in the powerloom town. Three fire engines of the Bhiwandi municipal corporation doused the flames in about an hour, he said. Kadam said the cause of the fire was being probed and added that no one was injured in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/factory-gutted-in-fire-in-thanes-bhiwandi-no-deaths-971286.html
07-04-2021||West||CBI lodges preliminary inquiry to probe Anil Deshmukh on corruption allegations||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a preliminary enquiry (PE) against Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh, who has been accused of corruption by ex Mumbai Police commission Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh (70) is a senior leader of NCP. The apex investigation agency registered the PE on Tuesday night in the wake of Bombay High Court ordering a CBI probe and a report within a fortnight's time. Singh, who is now the commandant general of Home Guards, has accused Deshmukh of fixing Rs 100 crore collection target for suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Deshmukh has denied any wrongdoing. The Bombay High Court order has been challenged separately in the Supreme Court by the Maharashtra government and Deshmukh. Meanwhile, Deshmukh, who resigned from the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, has been replaced by Dilip Walse-Patil, a seven-time MLA. The PE will enable the CBI to record statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-lodges-preliminary-inquiry-to-probe-anil-deshmukh-on-corruption-allegations-971296.html
07-04-2021||West||Former Shiv Sena MLA Trupti Sawant joins BJP||The wife of a late Shiv Sena leader – who was very close to the Thackeray family – has joined the BJP. Former Shiv Sena MLA from Bandra East, Trupti Sawant, joined the BJP in presence of the leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar. The Kalanagar bungalow of the Thackerays, Matoshree, falls in the Bandra East Vidhan Sabha seat. The development is being seen as a move to challenge Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his own backyard.  Trupti is the wife of late Prakash Sawant, popularly known as Bala Sawant, who was considered close to late Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray. Late Sawant, a three-time corporator in the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), had won the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly seat in 2009 and 2014 from Bandra East. However, after his demise in 2015, Trupti was given the ticket by Uddhav Thackeray. In the keenly-watched bye-polls polls, she had defeated veteran politician Narayan Rane, who was then with the Congress. Rane contested the seat from Mumbai, as he lost the 2014 polls from Kudal in Sindhudurg.   A former Shiv Sainik, Rane is a former chief minister and ex-leader of opposition. Currently, he is a BJP Rajya Sabha member.  However, in the October 2019 Assembly polls, she was denied a nomination, after which she rebelled and filed papers as an Independent to contest against the party's official candidate and then Mumbai mayor Prof Vishwanath Mahadeshwar. Both Trupti and Prof Mahadeshwar lost the polls to Congress’ candidate Zeeshan Siddiqui, the son of former minister Baba Siddiqui. Trupti, who was expelled from the party for rebellion, after lying low, has not joined the BJP. When she joined the saffron party, besides Fadnavis and Darekar’s others present were BJP Mumbai president Mangalprabhat Lodha, MLAs Atul Bhatkhalkar and MLA Nitesh Rane, the son of Rane Senior.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-shiv-sena-mla-trupti-sawant-joins-bjp-971356.html
07-04-2021||West||Suspect new Covid-19 strain in Maharashtra affecting people in shorter period, says Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope||Amid rising coronavirus cases, a new scare came up for the worst-hit state in the country, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said that a new strain could be afflicting the state and affecting people in a shorter duration of time. "We suspect that there is a new strain that is affecting people in a shorter duration of time," Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday addressing a press conference. State health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope urged the National Centre of Disease Control (NCDS) to inform about it.  “They should tell (about the possible new strain) and treatment protocol,” he said. He added that samples of the suspected new strain have been sent to National Centre for Disease Control and urged the NCDS to inform about it. "Currently, we have 14 lakh vaccine doses which will get over in 3 days. We've asked for 40 lakh more vaccine doses per week. I'm not saying that the Center is not giving us vaccines but the speed of delivery of vaccines is slow," he added. Maharashtra is also facing an acute shortage of vaccine doses and people are being sent back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/suspect-new-covid-19-strain-in-maharashtra-affecting-people-in-shorter-period-says-maharashtra-health-minister-rajesh-tope-971419.html
07-04-2021||West||Central agencies being misused to target political rivals, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday claimed that the law and central investigation agencies were being misused to corner political rivals. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said the Bombay High Court had pulled up senior police officer Param Bir Singh over his allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, but took cognisance of charges in a separate petition filed by one Jayshri Patil. "Nobody is above law. But, it is now clear that the law and central investigation agencies are being misused to corner political rivals," the Marathi publication claimed. "It is a cause of concern that constitutional authorities are getting involved in weakening the Maharashtra government in such a manner," it said. The Shiv Sena shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra. The HC on Monday directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry within 15 days into the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against NCP leader Deshmukh, following which he resigned as the state's home minister. The HC was hearing pleas filed by Singh himself, lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay and local teacher Mohan Bhide and city-based lawyer Jayshri Patil. The HC ordered for the CBI inquiry on Patil's plea. The editorial said the opposition BJP in Maharashtra makes statements like which state minister is next in line to resign. "They would not say this if they weren't confident that the central probe agencies were working for them. This is a conspiracy to defame the state," the Sena alleged. It said earlier also, the opposition parties had levelled allegations against members of the ruling party and several ministers and chief ministers had to quit. But, the atmosphere was not full of hatred and poison, the Sena said. It said while the Bombay HC passed an order to conduct a probe into allegations against Anil Deshmukh, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa recently got relief from the Supreme Court as it stayed the criminal proceedings against him in a 10-year-old corruption case. "Why different decisions for Anil Deshmukh and the Karnataka chief minister?" the Marathi daily sought to know. Referring to a French media report on Rafale fighter jet deal which claimed that Euro 1.1 million was paid to a "middleman" by the aircraft manufacturer, the editorial asked who should now resign on moral grounds? "Is morality only for the Shiv Sena and NCP?" it questioned. The BJP has already denied the allegation in the French media report as baseless. The editorial said "the Supreme Court had earlier passed an order that there was no corruption in the Rafale case" and the BJP had targeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his charges about corruption in the fighter jet deal. Notably, the Supreme Court had dismissed the pleas challenging the deal between India and France for procurement of 36 Rafale jets, saying there was no occasion to "really doubt the decision making process" warranting setting aside of the contract.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/central-agencies-being-misused-to-target-political-rivals-says-shiv-sena-971424.html
07-04-2021||West||Former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh arrives at NIA office||In a significant development, former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Wednesday arrived at the NIA office in Mumbai, where his statement would be recorded. Singh, an officer of the 1988 batch of the IPS is currently the commandant general of Home Guards. Singh landed at the NIA office hours before the federal agency was set to produce suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and two other accused – dismissed police constable Vinayak Shinde and Naresh Gor – before a special court for an extension of their remand. Vaze has been accused of planting a Scorpio with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. Former home minister Anil Deshmukh's name has been mired in controversy after Param Bir Singh accused him of setting a Rs 100 crore per month collection target for Vaze Deshmukh also faced the heat for the controversial reinstatement of Vaze in the police force after being out for 16 years in connection with the custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, a suspect in a blast case. The Bombay High Court has ordered a CBI investigation into the corruption allegations against Deshmukh – and the national probe agency has registered a preliminary inquiry into the case. Meanwhile, Deshmukh and Maharashtra government have moved the Supreme Court challenging the CBI probe. Vaze was chief of the Criminal Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai Crime Branch. The entire issue has rattled the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-arrives-at-nia-office-971436.html
07-04-2021||West||Punjab extends night curfew, bans political gatherings till April 30||Rattled by the Covid-19 surge, the Punjab government on Wednesday ordered a total ban on political gatherings till April 30 with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh directing officials to book violators, including political leaders, under relevant laws. The chief minister also announced an extension of the night curfew from 9:00 pm to 5:00 am, imposed in 12 districts from April 1, to the entire state and further reduced the number of attendees at funerals/cremations/weddings to 50 people indoors and 100 for outdoors. Wearing of masks has been made mandatory for all government employees while in office, an official statement said. In some respite for shop owners in malls, the chief minister allowed entry of 10 people per shop at any given time, as against the earlier order of not allowing more than 100 people in a mall at one time. Singh also issued orders to step up the vaccination drive by administering two lakh doses every day. He also directed the officials to increase Covid-19 testing to 50,000 samples per day, besides vigorously pursuing contact tracing to 30 people per positive patient. At a weekly review meeting, Singh said he had no option but to go in for stricter measures to further control the ongoing surge. The chief minister said he had been forced to order a ban on political gatherings, as his pleas to all political parties had been ignored. Singh slammed Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Badal for attending political rallies in the state without following safety protocols. “How do you expect people to be serious about the spread of the disease if senior political leaders behave like this?” he asked, noting that the Congress had cancelled all its public gatherings this month. He ordered the Police and the district administrations to register cases against the political leaders, organisers and participants of political gatherings under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemics Act. Singh said persons providing space for such events would be booked and their venues sealed for three months. He said that no social, cultural or sports gatherings and related functions will be allowed till April 30. The chief minister also directed Punjab DGP, Dinkar Gupta, to ensure strict implementation of the night curfew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/punjab-extends-night-curfew-bans-political-gatherings-till-april-30-971438.html
07-04-2021||West||CBI seeks NIA court's nod to question suspended cop Sachin Vaze||The CBI on Wednesday approached a special NIA court here seeking permission to question suspended police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with its preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Vaze was arrested on March 13 in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25 and the subsequent death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren. Vaze is presently in the custody of the National Investigation Agency, which is conducting a probe into the case, and would be produced before the special NIA court on Wednesday. The CBI on Wednesday filed an application before the special NIA court seeking permission to question Vaze. The court will hear the application when Vaze is produced for remand. Following an order of the Bombay High Court, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) late Tuesday night registered a preliminary enquiry (PE) to probe corruption allegations levelled by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh. Singh was shifted from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to the Home Guards department on March 17. He later filed a petition in the HC seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh, alleging that the NCP leader had asked Vaze and other police officers to extort Rs 100 crore from restaurants and bars. Singh had also alleged corruption in police transfers and postings. The high court in its order on Monday said the CBI shall carry out an inquiry into the allegations within 15 days and then decide on further course of action. After the HC order, Deshmukh resigned as the state's home minister. Both Deshmukh and the Maharashtra government have approached the Supreme Court challenging the HC's order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-seeks-nia-courts-nod-to-question-suspended-cop-sachin-vaze-971459.html
07-04-2021||West||Maharashtra has 14 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine which will last only three days: Rajesh Tope||Amid the sweeping second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra is facing acute shortage of vaccines, oxygen and Remdesivir medicines. The state has only three days of Covid-vaccine – Covishield and Covaxin – stocks left. State’s health minister Rajesh Tope flagged the issue to Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan, when the latter held a video-conference with health ministers of nine Covid-affected states. Tope appealed that no one should do politics in a pandemic situation – and pointed out that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis also endorsed it. “We should not provoke people for protests against restrictions. If there is some need for relaxation, the government will consider it in due course,” he said referring to the mini-lockdown. “We have around 14 lakh doses available, that is the stock for three days. Our weekly requirement is around 40 lakh, only in that case can we vaccinate 5.5 lakh to 6 lakh people. In the given circumstances and the surge, the only ‘Ram-baan’ is vaccine,” Tope told reporters on Wednesday. “We do not have enough vaccine doses at various vaccination centres, and people have to be sent back due to a shortage of doses. We have asked from the Centre that people of age group 20-45 years be vaccinated on priority,” he said, adding: "I am not saying that the Centre is not giving us vaccines...what we want is that the speed of delivery (of stocks) to be increased." Tope pointed out that the vaccine wastage rate is around 3 per cent in Maharashtra which is half of the national average vaccine wastage rate of 6 per cent. He also said that the state is facing shortage of oxygen supply. “We have ordered a ratio of 80 per cent medical oxygen and 20 per cent industrial oxygen,” he said, adding that the inflow of patients in hospitals is alarming. The minister said he had urged Dr Harsh Vardhan  to see if oxygen could be made available from neighbouring states. "He is a soft-spoken person and listens....he has assured me that he would look into it positively," he said. Tope also pointed out that the daily need of Remdesivir is 50,000 doses which is exhausted each day. “There have been reports of stockists hoarding it,” he said, that the Drugs Controller General of India and Food and Drug Administration must launch a crackdown. “It has also been noticed that patients who do not need Remdesivir are also being administered the drug,” he said and urged the Indian Medical Association to look into the issue. He also made it clear that the price of Remdesivir should be between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,400. “It is a pandemic situation, let us be humans,” he said, but warned strict action under Epidemic Diseases Act, if unnecessary stocking and over-pricing was seen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-has-14-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-which-will-last-only-three-days-rajesh-tope-971462.html
07-04-2021||West||Local journalist kidnapped, killed in Ahmednagar||A 49-year-old journalist of a local weekly was allegedly kidnapped and killed in Rohidas Datir of Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district, police said on Wednesday. Rohidas Datir was allegedly abducted from the College Road area where he was travelling on his two-wheeler on Tuesday afternoon and his body bearing multiple injury marks was found in the same locality late at night, sub-inspector Ganesh Shelke of Rahuri police station said. The victim used to run a weekly in Rahuri and was also an RTI activist, the official said. Following the kidnapping, a case was registered and a search had been launched for Datir, he said. A suspect has been identified and the attack seems to be a fallout of an old rivalry, he said, adding that further probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/local-journalist-kidnapped-killed-in-ahmednagar-971465.html
07-04-2021||West||Gujarat cops collect Rs 2.6 crore from violators of Covid-19 norms in four days||The Gujarat police have collected fines worth Rs 2.66 crore in four days from people failing to wear masks and those spitting in public places amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Wednesday. The fines were collected between April 2 and April 5, the official said, adding that a penalty of Rs 1,000 has been imposed on violators of the mask rule. According to a release issued by the state police, on average, around 6,600 people were fined every day from April 2 to April 5 for Covid-19-related violations in Gujarat. "A penalty of Rs 2.66 crore was collected in four days from 26,761 people found moving out without mask or spitting in public," the official said. As many as 1,300 FIRs under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code were also registered during this period against people who failed to adhere to the directives issued by the administration to curb the viral spread, it was stated. At least 2,410 persons were also arrested for flouting Covid-19 related rules and guidelines. In addition to this, 2,373 vehicles were seized for curfew violations in four major cities during this period, the release said. In view of the present situation, Gujarat Director General of Police Ashish Bhatia has instructed police officials to enforce the coronavirus-related SOPs strictly, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cops-collect-rs-26-crore-from-violators-of-covid-19-norms-in-four-days-971476.html
07-04-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Sachin Vaze's NIA custody extented till April 9||A special court on Wednesday extended the NIA custody of former Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze till April 9, according to ANI. The court further allowed the CBI to interrogate Sachin Vaze in NIA custody and directed it to coordinate the timings of the interrogation. Special NIA Court extends NIA custody remand of Sachin Waze till 9th April. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-sachin-vazes-nia-custody-extented-till-april-9-971478.html
07-04-2021||West||Amravati doesn't need another lockdown: Maharashtra minister to CM Thackeray||Maharashtra minister Yashomati Thakur on Wednesday informed Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Amravati district does not require another lockdown, as the Covid-19 cases are on the decline in the region. In a statement, Thakur who is the guardian minister of Amravati district, said the daily spike in cases in Amravati division and district is between 213 to 300 in the last two weeks. "Since the second lockdown, the number of cases is on decline. The decision to impose another lockdown can be taken if the infections increase. I met the chief minister and conveyed this to him," she said. Amravati district in the state's Vidarbha region witnessed lockdowns in February-March due to a spike in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra Tuesday reported 55,469 fresh coronavirus cases, the second-highest spike in the last two days, taking the tally of infections to 31,13,354, while 297 deaths pushed the toll to 56,330. The state government has imposed weekend lockdowns, night curfews among other strict curbs to break the chain of transmission in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amravati-doesnt-need-another-lockdown-maharashtra-minister-to-cm-thackeray-971487.html
07-04-2021||West||No lockdown in Goa, move will disrupt economic activities, says CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday reiterated that the coastal state will not go for a lockdown, as the move will disrupt the economic activities. Sawant recalled that during the same time last year, the state had been under a coronavirus-induced lockdown, due to which the entire economy had come to a standstill. Economic activities are getting revived in the coastal state and another lockdown will disrupt them, he said. "There was drop in the collection of the GST, while industries such as tourism had suffered a jolt. We want to avoid the situation," the chief minister said. The virus cannot be controlled merely with a lockdown, but with steps like prevention and vaccination, he said. Sawant further said that the state government has written to the Union health ministry seeking to relax the age limit for vaccination for people from the tourism and media industries. Goa had on Tuesday reported 387 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 59,702, while the toll stood at 838. The coastal state currently has 2,471 active cases||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-lockdown-in-goa-move-will-disrupt-economic-activities-says-cm-971490.html
07-04-2021||West||Fire in Ahmedabad cloth market in March was act of terror, conspired by ISI agent: Police||A fire incident on March 20 at a cloth market in the city has turned out to be part of a "terror module" which the Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) on Wednesday claimed to have busted. The DCB officials have booked four persons and caught three of them who allegedly set the shops in the market on fire at the instruction of an agent of Pakistani spy agency ISI. Police said that the suspected ISI agent paid Rs1.50 lakh to the three to burn the market. DCB officials said that they have arrested Bhupendra Vanzara alias Pravin and Anil Khatik while third suspect Ankit Pal has tested positive for Covid-19 who will be formally arrested after his treatment. Vanzara and Pal were sent in police custody for further interrogation till April 12. They have been booked under various sections of Unlawful Activities (prevention) Act, waging war against the nation (IPC 121), Information and Technology Act, among others. Police said that the trio was contacted through Facebook by a profile "BHAI @ BABA BHAI, @ Baba Bhai Campny @ Raja Bhai Cmpny" whose full identity is yet to be identified. This unidentified person is said to be the ISI agent. Police said that the unidentified Facebook user had offered Rs 1.50 lakh to the three accused to burn 10 to 15 shops. Police have found that key accused Bhupendra Vanzara allegedly did the recce of the Rewri bazaar in Kalupur and with the help of his friends - Anil Khatik and Ankit Pal - poured petrol in at least seven shops and set them on fire on March 20. Police said that they have been captured in CCTV footage that shows them wearing PPE kit and sprinkling petrol in the market. The fire is said to have damaged properties worth over Rs 45 lakh. Police said that investigation found that the accused sent a YouTube link of fire news to the Facebook user who sent Rs 1.50 lakh through a courier firm. The money trail originated in Dubai and reached Ahmedabad via Mumbai. According to police, this Facebook user keeps changing his profile names and has photos of gangsters like Haji Mastan in his profile pictures. Police have also found two pages on Facebook which are said to be handled from Nepal and possibly run by one person. Police said that the suspects, all daily wagers, wanted quick money and were lured by the suspected ISI agent into the trap. In July last year, police said, Bhupendra Vanzara received Rs 25,000 in his Paytm account for buying a weapon to kill someone known and involved in dubious business. He had purchased a gun but was caught in Kheda. He was later released. "It is part of an ISI conspiracy in which they lure Indians to damage the country's internal security and economy," DCB stated in a press note. "This is a new terror module which is cheap and it is done virtually. We have found that they have been using VPN (virtual private network) so that their calls are not traceable. As far as the three suspects are concerned, one of them was caught recently in an arms act while another one was involved in a burglary," Deputy Commissioner of Police, DCB, Chaitanya Mandlik told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-ahmedabad-cloth-market-in-march-was-act-of-terror-conspired-by-isi-agent-police-971506.html
07-04-2021||West||BJP first supported govt on COVID-19 curbs, now opposing: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday hit out at the opposition BJP for criticising the Maharashtra government after initially supporting it over the restrictions imposed by it to check the spread of Covid-19. Talking to reporters, Raut said that the opposition parties in the country should stop indulging in politics during the pandemic. "Initially, the opposition BJP supported Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's plea for cooperation while imposing strict curbs, but now it is criticising," the Sena MP said. Every life is important, which is why politicking should be avoided, he added. He said that in Gujarat, where the BJP is in power, the high court has ordered a lockdown, but in Maharashtra, that party is opposing it. "No government is happy to take such decisions. Everyone must understand that this is an emergency situation," he said. Alarmed by the huge rise in cases over the last few days, the Maharashtra government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30, in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays. Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had on Sunday appealed to the people in Maharashtra to follow the restrictions and the weekend lockdown announced by the state government to tackle the spread of Covid-19 cases. However, he wrote a letter to the chief minister on Tuesday, in which he said, "When you spoke to me about the need to impose strict restrictions to check the spread of the virus, we agreed since the lockdown was for two days. But lockdown-like restrictions for the remaining five days of the week has led to unrest among people." "Due to the undeclared lockdown, retailers, small businesses and salons will be affected," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-first-supported-govt-on-covid-19-curbs-now-opposing-sanjay-raut-971516.html
07-04-2021||West||UP election draws migrant crowds in Mumbai railway stations, bus depots amid lockdown||The Covid-19 second wave-triggered mini-lockdown, gram panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh and wheat harvest season is resulting into migrants in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) heading for the north Indian state. The financial capital of Mumbai and the larger MMR comprising the neighboring districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad – has nearly 35 to 40 lakh migrant population. After the mega-migration triggered by Covid-19 pandemic lockdown in 2020, nearly 75 to 80 per cent of the people have come back to Mumbai. Majority of MMR’s migrant population is from Jaunpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Mirzapur, Sultanpur, Gazipur and Gorakhpur – and they include cab and auto drivers, daily labourers, gardeners, office staff, street-food vendors, carpenters, among others. But with the alarming surge in cases, the Uddhav Thackeray-led government has imposed strict measures – just short of a lockdown across Maharashtra. “The gram panchayat polls in UP are as big as Lok Sabha or Vidhan Sabha polls. Besides, unlike Maharashtra, in UP the gram panchayat polls are held in one go.  The network and bonding that they have with their villages compel them to go during the polls. Many of the migrant workers have voting rights in their hometowns and villages,” says veteran Mumbai-based political analyst Om Prakash Tiwari, who hails from Ayodhya. The four-phased gram panchayat polls are scheduled during the second fortnight of April – and campaigning is reaching its peak. With the weekdays night curfew and total weekend-lockdown set to affect livelihood in Maharashtra, many of the migrants are looking for the next available train or buses to head towards their native places. As of now, the Central Railway is running nearly 2 dozen-plus special trains daily to Uttar Pradesh, while several people are going for private buses. Over the last couple of days, there has been a huge crowd of migrants in the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus. “We depend on daily wages. After last year’s lockdown, we are expecting that things would be normal, but again we are back to square one,” said Mahesh Prajapati, a daily-wage earner in Mumbai’s suburbs, who is looking for a ticket to head back home. “Those who had tickets in advance, they are okay, but for those who are booking now, there is practically no ticket available,” said Vijay Singh, a senior community leader. “The harvest season is very important this time as since the earnings from work in cities have been affected, people are dependent on agriculture earnings,” adds Surendra Mishra, a second-generation Mumbai resident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/up-election-draws-migrant-crowds-in-mumbai-railway-stations-bus-depots-amid-lockdown-971521.html
07-04-2021||West||Sachin Vaze directly reported to Param Bir Singh: Report||Suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze bypassed all levels of police hierarchy and reported directly to former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, according to a report submitted to the Maharashtra government. Besides, it states that Singh, currently the commandant general of Home Guards, overruled objections while Vaze’s plea of reinstatement was discussed. The report has been prepared by Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale and has been submitted to the Home department. Vaze, who was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) reported directly to Singh and never allowed his junior officers to discuss investigations with their seniors. While in CIU, he handled sensational cases like TRP rigging scam, the Anvay Naik suicide case and the death of her mother Kumud Naik, in which he arrested TV anchor-editor Arnab Goswami, sports car scam involving Dilip Chhabria and Bollywood-TV-entertainment industry’s casting couch racket. Besides, he also recently recorded the statement of Hrithik Roshan vis-à-vis the dispute that the actor had with Kangana Ranaut in 2016. And, of course, the case involving the planting of Scorpio near the residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani. “Sachin Vaze has not followed the rules and he directly and independently reported to the then commissioner of police, Mumbai (Singh) and he investigated under his guidance,” the report states, adding that he was following the "guidelines" of Singh about raids on illegal activities, whom to arrest or not, to call whom as witnesses in sensitive cases and points to be mentioned in remand applications and anticipatory bail applications. “Sachin Vaze never used to report to senior officers of the Crime Branch. Occasionally, he used to discuss informally about the crime. He also strictly prohibited his colleagues of CIU from reporting to senior officers of the Crime Branch,” the report states. As per modes of reporting, the unit in-charge along with investigation officer report to assistant commissioner of police, then deputy commissioner of police, then additional commissioner of police and then joint commissioner of police. The report states that on completion of “suspension period”, he was reinstated and posted in armed police forces on 8 June, 2020. “As per oral orders of the then commissioner of police, the then joint commissioner of police (crime) transferred police inspector Vinay Gorphade and Sudhakar Deshmukh to Unit 10 and Unit 1, respectively and Vaze was posted in-charge of CIU. “As per information given on telephone, the then joint commissioner of police (crime) has strongly opposed the posting of Vaze. However, at the insistence of the commissioner of police, the then joint commissioner of police (crime) unwillingly issued the office order for posting of Vaze in CIU,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vaze-directly-reported-to-param-bir-singh-report-971524.html
07-04-2021||West||Pak-linked ISI terror module busted in Gujarat; 3 held||The Ahmedabad crime branch on Wednesday arrested three persons for allegedly setting ablaze seven shops here as part of a larger conspiracy of Pakistan's spy agency ISI to spread terror by luring unsuspecting petty criminals in need of money, officials said. They have been booked under IPC sections for waging war against the government and provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), they said. An unidentified ISI agent, without revealing his true identity or motive, had allegedly lured the three men to set the shops on fire here in Gujarat as part of the ISI's plans to spread terror, jeopardise internal security and cause economic losses to India, the police said. Those arrested have been identified as Bhupendra Vanzara, Anil Khatik and Ankit Pal, they said. Pal was admitted to hospital under police protection as he had tested positive for coronavirus. As directed by the ISI handler, who used to identify himself as Baba Bhai and has several Facebook profiles with similar names, the three accused set ablaze seven cloth shops in Kalupur area here on the night of March 20, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Premvir Singh told reporters. "After the incident, we received intelligence inputs that the shops were deliberately set on fire by some men at the behest of the ISI. Following a detailed probe into the matter, we nabbed the three men," he said. "The three accused received Rs 1.5 lakh from the ISI agent via Dubai-Mumbai 'angadia' (courier) route for setting the shops on fire," he said. Vanzara is a petty criminal and came in contact with the ISI agent through Facebook, the official said. Baba Bhai, without revealing his identity or motive, offered money to Vanzara to kill random people and set shops afire, the official claimed. "Vanzara had earlier taken Rs 25,000 from the ISI agent through Paytm to buy a gun," Singh said. Deputy Commissioner of Police Chaitanya Mandlik said Baba Bhai used to send friend requests to people having criminal mentality and those in need of money. "We traced some of the IP addresses, used by the ISI agent to chat with Vanzara, to Karachi, which establishes the ISI connection. This was a money trap laid by them to lure Indian citizens to spread terror and cause economic losses," Mandlik said. The trio and the unidentified ISI agent, who was giving instructions to them from abroad, have been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 121 (waging war against the government) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy), and relevant provisions of the UAPA, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pak-linked-isi-terror-module-busted-in-gujarat-3-held-971528.html
07-04-2021||West||Ambani security scare: Sachin Vaze's NIA custody extended till April 9||A Mumbai court on Wednesday extended the NIA custody of suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze till April 9 in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence and the death of businessman Mansukh Hiren. Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13. He was on Wednesday produced before special NIA court judge P R Sitre, who extended his custody to the probe agency till April 9. The NIA had sought the extension of Vaze's remand for further probe into the case. Two other accused in the case -- suspended police constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor -- were remanded to 14-day judicial custody by the court. The court also allowed the CBI to question Vaze in connection with its preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption levelled by senior police officer Param Bir Singh against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. A Scorpio with explosives was found near Ambani's residence in south Mumbai on February 25. Mansukh Hiren, who was in possession of the vehicle, was found dead in the Mumbra creek in Thane on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-security-scare-sachin-vazes-nia-custody-extended-till-april-9-971534.html
07-04-2021||West||Door-to-door Covid vaccine jabs for elderly: HC seeks Centre's response||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Union government on a petition requesting that door-to-door vaccination facility be made available for the citizens above 75 years and also for those people who cannot visit inoculation centres because they are either bed-ridden or wheelchair-bound. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni also asked the Union government if the procedure laid down for registration for vaccination can be made more user friendly. The HC was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari seeking a direction to the Centre and the Maharashtra government to provide door-to-door vaccination facility for senior citizens above the age of 75, for specially-abled persons, and also for those persons who are bed-ridden or wheelchair-bound. The bench directed advocate Advait Sethna, who appeared for the Union government, to respond to the plea and said the issues raised in the petition need to be addressed. "We are not trying to interfere with the government's policy on this issue. We are only seeing if any improvement can be made to the policy. The concern is that the process could be more user friendly and not lengthy," the bench said. Justice Kulkarni pointed out that he could not take his father, who is wheelchair-bound, to a vaccination centre yet. "There may be many more such worse cases where a person is completely bedridden and hence cannot go out," he said. Chief Justice Datta noted that in the meetings held between the administrative committee of the HC and Mumbai civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal, it was said that an ICU is needed (at vaccination centres) so that a person can be observed after inoculation. "We were told that the vaccination centre needs to have a hospital set up or an ICU...this is so that medical aid is available to a person who does not respond well to the vaccine. It should not happen that a person gets a vaccine and then faces some issue," Chief Justice Datta said. "If this is the protocol, then door-to-door vaccine facility may not be possible...or an ambulance equipped with ICU will have to go too," he added. Government pleader Purnima Kanthari told the high court that there are certain conditions, including having a hospital set up for emergency medical aid and so on, that need to be followed by a vaccine centre. The court will hear the petition on April 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/door-to-door-covid-vaccine-jabs-for-elderly-hc-seeks-centres-response-971541.html
07-04-2021||West||Utterly baseless: Harsh Vardhan on Maharashtra's Covid-19 vaccine shortage allegation||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday slammed the Maharashtra government for its SOS on the "shortage" of Covid-19 vaccines by terming the allegations as "utterly baseless". He also said that a "lackadaisical and casual attitude" of the state government bogged down the entire country’s efforts to fight the virus. “I have seen statements made by public representatives in Maharashtra about shortage of vaccines. This is nothing but an attempt to divert attention from Maharashtra government’s repeated failures to control the spread of pandemic. To spread panic among the people is to compound the folly further,” Vardhan said in a strongly worded statement. “Vaccine supplies are being monitored on a real-time basis, and state governments are being apprised regularly about it. Allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless," he added. The sharp retort came hours after Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, flagged the alleged issue of Covid-19 vaccine shortage, claiming that the existing vaccine stock would sustain the inoculation drive for just three days in Maharashtra. Vardhan in an unusually strong statement lashed out at Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Delhi – states ruled by the opposition parties – on their "failure" to control the pandemic. He also identified gaps in Karnataka, Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat. The minister was particularly harsh on Maharashtra. “Throughout the last year, as the Health Minister of India, I have been a witness to the misgovernance and utter casual approach of the Maharashtra government in battling the virus. The lackadaisical attitude has singularly bogged down the entire country’s efforts to fight the virus," he said. "The Centre has regularly counseled Maharashtra, made all the resources available and sent central teams. However, the lack of effort on the part of the state government is now clearly visible and comes to haunt us all,” he said. Vardhan pulled up the states for their demands to open up vaccination for anyone above 18 years without carrying out the saturation vaccination for the age priority groups. “Doesn’t it seem evident that these states are trying to divert attention from their poor vaccination efforts by just continuously shifting the goal-posts?” Vardhan questioned. The quality of testing, according to the minister, needs to improve in Karnataka, Rajasthan and Gujarat, whereas in Punjab, high case fatality rate needs to be improved by early identification of those needing hospitalisation. Vardhan also sniped at Chhattisgarh, which had earlier refused to use Bharat Biotech made Covaxin without the efficacy data. “The state government refused to use Covaxin despite it being given Emergency Use Authorisation by the Drug Controller of India. By its actions, the leaders of the state government have the dubious distinction of being perhaps the only government in the world to have incited vaccine hesitancy,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/utterly-baseless-harsh-vardhan-on-maharashtras-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-allegation-971551.html
07-04-2021||West||Param Bir Singh, Pradeep Sharma record statement before NIA||The NIA on Wednesday recorded statements of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and retired senior police inspector and encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma even as the CBI stepped into the probe. During Singh's tenure as Mumbai Police chief, suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze used to report to him when he was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Crime Branch-CID. Singh is currently the commandant general of Home Guards. Sharma took VRS from police force in 2019 to join Shiv Sena and contest the Vidhan Sabha polls from Nalasopara in Palghar district, however, he lost the polls. In fact, Sharma is a mentor of Vaze and the latter was once part of his unit. Sharma, during his 36 years of service, had eliminated 103 criminals. In various stints, Sharma has worked under Singh, an IPS officer of the 1988-batch. Meanwhile, Vaze was produced before a special NIA court in Mumbai, which extended his custody till April 9. Two other accused – Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed police constable sentenced to life but on parole and Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie, were sent to judicial custody. Meanwhile, the CBI moved an application to grill Vaze, which was allowed. In the next couple of days, CBI is expected to record the statement of Singh, who had accused former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh of ordering Vaze to collect Rs 100 crore per month from restaurants and bars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-pradeep-sharma-record-statement-before-nia-971591.html
07-04-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh, Anil Parab asked me to extort money: Sachin Vaze||In what may cause more troubles for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, controversial police officer Sachin Vaze has claimed that former home minister Anil Deshmukh and parliamentary affairs and transport minister Anil Parab were asking him to extort money. Besides, he also claimed that a person close to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the nephew of NCP supremo and MVA's chief architect Sharad Pawar, also approached him, asking him to extort money. While Deshmukh is a loyalist of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Parab is a close aide of Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. Vaze mentioned this in a four-page letter that he submitted before the special NIA court in Mumbai. Vaze claimed that Deshmukh had asked Rs 2 crore from him with assurance that he will convince Sharad Pawar to allow Sachin Vaze back into the force. "The home minister told me that he will convince Pawar saheb and for that purpose, he asked me to pay Rs 2 crore. I had expressed my inability to pay such an amount. On this the home minister asked me to pay it in a later course," Sachin Vaze wrote. He claimed that Deshmukh had called him to the Sahyadri Guest House in October 2020 and asked him to collect money from 1,650 bars and restaurants in Mumbai, Rs 3 to 3.5 lakh from each of them per month. Vaze has claimed that Parab him once again in January 2021 and asked him to look into an inquiry against some contractors listed in the BMC and collect Rs 2 crore each from them. In July-August, 2020, Vaze claimed Parab had called him to his official bungalow and look into a complaint concerning the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT), bring the SBUT trustees to him for negotiations on the enquiry. “He also insisted to initiate primary talks to get Rs.50 crore from the SBUT in order to close the said enquiry. I had expressed my inability to do any such things as I do not know anyone from the SBUT and also I did not have any control over the enquiry,” Vaze contended in his statement. Making allegations of corruption against junior Pawar, the letter says in November 2020, he was approached by one Darshan Ghodawat, who was very close to Pawar. “He explained about illegal gutka and tobacco trade in Maharashtra and gave me phone numbers. The said Godhawat insisted that I should collect a monthly amount of Rs 100 crore from these illegal gutka sellers. I denied to do such an illegal act and the person warned me that I may lose my post again,” he said. The letter went on to state that since the first day of 2021 he started all out efforts against illegal gutka sellers and crores-worth illegal gutka was seized and action was initiated against the owners of factories too. Reacting to the development, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil said: “Will we again have to wait for court orders before Anil Parab resigns.” It may be recalled that just a few hours back, Patil has claimed that the “third wicket” will fall soon. Meanwhile, Parab has denied the allegations. "I swear by my two daughters, Balasaheb Thackeray....that these allegations are false and baseless," he said. "The BJP has been claiming that it would take the third wicket...perhaps they were aware that Sachin Vaze is going to submit a letter," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-anil-parab-asked-me-to-extort-money-sachin-vaze-971596.html
07-04-2021||West||Mansukh Hiren was co-conspirator in Ambani bomb scare case: NIA||Mansukh Hiren was a co-conspirator along with suspended police officer Sachin Vaze in planting the explosives-laden SUV outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in February, the NIA told the special court here on Wednesday. Seeking extension of Vaze's custody, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the court that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had come across a bank account in the name of a company floated by Vaze which had the balance of Rs 1.5 crore. The NIA probe also found that Vaze had given the total amount of Rs 76 lakh- Rs 40 lakh and Rs 36 lakh- to his aides. The NIA is probing the cases of planting of the explosives-laden SUV outside the south Mumbai residence of Ambani and the subsequent murder of Thane-based businessman Hiren, the purported owner of that vehicle. The probe agency said it wanted to question Vaze whether part of this money was used to procure the gelatin sticks which were planted in the SUV parked outside Ambani's residence on February 25. Singh said the NIA need to question Vaze, a suspended assistant police inspector, about the source of such a huge amount and whether it was exrotred by the police officer. After listening to the arguments of the NIA and Vaze's lawyer, special NIA court judge P R Sitre extended his custody to the probe agency till April 9. Singh said the NIA needs more time to unearth the cash trail from the existing bank accounts of Vaze. The NIA said Vaze and other accused had hatched the conspiracy to eliminate Hiren on March 2 and March 3. Hiren was a co-conspirator in the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case, and was killed later, Singh said, adding the NIA also needs to find the motive behind Hiren's murder. Vaze is directly connected with the Hiren murder case, Singh added. Hiren's body was found in a creek in Thane district on March 5. Vaze's lawyer Abad Ponda opposed the NIA plea seeking extension of Vaze's custody. Vaze, who was arrested by the NIA on March 13, was produced before the special NIA court judge on Wednesday. Two other accused in the case -- suspended police constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor --were remanded to 14-day judicial custody by the court. Meanwhile, the court also allowed the CBI to question Vaze in connection with its preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption levelled by senior police officer Param Bir Singh against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Earlier in the day CBI had approached the court to probe Vaze, while he was in the NIA's custody. In a related development, the special court directed the NIA to provide the required medical aid and to produce his medical report by April 9. The court's direction came on the plea filed by Vaze seeking angiography.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mansukh-hiren-was-co-conspirator-in-ambani-bomb-scare-case-nia-971604.html
07-04-2021||West||Mumbai logs over 10,000 Covid-19 cases for second straight day, 23 die||Mumbai reported 10,428 new coronavirus cases and 23 fresh fatalities on Wednesday, which took its caseload to 4,82,760 and death toll to 11,851, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. This is for the second consecutive day that the city has reported more than 10,000 infections. For the third time this month, it has witnessed a single-day case growth in five digits. On Tuesday, the country's financial capital had recorded 10,030 new Covid-19 cases and 31 fatalities, while on Sunday, it had reported 1,1163 new cases, the highest since the pandemic began. According to the BMC data, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai is 81,886 now. A total of 51,263 Covid-19 tests were conducted during the day, which pushed the city's overall test count to 44,05,238. According to the civic body, as 6,007 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, the recovery count went up to 3,88,011. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Mumbai has gone down to 80 per cent, the BMC said, adding that the overall growth rate has worsened to 1.91 per cent and the doubling rate has dropped to 35 days. There are 72 active containment zones in the city, where 789 buildings have beens sealed to curb the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-logs-over-10000-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-23-die-971606.html
07-04-2021||West||BMC allows home delivery of food, essentials 24x7 during curbs||The Mumbai civic body on Wednesday issued an order, allowing home delivery of food and essential supplies through online service providers 24 hours on all days of the week during the ongoing state-wide coronavirus-induced restrictions. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also allowed road-side food stalls, including fruit vendors, to provide parcel and take-away services during the weekend lockdowns. "No person is allowed to stand there and consume food," reads the order issued after a meeting conducted by the state chief secretary with municipal commissioners and district authorities. The order also said that during the weekend lockdown, take-away from the restaurants in person will not be allowed, although home delivery is allowed. It added that the movement of maids, cooks, drivers, house help, nurses, and medical attendee providing service to senior citizens and ailing people at home will be allowed between 7 am and 10 pm on all days during the restrictions, including the weekend lockdowns. Eye clinics and optician shops are allowed to function within the given time-frame given by the government of Maharashtra, it said. In the order, the civic body also said that students and candidates will be allowed to attend various examinations, including the competitive exams, during the weekend lockdowns and their hall-ticket will be considered as valid for the same. According to the order, one guardian or parent will also be allowed to travel with the student or candidate. Mumbai on Wednesday reported 10,428 new coronavirus cases and 23 fresh fatalities, which took its caseload to 4,82,760 and death toll to 11,851. The state government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30, in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons to curb the unprecedented surge in COVID-19 cases. The weekend lockdown will start from 8 pm on Fridays and last till 7 am on Mondays. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-allows-home-delivery-of-food-essentials-24x7-during-curbs-971608.html
07-04-2021||West||With 59,907 cases, Maharashtra sees record daily spike||The Covid-19 fresh cases and deaths continued to compound in Maharashtra with the worst pandemic-affected state recording 59,907 new positive cases and 322 deaths. The number of active cases in the state now is 5,01,559 – a figure that reflects the stress on the state’s health infrastructure. The progressive cases in the state now stand at 31,73,261 and deaths at 56,652. Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 10,442 new Covid-19 cases, while the same for Mumbai Metropolitan Region is 19,952.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-59907-cases-maharashtra-sees-record-daily-spike-971610.html
07-04-2021||West||NIA court allows CBI to quiz Sachin Vaze on charges against Anil Deshmukh||The special NIA court here on Wednesday allowed the CBI to question suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with its preliminary enquiry (PE) launched to investigate the allegations of corruption raised by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh against ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had filed an application before the court seeking permission to question Vaze, currently in the custody of the National Investigation Agency, earlier in the day. Judge P R Sitre heard the CBI's plea while extending the NIA custody of Vaze till April 9. Vaze was arrested on March 13 in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25 and the subsequent death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren. Both these cases are probed by the NIA. Following the order of the Bombay High Court, the CBI late Tuesday night registered a PE to probe allegations of corruption levelled by Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh. Singh was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner and shifted to the Home Guards department on March 17. He later filed a petition in the HC seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh, alleging that the NCP leader had asked Vaze and other police officers to extort Rs 100 crore from restaurants and bars when he was home minister of the state. Singh had also alleged corruption in police transfers and postings. Deshmukh had denied the allegations. The high court in its order on Monday said the CBI shall carry out an inquiry into the allegations within 15 days and then decide on a further course of action. After the HC order, Deshmukh resigned as the state's home minister. Both Deshmukh and the Maharashtra government have approached the Supreme Court challenging the HC's order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-court-allows-cbi-to-quiz-sachin-vaze-on-charges-against-anil-deshmukh-971614.html
07-04-2021||West||Veteran trade unionist Datta Iswalkar passes away||Veteran trade unionist Datta Iswalkar, the founder and President of Girni Kamgar Sangharsh Samiti, passed away in Mumbai on Wednesday.  He was considered a pillar of the mill workers' movement.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/veteran-trade-unionist-datta-iswalkar-passes-away-971624.html
