08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Special trains to run from Mysuru to Karnataka districts||South Western Railway, Mysuru Division, has decided to run additional unreserved special express trains with normal fare from Mysuru connecting various districts across the state.  A special train will run between Arsikere and Mysuru. Other trains will run from Mysuru to Talguppa and Belagavi (via KSR Bengaluru, Tumkuru, and Arsikere, Hubballi). The passengers are requested to strictly follow all Covid-19 norms of state and central government including wearing of a mask, sanitisation etc, in the trains and at Railway stations. Other precautions associated with Covid-19 should also be ensured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/special-trains-to-run-from-mysuru-to-karnataka-districts-971872.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC staff will not get justice if they go with Kodihalli: Eshwarappa||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K S Eshwarappa said that if the demand of KSRTC employees to consider them on par with government employees is met, then employees from all other corporations will also place similar demand. “The demands of the KSRTC employees cannot be accepted,” he said. Speaking to media persons on Wednesday night, he said, “The demands of employees should be justifiable. The KSRTC is a corporation. Kodihalli Chandrashekar was a farmer leader. He is misleading the Corporation employees.  Now, he has turned towards labourers. If the KSRTC employees continue to go behind him, then they will not get justice.” “Dictatorship can not be accepted in a democratic setup. Kodihalli Chandrashekar is conspiring against the development of the state. The state government knows how to handle the situation,” he said and added that people of the state will not accept the move of Chandrashekar. “The government can not sit quietly when the common man is affected by the strike. Hence, it made an alternative arrangement.  We appeal to KSRTC employees not to accept the leadership of Kodihalli Chandrashekar and come for a talk with the government,” said Eshwarappa. ‘Catch the Rain’ Eshwarappa said ‘Catch the Rain’ scheme in Karnataka is scheduled for a state-wide launch on April 9. Water conservation projects, including lake restoration and conservation works, will be taken up under the scheme ‘Jala Shakti’. Removal of silt, identifying the canals that recharge the water bodies and restoring them will also be taken up under MGNREGS as a part of the Jala Shakthi Abhiyan. The scheme will help in recharging the groundwater table, he added Rainwater harvesting will be taken up in schools, colleges and government buildings, said the Minister. The Kalyanis situated in front of temples will be rejuvenated by cleaning it and removing the silt. The minister said that solar power generation will be taken up in gram panchayat offices. Once installed, the Minister said the officials will not be able to send away the public from the office on the pretext of disruption in the power supply. The Karnataka had exceeded its MGNREGA target of 13 crore man-days by reaching almost 15 crore man-days (14.84 crore man-days) during 2020-21, Eshwarappa said. A total of Rs 3,926.37 crore has been credited directly into the accounts of the labourers during the year, he said. In view of revision in the number of man-days, the state is expecting an additional Rs 800 crore, he said. No complaint To a query, the minister said that he did not complain to the Governor. “I had just sought his suggestion,” he clarified. When asked about scrapping taluk panchayat, he said that the state alone can not make a decision. The Centre will have to take a decision after getting the opinion from all the states. “There are a few who demand a two-tier system- Gram Panchayat and Zilla Panchayat in Karnataka. A detailed discussion on the same will be taken up in the next Assembly session and a report will be submitted to the Centre,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-staff-will-not-get-justice-if-they-go-with-kodihalli-eshwarappa-971928.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 children drown in agricultural pond in Mandya||Three children who went for a swim drowned in an agricultural pond at Balle Athiguppe village in Pandavapura taluk of the Mandya district on Thursday afternoon. The deceased have been identified as Chandan and Karthik, sons of Mahadevappa and Rithesh, son of Mallikarjuna, of the village. MLA C S Puttaraju rushed to the spot upon hearing about the incident and consoled the family members. He also assured of providing suitable compensation to the family members. Pandavapura police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-children-drown-in-agricultural-pond-in-mandya-971968.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Taking all steps to check air pollution: Karnataka to NGT||The Karnataka Government has informed National Green Tribunal that it is taking all steps to check dust pollution due to biomass, waste burning, construction and demolition waste activities. Directions have been issued to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Directorate of Municipal Administration to take necessary action to mitigate dust pollution, Karnataka Pollution Control Board informed the Green Panel. Earlier the NGT had issued notices to all states and asked them to submit action taken report to prevent air pollution.  In its action taken report, the KSPCB informed that BBMP has started taking steps to reduce the dust pollution and frequently submitting its report to the Air Quality Monitoring Centre in the KSPCB. The Directorate of Municipal Administration has also directed all City Municipal Councils and Town Municipal Councils to follow steps to prevent dust pollution and submit action taken reports every quarterly. Directorate of Municipal Administration has initiated action by taking up plantation in road medians footpaths. To prevent waste burning, strict action is being taken against the violators. To prevent stubbing burning, the state agriculture department has started taking action to convert stubble into useful byproduct including manure, the report said.  Pertaining to Bengaluru city, Rs 2.22 crore released to BBMP for procurement of water sprinklers, greening and paving activities. The BBMP has prepared and submitted the micro level action to Central Pollution Control Board for utilizing the funds, which also includes the funds to be utilized for mitigation of dust pollution, greening of urban spaces and plantation drive, construction of water fountains using treated water in all major traffic junctions, enforcement to check construction and demolition waste related pollution, procurement and operation & maintenance of mechanical street sweeping machines and water sprinklers vehicles, the KSPCB report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/taking-all-steps-to-check-air-pollution-karnataka-to-ngt-972027.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Some KSRTC buses resume service in Mysuru, Hassan||Amidst protest by Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) employees, a few KSRTC buses operated from Mysuru on Thursday. As many as 25 buses operated. While 10 buses of Mysuru city and 15 buses of Mysuru rural depot operated. Trainee drivers and conductors were pressed into service. However, private buses, maxi cabs and other vehicles operated briskly in the district ferrying passengers. As many as 400 plus private vehicles operated on the second day of the protest, according to RTO L Deepak. Incidents of stone pelting on the KSRTC buses by miscreants was reported, at Yalleshapura near Hassan on Thursday. The window panes of the bus was damaged and a few passengers suffered minor injuries. Two miscreants on a motorbike without number plates, wearing masks, pelted stones on the bus that was bound for Hassan from Holenarasipur. The police have registered a case. Though the bus strike by the KSRTC employees continued for the second day, a few buses operated on a few routes, on Thursday. Two volvo buses on Mangaluru and Bengaluru route, one Rajahamsa, and buses to Arkalgud, Holenarasipura and Halebid operated. Around 10 employees attended the duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/some-ksrtc-buses-resume-service-in-mysuru-hassan-972034.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Not right time to demand pay hike, says MP||Expressing displeasure against the protesting KSRTC employees, MP Pratap Simha said that it is not possible now to implement the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission. Speaking to reporters after visiting KSRTC Sub-Urban Bus Stand here, on Thursday, the MP said, "The public have a good opinion on the KSRTC drivers and conductors and we have concern towards them." Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had responded positively during the protest launched by the employees last time. The government had sought time to decide on the implementation of 6th Pay Commission recommendations. But, due to Covid-19, the state is under crisis. It is not right on the part of KSRTC employees to demand benefits at the time of pandemic, Simha opined. "The demands by the employees are acceptable. But, it is not the right time for a protest. The employees are being misguided. The public too are not in support of the protesters. The employees have caused a lot of inconvenience to the public, especially during the pandemic and festival ahead," he said.  He urged the employees to drop the protest and assured that the government is ready to fulfil the demands in the days to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/not-right-time-to-demand-pay-hike-says-mp-972035.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Order issued to reinstate PSSK employees||The Labour department has issued an order to reinstate 21 contract employees of Pandavapura Sahakari Sakkare Karkhane (PSSK), recently. In-charge Managing Director of PSSK, also Deputy Registrar for Cooperatives, J Vikram Raj Urs, in a letter, no 08/2021-22, dated April 6, has directed the chief general manager of MRN Cane Power and Biorefineries, to initiate the process for reinstatement, on the basis of the order of the Labour department. MRN Cane Power and Biorefineries, an unit of MRN Sugar Company, founded by Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani, is operating and managing PSSK on a lease. The letter states that the release order of the contract employees should be withdrawn and they should be allowed to work as per the order of the Labour Officer, following a meeting held on April 5. It has to be recalled that 21 contract employees of MRN Cane Power and Biorefineries had protested a couple of days back, against their termination. Earlier, speaking to DH, Vikram Raj Urs had stated that the 21 employees in question were handed over by MRN Sugar Company to PSSK. “But, as PSSK in not operating the factory, there is no scope to use their services. Thus, they were terminated,” he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/order-issued-to-reinstate-pssk-employees-972036.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 negative report mandatory at tourist spots: DC||With a series of holidays, over the weekend, the district administration has made it mandatory for the people visiting tourist and crowded places from April 10 to 20 to carry Covid-19 negative report. It is also advised for the people travelling from Bengaluru to Mysuru, to carry the report. In a press conference here, on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, "The district is witnessing more number of cases with each passing day. With a series of holidays from April 10 to 20, a large number of people from different parts of the state are expected to visit the city. Thus, the district administration has made it mandatory for the travellers to carry Covid-19 negative report." As the district administration has decided not to close tourist places, it is mandatory for the people visiting crowd places to carry Covid-19 negative report. The negative report is mandatory for people visiting convention halls, party halls, recreation clubs, tourist places and film theatres and other crowded places, the DC said.   The authorities will depute 300 home guards at vantage places, where large number of people gather, she said. According to the DC, the district is witnessing an average of 170 Covid-19 cases a day. Now, second wave has commenced and the authorities have taken certain actions, to check the second wave, she added. The DC said that it is advised for people travelling from Bengaluru to Mysuru to carry Covid-19 negative report. A large number of people travel between Bengaluru and Mysuru and the cases are very high in Bengaluru. Likewise, Mysuru city is also reporting more cases compared to rural Mysuru. With a series of holidays, many people from Bengaluru are likely to visit parts of Mysuru. Thus, it is advised to undergo test and carry the negative report. The advisory is to contain the spread of the virus. As many as 5,000 vehicles reach Mysuru on normal days and the count would be high during holidays. Thus, it is necessary to take certain measures, she said. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta also briefed about the measure taken by the city police to check the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-negative-report-mandatory-at-tourist-spots-dc-972037.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Govt conspiring to privatise KSRTC'||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) president Badagalapura Nagendra condemned the state government and alleged that it is conspiring to privatise Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). In a press conference here, on Thursday, Nagendra said, "The government is responsible for the KSRTC employees protest. The employees had alerted the government about launching the protest, if their demands were not met. But, the government was reluctant to resolve the issue. The government wanted the employees to launch a protest." "There is a conspiracy to privatise the entire corporation and thus, the government is not trying to resolve the issue. Farmers' union will fight against the government, if there are attempts for privatisation," he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-conspiring-to-privatise-ksrtc-972039.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||SWR to run special trains to various destinations in state||South Western Railway (SWR), Mysuru division, has announced additional unreserved and reserved special express trains, from April 9, in view on the ongoing strike by employees of Road Transport Corporations. The trains will be with both normal and special fares from Mysuru, connecting various districts across Karnataka, by following Covid-19 norms and guidelines. The unreserved special express trains are: train no 06213 Arsikere to Mysuru that departs at 5 am and arrives at 9.25 am, from April 10; train no 06214 Mysuru to Arsikere, that departs at 6.20 pm and arrives at 10.25 pm, from April 11; train no 06225 from Mysuru to Talguppa that will depart at 10.15 am and arrive at 6 pm, from April 10; train no 06226 from Talguppa to Mysuru that will depart at 8.45 am and arrive at 4.50 pm, from April 11. Partially unreserved special express trains are: train no 07326 from Mysuru to Belagavi (via KSR Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Arsikere, and Hubballi) from April 10, departing Mysuru at 5.50 am and arriving at Belagavi at 9.35 pm; train no 07325 from Belagavi to Mysuru (via Hubballi, Arsikere, Tumkuru and KSR Bengaluru) from April 11, departing Belagavi at 5.20 am and reaching Mysuru at 8.40 pm. Fully reserved, special fare trains are: train no 06553 Mysuru to KSR Bengaluru, departing at 2.30 pm and arriving at 5.10 pm, on April 9, 10 and 14; train no 06554 KSR Bengaluru to Mysuru, departing at 10.30 am and arriving at 1.30 pm, on April 9, 10 and 14; train no 06555 Mysuru to Yasvantpur, that will depart at 8.25 am and arrive at 11.20 am, on April 9, 10 and 14; train no 06556 Yasvantpur to Mysuru departing at 1.15 pm and arriving at 4 pm, on April 9, 10 and 14; train no 06215 Mysuru to Bidar departing at 8 pm and arriving at 12 pm next day, on April 9; train no 06216 Bidar to Mysuru, departing at 2 pm and arriving at 8 am the next day, on April 10; train no 06511 Yasvantpur to Shivamogga Town that will depart at 11.15 pm and arrive at 6 am the next day; and train no 06512 Shivamogga Town to KSR Bengaluru departing at 9 am and arriving at 4.15 pm on April 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/swr-to-run-special-trains-to-various-destinations-in-state-972046.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Double evaluation system proposed at UoM||Discussions over introducing double evaluation system for postgraduation programmes were held during the Academic Council meeting, of University of Mysore (UoM) here, on Wednesday. However, the final decision will be taken after collecting opinions from all the departments. In the meeting, chaired by Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar, Department of Studies in Education, Dean Ningamma C Betsur proposed the double evaluation mode. “At present, one-time evaluation of answerscripts, by the varsity faculty members is being followed. As the quality of the results are not improving, it is better to re-evaluate the answer papers by the faculty of other varsities,” she suggested. There are arguments that there is no option for double evaluation under Choice Based Credit System (CBCS). But, Mangalore and Bangalore Universities are following it, she said. Opposing the proposal, a professor said, “The system will be an additional financial burden for the varsity and there is no provision for it in CBCS. The process of evaluation is going digital and it is not feasible at this point of time.” A few members opined that the double system will improve the quality and provide justice to talented students. However, the VC said that the final decision will be taken after gathering opinion of the faculty members of different departments. Law Department Chairman Ramesh said, “A few colleges are not considering SC and ST candidates while appointing teaching faculty. The matter was discussed in the previous meeting also.” Where is the value for social justice if SC/ST candidates are not considered, he questioned. However, the VC said that the varsity will give direction to the colleges in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/double-evaluation-system-proposed-at-uom-972050.html
08-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mysuru reports 216 fresh Covid-19 cases, one death||Mysuru reported 216 Covid-19 positive cases and one death on Thursday. The total number of positive cases stands at 57,385 and the total number of deaths has touched  1,070 with 1,576 active cases in Mysuru district. Among the new cases, 160 are primary contacts of previously infected persons, while 44 are suffering from Influenza-like illness (ILI) and 12 are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases. While the Health Department authorities have observed a total of 3,43,706 persons till date, 2,79,517 persons have successfully completed quarantine and 6,804 are under quarantine. A total of 54,739 persons have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals. Hassan reported 113 new positive cases on Thursday. With this, the total positive cases has increased to 30,184. There are 820 active cases and 478 people have succumbed to the infection. Chamarajanagar reported 64 cases and the total has increased to 7,258 cases. There are 112 active cases and no deaths reported on the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mysuru-reports-216-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death-972099.html
08-04-2021||Mysuru||Covid-19-negative report mandatory to enter Mysuru||With the cases of Covid-19 are increasing with each passing day, it is mandatory for people including tourists coming to Mysuru from Bengaluru to possess a Covid-19-negative report not older than 72 hours. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has made it compulsory for the people coming from Bengaluru to carry a test report. The DC said a large number of people travel between the two cities for business and other purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/covid-19-negative-report-mandatory-to-enter-mysuru-971864.html
08-04-2021||Mysuru||You'll need Covid-19 report to enter Mysuru from Bengaluru||As Covid-19 cases surge in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru urban, people coming to Mysuru from the state capital have been advised to get Covid negative report. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has suggested people travelling to Mysuru carry a test report. The DC said a large number of people travel between the two cities for business and other purposes. The DC also made it mandatory for tourists to carry a negative report. "In this regard, it is appropriate for those travelling to Mysuru district from Bengaluru to have a Covid-19 negative report (not older than 72 hours). It is hereby requested to cooperate to control the Covid-19 spread by following the advisory," it added. Speaking to reporters, the Deputy Commissioner said that those going to tourist spots, convention and party halls, recreational clubs and cinema halls will have to carry Covid- 19 negative reports, from April 10 to 20 in the wake of Ugadi festivities and related holidays. "Though we are not closing down any of the tourist places, as many tourists are coming in, wherever people gather, a negative report is to be carried," she said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/youll-need-covid-19-report-to-enter-mysuru-from-bengaluru-971965.html
08-04-2021||National||64% trains under operation now: Railways||Indian Railways has said that a total of 64 per cent of trains are under operation currently while 80 per cent of long-distance mail and express trains are running. Of the total 11,283 trains during pre-Covid-19 period, 9,413 trains are under operation at present, said the railways. Only passenger trains are operating just 21 per cent which means out of 3634 trains only 1188 trains are running, said the railway officials. Even sub-urban trains also run at 91 per cent , said an official in the railways. The railways also said that it authorised Zonal officials to talk to states and operate the additional trains as per the local requirement. "There is no surge in ticket booking anywhere in the country," said the official. “Announcement of additional. trains if any at certain places is only an extension of on going gradual restoration of train services. Railways have already reached almost 80 per cent of train services as compared to the past. Zones have been given approvals to gradually increase the services in coordination with all concerned.” the railways said in the statement. "Over the next two months, we may reach the pre-Covid level of services with our special trains. But, this depending on approval from states as well as the status of the Covid-19 pandemic," said an official. The railways suspended regular passenger services since the lockdown was announced in March last year. However, the national transporter started special train services in a phased manner from May 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/64-trains-under-operation-now-railways-971697.html
08-04-2021||National||Visas to Sikh pilgrims issued for Baisakhi celebrations: Pakistan High Commission||The Pakistan High Commission on Wednesday said it has issued over 1,100 visas to Sikh pilgrims from India to participate in the annual Baisakhi celebrations from April 12 to 22. Under the framework of the Pakistan-India protocol on visits to religious shrines of 1974, a large number of Sikh pilgrims from India visit Pakistan to observe various religious festivals every year, the high commissiostan said. It said the visas have been issued as a "special gesture" by the Pakistan government in view of the importance of Baisakhi for Punjabis and Sikhs marking the start of their new year. "The Pakistan High Commission extends special felicitations to all those celebrating this auspicious occasion and wishes the visiting pilgrims a fulfilling yatra," the high commission said in a statement. "The issuance of pilgrimage visas is a part of the Government of Pakistan's efforts for facilitating visits to religious shrines," it said. The issuance of visas came amid some signs of eagerness by both countries to move forward in their ties. In February, the Indian and Pakistani armies recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control. The return to the ceasefire was agreed upon by the director-generals of military operations of the two countries. Late last month, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said the LoC has been silent for the first time in around five to six years as not a single shot was fired on it in March barring an odd incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/visas-to-sikh-pilgrims-issued-for-baisakhi-celebrations-pakistan-high-commission-971739.html
08-04-2021||National||India, China likely to hold fresh round of military talks on April 9||India and China are likely to hold the next round of corps commander level talks on Friday that is expected to focus on disengagement of troops in remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said. They said India will insist on early disengagement of troops in Gogra and Hot Springs besides pressing for resolution of pending issues in Depsang plains. The people said the two sides had an exchange of views on holding the 11th round of  military talks on Friday. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February in line with an agreement on disengagement. In the subsequent military talks on February 20, India insisted on resolution of outstanding issues including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra. India has been insisting that peace and tranquility along the border is essential for overall ties between the two countries. Last week, India hoped that China will work with it to ensure disengagement of troops in remaining areas of eastern Ladakh at the earliest. It said de-escalation of tension alone will lead to restoration of peace and tranquility in border areas and provide conditions for progress of bilateral ties. In late March, Army chief Gen MM Naravane said that the threat to India has only "abated" following the disengagement in Pangong lake areas but it has not gone away altogether.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-likely-to-hold-fresh-round-of-military-talks-on-april-9-971748.html
08-04-2021||National||Centre writes to Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi govts flagging below-par Covid-19 vaccination of beneficiaries||The Centre wrote to Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi governments on Wednesday flagging below-par vaccination of eligible beneficiaries, including healthcare workers. In a letter to the principal secretaries of Punjab, Delhi and Maharashtra, Additional Health Secretary Manohar Agnani noted that the performance of these states and UT have been below the national average and needs improvement. Agnani's letter comes after a strongly worded statement issued by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in which he hit out at Maharashtra and some other states, accusing them of trying to cover their "failures" and spreading panic among people by demanding vaccination of all without inoculating enough of eligible beneficiaries. Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi were urged to undertake necessary corrective actions immediately towards improving the performance of Covid-19 vaccination drive in their states and union territory. "I look forward to your unstinted support for the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive which is critical to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 pandemic," he said. In the letter to Maharashtra, Agnani said a total of 1,06,19,190 doses have been made available to the state/UT and the total consumption, including wastage, is 90,53,523 doses. Agnani said a detailed analysis of the performance of Covid-19 vaccination drive reveals that till 7 pm on April 7, as per COWIN Portal, 85.95 per cent (national average 85.8 per cent) of registered healthcare workers have been vaccinated with first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The second dose coverage amongst registered HCW, is 41.08 per cent (national average 51.49 per cent). "This is below the national average and needs improvement," he said. Moreover, a similar analysis for registered frontline workers, indicates first dose coverage of 71.37 per cent (national average 71.1 per cent) and second dose coverage of 22.39 per cent (national average 29.97 per cent) amongst registered FLWs. "Farther, the coverage amongst the population aged 45 years and above stands at 16.67 per cent (national average 16.71 per cent)," Agnani said, calling for improvement in vaccination coverage. For Delhi, Agnani said a total of 23,70,710 doses have been made available and the total consumption, including wastage, is 18,70,662 doses. A detailed analysis of performance of vaccination drive reveals that till April 7 at 7 pm, as per COWIN Portal, 71.69 per cent (national average 85.8 per cent) of registered HCWs have been vaccinated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. This is below the national average and needs improvement. The second dose coverage amongst registered healthcare workers is 41.48 per cent (national average 51.49 per cent). This is also below the national average and needs improvement, he said. He said a similar analysis for registered frontline workers, indicate first dose coverage of 73.24 per cent (national average 71.1 per cent ) and second dose coverage of 40.98 per cent (national average 29.97 per cent) amongst registered FLWs. "Further, the coverage amongst population aged 45 years and above stands at 18.66 per cent (national average 16.71 per cent)," Agnani said, calling for improvement in the level of coverage. In the letter to Punjab, Agnani said a total of 22,36,770 doses have been made available to the state/UT and the total consumption, including wastage, is 14,94,663 doses. A detailed analysis of the performance of Covid-19 vaccination drive reveals that till April 7, 63.95 per cent (national average 85.8 per cent) of registered HCWs have been vaccinated with the first dose of vaccine. "This is below the national average and needs improvement. The second dose coverage amongst registered HCW is only 27.36 per cent (national average 51.49 per cent). This is also below the national average and needs improvement," he said. A similar analysis for registered frontline workers, indicates first dose coverage of 64.68 per cent (national average 71.1 per cent ) and second dose coverage of only 19.57 per cent  (national average 29.97 per cent ) amongst registered FLWs. Further, the coverage amongst the population aged 45 years and above stands at mere 11.08 per cent (national average 16.71 per cent). "This brings out the need for stepped efforts by the state/UT administration to improve the level of coverage of the first as well as the second dose among the HCWs and FLWs, as the primary objective of the vaccination is to protect the healthcare and pandemic response system, especially in the states having surge in cases," he said. In addition, HCWs and FLWs represents well-defined beneficiary group and therefore must be covered expeditiously, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-writes-to-maharashtra-punjab-and-delhi-govts-flagging-below-par-covid-19-vaccination-of-beneficiaries-971753.html
08-04-2021||National||DH Toon | India's vaccine diplomacy poses a conundrum||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-indias-vaccine-diplomacy-poses-a-conundrum-971788.html
08-04-2021||National||PM Modi takes second dose of Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday. Urging all eliginble to get vaccinated, Modi tweeted, "Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus." He took the first dose of the vaccine on March 1. Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today. Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus. Modi, during his first vaccination dose, had also used humour to put at ease the medical staff during the inoculation and asked the nurses whether they were planning to use some special thick needle as politicians were known to be “very thick-skinned”. Modi has taken Covaxin, India's homegrown vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech. Official sources said the two nurses who administered the vaccine to the prime minister on Thursday are P Niveda from Puducherry and Nisha Sharma from Punjab. Niveda was also involved in administering him the first shot on March 1. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-takes-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-at-aiims-971805.html
08-04-2021||National||RBI amends India’s criticised inflation-forecasting model||By Anirban Nag India’s central bank said it has revised its inflation-forecasting model to better capture how fiscal and monetary policy interact with real-economy elements. The adjustments incorporate fiscal-monetary dynamics, India’s unique and often chaotic fuel pricing regime, and exchange-rate fluctuations and their impact on the balance of payments, the Reserve Bank of India said in its latest bi-annual monetary policy report published Wednesday. Dubbed as the Quarterly Projection Model 2.0, the RBI’s economists describe the framework as a forward-looking, open economy, calibrated, new-Keynesian gap model. The previous version had often been criticized for over-estimating upside risks to inflation. The amendments come just days after the RBI won approval from the government to retain its 2%-6% inflation target range for the next five years. It didn’t offer a comparison between inflation rates predicted under the previous model and the new one but said its tools helped it keep inflation anchored around the 4% midpoint on average in the past five years The RBI said the new model is broken into three blocks. The first, or fiscal block, decomposes the government’s primary deficit into structural and cyclical components. A shock to the former impacts inflation through aggregate demand and country risk premia; for instance, a structural increase in the deficit would create a positive output gap and the higher debt makes borrowings costlier and depreciates the currency, leading to higher inflation. A cyclical shock is negligible. The second, or fuel block, takes into account India’s complex system of pricing. Items like petrol and diesel are priced on the basis of international oil prices, exchange rates, and local taxes, while liquefied petroleum gas and kerosene prices are market-determined but with lagged pass-through. Electricity costs are administered by state governments. Headline inflation goes up by 25 basis points in response to a fuel tax increase of 10 rupees per litre and inflation expectations edge higher and remain entrenched if tax reversals do not happen, the RBI said. The balance of payments block recognises the costs associated with spurts in volatility in the exchange rate. In case of a capital outflow shock of 1% of GDP, and assuming the RBI intervenes and sterilizes 70% of this outflow, reserves will deplete by 0.7% of GDP and the exchange rate will depreciate, inducing inflationary pressure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-amends-india-s-criticised-inflation-forecasting-model-971816.html
08-04-2021||National||India records 1.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, 685 deaths as India records highest single-day rise||India reported a record 126,789 Covid-19 cases on Thursday as several states struggle to contain a second surge in infections, complaining of vaccine shortages and demanding inoculations be expanded to younger people. Daily infections, which surpassed 100,000 for the first time on Monday, have now exceeded that mark three times, the biggest daily rises in the world. The spike, much faster than last year's first wave, has caught the authorities by surprise. The government blames the resurgence mainly on crowding and a reluctance to wear masks as shops and offices have reopened. New Zealand on Thursday suspended entry for all travellers from India, including its own citizens, for about two weeks. With 12.9 million cases, India is the third-worst affected country, trailing the United States and Brazil. Deaths rose by 685 - the most in five days - to 166,862, data from the health ministry showed. Vaccine centres in several states, including hardest-hit Maharashtra, have been shutting early and turning people away as supplies run out. Odisha state said it had closed half its vaccination sites. "Due to a shortage of vaccines, we are suspending vaccination at government and private hospitals until supplies become available," said municipal authorities in the city of Panvel near India's financial capital Mumbai in Maharashtra. Vaccination centres were also shut in Satara district in the state since Wednesday, said Vinay Gowda, a senior government official. The central government denied there was any shortage for the prioritised group of recipients - those aged above 45 years and front-line workers - accusing states of spreading panic. Opposition parties have blamed the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for exporting tens of millions of vaccine doses while itself covering only a fraction of India's 1.35 billion people. India is the world's biggest vaccine maker. "Why was there no strategy or planning put into the logistics of the vaccine programme?" the main opposition Congress party said on Twitter. "Why is there both extremely high wastage & an acute shortage of vaccines?." The Serum Institute of India, which has supplied about 90 per cent of the 88 million vaccine doses administered in the country, has sought a federal grant of 30 billion rupees ($400 million) to increase its capacity to make the AstraZeneca shot. India is also using a homegrown vaccine developed by a government institute and Bharat Biotech, which is struggling to boost its output.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-126-lakh-covid-19-cases-685-deaths-as-india-records-highest-single-day-rise-971820.html
08-04-2021||National||Narendra modi gets second dose of Covaxin: Meet the nurses who administered it||Narendra Modi was administered the second dose of the coronavirus vaccine on Thursday at AIIMS, Delhi.  The two nurses who oversaw the process were Nisha Sharma who hails from Punjab and P Niveda who is from Puducherry. The latter also inoculated the Prime Minister with the first dose of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on March 1. On Thursday she assisted Sharma who administered the second vaccine dose to Modi. "I have given the second dose of Covaxin to our Prime Minister Narendra Modi today. He spoke to us. It was a memorable moment for me as I got to meet him and vaccinate him", Sharma was quoted telling ANI. Nivedita, who was meeting Modi for the second time, told ANI, "I am the vaccinator who gave the first dose of Covaxin to PM Narendra Modi. Today I got another opportunity to meet him & vaccinate him for the second time. I was elated again. He spoke to us, we even clicked pictures with him". The Prime Minister also took to Twitter to share his experience.  "Got my second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS today. Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus. If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon", he wrote. Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today. Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus. Modi, during his first vaccination dose, had also used humour to put at ease the medical staff during the inoculation and asked the nurses if they were planning to use a special thick needle as politicians were known to be “very thick-skinned”. As fresh Covid-19 infections continue to rise in India, the vaccination drive is on in full swing. The current phase involves targetted vaccination of those above the age of 45 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-gets-second-dose-of-covaxin-meet-the-nurses-who-administered-it-971843.html
08-04-2021||National||Madhya Pradesh announces lockdown for 1 weekend in all urban areas||A lockdown will be enforced in all cities of Madhya Pradesh from 6 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday to check the spread of the coronavirus infection, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday. Talking to reporters here after chairing a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in MP, Chouhan said his government aims to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients in the state to one lakh. "A lockdown will be enforced in all cities of the state from 6 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday," Chouhan said. In the past three weeks, the state government imposed lockdowns in Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Gwalior on Sundays and extended the curbs to some other cities last Sunday. Chouhan said various crisis management groups will hold meetings to review the situation in cities where there has been a spurt in Covid-19 cases and will decide the course of action to contain it. Besides increasing the number of beds for the viral infection patients, the state government has also decided to set up one Covid-19 care centre in each district, he said. There are total 52 districts in MP. Private hospitals are also being roped in to increase number of beds for Covid-19 patients, Chouhan said. On Wednesday, MP reported 4,043 new cases of coronavirus, taking its tally to 3,18,014, while 13 fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,086, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-announces-lockdown-for-1-weekend-in-all-urban-areas-971854.html
08-04-2021||National||You'll soon be able to receive, send money from e-wallet||You will soon be able to receive and send money, in addition to making payments, using your mobile wallets. You will also be able to use mobile wallets at ATMs to withdraw cash and at point-of-sale terminals (card-swiping machines).  In short, your mobile wallets will function like bank accounts where you'll be able to transfer money from a wallet to a bank account or to another person's wallet. This comes after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday made it mandatory for all prepaid instruments (PPIs) such as mobile wallets and prepaid cards to be interoperable. So far, it was only voluntary for PPIs to be interoperable. The central bank has also allowed PPIs to become members of RBI-operated centralised payment systems — RTGS (real-time gross settlement) and NEFT (national electronic funds transfer). “If you put all of the announcements about PPIs together and look at the big picture, you will realise that they will be on a par with banks for most practical purposes," Ayan Agarwal, vice-president, Transcorp International a financial services company told Mint.  Agarwal explained that once the new regulations related to PPIs come into effect, mobile wallets may be used to pay fees, house rent and other expenses that required making bank transfers so far. This would provide an option for someone who doesn’t want to use a bank account for transfers or swipe cards to make payments. According to the RBI, the facilities, however, will be available to those who have done a “full KYC" (know your customer) with the issuer of PPI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youll-soon-be-able-to-receive-send-money-from-e-wallet-971881.html
08-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine shortage threatens to slow India, world's fastest vaccinating nation||With an average of 34,30,502 anti-coronavirus doses being given per day, India has topped globally in terms of the number of jabs administered daily, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. India reported a record 126,789 Covid-19 cases on Thursday as several states struggle to contain a second surge in infections, complaining of vaccine shortages and demanding inoculations be expanded to younger people. Daily infections, which surpassed 100,000 for the first time on Monday, have now exceeded that mark three times, the biggest daily rises in the world. Cumulatively, 9,01,98,673 vaccine doses have been given so far through 13,77,304 sessions, according to a provisional report till 7 am. These include 89,68,151 healthcare workers (HCWs) and 97,67,538 frontline workers (FLWs) who have taken the first dose and 54,18,084 HCWs and 44,11,609 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 3,63,32,851 and 11,39,291 beneficiaries above 60 years have been administered the first and second dose respectively. According to the ministry's data, 2,36,94,487 and 4,66,662 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have been given the first and second dose respectively. "In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India stands at the top with an average of 34,30,502 doses administered per day," the ministry said. Eight states -- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala -- account for 60 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country. "In its collective and collaborative fight against the global pandemic, India has crossed a landmark milestone under the world's largest vaccination drive, which was launched on January 16 this year," the ministry said. "The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 9 crore," it said. Nearly 30 lakh vaccination doses were given in a span of 24 hours. As on day-82 of the vaccination drive (April 7, 2021), 29,79,292 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 26,90,031 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 38,760 sessions for the first dose and 2,89,261 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-shortage-threatens-to-slow-india-worlds-fastest-vaccinating-nation-971885.html
08-04-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee to skip meeting called by PM Modi to discuss Covid-19 situation with CMs||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will not attend the virtual meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the COVID-19 situation with CMs, sources in the state government said on Thursday. Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay will be present in the meeting, they said. Banerjeee will be busy campaigning for the ongoing assembly elections in the state, the sources said. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new COVID-19 cases, pushing its infection tally to 1,29,28,574, while the number of active cases too went upwards to breach the nine lakh-mark again, Union Health Ministry data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-to-skip-meeting-called-by-pm-modi-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-with-cms-971892.html
08-04-2021||National||Students sign petitions, want Board exams cancelled amid Covid-19 surge||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, over one lakh students of classes 10 and 12 have signed petitions urging the government to either cancel board exams scheduled to be held in May or conduct them in online mode. The hashtag "cancelboardexams2021" has been trending on Twitter for the past two days. However, both the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) have said that adequate safety arrangements are being made for students and all Covid-19 guidelines will be followed during the exams. "The situation in India is getting worse day by day. When there were only a few cases in the country, they cancelled the remaining board exams and now when the cases are at a peak they are planning to open schools. We urge the education minister to look into this matter and cancel all examinations to be held this year as students are already under a lot of stress," a petition on Change.org said. Divya Garg, a class 10 student, on Twitter urged the government to postpone the exams for at least a month and then take a further review based on the number of cases. "The students have already faced a lot of problems till now in this pandemic. Classes were held online so the exams should also be held online or students should be promoted via internal assessment marks," another user tweeted. Usually, practical exams are conducted in January and written exams begin in February and conclude in March. However, the exams were delayed and are scheduled to be held in May-June in view of the pandemic. "Adequate arrangements are being made to ensure the students are safe and all Covid protocols are followed. The number of exam centres has been increased by 40-50 per cent to ensure social distancing. The staff at exam centres is being sensitised to ensure all guidelines are followed," a senior CBSE official said. The board had last week announced that if any student fails to appear for ongoing practical exams after the student or any family member testing positive, the schools will conduct re-tests for them at an appropriate time. The official, however, did not comment on whether the same relaxation will be given to students in theory exams as well. Similarly, Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary at CISCE, said the schedule for exams "will remain the same". Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of Covid-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes are again being suspended in view of the exponential rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results were announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme. Both the CBSE and CISCE had decided not to come up with a merit list last year. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new Covid-19 cases, pushing its infection tally to 1,29,28,574, while the number of active cases too went upwards to breach the nine lakh-mark again, the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Thursday showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-sign-petitions-want-board-exams-cancelled-amid-covid-19-surge-971906.html
08-04-2021||National||BJP leader Mithun Chakraborty's roadshow disallowed in Kolkata's Behala, workers hold protest||The BJP was denied permission to hold a roadshow of Bollywood superstar Mithun Chakraborty, who had recently joined the saffron camp, in Behala area of the city on Thursday, following which a group of party activists held a demonstration in front of a police station. The agitation was led by actor-turned-politician Srabanti Chatterjee, who is contesting from the Behala Paschim assembly constituency on a BJP ticket, party sources said. "The Kolkata Police did not allow our leader Mithun Chakraborty to campaign for me in the constituency without citing any reason. "The Trinamool Congress cannot avert its imminent loss by such an undemocratic act of preventing us from campaigning. Is the state government scared of losing power?," the popular Bengali actor said. The saffron party activists shouted slogans against the ruling TMC in front of the Parnasree Police Station. BJP sources said the party sought permission to hold a door-to-door campaign by the Bollywood superstar in the Behala area after the city police had cancelled its roadshow plea on Wednesday night. "The door-to-door campaign by him was also not granted at the last minute," they claimed. The Kolkata Police declined to make any comment on the issue. The BJP candidate later took out a roadshow in the constituency where the National Award-winning actor was not present. The actor-turned-BJP candidate is pitted against TMC heavyweight and West Bengal minister Partha Chatterjee who is seeking re-election from the Behala Paschim constituency. "We have nothing to do with any programme of Mithun Chakraborty. We know that the TMC has the support of the people of Behala. The BJP candidate is doing drama," a leader of the ruling party said. Chakraborty, however, led a roadshow in the Tollygunj constituency for Union minister and BJP's candidate Babul Supriyo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-mithun-chakrabortys-roadshow-disallowed-in-kolkatas-behala-workers-hold-protest-971910.html
08-04-2021||National||SC rejects Maharashtra govt, Anil Deshmukh's plea against Bombay HC order on CBI inquiry||In a big blow to the Maharashtra government and its former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, the Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed their plea against the Bombay High Court's order for the CBI probe into allegations of corruption made by ex-Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. "Looking at the personas involved and the seriousness of allegations, an independent enquiry is called for," a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta said, rejecting their petitions against the High Court's order of April 5. Within days of his transfer to Homeguards department on March 17, Singh had accused Deshmukh of setting a collection target of Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants for API Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai, arrested in the Antilia bomb scare case. Declining to interfere with the High Court's order, the bench told senior advocates A M Singhvi and Kapil Sibal, appearing for the petitioners, that they cannot say it affected the federal structure.  In its written order, the bench said it was a matter of public confidence given the factual scenario to order a probe and what has been directed was only a preliminary enquiry albeit by an independent agency. "This (levelling of charges) does not happen everyday. Both (Deshmukh and Singh) have been heads of institution where something has gone wrong," the bench said. The counsel contended the High Court passed the order on the basis of hearsay evidence, without hearing them. "I was the home Minister and targeted. Should I be heard before an order is passed?" Sibal, appearing for Deshmukh asked. "It is only preliminary enquiry, nothing is wrong in it when serious allegations are made by a senior officer against a senior minister," the bench said. "We are unable to accept the contention that even for directing a preliminary enquiry, Deshmukh is mandatorily entitled to be heard in his individual capacity even though the state government was represented and he was a Minister at that time," the bench pointed out. The court also told Sibal that it was not his enemy who made the allegations, rather it was made by his "right-hand man" (Singh). The court also rejected a plea by Deshmukh for probe by the High Court or the Supreme Court judge, saying one cannot pick and choose the investigating agency.  It also did not agree to a plea by the state government that since Deshmukh had resigned, there was no need for probe by the central agency. He was clinging to the post and did not resign when a Commission of Inquiry was ordered. He quit only after the probe was ordered by the High Court, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-maharashtra-govt-anil-deshmukhs-plea-against-bombay-hc-order-on-cbi-inquiry-971927.html
08-04-2021||National||India's climate goals and why it will take India much longer to achieve them?||India is the world's third-biggest emitter of carbon dioxide and relies heavily on fossil fuels to generate around two-thirds of its electricity. Thus, its role in tackling global warming is seen as vital. US climate envoy John Kerry in New Delhi, before a virtual climate summit on April 22 and 23 organised by US President Joe Biden, lauded India's "remarkable transformation" into a "world leader in the deployment of renewable energy". Without mentioning India directly, Kerry said that in order to keep global temperature rise below 1.5 degrees Celsius, coal needs to be phased out "five times faster" than the current pace. Net-zero emissions, also known as carbon neutrality, does not mean that a country will stop emitting carbon but when a country's emissions are absorbed by carbon sinks such as forests. Removal of such gases requires highly advanced technology such as carbon capture and storage. A net-zero energy transition will require innovation and scaling up new and improved technologies, Kerry noted in a speech. However, India's emissions are only set to increase as its economy develops and compensating for such an increase would not be possible even with massive afforestation and reforestation drives. Most technologies to remove carbon emissions at the moment are expensive. India set its own climate goals in the 2015 Paris Agreement and a net-zero goal is a part of the commitment made in Paris. India, however, has batted to discuss net-zero emissions outside the framework of the Paris accord. India seems to be well on the path to achieve its goals, in fact, surpass the three committed targets. Several major economies have promised to achieve carbon neutrality by around 2050. However, India has argued that the target might meet the same fate as that of the Kyoto Protocol, which many countries exited without achieving their goals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-climate-goals-and-why-it-will-take-india-much-longer-to-achieve-them-971938.html
08-04-2021||National||India, Indonesia benefit as China's ban on Australian coal reshapes trade flows||India and Indonesia have emerged as key beneficiaries of a Chinese ban on Australia's coal exports which is expected to further shift global trade in the fuel used for power generation and steelmaking this year. Australia, the world's biggest coal exporter, will continue to benefit from growing Indian demand for its coal, made cheaper after it was shunned by China, analysts said. Coal traders and buyers expect India's buying spree of Australian coal to last into next year due to its price and quality. China has targeted various Australian products with unofficial import restrictions since March 2020 as relations between the two countries soured. The ban has also benefited coal exporters in Indonesia, Mongolia and Russia as China's buyers switched suppliers, according to the latest Chinese customs data. Indonesia's coal miners signed a $1.5 billion supply deal with China in November. "Global trade flows will be self-adjusting with Australian coal flowing to Indian and European markets and South African and Colombian sources coming into China," said Winston Han, chief analyst from China Coal Transportation and Distribution Association at a Coaltrans seminar this week. As the largest consumer of most commodities apart from oil, China has long had a heavy influence on resources trade through its sheer size. But the ban has particularly benefited Indian buyers, while Chinese importers are complaining that they are having to pay more for lower quality coal from other countries. Indian cement companies last year started snapping up cargoes of Australian coal that were being offered at steep discounts after being turned away from China, said Kirit C Gandhi, joint president at Indian cement firm Shree Cement . India became the second-biggest buyer of Australian thermal coal in February, according to data from consultancy Lavi Coal Info, as it bought less coal from its traditional suppliers Indonesia and South Africa. Australia, already India's biggest supplier of metallurgical coal, accounted for around 20% of India's thermal coal imports in the first two months of 2021, up from a little over 4% on average in 2020, according to data from Lavi Coal Info. Lavi Coal Director Vasudev Pamnani said he expects Australia to maintain a 15-20% market share in India's market for thermal coal for the rest of 2021, mainly at the expense of Indonesia and South Africa, both of which have ramped up supplies to China. "Australia has no (new) big market other than India," said Rajendra Singh Talan, managing director at Komin India Resources Pvt Ltd, an Indian commodities trading firm. Only in Japan, the world's third-biggest coal importer, has Australia's dominance remained steady around the 60% market share it had in 2020, according to official data. CHINESE FALLOUT China is expected to relax import restrictions on coal this year, apart from on Australia, with its total coal imports expected to reach around 300 million tonnes in 2021, compared to 304 million tonnes in 2020, Han said. China has imposed import quotas on coal to protect domestic miners. For Australia, the ban has cut total coal exports by more than 7% to 198 million tonnes in 2020-21 from 213 million tonnes in 2019-20. "However, exports are projected to increase to 231 million tonnes by 2025-26 as supply chains adjust and global markets increasingly prioritise high-quality coal," the government resources bureau said. Analysts warned that the trade reshuffle will make it harder for China's buyers to source the high quality metallurgical coal that Australia specializes in. "If imports from Australia are absent long-term, it will force Chinese steel mills to adjust their coking coal recipe to replace the missing types," said Dongbin Feng, analyst from China-based Fenwei consultancy. "Theoretically, supply from Russia, Mongolia, Canada and the U.S. can be the alternative, but these countries have their own problems," Feng said. The ban has also hit Chinese utilities, which have complained to state planners about high prices and low inventories in the first quarter, said a Beijing-based coal trader. Record low temperatures during the winter that just ended sent demand for heating surging.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-indonesia-benefit-as-chinas-ban-on-australian-coal-reshapes-trade-flows-971941.html
08-04-2021||National||RAXA Security aims to bring latest techno-security solutions in India||A GMR Group company involved in security services has joined hands with four companies based in the UK,  France and Israel, which the company said is aimed at bringing the world's latest techno-security solutions to the country. The strategic partnerships will arm RAXA Security Services Ltd, the GMR Group company, with providing integrated command and control centre, long-range surveillance solutions and artificial intelligence (AI)-based security solutions among other things. A statement said on Thursday that the company has recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with four internationally acclaimed techno security companies --Octopus from Israel, Exavision from France and UK-based Westminister Group and Logically to provide specialised and latest security solutions for its clients. Octopus gives RAXA expertise in setting up integrated command and control centres especially for smart cities, airports and large townships while Exavision will provide the company an edge in implementing long-range surveillance solutions.  by merging mechatronic, Opto-photonic, electronic and software processing technologies. Logically, which develops the latest in cutting-edge AI technologies to combat misinformation and harmful content available in the online and social media, will enable RAXA to provide AI-based security solutions while Westminister Group operating in 50 countries will provide advanced technology security solutions. RAXA CEO GUG Sastry said they had been a pioneer in the field of security services for several years, offering its services to some of the reputed clients in the country. "For the first time, some of the unique and specialized security solutions would be provided by us for a much-enhanced client satisfaction," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raxa-security-aims-to-bring-latest-techno-security-solutions-in-india-971945.html
08-04-2021||National||Centre asks airlines to refund passengers for flights cancelled due to lockdown||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has asked airlies to refund passengers for flights cancelled due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown in the form of credit shells. The Supreme Court had asked the MoCA to clear all the credit shells and refund the passengers after the deadline of March 31. Some airlines like SpiceJet and Air India were unable to complete these transactions. "Refunds are governed by the order of the Supreme Court and we are adhering to those directions. SpiceJet had written to all its travel partners and agents in March 2021 to share details of pending credit shell PNRs so that the airline can immediately reverse the credit shell amount back to the agency ID," a spokesperson for SpiceJet said. Air India, on its part, said that it is committed to processing its pending refunds claims 'expeditiously'. "Dissemination of information regarding refunds is already initiated. Air India has cleared close to ₹1,000 crore from 1st April 2020 till date in India. We are also addressing queries related to refunds from passengers through our social media platforms," said an Air India spokesperson.  Other airlines like AirAsia and Vistara have completed most of their transactions, and are only waiting on a few passengers to send their details to finish the process.  "We are thorough with all our refunds except in a very few cases where we are trying to reach out to the passengers to revert with their bank account details in which the money is to be credited." An Air Asia India official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-airlines-to-refund-passengers-for-flights-cancelled-due-to-lockdown-971949.html
08-04-2021||National||India to resume buying oil from Iran once US sanctions ease||India will look to resume buying crude oil from Iran the moment US sanctions are eased, helping it diversify its import basket, a senior government official said. India stopped importing oil from Iran in mid-2019 following sanctions on the Persian Gulf nation by the Trump administration. The US and other world powers are meeting in Vienna to revive the Iran nuclear deal. "Once the sanctions are lifted, we can look to resume oil imports from Iran," the official, who did not wish to be identified, said. Indian refiners have begun preparatory work and can swiftly enter into contracts once the sanctions are lifted, he said. "We already have a template for commercial terms and we can very quickly enter into contracts the moment Iran is cleared for exporting oil," the official said. Iranian oil coming into the market will not just cool prices but also help India diversify its import basket. In 2020-21, Iraq was India's biggest oil supplier, followed by Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Nigeria was the fourth-largest supplier and the US was the fifth. "We have been advocating for oil producers to pump in more oil by easing output caps," the official said. "Rising oil prices are a threat to the fragile economic recovery around the globe including in India." India, he said, did not advocate for such output increases when prices were within a certain reasonable limit. "We voiced our concerns when oil crossed $63-64 on a sustained basis," he said. "We want prices that are reasonable for producers and affordable for consumers." India -- once Iran's second-biggest customer -- imports more than 85 per cent of its oil needs. Iranian crude will bring a number of benefits, including a longer credit cycle and shorter voyage savings on freight costs. Iranian exports tumbled after former US President Donald Trump tightened sanctions in 2018 and ended waivers for some countries in 2019, including India. Iran and world powers this week began their most serious attempt yet to resurrect a nuclear deal. Iran re-started banned nuclear programme after Trump pulled out of the deal and re-imposed sanctions on Iran. Even though new US President Joe Biden wants to rejoin, both sides say the other must make the first move. India was second-biggest buyer of Iranian oil after China before sanctions halted supplies in May 2019. Iran in 2017-18 was its third-largest supplier after Iraq and Saudi Arabia and met about 10 per cent of total needs. Till 2010-11, Iran was India's second-biggest supplier of crude oil after Saudi Arabia but Western sanctions over its suspected nuclear programme relegated it to the seventh spot in the subsequent years. In 2013-14 and 2014-15, India bought 11 million tonnes and 10.95 million tonnes, respectively from it. Sourcing from Iran increased to 12.7 million tonnes in 2015-16, giving it the sixth spot. In the following year, the Iranian supplies jumped to 27.2 million tonnes to catapult it to the third spot. Iranian oil is a lucrative buy for refiners as the Persian Gulf nation provides 60 days of credit for purchases, terms not available from suppliers of substitute crudes -- Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Nigeria and the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-resume-buying-oil-from-iran-once-us-sanctions-ease-971950.html
08-04-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi takes dig at PM Narendra Modi, says there should be 'Kharche pe charcha'||Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Parikasha Pe Charcha' programme, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said there should also be 'Kharche Pe Charcha' (discussion on expenses) as filling fuel in a car has become no less than giving an examination due to the Centre's tax collection. Congress has been attacking the government over the rise in fuel and gas prices and has demanded that the prices be brought back to the level at which they existed at the time of the UPA government. "Due to the central government's tax collection, filling fuel in the car has become no less than giving an examination, then why doesn't the PM discuss it?" Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Kharche pe bhi ho charcha (Discussion should also be done on expenses)," he said. At his annual 'Parikasha Pe Charcha' programme, Prime Minister Modi told students on Wednesday not to fear exams but to see them as a test to improve themselves, and said social and family environment at times create pressure around students that is not desirable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-takes-dig-at-pm-narendra-modi-says-there-should-be-kharche-pe-charcha-971951.html
08-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine war erupts between Centre and Maharashtra||A major vaccine war seems to have broken out between the Centre and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra – which are at loggerheads for over 15 months on multiple issues. A day after Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan launched a blistering attack accusing the Maharashtra government of bogging down India’s efforts in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government reiterated its demand for additional vaccine stock and rapid supply and compared its position with other states including those ruled by the BJP.   During a media interaction, state Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope compared its position with neighbouring Gujarat vis-à-vis vaccination programme and with Uttar Pradesh on the ratio between RT-PCR and RAT. On the supplies of Covishield and Covaxin, he said that the supply is far less than the demand. “Our demand is 40 lakh per week, we have scaled up to the level of 5 lakh plus doses. We will keep it steady at the level of 6 lakh doses per day but for this, we need 40 lakh vaccines per week, that’s it, please give it,” Tope said. According to him, the need has been conveyed by him during the video-conference meeting with health ministers chaired by the central minister, through official correspondences and even NCP supremo Sharad Pawar personally spoke to Dr Vardhan. “I raised the issue of discrimination with us. We have the most number of active patients, positivity rate and death with a 12 crore population. Why are we given so few vaccines?" he said. Comparing with Gujarat, he said, “Maharashtra is a big state, geographically and population-wise. We have a population of 12 crore and we got 1.04 crore vaccines so far, but if we compare it with Gujarat, it has a population of 6 crore, nearly half of our state's size, but it got 1 crore vaccines.” Tope pointed out that if one looks at cases per million population, Maharashtra fares much better than other states. Tope also said that a majority of vaccination centres in Sangli, Satara, Buldhana have been closed and Mumbai is feeling the shortage. “We have stocks only for one to one-and-a-half days. I have just got the news that we have received some additional stocks, around 7.5 lakh doses,” he said, pointing out that Uttar Pradesh was supplied with 48 lakh doses, Madhya Pradesh with 40 lakh doses, Gujarat with 30 lakh doses and Haryana with 24 lakh doses per week. Tope said that the state has not fallen short in following norms. “We are strictly following the 70:30 ratio of RT-PCR and RAT tests. In the case of Uttar Pradesh, it is completely otherwise….90:10 ratio of RAT and RT-PCR,” he said. Tope also pointed out that the tests in Maharashtra per million population are the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-war-erupts-between-centre-and-maharashtra-971957.html
08-04-2021||National||CoBRA commando abducted by Naxals after Bijapur gunfight released||A CoBRA commando abducted by Naxals after the recent Bijapur ambush in Chhattisgarh was released on Thursday, official sources said. They said constable Rakeshwar Singh Manhas of the 210th Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) was freed by the Maoists after a team of two eminent people, including a person from the tribal community, was nominated by the state government to secure his release. The jawan who hails from Jammu is being brought to the Tarrem camp of the Central Reserve Police Force located in Bijapur, a senior officer of the paramilitary said. Twenty-two security personnel were killed, while 31 others were injured in the deadly ambush that took place on April 3 along the Bijapur-Sukma district border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cobra-commando-abducted-by-naxals-after-bijapur-gunfight-released-971962.html
08-04-2021||National||India, Sri Lanka agree to jointly work against terror groups, fugitives||India and Sri Lanka on Thursday agreed to work jointly against terrorist groups and fugitives wherever they are present and active and emphasised on sharing real-time intelligence. In the first delegation-level virtual police chiefs' dialogue, India and Sri Lanka also decided to strengthen the existing cooperation mechanisms, as also designate "nodal points" for timely and effective handling of existing as well as emerging security challenges. The Indian delegation was led by the Director of Intelligence Bureau Arvind Kumar and the Sri Lankan team was led by C D Wickramaratne, Inspector General of Police. Both sides agreed to work jointly against the terrorist entities including the global terrorist groups and fugitives, wherever they are present and active, a home ministry statement said. While appreciating each other's ongoing action against drug traffickers and other organised criminals exploiting the narrow sea route between the two countries, the two sides emphasised on the need for sharing of real-time intelligence and feedback. The institution of police chiefs' dialogue, assisted by the members of other security agencies on both sides, will further enhance the existing cooperation between the police forces of both countries, the statement said. The first delegation-level virtual meeting was held in an environment of positivity and trust, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sri-lanka-agree-to-jointly-work-against-terror-groups-fugitives-971964.html
08-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: Madhya Pradesh announces weekend lockdown; French Open postponed by a week||In your evening news brief, Madhya Pradesh has announced a weekend lockdown; Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will hold a meeting with the officials concerned regarding the ongoing strike of Road Transport Corporation workers; French Open has been postponed by a week and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut claims "dirty politics" was being played out to destabilise the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  Here is the top news of April 8, 2021: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday claimed "dirty politics" was being played out to destabilise the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra and asserted that such attempts will not succeed. Raut's remarks came a day after suspended cop Sachin Vaze in a letter claimed former state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had demanded Rs 2 crore from him to continue his service in the Mumbai police and another minister Anil Parab asked him to collect money from contractors.   Madhya Pradesh announced a weekend lockdown from 6 pm on Friday (April 9) to 6 am on Monday (April 12) in all urban areas of the state. The state government on Wednesday had announced the imposition of night curfew in all urban areas of the state from April 8 and also decided to operate the government offices for five days every week for the next three months.   This year's French Open has been postponed by a week due to the Covid-19 pandemic and will begin on May 30, the French Tennis Federation (FFT) said on Thursday. The postponement is set to have an impact on the ATP and WTA calendars, especially, on the grasscourt season with tournaments scheduled to start on June 7 in s'Hertogenbosch (WTA and ATP) Stuttgart (ATP) and Nottingham (WTA).   Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said that he will hold a meeting with the concerned officials regarding the ongoing strike of Road Transport Corporation (RTC) workers in Bengaluru today (April 8). He was speaking to media persons at Hubballi Airport on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-madhya-pradesh-announces-weekend-lockdown-french-open-postponed-by-a-week-971972.html
08-04-2021||National||Let’s put an end to fear mongering: Harsh Vardhan dismisses speculations of Covid-19 vaccine shortage||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday the country had more than 43 million Covid-19 vaccine doses in stock or in the pipeline after many states complained of having to close inoculation centres due to a lack of supplies. "Let’s put an end to fear mongering now!" Harsh Vardhan said on Twitter. "Where does question of shortages arise? We're continuously monitoring & enhancing supply." Total administered: 9 cr+In stock/nearing delivery to states: 4.3 cr+ India has so far administered more than 90 million doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-s-put-an-end-to-fear-mongering-harsh-vardhan-dismisses-speculations-of-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-971990.html
08-04-2021||National||Finance Ministry requests Health, Home Ministries for vaccination of bank employees on priority basis||The Union Finance Ministry has requested the Health and Home ministries for issuing instructions for enabling Covid-19 vaccination of employees of banks and National Payments Corporation of India on a priority basis. This will go a long way in assuring bank employees about the safety of themselves and their families and also boost their morale in continuing to provide their services to customers even in these difficult times when the fresh wave has swept many states, the finance ministry in its recent communication said. Out of the total strength of 13.5 lakh employees in the banking sector, about 600 deaths due to Covid-19 were recorded, as per the Indian Banks' Association (IBA) data. In percentage terms, 0.04 per cent of total strength lost their lives. The communication to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Home Affairs emphasised the important role of bankers during disbursal and withdrawal of benefits transferred under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. Similarly, it said, the reliance on the digital mode of payments increased and employees of the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) played a critical role in ensuring unhindered services. The IBA in the last month had written a letter addressed to Secretary Health and Family Welfare for inclusion of bank employees for vaccination on a priority basis given their role their important role in running the economy. The association had requested the ministry for free vaccination on a priority basis. With the new variant of mutant virus, the risk has increased manifold for those who are not vaccinated, the IBA had said. Quoting observation of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs, IBA had said the committee appreciated the efforts and pain taken by the banking sector for providing uninterrupted and seamless banking facility during the Covid-19 outbreak. While recognising good work done by the banking sector, the committee emphasised that they be declared Covid-19 warriors, IBA letter to Health Secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-ministry-requests-health-home-ministries-for-vaccination-of-bank-employees-on-priority-basis-971994.html
08-04-2021||National||Amazon moves Supreme Court for stay on Delhi High Court order till verdict on Future-Reliance deal dispute||Amazon has moved the Supreme Court challenging the Delhi High Court's division bench order that had vacated a stay on Kishore Biyani-led Future Group proceeding with its Rs 24,713 crore asset sale to Reliance Industries. Amazon, in the petition, sought a stay on the March 22 order of the division bench, terming it "illegal", "random", "inequitable and unfair". On March 22, a division bench of the Delhi High Court had granted Future a reprieve from a March 18 single-judge order that restrained it from taking any steps to sell assets to Reliance. Amazon has now moved the Supreme Court and challenged the March 22 order, requesting a stay till a final outcome of its earlier plea related to the deal. “Pass an ex-parte interim order/interim order and stay the Impugned Interim Common Order dated 22.03.2021 passed by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi …. till the issues raised herein are finally decided by this Hon'ble Court,” Amazon said in its petition filed before the Supreme Court. It has also requested the apex court to pass any further order, which it ”may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the present case,” Amazon's petition, a copy which was seen by PTI, said. Amazon and Future Retail Ltd (FRL) did not respond to e-mailed queries. According to the plea filed by Amazon, the division bench has committed a “grave error” in passing an order in a “non-maintainable appeal”, permitting Future Group to commit further breaches of the EA (Emergency Arbitration) order. Amazon submitted that the single judge had passed a “well-reasoned order spanning over 130 pages” and the division bench passed the interim order “in a mechanical manner” staying its operation on “the same reasons”. “Therefore, the petitioner (Amazon) approached this Court by filing SLP (special leave petition) …,” it added. Earlier, Amazon had moved the Supreme Court after the single judge had passed an interim order on February 2, 2021, staying the deal and the division bench had on February 8, 2021, stayed the operation of the order over the plea filed by FRL. The Supreme Court had then issued notice over Amazon's plea giving the go-ahead to the proceedings before the Mumbai Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) over the scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance, but these entities were not to pass any order sanctioning the deal. The plea is listed on April 27 for a hearing. The Future-Reliance deal, which is contested by the global ecommerce major Amazon, has already received clearance from CCI, SEBI and bourses, and the scheme of arrangement is now awaiting the nod from NCLT and shareholders. The scheme of arrangement entails the consolidation of Future Group's retail and wholesale assets into one entity Future Enterprises Ltd and then transferring it to Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL) in the Rs 24,713 crore deal that was announced in August last year. Meanwhile, the timeline for the deal to be completed has been extended by six months to September 30, 2021, by Reliance Retail. Amazon and Future have been locked in a bitter legal tussle after the US ecommerce giant dragged Future Group to arbitration at SIAC in October last year, arguing that the latter had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. Amazon had invested in Future Coupons in August 2019 with an option of buying into the flagship Future Retail after a period of three to 10 years. On October 25, 2020, an interim order was passed in favour of Amazon with a single-judge bench of V K Rajah barring Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amazon-moves-supreme-court-for-stay-on-delhi-high-court-order-till-verdict-on-future-reliance-deal-dispute-972004.html
08-04-2021||National||Supreme Court Collegium met but no name finalised on appointment of judges to top court||The Supreme Court Collegium headed by incumbent Chief Justice of India S A Bobde met here on Thursday but could not finalise any names for the appointment of judges in the top court. Of the sanctioned strength of 34 judges, the Supreme Court is presently working with 29 judges with five vacancies. With Thursday's development, Justice Bobde would perhaps become the only Chief Justice of India who could not make any recommendation for the elevation of judges to the Supreme Court. After the Centre's notification for the appointment of Justice N V Ramana as the next CJI, the possibility of Justice Bobde making a recommendation to the top court seemed bleak. Justice Bobde is set to demit office on April 23. As part of a convention, the CJI usually stopped recommending names for the appointment of judges a month before their retirement. The top court sources said the Collegium of top five judges briefly met but no decision was taken on deliberations related to elevation of several names, including Tripura High Court chief justice Akhil Kureshi and also Karnataka High Court's senior judge Justice B V Nagarathna, to the Supreme Court. The Collegium comprised Justices N V Ramana, R F Nariman, U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar. Justice Ramana attended the meeting despite the ill-health, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-collegium-met-but-no-name-finalised-on-appointment-of-judges-to-top-court-972028.html
08-04-2021||National||SC rejects plea against detention of Rohingyas in Jammu||The Supreme Court on Thursday rejected a plea against the detention of 150-170 Rohingyas at Jammu last month and their possible deportation to their home country, Myanmar. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, however, made it clear that they should not be deported unless the procedure prescribed for such deportation was followed. The bench said, "The rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution are available to all persons who may or may not be citizens. But the right not to be deported is ancillary or concomitant to the right to reside or settle in any part of the territory of India guaranteed under Article 19(1)(e)." The court noted that the application filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of Mohammad Salimullah, a Rohingya refugee was opposed by the Union government on the back of threat posed to the internal security of the country. The Centre claimed the agents and touts were providing a safe passage to illegal immigrants, due to the porous nature of the landed border. It also pointed out that the top court had on October 4, 2018, dismissed a similar plea against the deportation of Rohingyas from Assam. The petitioner cited a judgment of the International Court of Justice in 'the Gambia vs Myanmar' of January 23, 2020, to claim that the lives of refugees were in serious danger in Myanmar due to genocide. The bench, however, said, "we cannot comment upon something happening in another country." The plea also contended that even though India is not a signatory to the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees 1951, it is a party to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966 and the Convention on the Rights of the Child 1992. Therefore non-refoulement was a binding obligation for the country. The court noted the Centre's response that it generally followed the procedure of notifying the government of the country of origin of the foreigners and order their deportation only when confirmed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-against-detention-of-rohingyas-in-jammu-972041.html
08-04-2021||National||Call night curfew 'corona curfew' to spread awareness: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said night curfew has been an accepted experiment globally to contain the Covid-19 spread and called for popularising such restrictions, which have already been imposed in various parts of the country, as 'corona curfew' to spread awareness among people. He also dismissed the "intellectual debate" about coronavirus only having an effect in the night and said such a curfew helps in spreading awareness about the deadly virus with minimal impact on the daily lives of people. Night curfew has been imposed by the local administration in several places including Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Lucknow and other parts of the country amid a spike in Covid-19 cases. "Where ever night curfew is in place, there the phrase 'corona curfew' should be used so that awareness regarding coronavirus is maintained," Modi said during his interaction with chief ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive. "Some people have this intellectual debate that 'does corona only come in the night'. In reality, the world over night curfew has been an accepted experiment because every person during the curfew time is reminded that I am living in Corona-era and lifestyle is not affected to a large extent," he said. The prime minister said, however, it would be better that the 'corona curfew' starts at 9 PM or 10 PM in the night and goes on till 5 AM or 6 AM in the morning so that other activities are not affected. "It should be popularised as 'corona curfew'. Corona curfew is helping make people aware (about the virus)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/call-night-curfew-corona-curfew-to-spread-awareness-pm-narendra-modi-972042.html
08-04-2021||National||India announcing net-zero target not 'absolute requirement', says US special envoy John Kerry||US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry on Thursday said it will be great if India announces a net-zero emission target but "that's not an absolute requirement" as the country is doing all the things that it needs to do. He said with the implementation of India's plan of 450 gigawatts of renewables by 2030, it will be one of the few nations helping "keep 1.5 degrees alive" (meeting the goal of limiting the rise in global temperatures to 1.5 degrees Celsius). Asked if it is practical to expect India to announce a net-zero target, Kerry said, "Do I think it could be? Yes... but that wasn't my message in my meetings with Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi. He understands the challenge." "It will be great if India wanted to say that but I don't think that's an absolute requirement in the sense that India is doing all the things that it needs to (do to) get us there... that's better than a lot of nations," he told reporters at a press roundtable. Net-zero means balancing the amount of greenhouse gases emitted into the environment by removing an equivalent volume. This may be achieved by various modes, including restoring forests or through direct air capture and storage (DACS) technology, according to the World Resources Institute. In its bid to reclaim the global leadership in fighting climate change, the US is widely expected to announce a net-zero emission target for 2050 at President Joe Biden's upcoming Leaders' Summit on Climate. Biden has invited 40 world leaders, including Prime Minister Modi, to the virtual summit on April 22-23 to underscore the urgency and the economic benefits of stronger climate action. It's helpful to get everybody to make the pledge. The US welcomes it, but what's more important is real actions now from 2020 to 2030, Kerry said. "If you don't have the ability to meet 1.5 (degrees Celsius limitation), then you don't have the ability to meet net-zero (emission targets). It's urgent. PM Modi understands that and so do we," he said. "Our challenge in the next months... (is) to get more people engaged in 2020-2030. That's what President Biden is trying to do at the summit he's hosting where he's asking nations to up their ambitions," he added. At the summit, every nation will have the opportunity to say what their plans are going forward and whether they are raising their ambitions, Kerry said, adding, "We think it is critical to do so." Kerry said the US wants to facilitate India's ability to reach the goal of 450 GW renewables by 2030. "That's part of the partnership we had an agreement on in our discussions yesterday (Wednesday), where we intend to work very closely together," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-announcing-net-zero-target-not-absolute-requirement-says-us-special-envoy-john-kerry-972067.html
08-04-2021||National||To counter China, India vows to help boost maritime security of Seychelles||India on Thursday pledged to strengthen the maritime security of Seychelles – an island nation, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is keen to build strategic assets to counter China’s foray into the Indian Ocean region. Modi formally handed over to Seychelles President Wavel Ramkalawan a patrol vessel during a virtual summit between the two leaders. The vessel was built by India’s Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineering Limited for Seychelles at a cost of Rs 100 crore. India gifted the ship to the Coast Guard of Seychelles for patrolling the island nation’s Exclusive Economic Zone and combat smuggling and poaching, apart from search and rescue operations. “India is committed to strengthening the maritime security of Seychelles,” Modi said during the virtual summit with Ramkalawan. “India is honoured to be a partner of Seychelles in the development of its security capabilities and in meeting its infrastructural and developmental needs,” he added, notwithstanding the impasse over New Delhi’s plan to build a naval base at Assumption Island of the Indian Ocean archipelago. Modi and Ramkalawan on Thursday also inaugurated the building the Government of India constructed to house the court of the magistrates in Mahe, the capital of Seychelles. The Magistrates’ Court building came up just next to the Supreme Court, which Seychelles built in 2013 with financial support from China. Given the strategic location of the island nation in the Indian Ocean region, India has been over the past few years trying to counter China’s bid to expand its strategic footprints in Seychelles. The new vessel – ‘PS Zoroaster’ – is the fourth ship gifted by New Delhi to Seychelles, with the other vessels gifted by India to the Indian Ocean nation being PS Topaz, PS Constant and Patrol Boat Hermes, handed over in 2005, 2014 and 2016 respectively. Over 50% of Seychelles’ maritime and air assets and around 70% of capacity development in terms of training, exercise and human resource expertise are provided by India. Ramkalawan took over as the new President of Seychelles after his predecessor Danny Faure was voted out of the top office in the elections held in October 2020. His ancestors had migrated from Bihar in India to Seychelles. Modi on Thursday referred to Ramkalawan as a “son of India”, referring to his roots at Parsauni - a village in Gopalganj district of Bihar. Ramkalawan’s Linyon Demokratik Seselwa (LDS) party had earlier stalled the ratification of an agreement Mahe had earlier inked with New Delhi for allowing India to invest $ 550 million to build a naval facility at the Assumption Island of Seychelles. He continued to oppose the project during his campaign ahead of the presidential elections last year. New Delhi, however, has not yet given up hope for the project as the proposed facility on the Assumption Island of Seychelles will give the Indian Navy an edge in its outreach towards the Western Indian Ocean Region, apart from keeping a tab on the shipping lanes in the vicinity of the island nation, particularly on the growing activities of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army Navy in the region. “Seychelles is central to India's vision of 'SAGAR' - 'Security and Growth for All in the Region',” the Prime Minister said during his virtual summit with the President of the Indian Ocean nation. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar was the first foreign dignitary to visit Mahe after the change of guard in Seychelles. He called on Ramkalawan on November 27 and discussed India-Seychelles security cooperation and development partnership. His Chinese counterpart Wang Yi too called on the new President of Seychelles during a visit on January 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-counter-china-india-vows-to-help-boost-maritime-security-of-seychelles-972071.html
08-04-2021||National||Supreme Court to hear on April 9 PIL to check dubious means used for conversion||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear a PIL for a direction to the Centre and States to control black magic, superstition and religious conversion undertaken through gifts and monetary benefits to the vulnerable people. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy would take up the petition filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The plea claimed religious conversion by “carrot and stick” and “by hook or crook” not only offended Articles 14 (equality), 21 (life and liberty), 25 (religious freedom), but also went against the principles of secularism, which was an integral part of the basic structure of the Constitution. The petitioner contended that the cause of action accrued on May 10, 1995, when the top court in the Sarla Mudgal case directed to find out the feasibility of enacting anti-conversion law but the Centre did nothing to stop deceitful religious conversions.  "Incidents are reported every week throughout the country where conversion is done by intimidating, threatening, deceivingly luring through gifts and monetary benefits and by using black magic, superstition, miracles and hypocrisy but the Centre has not taken appropriate steps to stop these menaces of society," the petitioner claimed. He contended due to the inaction of the Centre-States, many individuals, NGOs and institutions were involved in the conversion of poor people, particularly from the SC/ST community, to other religions by various means. Upadhyay pointed out that eight states Orissa (1967), Madhya Pradesh (1968), Arunachal Pradesh (1978), Chhattisgarh (2000), Gujrat (2003), Himachal Pradesh (2006), Jharkhand (2017) and Uttarakhand (2018) have enacted the anti-conversion laws, but there was urgent need by the Centre to bring out such a law with a minimum imprisonment of three years with a hefty fine, for implementation across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-on-april-9-pil-to-check-dubious-means-used-for-conversion-972074.html
08-04-2021||National||India contributes $5L to UN Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism||India has contributed an additional $500,000 to the United Nations Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism, taking the country's donation to the UN office set up to combat terrorism to over $1 million. India said it was keen to continue working with the UN office to further the common objective of combatting terrorism. "India is proud to contribute $500,000 to the UN Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism," the Permanent Mission of India to the UN tweeted. With this amount, India’s total contribution to it so far is $1.05 million. "Keen to continue our work with @UN_OCT on specific programs/projects to further our common objective to combat terrorism,” the Mission said, referring to the United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism (UNOCT). In line with General Assembly resolution 71/291 that established UNOCT in June 2017, the UN Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism was transferred to UNOCT. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted: "India infuses an additional $500,000 into @UN Counter Terrorism Trust Fund. India continues its strong & focused commitment to help member states build capacity to prevent & counter terrorism.” He added that more than one million dollars has been contributed to the UNOCT by India till date, including for Africa. The UN Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism was established by the Secretary-General in 2009. It receives funding for UNOCT’s programme of work, providing technical assistance and capacity-building support to Member States through the United Nations Counter-Terrorism Centre (UNCCT) and the Special Projects and Innovation Branch (SPIB), according to its website. The UNOCT has received $236 million in hard pledges and contributions from 31 donors as of December 2019, through the Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism established in 2009, as well as through other allocations for UNOCT. Of this amount, $163.4 million has been received in cash while the remainder is to be received in future periods. The UN Office of Counter-Terrorism, established in 2017, enhances coordination and coherence across the Global Counter-Terrorism Coordination Compact entities to ensure the balanced implementation of the four pillars of the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. It strengthens the delivery of United Nations counter-terrorism capacity-building assistance to Member States; improve visibility, advocacy and resource mobilisation for United Nations counter-terrorism efforts. It also ensure that due priority is given to counterterrorism across the United Nations system and that the important work on preventing violent extremism is firmly rooted in the strategy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-contributes-5l-to-un-trust-fund-for-counter-terrorism-972077.html
08-04-2021||National Politics||2 more Maharashtra ministers will have to quit in 15 days: BJP||As the twin cases of Ambani-bomb scare and murder of Mansukh Hiren threw out murkier details, the BJP mounted a major psychological pressure on the Maha Vikas Aghadi government saying that two more ministers will have to go in a fortnight’s time. Two senior ministers of the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA – forest minister Sanjay Rathod of the Shiv Sena and home minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP had to resign in quick successions. “Two more ministers would have to go in a fortnight's time. Some people would go to court against them and then they will also quit,” state BJP president and former revenue minister Chandrakant Patil said. His statement comes hours after suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – the main accused in twin cases – in a letter to the NIA court alleged that Deshmukh and transport minister Anil Parab asked him to extort money while a contact of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar met him with a similar purpose. Patil said Maharashtra was a fit case for President's Rule, however, the BJP us not making any demand. He also pointed out that while Deshmukh says that he is open for a probe and when the Bombay High Court ordered a probe, he moved the Supreme Court. “The allegations are serious…we demand that there should be a thorough probe into it,” leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/2-more-maharashtra-ministers-will-have-to-quit-in-15-days-bjp-971894.html
08-04-2021||National Politics||Maharashtra govt wasted 5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines due to lack of planning: Prakash Javadekar||Union minister and senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar alleged on Thursday that five lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccines were wasted in Maharashtra due to a lack of planning by the state government. Addressing a press conference at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office here, Javadekar, who himself hails from Maharashtra, said he has taken all the information and 23 lakh doses of the vaccines are available with the Maharashtra government. His remarks came after Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said many inoculation centres in the state are being shut due to a shortage of the vaccines and that the state now has 14 lakh doses, which would only last for three days. "I want to make it clear that the Maharashtra government has 23 lakh doses of the vaccines with it...which is a stock for five to six days. Now, to distribute in villages and districts is the responsibility of the state government," Javadekar said. He alleged that the Maharashtra government has "wasted five lakh doses of the vaccines, and it is not a small number, due to its lack of planning. The planning for carrying out a vaccination drive is the responsibility of the state government". The Union minister also said a higher number of vaccines was given to Maharashtra as compared to the Centre's previous allocation to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-govt-wasted-5-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-due-to-lack-of-planning-prakash-javadekar-971961.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Lucknow District and Sessions Court closed for 48 hours amid Covid surge||The District and Sessions Court here has been closed for 48 hours in the view of rising Covid-19 infections being reported in the city and among some court staffers. District Judge, in a letter on Wednesday, issued directions for closure of the court and complete sanitisation of the campus for the next two days -- April 8 and 9. As April 10 is second Saturday of the month and April 11 is a Sunday, the court will now open on April 12 i.e. Monday. On April 5, samples of several court staffers were collected for testing. Two were found Covid positive in antigen tests, while reports of RT-PCR tests of others were awaited. Meanwhile, the Central Bar Association requested the district judge not to pass adverse orders in any matters if a counsel is unable to turn up to argue the cases in the present scenario.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lucknow-district-and-sessions-court-closed-for-48-hours-amid-covid-surge-971715.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||6 more fully-inoculated KGMU staffers test positive for Covid-19||Six staffers working in the office of the King George's Medical University vice-chancellor tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday despite having received both shots of the vaccine, a senior doctor said. This comes a day after the KGMU's vice-chancellor, Lieutenant General (Retired) Dr Bipin Puri, too was found having the infection despite having been inoculated with both shots of the anti-Covid vaccine. In the last three days, 39 KGMU doctors, including its medical superintendent, Prof D Himanshu, have tested positive for the infection. "Six persons working in the office of the KGMU vice-chancellor tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. All of them are on non-medical posts," the doctor said. He added that all of them had already been inoculated with both doses of the anti-Covid vaccine. He had on Tuesday said as many as 39 KGMU doctors, including its vice-chancellor, have tested positive for Covid-19. "KGMU Vice-Chancellor Lieutenant General (Retired) Dr Bipin Puri tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, while medical superintendent, Prof D Himanshu, tested positive for Covid-19 a day earlier,” the doctor had said on Tuesday. "In the last three days, 39 doctors of KGMU have tested positive for Covid-19. Both the vice-chancellor and medical superintendent have got both the doses of anti-Covid vaccine," he had said. On Wednesday, KGMU spokesperson, Dr Sudhir Singh said, "The administration of the KGMU is extremely serious to stop the spread of the infection and in this regard, screening has already started.” “The administration is making every effort to stop the infection in the initial stage itself," he added. Meanwhile, with 40 fresh Covid-19 deaths reported in the state, the fatality toll due to the disease rose to 8,964 while with as many as 6,023 fresh infections, the total caseload in the state stood at 6,45,930 on Wednesday. Of the 40 fresh deaths due to Covid-19 in the state, six were reported from Lucknow, five from Kanpur, four from Ballia, three each from Allahabad and Varanasi and two 2 each from Moradabad, Ghazipur, Amroha and Fatehpur. One death each was reported from Gorakhpur, Bulandshahr, Rae Bareli, Hardoi, Etawah, Chandauli, Mainpuri, Shamli, Kannauj, Bhadohi and Kaushambi, the UP Government said in a statement here on Wednesday. Of the 6,023 fresh Covid-19 cases, as many as 1,333 were reported from Lucknow, followed by 811 from Allahabad, 593 from Varanasi and 300 from Kanpur. Till now, as many as 6,04,979 Covid-19 patients in the state have recovered from the disease, and have been discharged. The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 31,987, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-more-fully-inoculated-kgmu-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-19-971729.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||All educational institutes, barring medical ones, closed in Lucknow till April 15||In a bid to effectively control the spread of coronavirus infection in the district, the Lucknow administration on Wednesday ordered the closure of all educational institutes, barring those imparting medical education. All government and non-government schools, colleges, coaching institutes and other educational institutes, barring medical, nursing and para-medical ones will remain closed till April 15, Lucknow’s District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash in a statement on Wednesday. He, however, said examinations including the practical examinations, will be allowed in recognised educational institutes with strict adherence to the anti-Covid protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-educational-institutes-barring-medical-ones-closed-in-lucknow-till-april-15-971743.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Night curfew imposed in Lucknow amid Covid surge||Night curfew will be imposed under the Lucknow Municipal Corporation from Thursday till April 16, an official said, as the coronavirus cases continue to surge. There will be exemption on ferrying essential items and there will be no ban on movement of goods vehicles, Lucknow District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash said in a statement on Wednesday. The night curfew, starting from April 8, will be from 9 pm to 6 am till April 16, Prakash said. "From 6 am to 9 pm, work will be done with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol." The night curfew will be imposed in areas that come under the Lucknow Municipal Corporation and not in the rural areas, the official said. Government/semi-government personnel working in night shift and those engaged in essential services in the private sector will get exemption. People moving in the railway station, bus station and airport can move by showing their tickets, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-imposed-in-lucknow-amid-covid-surge-971744.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Govt shouldn't treat farmers' stir like Shaheen Bagh protest: Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday said the government should not treat the ongoing farmers' agitation like last year's protest in Delhi's Shaheen Bagh and asserted that the protesters will only go home after the new agricultural laws are repealed. He said the protesting farmers will follow all Covid-19 protocols and if need be, continue their agitation till 2023. Shaheen Bagh had emerged as the epicentre of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests last year as hundreds took part in a months-long sit-in that began in December 2019. The Delhi Police cleared the protest site on March 24, 2020, a day before a nationwide lockdown was enforced in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Speaking to reporters here, Tikait said the Centre's farm laws will only spell losses for farmers. "Farmers will not go back home till these laws are repealed. They talk of coronavirus but we have told the government that they should not treat this stir like Shaheen Bagh. This agitation will not end. We will follow the coronavirus guidelines and this agitation will continue till our demands are met," he said. In response to a question, he said, "Even if we have to continue the protest till 2023, we are prepared. Till the time these laws are not repealed and a law is not framed on MSP, farmers will not go back home." Tikait reiterated that the farmers are ready to talk to the government. "Whenever the government has time, we are ready to talk. We will wait for their call," he said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops. The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-shouldnt-treat-farmers-stir-like-shaheen-bagh-protest-tikait-971746.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||J&K's film policy to be among the country's best: LG Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday exuded confidence that the union territory would have the best film policy in the country and assured that all stakeholders would be taken on board while finalising it, an official spokesperson said. Sinha was speaking at a high-level meeting to review the proposed J&K Film Policy-2021 at the Civil Secretariat here. "The J-K film policy will be among the best in the country and all stakeholders would be taken on board while finalising it," Sinha said. During the meeting, the spokesperson said, point-wise discussions were held on measures needed to be taken to attract and facilitate filmmakers coming to Jammu and Kashmir, besides maximising the potential of the promising local film sector and talent for transforming the union territory into the most-preferred film destination. Sinha advised the concerned officers to consult renowned names in the film industry to seek and incorporate their suggestions into the policy, the spokesperson said. The LG also emphasised streamlining the Single Window Clearance and Facilitation System, and bringing renowned filmmakers from across the country and abroad for exploring the unexplored scenic locales of Jammu and Kashmir, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jks-film-policy-to-be-among-the-countrys-best-lg-manoj-sinha-971763.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Mukhtar Ansari brought back, Atiq Ahmad next, says Uttar Pradesh Minister||A day after gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari was brought back to the state from a prison in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swarup Shukla on Thursday said jailed former parliamentarian and strongman Atiq Ahmad is next. Five-time legislator and one-time MP Ahmad, now over 60, has more then 90 criminal cases, including murder, abduction, illegal mining, extortion, intimidation and fraud, against him. He is lodged in a prison in Gujarat. He was shifted there from Uttar Pradesh on the direction of the Supreme Court in 2019. "The Uttar Pradesh government succeeded in bringing back Ansari despite several tricks by the Punjab government. Now we will try to bring Atiq Ahmad back from Gujarat," Shukla told reporters here. It is the duty of the state government to bring back such criminals to UP as they have to be punished for their crimes, he said. "Already a number of Ahmad's lavish bungalows in Allahabad have been bulldozed," the Uttar Pradesh Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs said. The Uttar Pradesh government brought Ansari back from the Ropad prison in Punjab to Banda jail on Wednesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mukhtar-ansari-brought-back-atiq-ahmad-next-says-uttar-pradesh-minister-971856.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out at stationery godown in Delhi's Dilshad Garden Industrial Area||A fire broke out at a stationery godown in a four-storey building in the Dilshad Garden Industrial area here on Thursday morning, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) officials said. No casualty has been reported so far, they said. The fire department was informed around 8.30 am about the blaze, after which 15 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, a senior DFS official said. "A fire broke out in a stationery godown situated on the third floor of a four-storey building in Dilshad Garden Industrial area. No casualty has been reported so far," said Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service. Fire-fighting operation is underway, and the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-stationery-godown-in-delhis-dilshad-garden-industrial-area-971857.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Try artificial rain to douse wildfires: Uttarakhand High Court tells govt||The Uttarakhand High Court has asked the state government to find out the possibility of using artificial rain to douse forest fires raging in various parts of the state. The court further directed the state that the forest fires be extinguished in two weeks. According to forest officials, there are 40 active fire spots in the forests of Garhwal and Kumaon regions with Nainital, Almora, Tehri and Pauri districts being the worst-hit. Taking suo motu cognisance of a PIL seeking protection of forest wealth and wildlife, Chief Justice of the high court RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma on Wednesday asked whether artificial rainfall can be executed to extinguish the forest blaze. Pointing out that the National Green Tribunal's 12-point guidelines issued during the forest fires of 2017 had not been implemented to date, the high court instructed the government to implement them within six months and make permanent arrangements for the disposal of forest fires. It also issued directions to the state government to fill 60 per cent of vacancies in the forest department within six months. The court said gram panchayats must be strengthened so that they could monitor the forests throughout the year. The court also directed the government to provide a budget to NDRF and SDRF and deploy them as well as helicopters to overcome the fires. The court had directed Rajiv Bhartari the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest of the state to be present virtually in the court. Bhartari informed the court about the policy and technique of fighting the forest fire. A fresh spell of snow in the high altitude areas of the hill districts and rain in the lower areas on Wednesday partially controlled forest fires in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/try-artificial-rain-to-douse-wildfires-uttarakhand-high-court-tells-govt-971879.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Twitter reacts to Delhi High Court's new 'mask in car' rule||On April 7, the Delhi High Court ruled that wearing masks would be mandatory even if just one person was occupying their vehicle. The court quashed all petitions challenging people being fined by police for not wearing masks inside their cars, even if it was just one person. In this regard, Justice Pratibha M Singh said, "a vehicle even if occupied by only one person would constitute a ‘public place’ and wearing of a mask therein would be compulsory. The wearing of a mask or a face cover in a vehicle, which may be occupied by either a single person or multiple persons is thus, held to be compulsory in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic". However, Twitter was amused by the ruling and churned out an array of political humour. Stand-up comedian Vir Das tweeted a mind-twister after the news broke.  "Here's a logic puzzle. If you're alone in a car...with an EVM machine, do you still have to wear a mask? Because technically elections are immune to covid, but technically, might not really be an election", he Tweeted. Here's a logic puzzle. If you're alone in a car...with an EVM machine, do you still have to wear a mask? Because technically elections are immune to covid, but technically, might not really be an election. Many users took the opportunity to compare it with how election campaigns were flouting coronavirus norms. "Delhi Highcourt ruled mask is mandatory if you’re inside the vehicle. There are no rules when you are ON the vehicle", tweeted on user alongside a photograph of Amit Shah rallying in West Bengal for the Legislative Assembly polls. Delhi Highcourt ruled mask is mandatory if you’re inside the vehicle. In fact, a lot of users were amused by the phenomenon of politicians and their lack of Covid-19-norm adherance. Wearing mask when driving alone in a car is mandatory by law in New Delhi. Election rallies with thousands without masks does not raise any eyebrows in India.   The High court terming cars 'public spaces' had the internet laughing too. "Wearing mask is compulsory while you are alone in your car : Delhi HC'Your car is a public place'Next: Wearing mask will be compulsory while at home, your home is also going to be declared as a 'Public Place'", wrote another user. Wearing mask is compulsory while you are alone in your car : Delhi HC'Your car is a public place' Next: Wearing mask will be compulsory while at home, your home is also going to be declared as a 'Public Place'. People will come and pay homage...😁😁😁||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/twitter-reacts-to-delhi-high-courts-new-mask-in-car-rule-971887.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Night prohibition imposed in Gautam Budh Nagar till April 17||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, a night restrictions havee been imposed in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts of Uttar Pradesh, both adjoining Delhi, according to official orders issued on Thursday. The restrictions will be in force from 10 pm to 5 am till April 17 from Thursday night, but the movement of essential goods or commodities and medical and other essential services shall be exempted, the orders issued by the district magistrates of Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar stated. All government and private educational institutes (except medical, paramedical and nursing colleges), including coaching centres, shall be barred from holding physical classes till April 17 in the two districts. However, all exams, including practicals, shall be held according to the schedule and are exempted from this order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-prohibition-imposed-in-gautam-budh-nagar-till-april-17-971904.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Doctor, 'untrained' male staff member booked for outraging woman's modesty during delivery in Uttar Pradesh||An FIR was registered after a woman accused a doctor and an "untrained" staff member of endangering her life and outraging her modesty during childbirth at a hospital here, police said on Thursday. The FIR was registered at Prem Nagar police station on Wednesday based on directives of ADG Avinash Chandra, they said. The FIR was lodged against Dr Shalini Maheshwari and the male staff member under IPC Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety), 338 (causing grievous hurt) and 354 (outraging woman's modesty) along with relevant provisions of the Indian Medical Council Act. The woman is a doctor and her husband is a cardiologist, who gave the complaint against Maheshwari and the staff member. The woman's husband, in his complaint, alleged that he admitted his pregnant wife at Gangasheel Hospital on March 21 for delivery but "her life was in danger" due to Dr Maheshwari. The complainant stated that his wife was in labour pain and a nurse had called Dr Maheshwari who did not come. Later, the delivery was performed by the "untrained" male staff member. On March 23, her condition did not improve and she was shifted to another hospital, where she is undergoing treatment, he added in the complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctor-untrained-male-staff-member-booked-for-outraging-womans-modesty-during-delivery-in-uttar-pradesh-971919.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||SC collegium led by CJI Bobde holds scheduled meeting||The Supreme Court collegium headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde is holding its scheduled meeting on Thursday to discuss possible candidates for appointment of judges in higher judiciary, sources familiar with the development said. The CJI, who would superannuate on April 23, has been holding the collegium meeting to discuss appointment of judges in the top court and high courts, they said. The 5-member collegium's pre-scheduled meeting assumes significance in the wake of the fact that President Ram Nath Kovind has formally appointed senior most judge N V Ramana as the next CJI. As per the convention, since the President has issued warrants of appointment for the next CJI, the outgoing predecessor does not make any recommendations to the Centre for appointment of judges in high courts and the apex court. The collegium meeting was scheduled before the issuance of the notification appointing Justice Ramana as the CJI. The last collegium meeting had taken place in the third week of March, the sources said. Besides the CJI, the four others members to the collegium are justices N V Ramana, R F Nariman, U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar. The collegium-led by Justice Bobde, who took oath as the CJI on November 18, 2019, has not made any recommendation for appointment of a judge to the apex court so far. The top court has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges and after the retirement of Justice Indu Malhotra recently, the vacancies have gone up to five.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-collegium-led-by-cji-bobde-holds-scheduled-meeting-971924.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Lockdown fear: Migrants leaving Gujarat amid Covid-19 surge||Fearing another lockdown in the wake of a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Gujarat, migrant workers and their families have started leaving Surat and Ahmedabad, two of the state's most severely affected cities. However, government officials on Thursday claimed the number of those leaving was very low and people cannot be stopped from moving from one place to another. "There are no formal reports which suggest that a large number of migrants are leaving. However, we have asked district authorities to ensure that workers do not face any trouble," state Additional Chief Secretary, Labour and Employment, Vipul Mittra told PTI. Since there is no lockdown and trains are also running, people are free to move anywhere in the country, he said. Mittra said though some people are going back to their native places, "it's not happening on large scale". "Last year, there was a rush because the lockdown was imposed all of a sudden. Thus, as a precaution, migrants are going back home as they feel that transportation may not be available after some time," the official said. In Ahmedabad, a number of migrant workers, mostly hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have been rushing to the city's main Kalupur railway station to travel to their native places, said Yogesh Mishra, member of the Zonal Rail Users Consultative Committee. The migrants fear they would be stuck here if the government imposes another lockdown, Mishra said, adding that the waiting list for reserved seats in trains is also increasing with each passing day. "The Gujarat High Court recently suggested that a lockdown should be imposed. This has created panic among the migrant workers, who suffered a lot last year due to the sudden lockdown and travel restrictions," he said. Now, migrants are in a hurry to reach their native places, said Mishra. "People from UP are leaving in large numbers, mainly because they don't want to miss the panchayat polls, starting from April 15. Many have also planned marriage ceremonies, which were cancelled last year," he said. People are extra cautious this time and want to leave before any travel restrictions are announced, he added. In Surat, migrant workers belonging to UP, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand have been leaving in luxury buses, but their number is not very large, Surat Luxury Bus Operators Association president Dinesh Andhan said. "People from Saurashtra are not leaving. It's the migrants from other states who are leaving Surat city due to panic. They suffered a lot last year due to the lockdown and unavailability of transport. Many were forced to walk to their native places last year," Andhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-fear-migrants-leaving-gujarat-amid-covid-19-surge-971926.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Court orders archaeological survey of Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi Mosque premises ||In a significant decision, a court in Varanasi, about 300 kilometres from here, on Thursday ordered an archaeological survey at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi Mosque premises. The order of the senior division fast track court came on a petition by Vijay Shankar Rastogi, who had contended that the entire premises belonged to the Kashi Vishwanath and that the Gyanvapi Mosque was only a part of the Temple. The petition had been filed in 1991. Civil Judge Ashutosh Tewari, who had reserved his orders on the petition last week, directed the ASI to form a five-member team and study the entire premises. He also said in his order that the expenses incurred on the survey would be borne by the government. Rastogi had sought the court's direction for resolving the issue through a survey by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), claiming that the Mosque had been constructed after demolishing the Temple. He had also contended that the Kashi Vishwanath Temple had been built over 2000 years back. The Temple had been demolished by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb, the petition claimed. Rastogi had also cited the example of ASI excavation to resolve the dispute of ownership in the Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid Title Suits. The Muslim side had pleaded that the situation, as it was on August 15, 1947, should be allowed to continue. The Sunni Central Waqf Board, which is the opposite party in the matter, said that it would challenge the decision in the higher court. The premises had been a bone of contention between the two communities for the past several decades but there was a renewed clamour to ''take back'' the Kashi Vishwanath Temple premises by the saffron outfits after the favourable decision of the apex court in the Ram Temple case. The Akhil Bhartiya Sant Samiti (ABSS) had earlier asked the Muslims to ''hand over'' the Kashi Vishwanath Temple land in Varanasi on which, according to them, the Gyanvapi Mosque currently existed and had threatened to launch an agitation to 'liberate' the same if it did not happen. ''Give the Hindus whatever belongs to them else we will take it the way we have taken Ayodhya,'' a senior member of the Samiti had said. Some saffron leaders had even threatened to demolish, what they termed the 'blots' on the rich history of Hinduism and must be 'removed' without delay. A district court in Mathura was also hearing a civil suit claiming ownership of the entire land on which the Srikrishna Janmabhoomi was situated and seeking removal of the Sahi Idgah Mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-orders-archaeological-survey-of-kashi-vishwanath-temple-gyanvapi-mosque-premises-971933.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||PM Modi calls for 'vaccination utsav' to check Covid-19 spread on war footing||As the second wave of Covid-19 epidemic surges ahead, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday appealed to the Chief Ministers for enhancing the tests manifold in order to fish out the hidden infections and proposed a special four-day long jab session next week to increase the vaccination coverage. The Prime Minister did not say anything on the possibility of imposing a nation-wide lock down once again, but observed that despite a faster growth of the epidemic in many states in the second wave, India was better prepared with experience, resources and the vaccine. Modi announced a special Covid-19 vaccination drive between April 11 and April 14 with a target of zero wastage to maximise the use of available stock. He also encouraged imposition of night curfew, which he said should be renamed as 'corona curfew.' Though the Centre was in the loggerheads with several states, such as Maharashtra, on the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, the Prime Minister skirted the controversial topic and told the states to give emphasis on micro-containment and testing to find out asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients, who may be spreading the disease unwillingly. On vaccine supply, he said that the Centre would have to prioritise the use of the available vaccine doses, while the states would strive to reduce the vaccine wastage. Earlier Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the Centre had so far distributed 13.5 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccines of which the states utilised 9.1 crore doses while 2.4 crore doses are in the stock. Another 1.9 crore doses are the pipeline and would reach the states soon. The three states receiving the maximum amount of doses are Maharashtra (1.06,19,190 doses), Gujarat (1.05,19,330) and Rajasthan (1,04,95,860). A day before Vardhan accused Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Delhi for not doing enough on vaccination while finding fault with Punjab, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Gujarat on testing, early identification of positive cases and prevention of mortality. The Covid-19 epidemic is galloping in all of these states with the reporting of 1.26 lakh new cases 685 deaths in the last 24 hours. Modi advised the states to improve testing infrastructure, enhance shifts in the diagnostic laboratories to handle additional samples and do away with lethargy while collecting the samples. The target would be to ensure that RT-PCR contains at least 70 per cent of the total test, which is not the case in 19 states at the moment. The Chief Ministers were advised to launch the vaccine festival ("tika utsav") between April 11 (birth anniversary of Jyotiba Phule) and April 14 (birth anniversary of Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar). Modi also suggested all party meetings to work out state-specific action plans. Besides video conferencing with the elected representatives of the urban and local bodies, meetings with religious leaders, civil society organisations and celebrities have been advised. The aim would be to convey the importance of Covid-19 testing and vaccination, which are critical to win the battle with the sly virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-calls-for-vaccination-utsav-to-check-covid-19-spread-on-war-footing-972012.html
08-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases breach 7000 mark for first time this year||Delhi recorded 7,437 fresh Covid-19 cases Thursday, the highest single-day surge this year, while 24 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,157, according to the city's Health Department. The positivity rate also mounted to 8.1 per cent from 6.1 per cent the previous day, as the massive spike in cases witnessed over the past few weeks continues. This is also the first time that over 7,000 cases have been reported in a day this year. The daily case count for the past two days was also above 5,000. The highest single-day spike in Delhi till date -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11, while on November 19, the city recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality since the pandemic began. On November 27, the city had recorded 5,482 cases and 6,224 cases on November 24 and 7,486 on November 18, as per official data. A total of 91,770 tests, including 52,696 RT-PCR tests and 39,074 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said. The number of cumulative cases on Thursday stood at 6,98,005. Over 6.63 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. As per the latest bulletin, 24 more people died due to the disease, taking the toll to 11,157. The number of active cases rose to 23,181 from 19,455 a day before. The number of people under home isolation increased to 11,367 from 10,048 on Wednesday while the number of containment zones mounted to 4,226 from 3,708 a day before, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-daily-covid-19-cases-breach-7000-mark-for-first-time-this-year-972021.html
08-04-2021||Opinion||Here’s how to handle the ‘genocide Olympics’ in Beijing||Should the United States and other democracies participate in a Winter Olympics hosted by a government that both the Trump and Biden administrations have said is engaged in genocide? The debate over whether to boycott the 2022 Beijing Olympics is heating up, for the Games open next February. The Biden administration says it is not currently discussing a boycott with allies, but 180 human rights organizations have jointly suggested one, and there are also discussions in Canada and Europe about whether to attend. Olympic officials and business leaders protest that the Games are nonpolitical, but that is disingenuous. Of course they’re political. China’s leader, Xi Jinping, is hosting the Olympics for political reasons, to garner international legitimacy even as he eviscerates Hong Kong freedoms, jails lawyers and journalists, seizes Canadian hostages, threatens Taiwan and, most horrifying, presides over crimes against humanity in the far western region of Xinjiang that is home to several Muslim minorities. It’s reasonable to wonder: If baseball’s All-Star Game shouldn’t be played in Georgia because of that state’s voter suppression law, should the Olympics be held in the shadow of what many describe as genocide? But first let’s ask: Is what’s happening in China truly “genocide”? Journalists, human rights groups and the State Department have documented a systematic effort to undermine Islam and local culture in Xinjiang. Perhaps 1 million people have been confined to what amount to concentration camps. Inmates have been tortured, and children have been removed from families to be raised in boarding schools and turned into loyal communist subjects. Mosques have been destroyed and Muslims ordered to eat pork. Women have been raped and forcibly sterilized. There is no mass murder in Xinjiang, as is necessary for the popular definition of genocide and for some dictionary definitions. Yet the 1948 Genocide Convention offers a broader definition that includes causing serious “mental harm,” preventing births or “forcibly transferring children,” when part of a systematic effort to destroy a particular group. The upshot is that repression in Xinjiang doesn’t qualify as genocide as the term is normally used, but it does meet the definition in the international convention. As for the Beijing Games, here’s my bottom line: Athletes should participate and television should broadcast the competition, but government officials and companies should stay out of it. And I hope athletes while in Beijing will use every opportunity to call attention to repression in Xinjiang or elsewhere. The blunt truth is that a much-watched Olympics give the world leverage to highlight human rights abuses and raise the cost of repression. We should use that leverage. Full boycotts, as the United States pursued of the 1980 Moscow Games and Russia undertook of the 1984 Los Angeles Games, have largely failed. But a partial boycott, keeping officials and corporations away while sending athletes and fortifying them to speak up, can express disapproval while seizing a rare opportunity to highlight Xi Jinping’s brutality before the world. Companies that have already paid for sponsorships of the Games would be losers, but that’s because they and the International Olympic Committee failed to push China to honor the human rights pledges it made when it won the Games. And in any case, a corporate association with what critics have dubbed the “Genocide Olympics” might not be such a marketing triumph. “Instead of ‘higher, faster, stronger,’ what these companies are getting is ‘unjust incarceration, sexual abuse and forced labor,’” said Minky Worden of Human Rights Watch. “There are a lot of tools beside a boycott,” Worden added. “The world’s attention is turning to Beijing, and the single greatest point of pressure on Xi Jinping’s China may be the Winter Olympics.” In the 2006 Olympics, skater Joey Cheek used a news conference after he won a gold medal to call attention to genocide in Darfur; winning athletes next year could do the same for Xinjiang. The IOC has tried to ban human rights symbols and gestures as un-Olympian, but that’s ridiculous. The most famous gestures in Olympic history came in 1968 when sprinters John Carlos and Tommie Smith raised their fists in a Black power protest; denounced for years, they are now celebrated as moral leaders and have been inducted into the U.S. Olympic Hall of Fame. Athletes who wore “Save Xinjiang” or “End the Genocide” T-shirts next year might get into trouble with Olympic officials, but some day they, too, would be regarded as heroes. Canadians are debating a boycott of the Games, but more could be accomplished if Canada resolved to send athletes and allowed them to wear shirts or buttons honoring the “Two Michaels” — Canadian citizens whom China has taken hostage and brutally mistreated. That might be more likely to free the men than any Canadian boycott. The Olympics give us leverage. Instead of throwing it away, let’s make Xi Jinping fear every day how we might use it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/here-s-how-to-handle-the-genocide-olympics-in-beijing-971807.html
08-04-2021||South||Violence in Kannur over IUML worker's death||Tension prevailed at Kannur in Kerala as CPM offices and many shops in the Panoor area of Kannur were ransacked, suspected to be by Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) workers, in retaliation for the murder of an IUML worker. At least eight offices of the CPM, including branch committee and local committee offices, some shops and a library came under attack on Wednesday night soon after the funeral of IUML worker Paral Mansoor. The assailants also torched many CPM offices. Anticipating chances of retaliation heavy police, deployment was made in the locality. The Kannur district administration and police have invited the political party leaders for peace talks on Thursday. CPM top leaders visited the spot on Thursday morning and condemned the attack. IUML worker Paral Mansoor, 21, was murdered in election-related violence on Tuesday night. His brother also suffered injuries in the attack. One CPM activist was nabbed by the local people and handed over to the police. Local people suspect that at least 20 persons were in the gang that attacked Mansoor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/violence-in-kannur-over-iuml-workers-death-971762.html
08-04-2021||South||Health officials step up efforts to bring down coronavirus cases in Tamil Nadu||With the heat and dust raised by the election rallies and poll day fever settling down, the Tamil Nadu Health department and civic officials have stepped up efforts to detect Covid cases with renewed vigour while sensitising people to opt for vaccination without fail. Health workers recommenced door-knocks to thermal scan the residents in addition to ascertaining if the people have taken the shots. "We need some protection from the virus. So, vaccination is the best option now. Take the shots at the nearest health centre if you have not done so far," Naresh, a health worker, said. Like him, several health workers in the metropolis are busy visiting the people and requesting them to get vaccinated at the earliest. Meanwhile, a senior Health official said face mask compliance and stricter personal discipline were vital to prevent the virus spread. With the elections over on April 6, there would not be any large scale gathering of people as seen during the run-up to the polls. He, however, advised people to watch out for symptoms and seek medical advice immediately if needed. According to Dr T S Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health (DPH) and Family Welfare, cooperation of the community is essential to contain the spread of the pandemic. "Health system approach is the need of the hour. Complacency on the part of the citizens will see rise in cases again. So, vaccination is the best available tool as of now," he told PTI. As to the challenges the department has been facing for over a year, he said it "is keeping the team motivated for a year-long battle. "We need to move on till a certain level of the susceptible population develops immunity," he said. According to a well-known laparoscopic surgeon and founder of Lifeline Group of hospitals, Dr J S Rajkumar, patients all over the country want a vaccine that is hundred per cent safe, and a hundred per cent protective against the virus. India's vaccination production and distribution have catapulted it to a very high rank in terms of perception, all over the world, he said while stressing on the need for people to get inoculated. India's great advantage was the hundred-plus day lockdown which shifted the curve of Covid-19 patients to the right, permitting the available logistics of healthcare to tackle the situation, he said. Meanwhile, Chennai Corporation health workers and even the staff at the Amma mini-clinic, a pet initiative of Chief Minister K Palaniswami, appealed to the public to safeguard themselves through the vaccine shots. After covering frontline workers, senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities, the Centre has now extended the vaccination coverage to all above 45 years. On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu logged 3,986 new coronavirus cases, pushing the caseload to 9,11,110||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/health-officials-step-up-efforts-to-bring-down-coronavirus-cases-in-tamil-nadu-971908.html
08-04-2021||South||SSLC, higher secondary exams begin in Kerala||The Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and Higher Secondary (HSC) exams for the year 2021 began in Kerala on Thursday adhering to strict COVID-19 health protocols. The SSLC exams will be held till April 29 while the plus two exams are scheduled to be conducted from April 8 to 26. Nearly nine lakh students are appearing for the exams across over 4,951 centres out of which4,46,471 students will attend the plus two exam and 4,22,226regular students and 990 private candidates will appear for the SSLC examinations. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala wished the students in the state who are appearing for the exams. "SSLC and +2 examinations are starting tomorrow. Request all the students to follow #COVID19 protocol so that you, your friends, teacher and family stay safe. Best wishes to eachand every one of you. May you all succeed!," Vijayan tweeted on Wednesday night. The plus two examination began at 9.30 AM and the SSLC examination commenced in the afternoon session at 1.30 PM. The VHSE examinations will begin on Friday. On March11 this year, the Election Commission of India permitted the Kerala government to postpone the 10th and 12th standard school examinations to April 8, in view of the state assembly polls which were held on April 6. The state had sought postponement of the SSLC and HSC examinations, which were to commence from March 17, as teachers had been put on poll duty and classrooms were to be used for polling purposes. The authorities have made strict arrangements for implementing the COVID-19 health protocol. Students are screened using thermal scanners for body temperature and in case of any variation, they will be given a separate room to take the exam. Handwash, sanitisers, masks have been made available for students, teachers, and other staff. Instructions have been issued to ensure that students wore masks, carried sanitisers and maintained social distancing. They have also been instructed not to share stationery with others. Last year, the board exams were affected due to the pandemic, and several papers were conducted later in May and the results were released in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sslc-higher-secondary-exams-begin-in-kerala-971917.html
08-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government to implement curbs from April 10 amid rise in Covid-19 cases||As fresh Covid-19 cases continued to increase, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced the reintroduction of curbs like permission only for 50 per cent seating capacity in cinemas and ban on select activities effective April 10, to help prevent the spread of the virus. All those above 45 years of age should get vaccinated within two weeks in either government or recognised private facilities to help prevent the virus spread, the government advised. Retail outlets in big vegetable markets like the sprawling Koyambedu complex here and similar large facilities in districts shall not be allowed to operate, an official release said. Intake of passengers in buses in Chennai and for intra and inter-state travel shall be confined to seating capacity of vehicles and no passenger shall be allowed to travel by standing. In taxis and autorickshaws, only three and two passengers would be allowed respectively. Gatherings for religious and festival purposes would be prohibited and prayers in all places of worship by adhering to norms like social distancing shall be permitted only up to 8 pm. The e-registration rule would be in place as before to monitor those arriving in Tamil Nadu from other states and abroad.  Limiting the maximum number of people who could take part in weddings to 100 and those for the funeral to 50, the government said spectators shall not be allowed for sporting events and swimming pools must be used only for training. Be it groceries, retail shops, malls, big format stores, restaurants and tea shops, the number of people who could gather at any given time shall not exceed 50 per cent of the capacity and all outlets could function till 11 pm and take away services would also be open till such time. The only '50 per cent' rule would also be applicable to movie theatres including single screen and multiplex, zoos, amusement parks, recreation clubs and '200' is the maximum number of people who could be allowed in auditoriums for events including cultural, entertainment, political or sports. Emphasising strict adherence to Standard Operating Procedures including wearing masks and social distancing, the government appealed to the people to cooperate with it to aid the prevention of virus spread. Firms, factories, commercial complexes and hotels must ensure thermal screening, use of hand sanitisers and masks and expos would be allowed only for Business to Business process. People who do not wear masks should not be allowed entry in premises including hotels and commercial complexes. Industries should make arrangements to get employees vaccinated and action would be taken against establishments that do not follow the Standard Operating Procedure. Though shoots for small screen soaps and movies shall be allowed, artists and employees must undergo RT-PCR tests and get vaccinated and production houses should ensure this, the government said. On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu witnessed nearly 4,000 new virus cases, of which Chennai and its nearby regions accounted for a significant chunk. The number of active cases rose to 27,743 on April 7 from 13,070 on March 28, the government said. As part of the strategy to combat the pathogen spread, increased and aggressive testing was on and about 80,000 RT-PCR tests were being done every day. Initiatives -like fever camps, door to door survey to detect people with flu-like symptoms and contact tracing of those who were in contact with people who test positive- would be back across the state. In containment zones, the current curbs would continue without any relaxations and international air travel shall not be allowed according to the Centre's ban. In Chennai, field-level committees for every zone would be set up to bring down the caseload and similar panels shall become functional in districts too. A monitoring mechanism for containment zones (involving personnel from police and health departments besides employees from local bodies) shall be in place to ensure that people do not step outside of such areas. Volunteers would be assigned to help people in containment zones and they shall ensure the availability of essential commodities for residents. If Covid-19 symptoms are suspected, the nearest government facility should be approached, the government said and sought public cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-to-implement-curbs-from-april-10-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-971952.html
08-04-2021||South||Kerala Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan avoids appearing for questioning before Customs||Kerala speaker P Sreeramakrishnan has kept off from appearing before the Customs for questioning in connection with the dollar smuggling case for the second time on Thursday. Sreeramakrishnan was issued a notice by the Customs to appear at the Kochi office on Thursday. But he was learnt to have cited medical reasons for not turning up today. Sources said that the Customs would be issuing one more notice to Sreeramakrishnan and even then if he failed to appear the Customs may approach the court. Last time Sreeramakrishnan maintained that he was busy with the election work and sought time to appear. The customs registered a case based on gold smuggling accused Swapna Nair's statement that US dollars worth Rs. 1.9 crore was smuggled with the knowledge of the Speaker and the Speaker intended to invest in educational institutions abroad. Meanwhile, Kerala Police's Crime Branch stated before the Kerala High Court that gold smuggling accused Sandeep Nair had given serious statements against the Enforcement Directorate officials and the case registered against the ED officials based on the statement would stand. The ED had approached the court challenging a second FIR filed by the Crime Branch against ED officials in Kochi based on an audio clip of Sandeep Nair. He was learnt to have stated that ED officials forced him to give a statement against Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. A similar case was registered earlier based on a statement of gold smuggling accused Swapna Nair and the HC had declined to stay the probe. The HC would be considering the ED's petition on Friday and may pass orders. The Kerala police's moves against ED officials were alleged to be politically motivated as central agencies initiated a probe against Kerala Speaker and some ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-speaker-p-sreeramakrishnan-avoids-appearing-for-questioning-before-customs-971967.html
08-04-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan tests positive for Covid-19||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday, close on the heels of the state health authorities sounding an alert against the chances of a surge in Covid-19 cases due to electioneering. Vijayan, who is now in his native place Kannur, was reported to be having no health issues. But he may be shifted to hospital for better medical care. Vijayan, who is aged around 75, had taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination on March 3. Vijayan's daughter Veena and her husband and CPM leader Mohammed Riyas were earlier tested Covid-19 positive. Other family members and personnel staff have now been advised to remain in quarantine.   Meanwhile. Kerala former Chief Minister and AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy also tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. Chandy, who is aged 77, was reported to be having some symptoms like fever over the last two days. On Thursday he was tested Covid positive. Now he is in home isolation. Sources close to Chandy said that he would be soon shifted to hospital. His family members and personal staff were advised to remain in quarantine. While Vijayan used to be very particular in wearing mask and tried to maintain social distancing whenever possible, Chandy could be often seen mingling closely with people. Both of them had attended election campaigns across the state. Meanwhile, anticipating chances of a second wave of Covid-19 in Kerala, the state government has decided to intensify a 'back to basic' campaign that aims at ensuring proper use of mask, hand sanitiser and maintaining social distancing. Kerala health department officials said that the next three weeks are very crucial for Kerala as social distancing norms were not much followed during electioneering. Since sero-survey found that only 10.76 per cent of Kerala population could have got Covid-19  infection, the remaining 89 per cent need to be on a high alert, especially, since Covid norms were not strictly followed by the people during election campaign. Kerala witnessed a spike in Covid cases soon after the Onam festival and local body election in 2020. But due to the stringent measures, the surge was controlled and the daily fresh cases was brought down to 1,239 and active cases to less than 25,000 by the third week of March. But the Covid cases is now witnessing a surge with 4,353 fresh cases being reported on Thursday and total active cases reaching 33,621.  The health authorities also urged those aged above 45 should try to get Covid-19 vaccination at the earliest. So far 37.6 lakh people took the first dose and 4.47 lakh took the second dose. A high-level meeting convened by state chief secretary V P Joy on Wednesday had decided to increase the number of RT-PCR test as well as to strictly enforce the social distancing norms to curb further surge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-971975.html
08-04-2021||South||Tension at Kannur in Kerala as miscreants ransack CPM offices||Tension prevailed at Kannur in Kerala as CPM offices and many shops in Panoor near Koothuparamba in Kannur were ransacked on Wednesday night suspected to be by Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) workers in retaliation for the murder of an IUML worker. At least eight offices of the CPM, including branch committee and local committee offices, some shops and a library came under the attack soon after the funeral of IUML worker Paral Mansoor. The assailants even torched many places. Anticipating chances of retaliation, heavy police was deployed in the locality. Though the Kannur district administration and police invited the political party leaders for peace talks on Thursday, Congress and IUML kept off alleging police inaction in the murder case. They said that leaders of the murder accused were invited to the peace talks and there was no meaning in turning up for such an event. CPM top leaders visited the spot on Thursday morning and condemned the attack and the fact that leaders did not engage in peace talks. IUML worker Paral Mansoor, 21, was murdered in election-related violence on Tuesday night and his brother was injured. Kannur city police commissioner R Ilango said that a probe into the murder case was handed over to the district crime branch and the accused were identified. All of them were absconding and efforts were being made to nab them. So far only one DYFI worker, who was nabbed by local people from the murder spot, was arrested by the police, while ten more were suspected to be directly involved in the murder. IUML alleged that it was a planned murder as some local DYFI leaders had made some social media posts in this regard ahead of the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tension-at-kannur-in-kerala-as-miscreants-ransack-cpm-offices-972029.html
08-04-2021||South||It is curtains down for Chandrababu Naidu's TDP in Telangana||The inevitable situation has finally arrived for the TDP in Telangana, precipitated at a time the party's influence in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh is at its lowest. The once-formidable force in Telangana, the Telugu Desam Party is now left without any representation in the state legislature – the first time since its entry in 1983, when the regional party romped to power within a year of its formation by legendary actor N T Rama Rao. The decamp would not attract the anti-defection laws as the two MLAs constitute the whole legislative party, experts say. And this is not the first time the TDP MLAs were merged with the TRS. In March 2016, 12 defected TDP MLAs were recognised as TRS members. Later, Revanth Reddy joined the Congress. Sandra and R Krishnaiah remained, maintaining the TDP presence officially during the previous Assembly. However, since his re-election as a TDP MLA in December 2018, Sandra has been hobnobbing with the TRS, while his colleague Mecha steadfastly refused to ditch the party. Mecha's change of mind now follows the TDP's dismal electoral performance in both the states last month. While Chandrababu Naidu's party was drubbed by the ruling YSRCP in the Panchayat and municipal polls in Andhra Pradesh, the Telangana unit chief L Ramana was relegated to the fringes in the Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahabubnagar graduate MLC elections. “Since the bifurcation, TDP's role in Telangana has become nominal. The party, as evident from the recent results, has no future here,” Sandra tells DH. Like the "turncoat" TDP legislators earlier, Sandra and Mecha maintained that their defection to the TRS is for their constituency development sake. Mecha was also reportedly promised a plum post by KCR. TDP: An “outsider” since 2014 Though the TDP's prospects weakened in the region with the creation of Telangana, where it is seen as an “Andhra party,” party chief Naidu's focused attention on Andhra Pradesh is said to have impaired the party here. Naidu moved his base to Amaravati in 2015, when he was the chief minister, a shift, analysts say, was hastened by the cash-for-vote episode during the Telangana MLC elections earlier that year. Sandra is one of the main accused in the scandal that has let KCR target Naidu politically and procedurally. In the 2016 Hyderabad civic polls, despite Naidu's campaign claims of transforming the city into an IT hub, TDP could manage to win only one councillor out of 150 seats. The TDP, which had won 15 seats in the 2014 elections in alliance with the BJP, was reduced to two in the 2018 polls when it went with the Congress and other parties. The party's base has since then, ostensibly, eroded even in Khammam, an area adjoining Andhra Pradesh, where the two MLAs are from. Meanwhile, in the 2019 Andhra Pradesh Assembly elections, the TDP lost power, reduced to 23 MLAs in the 175-member Assembly. Though becoming a shadow of its former self, the TDP nevertheless appears unwilling to cede the Telangana ground totally. “Some leaders or legislators leaving the party would not discourage us. We will remain in Telangana public and election sphere,” Telangana TDP chief Ramana told DH adding that they would contest the “merger” legally. The party has put up Muvva Arun Kumar as its candidate for the 17 April Nagarjuna Sagar bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/it-is-curtains-down-for-chandrababu-naidus-tdp-in-telangana-972040.html
08-04-2021||South||Congress moves Election Commission against Pinarayi Vijayan's Ayyappa remark||Congress in Kerala has moved the Election Commission against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan alleging an attempt to influence voters by triggering religious sentiments during the polling for the state Assembly election on Tuesday. After casting his vote in Kannur, Vijayan told reporters that the Sabarimala Ayyappa and the entire pantheon of gods were with the LDF as the LDF government ensured the welfare of all sections of the society.  Kannur district Congress committee president Satheesan Pacheni has moved the Election Commission against this remark. He alleged that Vijayan tried to exploit communal and religious sentiments by making such a statement on the polling day. Vijayan's statement was in reaction to a statement of G Sukumaran Nair, general secretary of the Nair Service Society, a forum of the prominent Hindu Nair community, that protests against the LDF government over the Sabarimala women entry issue still persisted and he felt that the people were looking forward to a change in governance in Kerala. Kerala Law Minister and CPM leader A K Balan had moved the Election Commission against Nair for the statement on the polling day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-moves-election-commission-against-pinarayi-vijayans-ayyappa-remark-972043.html
08-04-2021||South||Covid-19: Telangana private school teachers to get Rs 2,000 aid, 25 kg rice||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced Rs 2,000 financial aid and 25 kg rice per family to the private school teachers and other staff affected by the shutdown of schools due to Covid-19. Amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government had announced the closure of all the schools and colleges from March 24 till further notice. An estimated 1.5 lakh employees working in private recognised schools in Telangana will benefit from the chief minister's largesse, officials said. To avail the assistance, the private educational institution teachers and other staff should apply to the concerned district collector, submitting their bank account details and other relevant information. Rice would be provided through the fair price shops under the government public distribution system. The decision comes in the wake of reports that some school teachers are resorting to extreme steps, unable to bear the financial strain. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 cases are continuing to grow in Telangana. The state recorded 2,055 new cases on Wednesday, while the recovered patients were only 303. The number of active cases went up to 13,362 and another 8,263 people are in home or institutional isolation. Telangana has recorded a total of 3,18,704 positive Covid-19 cases till now. On Thursday, reviewing the pandemic situation in the state, the Telangana High Court expressed worry over public gatherings in the pubs, bars, and theatres and other places. The court again directed the TRS government to ramp up the RT-PCR tests to detect Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-telangana-private-school-teachers-to-get-rs-2000-aid-25-kg-rice-972058.html
08-04-2021||South||Protest over elephant's death in Kerala temple||Kerala on Thursday witnessed an emotional protest by a section of people over the death of a 57-year-old elephant. Vijayakrishnan, attached to the renowned Ambalapuzha Sree Krishnaswamy temple in Alappuzha district, died following an illness on Thursday morning. A section of elephant lovers and devotees thronged the temple on hearing about the death of the tusker which had much fan-following. They alleged that lapses on part of the temple officials led to the death of the tusker. Travancore Devaswom Board President N Vasu, who visited the spot, also faced a violent protest of the devotees and elephant lovers demanding immediate action against those responsible for the elephant's death. He was immediately shifted from the spot to avoid further untoward incidents. The devotees were preventing a funeral of the elephant's body demanding action. Kerala Animal Welfare Board member M N Jayachandran told DH that there were complaints that the elephant was wounded in the leg which was infected. Even then, the tusker was paraded for temple festivals by the Devaswom authorities. Even as petitions were given to the authorities concerned about Vijayakrishnan, there were no interventions, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/protest-over-elephants-death-in-kerala-temple-972076.html
08-04-2021||State||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa requests striking RTC employees to resume work from April 8||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday asked the striking employees of the Road Transport Corporation (RTC) to resume duty from Thursday to avoid inconvenience to the people. Yediyurappa told reporters late Wednesday that he was requesting the RTC employees to report to duty or else the citizens would have to use the services of private buses. "The government cannot meet their demand of wages as per the 6th pay commission but will give them an 8% hike. We have met eight of their nine demands," he reiterated. Yediyurappa alleged that some vested interests were behind the RTC employees' strike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-requests-striking-rtc-employees-to-resume-work-from-april-8-971698.html
08-04-2021||State||Karnataka reports 6,976 fresh Covid-19 cases||Karnataka added 6,976 new cases of Covid-19 and 35 more deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 10,33,560 and the toll to 12,731. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 4,991 fresh cases. Wednesday was the second consecutive day the state reported over 6,000 fresh cases after the 6,150 on Tuesday. Health Minister K Sudhakar held a video conference with district administrations of Bidar, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Hassan, Mandya, Mysuru and Chitradurga to review the Covid-19 situation in these districts. "Positivity rate has been increasing in the last few weeks. In some places testing has been reduced. We will take measures to increase testing where positivity is high. Identifying SARI and ILI cases has also been discussed," he said. "Nearly 5,000 cases have been reported in Bengaluru alone with a positivity rate of 5.56%. Twenty five out of 35 deaths in state have been reported in Bengaluru. Tomorrow I have called a meeting of all senior officers of BBMP, Bengaluru Urban and Rural Districts. The Prime Minister will also hold a video conference with all chief ministers," he said. The day also saw 2,794 patients getting discharged after recovery.  Twenty-five deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban, two each from Kalaburagi and Mysuru, and one each from Ballari, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Tumakuru and Vijayapura. Mysuru accounted for 243 fresh cases, Bidar 214, Kalaburagi 205, and Tumakuru 204.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-6976-fresh-covid-19-cases-971701.html
08-04-2021||State||Karnataka Revenue Department suspends village stay in 10 districts over Covid-19||Amidst rising number of Covid cases in Karnataka in what is believed to be a second wave of the pandemic, the Revenue department has suspended its flagship “Grama vastavya” (village stay) programme in ten districts.  In view of the increasing cases, the programme is suspended in Bengaluru (Urban), Bengaluru (Rural), Ballari, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Mysuru and Tumakuru, according to a circular issued by the Revenue department. The department had recently introduced the programme as part of which officials were required to a stay in villages every third Saturday of the month. The programme was expected to acquaint officials with grassroots issues and allow them to resolve all public grievances at the village level, without people having to travel to the taluk office. The programme was conducted in February and March this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-revenue-department-suspends-village-stay-in-10-districts-over-covid-19-971702.html
08-04-2021||State||Rising Covid cases: HC asks govt to conduct surprise checks||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the state government and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to make surprise inspections at various establishments, including apartment complexes, in order to ensure implementation of its directions for containing the spread of Covid-19. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar gave this direction while hearing a batch of petitions on issues concerning Covid-19. The bench pointed out that there had been an enormous increase in cases, especially in Bengaluru. The court perused the two orders dated March 24 and April 2, 2021, passed by the state government. An application was moved expressing concerns about effective implementation of these orders. The counsels pointed out that the orders detailing restrictions have been modified by permitting cinema halls to conduct the shows with 100 percent capacity till April 7, 2021 and that even the condition of closing the gyms has been relaxed. The court directed the state government place on record all the modified orders. “There have been instances in the city where a large number of residents, in particular apartment complexes, turned positive (Covid-19) on account of functions held inside the apartment complexes. It is pointed out across the bar that directions concerning the restaurants and hotels are not being complied with. It is therefore all the more necessary for the state government and BBMP to ensure that surprise inspections are undertaken in various establishments, including apartment complexes, to ensure that the directions are followed,” the court said. The court directed the state government and the BBMP to place on record steps taken to implement the government orders. Meanwhile, the court also directed the state government to modify the order, if necessary, regarding the condition on the number of persons allowed in programs conducted at open and closed areas. In response to another application, the court said that the number of attendees is prescribed in the order without even defining those areas. The bench directed the state government to step in immediately and issue modified orders, if necessary. The next hearing has been posted to April 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rising-covid-cases-hc-asks-govt-to-conduct-surprise-checks-971703.html
08-04-2021||State||Provide list of granted lands to registering authorities, HC tells govt||The High Court on Wednesday directed the state government to ensure that a list of granted lands is provided to all the registering authorities in the state. The government submitted that with the introduction of Bhoomi software, the compliance in terms of Section 6 of the Karnataka Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act, 1978 has been made in the state. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, said that government will have to make a clear submission on the steps taken for effective implementation of Section 6 of the Act. The court is hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by B Dasappa, a resident of Tumakuru. The petitioner has stated that despite restrictions, the granted lands are either being transferred or registered, in violation of the enactment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/provide-list-of-granted-lands-to-registering-authorities-hc-tells-govt-971704.html
08-04-2021||State||Turncoats keep BJP wary ahead of ZP, TP elections||Wary of turncoats, the BJP has decided to exercise caution while selecting candidates for the upcoming Zilla and Taluk Panchayat elections. The BJP had to face embarrassment among its ranks after it lost control of two urban local bodies in Koppal and Bagalkot, as the party-backed candidates jumped ship at the last moment. Though a substantial portion of the state BJP unit’s poll machinery is currently focused on winning the April 17 bypolls in three constituencies - Belgaum Lok Sabha and Maski, Basavakalyan assembly - preliminary efforts are also on to select candidates for Zilla and Taluk Panchayat polls, which are yet to be announced.  Ashwathnarayan, state BJP general secretary told DH, “There is no doubt that we have to choose winning candidates. However, the party’s state president Nalin Kumar Kateel has directed that incharges of the local body polls to select candidates faithful to the BJP ideals.”  Based on these directions, the process of filtering candidates likely to be fielded by the saffron party is on, he said. According to sources, the state BJP leaders are holding meetings in various districts to review preparations and the suitability of the candidates. “There are minor differences over candidate selection between old karyakartas of the party and those who joined BJP recently. All concerns are being addressed by holding meetings at the district level,” a source said. Elections are due for the local bodies, as the state government recently notified the new Zilla Panchayat constituencies following a delimitation exercise. The ruling BJP faced an embarrassment in November last year after its members defied the party whip in elections to president and vice-president posts of the Koppal Zilla Panchayat, and Gangavathi City Municipal Council. It had sought the suspension of six councillors with the district administration, despite the fact that only six months of the term was left. The dissidence came in a district where three MLAs and sitting MP are from the BJP. Similar developments had hurt BJP in Bagalkot last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/turncoats-keep-bjp-wary-ahead-of-zp-tp-elections-971706.html
08-04-2021||State||Number of families seeking jobs under MNREGA up by 15 lakh||In the pandemic-hit 2020-21 fiscal, the number of families seeking employment under MNREGA increased by a whopping 15 lakh, according to the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department. While 41 lakh families had sought employment under MNREGA in 2019-20, the number was 56.87 lakh in 2020-21, RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa told reporters. The increased workforce also resulted in the generation of more person-hours under the scheme. Compared to 2019-20, when 12 crore person-hours were generated, it was 14.65 crore person-hours in 2020-21. “This is the highest achieved by the state till date,” he said, noting that it was an increase of 28.08% than last year, and beyond the target of 13 crore person-hours set for Karnataka. ‘Catch the rain’ Karnataka will launch the ‘Catch the Rain’ scheme announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 9 at Hubballi, Eshwarappa said. All deputy commissioners and CEOs of Zilla Panchayats have been directed to take up works under the scheme in all constituencies of the state. “We will have around two months to take up as many works as possible as rainfall will start by June,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/number-of-families-seeking-jobs-under-mnrega-up-by-15-lakh-971709.html
08-04-2021||State||Govt may invoke ‘no work no pay’ rule on RTC workers||With all four RTCs running under losses, the corporation is finding it tough to pay even wages leave alone hike, said Transport Minister Laxman Savadi adding that government may invoke the no work, no pay rule against the unrelenting staff. Speaking to reporters in Humnabad on Wednesday, Savadi said, “We will hike the wages of RTC staff if the election commission gives us the permission. Despite assurance, the employees have gone ahead with their protest. Some unseen hands are behind this strike,” he charged. “At a few places RTC buses have started operating by evening. I am sure, the employees of all four RTCs will report to work on Thursday,” the minister said. He added that the private buses have been allowed to operate even without permits. “The strike will only worsen the ongoing financial crisis in the corporation. The employees should not pay heed to the vested interests. The staff should call off strike and report to work,” he urged. ‘Revenue shortfall’ Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the state government had been facing a massive shortfall in revenue for the past six months and that it would be difficult to implement the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission for the staff. “The Covid-19 pandemic has choked the state’s economy. Despite the hardships, the state government has not reduced the wages of its staff, unlike in other states,” he told reporters here. “The government will respond positively if the representatives of the RTC employees discuss their demands with the Transport minister after the election code of conduct ends. People are put up to hardships because of the strike. The RTC staff should report to work in the interests of public,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-may-invoke-no-work-no-pay-rule-on-rtc-workers-971718.html
08-04-2021||State||Karnataka bus strike: Arranging alternatives was akin to starting from scratch||Empty bus terminals, passengers waiting for hours either on platforms or inside buses and lack of information. All these were proof of the difficulty in arranging transport services on a par with the well-oiled machinery of BMTC or KSRTC, while commuters complained about exorbitant fares. The government’s efforts to bring private players to fill the void in public transport created by the striking road transport corporation (RTC) workers brought many vehicles to the bus stations. However, the gap between demand and supply was visible at all stations. As usual, the peak hour saw thousands of people coming to the bus stations. These included commuters who were unaware of the strike as well as those who hoped to use the alternative arrangements promised by the government. “We acknowledge the gaps. Filling in for an expansive system, like BMTC or KSRTC, is a huge challenge. If given enough time, we will streamline the system to ensure that no commuter suffers,” said K T Halaswamy, joint transport commissioner, who was monitoring the operations at Kempegowda Bus Station in Majestic.  The officials as well as private players acknowledged the issue of exorbitant fares. Radhakrishna Holla, president of Karnataka State Travel Operators Association (KSTOA), said the problem of high fares was due to confusion. “I have told the members of the association that we must support the public and not try to make money from the situation,” he said.  Even otherwise, there was a problem with demand assessment. Most of the passengers at the Kengeri terminal, Mysuru Road terminal and Shantinagar were regular commuters travelling in express buses for nominal fares. In its hurry to arrange alternative transport, the government had brought air-conditioned buses and commuters were charged two to three times the nominal fares. Transport commissioner N Shivakumar said the options before the department were limited. “As long as the strike continues, the passengers have to rely on private buses. We can only deploy officers to ensure that proper fare is collected,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bus-strike-arranging-alternatives-was-akin-to-starting-from-scratch-971725.html
08-04-2021||State||Shot in the arm for Covaxin in Karnataka as more people queue up for jab||With the opening of vaccinations for everyone aged above 45 years, health officials in the state noticed a new trend: Covaxin, the junior vaccine which was once regarded with suspicion, has now become the public’s vaccine of choice. As per data from the health department, 5.08 lakh doses of Covaxin have been administered so far. While this is a far cry from the 44.9 lakh Covishield jabs given so far as of Wednesday morning, officials said the demand for Covaxin has spiked since April 1. In the city, K C General Hospital, which has so far given 10,350 doses since vaccinations started in January 16, said that over half of all doses (5,280) are of Covaxin, as opposed to 5,070 doses of Covishield. “Even though Covaxin doses were only started later on March 13, their numbers have already achieved parity with Covishield,” said Dr B R Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent of the hospital. A strident increase in public interest in Covaxin has also been noted at the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), which has so far dispensed 13,107 shots since vaccinations began on January 16. “Out of these total doses, only about 2,092 doses are of Covaxin, but nearly 2,000 of these were given in just the last 10 to 12 days,” a source said. “About 65% of people coming for vaccinations now demand Covaxin,” the source said. This trend was confirmed by Dr Rajani Nageshrao, Director of Immunisations, Department of Health and Family Welfare, who said the demand for Covaxin was especially high in Bengaluru. However, she noted that the demand had started earlier in mid-March. “The moment Covaxin was removed from clinical trial mode, a lot more people started asking for it,” she said. The piqued public interest of late could be due to medical concerns over the effects of Covishield, said Dr H Sudarshan Ballal of Manipal Hospital and a member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). He pointed to recent reports of a link between AstraZeneca’s vaccine (Covishield) and rare blood clots in the brain. However, for members of the Emergency Response Team (ERT), a large group of citizen volunteers, government officers and medicos, who offer assistance to the public in hospitalisation, burials and vaccine information, the reasons are more nuanced.  Ismail Mohammed, a project coordinator, said that interest in Covaxin has increased because people believe that the vaccine has higher efficacy than Covishield (which has reported between 65% and 90% efficacy), and because celebrities and leaders have taken the vaccine. This was confirmed by a government immunisation officer who said that people demand to be given the same vaccine “taken by Prime Minister Modi”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shot-in-the-arm-for-covaxin-in-karnataka-as-more-people-queue-up-for-jab-971728.html
08-04-2021||State||Rain, heat threaten king of fruits in Karnataka||Untimely rains at the start of the year followed by steady rise in the mercury levels have dashed hopes of a bumper yield of 14 lakh tonnes of mangoes this year in the state. The sudden climatic fluctuation across the mango cultivation belt of Karnataka has resulted in the loss of about 4 lakh tonnes, according to the officials of the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation Ltd (KSMDMCL). Alphonso (Badami), the most sought-after mango variety which accounts for about 30 to 40 per cent of the state’s mango production, has been largely hit due to climatic variation. “The technical committee had earlier estimated about 14 lakh tonnes. But showers, hail storms and rise in temperature have affected the flowering process causing an overall dip in production,” explained K V Nagaraju, chairperson of KSMDMCL. Nagaraju added, “Alphonso varieties are sensitive even to the smallest fluctuation in weather. Rise in temperature results in flowers dropping in some areas. Later, humidity increased due to rain, triggering fungal infection. Loss in production and rise in demand could push up the cost of the mangoes. Now, we are also worried about extreme heat and heavy winds, a characteristic of pre-monsoon showers, as they could wipe out the crop.” Being the third largest mango producer in India, Karnataka’s mango varieties are often chosen for table purpose and export. While the board had a tough task in marketing the crop last year amid the pandemic and lock-down, this year it has chalked out a detailed plan for marketing the fruits. C G Nagaraju, managing director of the Board, said, “Switching to online platform, we had sold about 100 tonnes with a turnover of Rs 1.5 crore. We could not deliver in some areas of Bengaluru and other parts of the state. This time, we plan to deliver to all the 98 PIN codes in Bengaluru.” This apart, the Board is also continuing its collaboration with apartment communities across Bengaluru as it helped market about 1,000 tonnes of fruits last year. The steep rise in the cargo flying charges due to the Covid scenario has also left farmers worried as it would affect the export to the Middle East and Europe. “We plan to consult the chief minister seeking a rebate on these charges to help the farmers,” Nagaraju said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rain-heat-threaten-king-of-fruits-in-karnataka-971740.html
08-04-2021||State||South Western Railway to run 9 pairs of trains amid bus strike||The railways will run nine pairs of trains with limited services between Bengaluru and many districts across the state to cater to the festival rush in view of the strike called by the workers of state road transport corporations (RTC). As per a release by the South Western Railway, the 18 trains will have special fares and operate on different days. The first of these is the special train from Hubballi to Yashwantpur (06545) which will run on Thursday. Trains have been deployed on Yashwantpur-Vijayapura, Yashwantpur-Belagavi, Yashwantpur-Bidar and Mysuru-Bidar, Shivamogga-Bengaluru, Mysuru-Bengaluru and Karwar-Yashwantpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/south-western-railway-to-run-9-pairs-of-trains-amid-bus-strike-971829.html
08-04-2021||State||Karnataka RTC strike: B S Yediyurappa to hold meeting with concerned officials on April 8||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said that he will hold a meeting with the concerned officials regarding the ongoing strike of Road Transport Corporation (RTC) workers in Bengaluru today (April 8). He was speaking to media persons at Hubballi Airport on Thursday. Replying to a query of media persons on private vehicles and taxicabs charging exorbitantly in the unavailability of government transport services,  he said, private transport services are charging the fair fixed by the government. Action will be taken against drivers if they are found charging more than the actual fair. When asked about allowing private vehicles with expired insurance and permit period to run in the state in the wake of the strike, the chief minister said, "We are responsible for the safety of people and we also know how to run the government. Hence, media people need not bother about it." On Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency bypolls, Yediyurappa said, "I was in Belagavi for two days and the environment in the constituency is pro-BJP. Party candidate Mangala Angadi would emerge victorious with a margin on lines of Suresh Angadi."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-rtc-strike-b-s-yediyurappa-to-hold-meeting-with-concerned-officials-on-april-8-971895.html
08-04-2021||State||Stray cattle from NMP area shifted to gaushala||New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) has made arrangements to shift stray cattle that have been roaming in the port land to a gaushala in Hosanagara. Stray cattle have been roaming on the land since the port’s inception. Due to the high risk of the cattle being injured or even causing accidents, the Trust has recently launched a project to shift the stray cattle from the port area to the cattle care center as per the Animal Protection Act 1960. Stray cattle roam freely in the middle of the dock area where a large number of trucks enter to load and unload cargoes and conduct operations. This disrupts smooth cargo operations and port operations. With the onset of summer, the cattle, unable to find enough food within the docks, roam around NH 66 causing problems for the heavy traffic movement on the road. NMPT has entrusted the work of shifting the cattle to Ramachandrapura Mutt. The work is being administered by port officials along with the help of the Department of Animal Husbandry. On Wednesday, the first batch of cattle was transported to a gaushala in Hosanagara. The project was kickstarted by leaders from Vishwa Hindu Parishad — Prof M B Puranik, and Sharan Pumpwell. The management of NMPT will assess the smooth transfer of these cattle and take further decisions on continuing the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/stray-cattle-from-nmp-area-shifted-to-gaushala-971960.html
08-04-2021||State||Tibetan govt-in-exile: Bylakuppe residents confident of victory of their candidate||Excitement is in the air at the Tibetan settlement in Bylakuppe in Periyapatna taluk in the district, with the residents holding special prayers and rituals for the victory of Penpa Tsering, who is contesting the prestigious election to head the next Tibetan government-in-exile. Tsering, former speaker of the Tibetan government-in-exile, is contesting against Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang in the election scheduled to be held across the world on April 11. He secured a large number of votes in the preliminary round of the election to the office of ‘Sikyong’ or president of the Tibetan government-in-exile (the executive head of the Central Tibetan Administration) and is a front-runner. Tsering, a resident of Bylakuppe Third Old Camp, is a little different from Indian politicians. He is strictly following the Covid norms, laid out by the Indian and Karnataka governments and has initiated the social movement and dialogue, virtually, on online media, assuring stability to the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) and unity among the people. Tsering promises that if he is elected as president, he will take forward various programmes of the Dalai Lama and will serve the CTA for the next five years. The elections will be held on April 11, in India and also in the US, France, Belgium, Canada and European nations, where thousands of Tibetans live. The results will be announced after a month at The Dalai Lama’s office, in Delhi, according to sources. Lhakpa, a supporter of Tsering, said he is a great follower of the Dalai Lama and propagates Umaylam (middle way approach, autonomy in Tibet). “The Tibetans are supporting him for his honesty and integrity. He has not anything unethical to please or lure the people to vote for him. The volunteers are spending their own money, canvassing for him. The campaign is also done on social media platforms,” she said. The Tibetans in Bylakuppe conducted special prayers and rituals for the victory of Penpa for over six hours on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tibetan-govt-in-exile-bylakuppe-residents-confident-of-victory-of-their-candidate-972045.html
08-04-2021||State||Three children drown in agricultural pond in Mandya village||Three children, who went for a swim, drowned in an agricultural pond at Balehathiguppe village in the taluk on Thursday afternoon. The deceased are Chandan (11) and Karthik (10), sons of Mahadevappa, and Rithesh (8), son of Mallikarjuna. Chandan and Karthik are students of Nirmala Convent in Pandavapura, studying class 5 and 6 respectively. Rithesh was a class 3 student of the government school at Balehathiguppe. As the schools were closed, they had gone to play and swim in the agricultural pond. They got stuck in the slush and drowned. MLA C S Puttaraju rushed to the spot and consoled the family members. He assured of providing suitable compensation to the family members. Pandavapura police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-children-drown-in-agricultural-pond-in-mandya-village-972047.html
08-04-2021||State||CJ requests advocates to attend court through video-conferencing||Karnataka High Court Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka on Thursday made a personal request to the members of the bar to appear through video conferencing, in the wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city. The chief justice also made an appeal to all staff members above 45 years of age to take vaccines at the earliest. During the last couple of days, many advocates sought adjournments citing that they have contracted virus. Justice Oka orally made a request to the advocates to attend the proceedings through video conferencing. The chief justice said that the first 10 courts at the principal bench in Bengaluru already have highly efficient loudspeakers and the same will be arranged in all the court halls. He said that many other High Courts are taking advise to adopt the system in place in the Karnataka High Court. Similarly, Justice B V Nagarathna requested members of the bar to appear through video conferencing, so as to avoid crowding in court halls. “You can effectively argue through video conferencing, as well as you do when you appear personally,” Justice Nagarathna told an advocate. Chief Justice Oka requested all eligible staff to get vaccinated at the earliest. “As the courts are functioning normally, the general public, litigants and advocates are regularly visiting the court and offices. It is, therefore, necessary that all eligible staff members get themselves vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cj-requests-advocates-to-attend-court-through-video-conferencing-972049.html
08-04-2021||State||Come clean on ED notice to son, Ugrappa tells BSY||Former MP V S Ugrappa said on Thursday that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa should come clean on reports that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had issued notice to his (Yediyurappa's) son B Y Vijayendra, over deposits in Federal Bank.  Addressing a press conference in the city, he alleged that government money was filling the coffers of the chief minister's family.   Ugrappa said the BJP's own MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal had flagged the issue of the ED sending a notice to Vijayendra.  The former MP said Minister K S Eshwarappa had lost his mental balance and needed treatment as he took the complaint against Yediyurappa to the Raj Bhavan.  "In normal practice, it is the ministers who advise the Governor and not the other way round," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/come-clean-on-ed-notice-to-son-ugrappa-tells-bsy-972055.html
08-04-2021||State||Hassan gelatin blast: Death toll increases to 3||With another injured man succumbing, the death toll in the gelatin blast case has increased to three in the district on Thursday. Gelatin sticks had exploded while unloading the materials at Chakenahalli Katte in Holenarasipur taluk on Sunday. While one person, Sampath, died on the spot, another Ravikumar died on Wednesday. Nataraj, who was battling for life at a hospital in Bengaluru, died on Thursday. The police have also arrested the godown owner Nagesh who had absconded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hassan-gelatin-blast-death-toll-increases-to-3-972057.html
08-04-2021||State||Govt launches initiative to standardize its web portals||With many departments approaching private vendors for creating and hosting their websites, not only is it posing data security risks to the state government but has also raised concerns about limited public accessibility. In an effort to address this issue, the government is now insisting all the departments to stick to the Karnataka State Data Centre for management of their respective websites.  A recent government order in this regard pointed out that several departments whose websites are being managed by private entities, were neither following the national Guidelines for Indian Government Websites (GIGW) nor were they ensuring accessibility to all. Many websites are not ensuring that the websites open to Kannada content when a user logs in. They are also not following guidelines to ensure that the websites are accessible by differently-abled citizens, the government order said, asking departments to follow the standard format.  Ensuring that the website opens to Kannada content, displaying the state government logo, Chief Minister's name, respective minister's name and official contacts are all part of the standard format for Karnataka government websites. According to Belur Sudarshan, Chief Minister's e-governance advisor, bringing all the department websites on a common platform is a long-standing issue. The government is now making an endeavour to ensure that all the department websites are hosted by the Karnataka State Data Centre to ensure data security and a standardised format. It is also in the process of providing a Kannada URL link for all websites, to help people who want to access government departments in the regional language, he explained. During the H D Kumaraswamy government, there was a circular issued to standardise the websites. With the government order now, this has been made mandatory, he further said.  According to sources in the e-governance department, there are about 1,000 websites of the Karnataka government, including the local bodies, of which only about 250 are in the standard format.  Tech expert and activist Omshivaprakash opined that individual departments need training and technically trained staff to adopt these common guidelines. "Departments find it easier to outsource it to private entities than go through the government process. Even after getting a website developed, management and maintenance is a big challenge. As for security issues, the State Data Centre has to take control of hosting and offer secure infrastructure services," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-launches-initiative-to-standardize-its-web-portals-972059.html
08-04-2021||State||Maski bypoll: Video clip of cash distribution goes viral||A video clip of money being distributed for votes at Halapur village under the bypoll-bound Maski Assembly segment has gone viral. The clip purportedly shows the BJP workers distributing Rs 200 among the voters. A few workers sporting saffron shawls were heard telling the voters in the clip: "today we are giving you Rs 200. On the eve of polling we will give you more. Please vote for Pratapgouda. He will develop the constituency." The clip is doing rounds on social media platforms. A few commented saying that "going by the Kannada accent, the BJP workers were from south Karnataka."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/maski-bypoll-video-clip-of-cash-distribution-goes-viral-972062.html
08-04-2021||State||As second Covid-19 wave rages, Bengaluru's premier institutes brace for worst||As the second Covid-19 surge continues to push up case numbers, the premier scientific and educational institutions in the city expressed concern that research and academic activities will be affected. Educators are also waiting to see if the year-long stint of online learning has translated to actual learning. Vice Chancellor Sudhir Krishnaswamy of National Law School of India University (NLSIU), said that the impact of online learning can only be gauged once first-year students return to classrooms this year for their second year. "Only then we will know if they have achieved the same learning outcome as previous batches," he said. Another area of concern is scientific research. The first Covid-19 outbreak had disrupted research at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) - first through the lockdown and then through interruptions in the import of supplies. As per data from the institute, whereas researchers were consistently publishing over 2,100 papers annually since 2015, they published only 1,666 papers last year. In the first quarter of this year, 406 papers have been published. Better prepared IISc Director Dr Govindan Rangarajan acknowledged that for the past year, all labs worked at reduced capacity, with strict Covid-19 protocols in place. "The Institute community is much better prepared to handle the disruptions this year," he said. "Faculty members and students will continue working on their research projects with Covid-19 protocols in place." The institute has been hit by 32 on-campus Covid-19 cases in the second wave. This includes a cluster of about seven asymptomatic cases which were discovered at a campus hostel last week. With students returning to campus, Dr Rangarajan specified that "all classes and assessments, including final exams, during the ongoing semester (from February to June) will be conducted online." Research was also affected across the campuses of the Indian Institute of Astrophysics (IIA) but on a smaller scale, according to Director Dr Annapurni Subramaniam. "Key satellite integration projects were not disrupted. Small labs are now continuing their work. Students are returning in staggered batches. There is concern, however, over the JEST 2021 exam which could be held in-person,” she said. At Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Professor Rajendra K Bandi, Dean of Administration, said that the institute has embraced online learning mechanisms and has introduced weekly testing on campus. "The pandemic has made us more creative and more collaborative. As institute events were held online, we got marquee speakers from across the globe for workshops, seminars and conferences," he said. He added that all examinations, completed in March, were held online and that placements, also, were completely online. At NLSIU, Krishnaswamy said that the college hopes to restart physical classes from July. "Classrooms and other infrastructure have been revamped to provide more space and ventilation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/as-second-covid-19-wave-rages-bengalurus-premier-institutes-brace-for-worst-972065.html
08-04-2021||State||Submit plan for continuation of education amid Covid: Karnataka HC tells govt||The High Court on Thursday directed the government to submit a concrete plan for ensuring continuation of education in view of rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. A division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna directed the government to submit the action plan by April 22. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by M Radha and two others, seeking directions for reintroduction of midday meals in schools. The court said the government will have to prepare a concrete plan for conducting classes online by providing access to technology. This direction was passed after the government informed the court that classes for 6th to 9th standard are suspended till April 20, while physical classes have been made optional for classes 10, 11 and 12. The bench expressed concern over the possibility of diversion of schoolgoing children to child labour, child trafficking. The bench said that the government will have to rise to the occasion in this challenging situation in order to safeguard the fundamental right of the children to get education under Article 21 A of the Constitution. The court also asked the government to ensure that these rights of the children are protected and also of the students who are out of school and those who are yet to be admitted. Meanwhile, the government submitted that providing rations in lieu of midday meals will be continued. The counsel representing the petitioners submitted that there has been a steep decline in admissions at various classes during the pandemic. There is a decline in about 9,000 children attending schools when compared to the previous academic years, the counsel said. He expressed apprehensions about children being pushed to child labour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/submit-plan-for-continuation-of-education-amid-covid-karnataka-hc-tells-govt-972066.html
08-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Bus Strike Day 2: Notice issued to workers as commuters continue to suffer||The second day of the strike by state road transport corporation (RTC) employees left commuters in the lurch on Thursday even as the management of the road transport corporations began issuing notices over the unauthorised absence of workers. However, in a positive sign, about 100 RTC buses were operated by regular crew members. Accordingly, 54 buses of NEKRTC, 38 buses of KSRTC, 28 of BMTC and 14 of NEKRTC were operated by the regular crew. About 300 employees, mostly trainees, have been attending work for fear of disciplinary action. While these employees can't fill in for the 1.3 lakh on strike, officials expect more to return to work. The private buses and maxi cabs deployed as an alternative to BMTC saw a larger number of riders compared to the poor response on Wednesday while the Namma Metro stations witnessed more passengers during the peak hours in the morning. KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi C Kalasad said at least 500 buses will cater to the needs of the interstate passengers. These buses, both from corporations and private players in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, will help the commuters during the festive rush. The bus connectivity with Kerala and Maharashtra will continue to be affected due to Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bus-strike-day-2-notice-issued-to-workers-as-commuters-continue-to-suffer-971832.html
08-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will not invite RTC employees for talks: CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that he would not invite employees of Road Transport Corporations (RTC) for talks to resolve their issues, but let themselves come for talks. Yediyurappa told reporters on Thursday that despite the government meeting eight of their nine demands, employees resorting to strike could not be understood. Strict action against them was the only thing remaining. “I am heading to Bengaluru and shall hold talks with officials and efforts will be made to solve the problem,” he expressed. He said that he would again visit Belagavi on April 14 to campaign for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency byelection BJP candidate Mangala Angadi and a roadshow would be organised. Yediyurappa denied commenting on statements made by Congress leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-not-invite-rtc-employees-for-talks-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-971836.html
08-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mortality among young and middle-aged group a cause for concern: K Sudhakar orders death audit||Concerned by mortality among middle-aged and young people, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar directed the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) here on Tuesday to conduct death audits. As per data presented in the meeting with the union health minister on Tuesday, out of 307 deaths reported in the last one month, 76 were between 45 and 59 years of age while 214 were above 60 years of age.   However, when DH contacted the top five districts in the state that had the highest number of Covid deaths, the districts maintained that they had mostly observed deaths in the above 60 age group, especially those with co-morbidities. According to the state Covid bulletin, the highest number of Covid deaths have been reported in Bengaluru Urban (4,693 including BBMP), Mysuru (1,067), Dakshina Kannada (740), Dharwad (633), and Ballari (600). According to the last available report from the state Covid-19 War Room, there have been 217 deaths in the 20 to 29 years age group, 561 in the 30 to 39 years age group, and 1,397 deaths in the 40-49 years age group. The corresponding case fatality rates for these age groups are 0.1%, 0.3%, and 0.8% respectively. Although, case fatality rates are a function of the total number of cases reported in these age groups which are 1,96,939; 2,07,941; and 1,68,971 respectively. Dr S Sachchidanand, Vice-Chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences told DH, "During the first wave once the cases started increasing, death audit was decentralised and now individual districts have their own committees to analyse Covid deaths." Bangalore Urban District District Surveillance Officer Dr Manohar N, said, "In four taluks of Bangalore Urban district: North, East, South and Anekal, we have analysed 443 deaths, another 15 are pending. We have formed teams of physicians and paediatricians in each taluk." Adding further he said, "We did not see any deaths in the second wave. Whatever deaths we have seen during the first wave are between 55 years and 60 years." Dakshin Kannada Covid nodal officer Dr Ashok H said, "We had formed a special committee and have analysed 742 deaths. First, it is analysed at the institutional level. Co-morbid deaths are more. Only in 17 deaths, they were suffering from Covid without co-morbidities. Due to panic earlier they have not come out of their houses and due to irregular treatment, they have succumbed. Seventy per cent of the patients are in home isolation but there has been only one death so far at home." TAC members said they were yet to receive instructions to do these death audits as announced by the minister to the Press. Dharwad District Health Officer Dr Yashwant Madinkar said out of 630 Covid deaths, 627 were analysed. "Recent deaths are yet to be analysed. The highest deaths were in the above 60 years age group with no co-morbidities. The expert committee in KIMS re-analyse the death audit done by the district teams."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mortality-among-young-and-middle-aged-group-a-cause-for-concern-k-sudhakar-orders-death-audit-971840.html
08-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Healthcare workers' database in Karnataka grew by 5% last week||Healthcare workers' database in Karnataka saw a growth of 5% in the past week as against the national average of 24%. Health Commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra told DH it will take a week to analyse ineligible beneficiaries among these newly registered beneficiaries. As on April 6, 3.30 pm as many as 5,69,521 health workers and 2,47,058 frontline workers had taken their first dose out of a target of healthcare workers and 2,88,441 frontline workers respectively. The deadline for vaccinating health workers and frontline workers was extended multiple times and last fixed at February 25 for health workers and March 6 for frontline workers. Even then, the provision to register and vaccinate them continues to ensure optimal coverage. Concerned with the general public posing as healthcare workers and frontline workers, and getting vaccinated, the central government had asked states to vaccinate newly registered workers only in government vaccination centres, if the workers carry an employment certificate issued by the employer. Health Commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra, told DH, "As per the Co-WIN portal, the percentage of healthcare workers registered in the last one week in the country on an average grew by 24%, and in Karnataka, it grew by 5% from March 22 to March 30. From 7,52,937, it grew to 7,96,221. We have asked these health workers to be verified. By next week, our analysis will tell us the number of ineligible beneficiaries registered in this category. Frontline workers' database growth is being calculated and will be available by April 7." Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association President Dr HM Prasanna, said, "There was enough time, as many as three months, given to healthcare workers and frontline workers to register and get themselves vaccinated. We stopped vaccinating them from Monday. If someone approaches us, we send them to the nearest government vaccination centre. If a below 45 health worker approaches for vaccination, we only look for a hospital ID card, which is scanned and uploaded on the Co-WIN portal." "The government has a copy of these ID cards. These can be audited anytime. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta mentioned in our meeting with private hospitals that some vaccination centres have given the vaccine to 16-year-old individuals and 18-year-old individuals saying that they're frontline workers. They are not even legally employable," he added. Dr Nagarbet, District Immunisation Officer, Vijayapura, said, "Out of a target of 12,000 odd health workers, we have vaccinated all. Out of a target 8,000 frontline health workers too, we have vaccinated all. We can only verify them randomly. Among frontline workers, there are municipality workers and those from Rural Development and Panchayat Raj." Dr Ishwar Gadad, District Immunisation Officer, Belagavi, said, "As on April 5, 14,294 frontline workers have been vaccinated as against a registered target of 20,399, which is 70% coverage. Among health workers, 41,401 have registered, 37,839 have been vaccinated, which is 76.6% coverage."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/healthcare-workers-database-in-karnataka-grew-by-5-last-week-971842.html
08-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka imposes Corona (night) curfew in 8 cities, including Bengaluru||The state government on Thursday decided to impose ‘Corona Curfew’ in eight cities, including Bengaluru, for 10 days starting April 10, to contain the new wave of Covid-19. The night curfew will be in force on all days from 10 pm to 5 am. Speaking to reporters after his video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the curfew will be imposed in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru, Udupi and Manipal. “This will be applicable only in district headquarters. Essential services will be available," Yediyurappa said, clarifying that this was not a lockdown. “We are not imposing any curbs during daytime,” he said. Noting that the Corona Curfew was on a trial basis, Yediyurappa sought cooperation from the public to ensure that the curfew is not extended pan-Karnataka. The government will intensify action against those who violate guidelines meant to contain the spread of the pandemic, he said. "We will go for strict enforcement of Rs 250 fine on those who do not wear masks and ensure that social distancing regulations are followed," he said. Yediyurappa said a vaccination campaign will be carried out from April 11, the birthday of activist Jyotirao Phule, to April 14, the birthday of B R Ambedkar, as suggested by Modi. Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar said the curfew would curb only “unnecessary commercial establishments” while all other essential services will remain open. According to a release by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), Yediyurappa told Modi that more Covid cases are being reported in Bengaluru and six other districts. "Though there is a surge in the number of cases, the fatality rate remains low. The case fatality rate was 0.50% in the state (on Wednesday). The Government of India has also expressed content over this," the release said. Among the issues discussed include micro-containment zones, ensuring sufficient supply of oxygen supply and ventilators. The CMO said the PM was asked to provide oxygen generators from the PM-CARES fund to decrease the load on oxygen manufacturing. "So far, we have vaccinated more than 53 lakh people. We have vaccinated 22.31% of the target population above 45 years of age as compared to the national average of 13.94% as on April 5," the CMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-imposes-corona-night-curfew-in-8-cities-including-bengaluru-972013.html
08-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 6,570 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday added 6,570 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 36 fatalities, taking the caseload to 10,40,130 and toll to 12,767. The day also saw 2,393 patients getting discharged after recovery, pushing the cumulative tally of discharges to 9,73,949, the Health department said. According to a department bulletin, out of 53,395 active cases, 53,038 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 357 are in ICU. A total of over 2,23,23,599 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,08,757 were tested on Thursday alone. Today is the third consecutive day the state has reported over 6,000 fresh cases, with 6,976 cases on Wednesday. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 4,422 cases today. Among the 36 deaths reported, 22 are from Bengaluru Urban, Kalaburagi 3, Bengaluru Rural and Mandya 2, and one each from Belagavi, Bidar, Dharwad, Kolar, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Vijayapura. Kalaburagi accounted for 240 new cases, Mysuru 216, Tumakuru 183, Dakshina Kannada 145, Uttara Kannada 142, Bidar 129, Ballari 126, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,64,438, followed by Mysuru 57,385 and Ballari 40,308. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 4,20,751, followed by Mysuru 54,739 and Ballari 39,119.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-6570-new-covid-19-cases-36-deaths-972017.html
08-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ease of doing business? Red-tapism row hits KSFC||In an apparent case of 'red-tapism', a group of six entrepreneurs are being made to run from pillar to post for a loan from the Karnataka State Financial Corporation (KSFC) and even Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s intervention does not seem to have worked.  This comes at a time when the state government is going big with ease-of-doing-business reforms.  Documents with DH show that the KSFC, which provides term loans to entrepreneurs, has not released the first tranche to the entrepreneurs even as the state-run agency has done so to 25 other entrepreneurs. All the 31 entrepreneurs are eligible for loans at lower rates as they belong to SC/ST.   Take the case of M Venkatesh, who started Manmanth Industries for which the KSFC approved a loan of Rs 4.25 crore in March 2019. The Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) allotted a plot for this unit in Avverahalli in Dobbspet. The total cost of the project is Rs 6.45 crore and Venkatesh’s share is Rs 2.20 crore.  Venkatesh is to receive the first tranche of the KSFC loan of Rs 1.12 crore towards the KIADB land and has paid Rs 53 lakh of his share.  According to sources, the KSFC is refusing to part with the loan, asking Venkatesh and other entrepreneurs like him to first pay up their share of the project cost. In Venkatesh’s case, that is Rs 2.20 crore.  "KSFC managing director Ekroop Caur has put on hold the release of loans saying her predecessors had erred. We have been asked to first invest our share for the loans to be released. How come this did not apply to other entrepreneurs," Venkatesh asked. "My plot is 276-B. How is it that the KSFC released the loan amount to my neighbour 276-A? Isn’t this red-tapism?" Caur, who is also Finance Secretary (Budget & Resources), was unavailable for comment.  In 2018-19, the KSFC approved loans worth Rs 1,098 crore to 1,056 entrepreneurs. Of them, 354 were SC/ST entreprenuers. "Why are only six of us left in the lurch like this," Venkatesh asked.  Yediyurappa, through a note in February 2021, directed the Finance Department under which the KSFC functions to take action. Even Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol intervened. There was no respite.   This issue also came up for discussion in the Legislative Council in March 2020. Yediyurappa had assured the House that he would get the loans released immediately. Venkatesh has, once again, approached Yediyurappa with a reminder on his assurance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ease-of-doing-business-red-tapism-row-hits-ksfc-972069.html
08-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Foundation for RGUHS campus at Ramanagara soon: Dr Sudhakar||The long standing issue of shifting the campus of RKuajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) to Ramanagara has finally taken off and soon, the new campus at Ramanagara will now be operational. Visiting the RGUHS a few days ago, Health, Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar stated that the university will be shifted soon and the foundation ceremony will be held in the next three months. The shifting of the university campus to Ramanagara has been debated since 2007. It has often faced several hurdles ranging from pending land litigation cases in various courts to political slug-fest between political parties. Due to these issues, the shifting of the campus was delayed for over 10 years. Back in 2007, HD Kumaraswamy-led state government had decided to set up a new campus of RGUHS at Ramanagara and acquired over 70-acres of land. The farmers were paid compensation as per 2007 regulations. Since then, the issue has snowballed into a political controversy. Later, farmers, whose land was acquired, had moved the Supreme Court demanding compensation as per 2011 guidelines and following this, the RGUHS had written to the state government to allocate alternative land. Meanwhile, questioning the state government’s move, the then syndicate members of RGUHS had approached the court. A few of the syndicate members said, “Even now, the shifting of campus is not that easy as some part of the land that was allocated is still under litigation and the same can not be acquired without clearing the litigation.” Yet another syndicate member said, “Our argument is that university can not buy land unless it is litigation free and not a single rupee from the university fund will be transferred to the government for construction of campus purpose.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/foundation-for-rguhs-campus-at-ramanagara-soon-dr-sudhakar-972073.html
08-04-2021||West||Goa logs 527 Covid-19 cases; crackdown on SOP violators||On a day when Goa recorded its highest daily tally of Covid-19 cases in months, with 527 cases reported on Wednesday, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant set a target for police station in-charges, directing them to book 500 SOP violators per day. Ruling out any other restrictions, Sawant said that the state could not afford another lockdown, which he said had reduced the revenue collection to virtually zero, when the lockdown was imposed last year. "I have told the police and the Collector's office that if a person is seen violating (SOPs) in public places repeatedly, the person can be fined more than once," Sawant said. "Police stations should book 500 cases a day," the Chief Minister also said, while urging people to mandatorily maintain social distancing, wear masks and maintain the government SOPs. A new lockdown, Sawant said, would not help arrest the spread of Covid. "Lockdown is not a solution.  We do not want to disturb people. After the last lockdown, we had to start labour camps and the economy had dropped to zero. Revenue collection had dropped. Lockdown will not lead to reduction in coronavirus. The solution is vaccination, social distancing, wearing of masks and exercising precautions," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-logs-527-covid-19-cases-crackdown-on-sop-violators-971696.html
08-04-2021||West||Maharashtra traders threaten to protest against Covid-19 curbs||Traders in Aurangabad have threatened to protest against restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government to curb the spread of Covid-19. As per the state government's order of 'Break the Chain', all shops under the non-essential category will remain closed till April 30. Expressing unhappiness over the order, the Maharashtra Nabhik Mahamandal on Wednesday said salon owners here will burn an effigy of the government on Saturday and shave off their heads as part of the 'mundan andolan' on April 22. They will also stage a 'ghantanaad' (ringing of bells) agitation outside their shops on April 14. Representatives of the Aurangabad Jilha Vyapari Mahasangh met the district collector on Wednesday and submitted a memorandum, saying they should either be allowed to open their shops or given "permission for self-immolation". Nearly two lakh labourers are employed with about 40,000 merchants in the district, according to the traders' body. They also demanded a package from the government to sustain their livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-traders-threaten-to-protest-against-covid-19-curbs-971847.html
08-04-2021||West||It is Modi government that has lackadaisical approach towards Maharashtra: NCP hits out Vardhan's remark||In a sharp swipe at the Centre and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, the NCP on Thursday said that the Minister could check the data for himself on vaccines and vaccination. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday rubbished the Maharashtra government for its SOS on the "shortage" of Covid-19 vaccines, calling the allegations "utterly baseless". He also said that a "lackadaisical and casual attitude" of the state government has weighed on the country’s efforts to fight the virus. Vardhan's statement came hours after Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, flagged the alleged issue of Covid-19 vaccine shortage, claiming that the existing vaccine stock would last just three days in Maharashtra. “I have seen statements made by public representatives in Maharashtra about shortage of vaccines. This is nothing but an attempt to divert attention from Maharashtra government’s repeated failures to control the spread of pandemic. To spread panic among the people is to compound the folly further,” Vardhan said in a strongly-worded statement. "Union Health Minister needs to be reminded that Maharashtra tops the chart in the country as far as vaccination drive is concerned and this is purely due to the efforts taken by Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope and his team," the NCP statement said. "It is the Modi Government at the centre which has a lackadaisical approach towards Maharashtra only because it could not form a government here," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/it-is-modi-government-that-has-lackadaisical-approach-towards-maharashtra-ncp-hits-out-vardhans-remark-971849.html
08-04-2021||West||'Dirty politics' on to destabilise Maharashtra government: Sanjay Raut on Vaze accusations||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday claimed "dirty politics" was being played out to destabilise the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra and asserted that such attempts will not succeed. Raut's remarks came a day after suspended cop Sachin Vaze in a letter claimed former state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had demanded Rs 2 crore from him to continue his service in the Mumbai police and another minister Anil Parab asked him to collect money from contractors. Vaze was arrested last month by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai and the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. Parab, a Shiv Sena leader, rejected Vaze's claims on Wednesday and said he was ready to face any probe into the allegations. He swore in the name of Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray and asserted that he has not done anything wrong. Talking to reporters on Thursday, Raut said there is a new trend of getting letters written from the accused locked up in jail. "Never before has the country seen dirty politics being played out in such a manner, like indulging in character assassination using investigation agencies and IT cells of political parties, and letters from accused locked up in jail," the Rajya Sabha member said. Raut said attempts to weaken and destabilise the MVA government "will not be successful". "I know Anil Parab. He is a staunch Shiv Sainik and will never swear wrongly in the name of Balasaheb Thackeray," Raut said. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress share power in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dirty-politics-on-to-destabilise-maharashtra-government-sanjay-raut-on-vaze-accusations-971861.html
08-04-2021||West||Gujarat half the size of Maharashtra but gets same number of Covid-19 vaccine doses: Tope||The war of words between the Centre and Maharashtra intensified on Thursday with State Health Minister Rajesh Tope saying that at least 40 lakh dosages per week were required. He said that Maharashtra – which has a population of 12 crore has received 1.04 crore doses so far, whereas neighbouring Gujarat – which has a population of 6 crore – has got 1 crore doses. "Gujarat is half of the population of Maharashtra. Gujarat has got 1 crore vaccines till now, however, we have got only 1.04 crore vaccine dosages," he added. “Maharashtra has the maximum number of active patients – around 4.5 lakh as on date, on the other hand we have crossed the progressive total of 30 lakh,” he said. “We hardly have 9 lakh doses left…which would last for one or one-and-a-half days,” he said. “We will maintain the level of six lakh per week…we will not go beyond it at this stage, but at least give us 40 lakh vaccines per week,” Tope told reporters. He also said that the state was following the ICMR guidelines of 70:30 ratio of RT-PCRs and RATs. “We are strictly following what the ICMR suggested,” he said, however, pointed out that in Uttar Pradesh it is the other way round – 90 per cent RATs and 10 per cent RT-PCR. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday rubbished the Maharashtra government for its SOS on the "shortage" of Covid-19 vaccines, calling the allegations "utterly baseless". He also said that a "lackadaisical and casual attitude" of the state government has weighed on the country’s efforts to fight the virus. Vardhan's statement came hours after Tope flagged the alleged issue of Covid-19 vaccine shortage, claiming that the existing vaccine stock would last just three days in Maharashtra at the current rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-half-the-size-of-maharashtra-but-gets-same-number-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-tope-971868.html
08-04-2021||West||Maharashtra needs at least 40 lakh vaccines per week: Rajesh Tope||Amid a tussle between the Centre and the Maharashtra government over the shortfall of Covid-19 vaccines, the Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said the pandemic-affected state needs at least 40 lakh vaccines per week. “We will maintain the level of six lakh per week. We will not go beyond it at this stage, but at least give us 40 lakh vaccines per week,” Tope told reporters. He said that Maharashtra, which has a population of 12 crore, has received 1.4 crore doses so far, whereas neighbouring Gujarat – which has a population of 6 crore – has got 1 crore doses.  “Maharashtra has the maximum number of active patients – around 4.5 lakh as on date, on the other hand, we have crossed the progressive total of 30 lakh,” he said. “We hardly have 9 lakh doses left, which would last for one or one-and-a-half days,” he said. He also said that the state was following the ICMR guidelines of a 70:30 ratio of RT-PCRs and RATs. “We are strictly following what the ICMR suggested,” he said, however, pointed out that in Uttar Pradesh it is the other way round – 90 per cent RATs and 10 per cent RT-PCR. Tope’s statement comes hours after Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said that the "lackadaisical attitude" of the Maharashtra government had singularly bogged down the entire country's efforts to fight the virus. Tope said, “Maharashtra is a big state, geographically and in terms of population. If we look at per million cases then we have around 24,000 lesser cases than several other states.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-needs-at-least-40-lakh-vaccines-per-week-rajesh-tope-971884.html
08-04-2021||West||Datta Iswalkar: Voice of millworkers fades away||Spread over nearly 600 acres, Girangaon or the "village of the mills" in Mumbai is part of the history of this city. The mills have become malls – but for the right of mill workers, Datta Iswalkar continued to fight, a selfless service. Datta Bhau, as he was popularly known, was the voice of the mill workers community or Girni-kamgar and their families. Iswalkar, aged 72, passed away at the Sir JJ Hospital at Byculla in Mumbai, on Wednesday evening. He is survived by his wife, son and three daughters. Over the last three decades, the socialist to the core – who had following across party lines and organizations - had been corresponding with various governments and chief ministers for the rights of millworkers particularly housing. “Datta Iswalkar was a pillar of the mill workers movement,” said NCP president and former-time Maharashtra chief minister Sharad Pawar. Iswalkar started as a peon in the Modern Mills of Mumbai. In 1856, the first mill started – the Bombay Spinning and Weaving Company. And slowly it grew - and at one point of time, Mumbai had 130-odd mills. These mills were owned by the Tatas, Petits, Wadias, Currimbhoys, Thakerseys, Sassoons, Khataus, Goculdas, Cottons, and Greaves among others. Most of the mill workers came from areas around Mumbai. The mill owners housed their workers in chawls built in the areas of Tardeo, Byculla, Mazgaon, Reay Road, Lalbaug, Parel, Naigaum, Sewri, Worli and Prabhadevi. These areas gradually came to be known collectively as Girangaon, literally "the village of mills". The Great Bombay Textile Strike was a textile strike that was called on 18 January 1982 by the mill workers of Mumbai under trade union leader Dr Dutta Samant. The purpose of the strike was to obtain a bonus and increase in wages. Nearly 250,000 workers of 65 textile mills went on strike in Mumbai. The strike was never called off and mills – which were on leased land – started becoming defunct. In 1997, Samant was shot dead by the underworld. Iswalkar, the general secretary of Girni Kamgar Sangharsh Samiti continued to fight for the case of these unemployed people, their families and the next generation. Iswalkar was instrumental in starting 10 mills in the city and transferring the houses in mill-owned chawls in the names of mill workers. “Datta Bhau was a thorough gentleman. He is an example of how movements are led by taking everyone along…he was the face of the millworkers movement,” said peace activist, writer and journalist Jatin Desai. “For journalists who wanted to know and write about mills, its background, the strike and the movement, he would eagerly help them,” he added. “Thousands of mill workers have lost their most honest leader and I have lost a dear friend. I have rarely seen such a warm and selfless person.He led a long battle for the housing rights of mill workers and won it,” said journalist Nikhil Wagle. “He fought for justice of millworkers…for 30 to 35 years, he led the struggle,” said Dr Bhalchandra Mungekar, former vice-chancellor of University of Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/datta-iswalkar-voice-of-millworkers-fades-away-971886.html
08-04-2021||West||Suspended cop Sachin Vaze taken to Mumbai hospital for check-up||The National Investigation Agency on Thursday took suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to the government-run J J Hospital here for a medical check-up, an official said. Waze (49) was arrested last month by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai and the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. The NIA took him to the hospital around Thursday noon, the official said. Hospital sources later said Vaze was examined and then sent back. "Report given to authorities concerned," a source said. This was the second time that Vaze was taken for the medical check up to the J J Hospital since his arrest. Vaze in a letter on Wednesday claimed former state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had demanded Rs 2 crore from him to continue his service in the Mumbai police and another minister Anil Parab asked him to collect money from some contractors in Mumbai. Parab, a Shiv Sena leader, has rubbished Vaze's claim. Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader, resigned as home minister on Monday after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into corruption allegations levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The special NIA court here on Wednesday allowed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to question Waze in connection with its preliminary enquiry (PE) into the allegations of corruption against Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/suspended-cop-sachin-vaze-taken-to-mumbai-hospital-for-check-up-971893.html
08-04-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Former police officer Pradeep Sharma appears before NIA for second day||Former police officer Pradeep Sharma on Thursday appeared before the NIA for the second day in connection with the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist's Mukesh Ambani residence and the death of businessman Mansukh Hiren, an official said. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had summoned the "encounter specialist" cop to record his statement. Sharma reached the NIA office in south Mumbai around 1 pm, the official said. He is likely to be confronted with suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and two other persons who were earlier arrested by the NIA in connection with its probe into the case, sources said. On Wednesday, Sharma was questioned by the NIA for over seven hours. Sharma used to be a trusted officer of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh when the latter headed the Thane police. Before taking voluntary retirement, Sharma had headed the anti-extortion cell of the Thane crime branch. He unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Assembly election from Nalasopara in the Palghar district of Maharashtra. An SUV laden with explosives was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here on February 25. Businessman Mansukh Hiren, who was in possession of the SUV, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane district on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-former-police-officer-pradeep-sharma-appears-before-nia-for-second-day-971902.html
08-04-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccine row: Sharad Pawar speaks to Harsh Vardhan||Amid the firing of salvo, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar spoke to Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and said that the Centre and Maharashtra are together in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The octogenarian politician, Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra chief minister and three-term union minister, said that the state is doing everything possible to contain the pandemic. “The situation in Maharashtra is grim. I appeal to all stakeholders to cooperate by realising the seriousness of the situation. To protect the lives of citizens, some stringent measures are required," he said defending the mini-lockdown measures announced by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. "The Centre is also helping. I spoke to Harsh Vardhan (on Wednesday) regarding the situation in Maharashtra," he said, adding that the state was doing what was advised by the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccine-row-sharad-pawar-speaks-to-harsh-vardhan-971947.html
08-04-2021||West||Three leopard cubs found in sugarcane fields in Pune||Farmers found three leopard cubs in a sugarcane field in Vadgaon Sahani village located in Junnar tehsil of Pune district of Maharashtra. In a successful rescue and conservation effort by Wildlife SOS and Maharashtra Forest Department, the lost cubs were safely reunited with their mother. While harvesting their sugarcane crops, local farmers stumbled upon three tiny leopard cubs huddled together amidst the tall, dense fields in Vadgaon Sahani village located in Junnar, earlier this week. Accustomed to catching occasional glimpses of leopards around the area, the farmers immediately reported the incident to the MFD. The leopard cubs were brought to the Wildlife SOS Leopard Rescue Center for a brief medical examination. Identified as two males and one female, the cubs were estimated to be about fifteen days old. Wildlife SOS veterinary doctor Dr Nikhil Bangar checked them for ticks and injuries and found the young leopards to be in good health. The initial attempt to reunite the lost cubs with their mother by Wildlife SOS and the MFD was unsuccessful, but the team was not ready to give up. They placed the cubs in a safe box and returned to the field on Monday night, hoping that the mother would be able to find them. After a long night of waiting, the mother leopard was seen slowly approaching the field at dawn. Relieved to be reunited with her cubs, the leopard quickly knocked over the box and took her babies away to a safer location. Dr Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “The initial attempt at reunion didn’t work out but we weren’t ready to give up hope. Seeing the mother leopard return for her cubs the next day was quite reassuring as they will have a good chance at a free life in the wild. In the past two months, we have successfully reunited 10 leopard cubs with their mothers.” Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS, said, “Harvest season in Maharashtra often coincides with leopard cub season, which puts both humans and these elusive wild cats in a rather sensitive and conflicting situation. We are grateful to the villagers who took the right step by informing the MFD. Wildlife SOS works closely with the Forest Department to raise awareness about leopards among the villagers and to promote the need for co-existence.” Yogesh Ghodke, Range Forest Officer, said, “Junnar region has a significant leopard population and due to rapid loss of forest cover, these animals have found safe cover in the dense sugarcane fields. During the sugarcane harvesting season, we see an increase in the number of encounters with leopard cubs.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-leopard-cubs-found-in-sugarcane-fields-in-pune-971966.html
08-04-2021||West||Mumbai's Covid-19 vaccination to halt due to lack of vaccines: Mayor||The ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai will come to a halt from Friday as the stock of vaccine doses in the city is about to end, Mayor Kishori Pednekar said. Talking to PTI on Thursday, she said that the vaccination drive could continue only if the city receives enough number of doses. "The vaccination drive in the city will definitely come to a halt from Friday. Only if the city gets the supply (of vaccines), the drive will continue," Pednekar said. "The existing stock of vaccine doses could last only till today (Thursday) evening and Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope has also declared about it," she added. This is for the first time that Maharashtra is going through such a "worst situation", she said, and held the Union government responsible for it. The Mayor said that due to the shortage of vaccines, it would be difficult for the authorities to administer the second dose of vaccines to those people who have got the first dose so far. Meanwhile, several civic-run, as well as private hospitals in the city, have put up boards outside their premises, which read that due to the unavailability of vaccines, the vaccination process cannot be carried out. The Health Department officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), however, did not respond to the query related to vaccination. Till April 7, over 15.52 lakh vaccine doses were administered to the people, including the essential services staff and frontline workers in the city. Of them, more than 1.72 lakh people were given a second dose of the vaccines. Health Minister Rajesh Tope had on Wednesday said that many inoculation centres in Maharashtra are being shut due to the shortage of coronavirus vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-covid-19-vaccination-to-halt-due-to-lack-of-vaccines-mayor-971971.html
08-04-2021||West||Maharashtra govt's sole agenda is extorting money: BJP||A day after suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze levelled serious corruption charges against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, the BJP Thursday flayed the Maharashtra government alleging its sole agenda is extorting money and it has no moral right to govern. Vaze had claimed Wednesday claimed Deshmukh had demanded Rs 2 crore from him to continue his service in Mumbai police and alleged state minister Anil Parab asked him to collect money from some contractors in Mumbai. Parab rubbished Vaze's claim. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters here, senior BJP leader and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar hit out at Shiv Sena supremo and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for defending Vaze. He said Thackeray defending Vaze had stated that the police officer is not Osama bin Laden. Similarly, his party leader Sanjay Raut had said that a promising, capable, officer was harmed, Javadekar noted. "They are defending Vaze as they are afraid that he might reveal the truth," he said. The entire controversy shows the character of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra, Javadekar said. "It is not Maha Vikas Agadi government but Maha Vikas Vasuli government which working with the sole agenda of extorting money," he alleged. "They have no right to remain in power and we demand their resignation," he said. Javadekar, who himself hails from Maharashtra, said for the last month or so, with new revelation coming in this conspiracy there is much turmoil in the state government and it has a lot to answer for. Waze, an accused in the case of an explosives-laden car found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai and the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran, is currently in NIA custody. Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader, resigned as home minister on Monday after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into corruption allegations levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govts-sole-agenda-is-extorting-money-bjp-971979.html
08-04-2021||West||Maharashtra to cap Remdesivir price as Covid-19 rages||As the Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave plays havoc, the Maharashtra government has decided to cap the prices of broad-spectrum antiviral drug Remdesivir. Besides, it warned of a crackdown on stockists who are hoarding the drug and pleaded doctors for judicial use of the injection. With the active cases shooting beyond the five-lakh mark in Maharashtra, the demand for the medicine authorised for emergency use to treat Covid-19 has gone up. Shocking visuals of serpentine queues outside pharmacy went viral on social media – with people standing for hours together to get the medicine. Three functionaries - Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope, Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh and Food and Drug Administration Minister Dr Rajendra Shingne said that efforts are being made to tide over the crisis. The daily requirement of Remdesivir is around 50,000 – and with the patients increasing the demand is expected to increase in the days to come. Prices per injection in the black market are between Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000 and even more, according to reports reaching here. “These are pandemic times, let's not engage in profiteering,” he said. Tope chaired an online meeting of pharma companies manufacturing Remdesivir and urged them to replenish stocks. “We are requesting them to give us the necessary stocks… We are also meeting them to fix a price cap between Rs 1,100 to Rs 1,400,” he said. “I am also requesting pharmacists not to hoard and sell in black market or the consequence can be severe,” he said. He also appealed to doctors not to prescribe Remdesivir if it is not necessary. “Let us go as per protocol. Let's not prescribe indiscriminately but judicially,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr Shingane said that in government hospitals there is a stock that would last for seven days to eight days. “We have asked to keep a check and hoarding will not be tolerated,” he said. “There have been reports of shortage and we are taking necessary steps,” said Deshmukh, pointing out that while we are facing the second wave, the third wave has already hit some countries.  Meanwhile, the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the situation is serious but still the government is keen on doing politics. "There is a shortage of oxygen, beds of all categories in hospitals, it is running out of stocks of Ramdesivir but still it does politics on vaccine supplies," he said. “Only medicines that work in Covid-19 are steroids and Remdesivir. There is an acute shortage of Remdesivir, possibly due to hoarding and racketeering, especially in Maharashtra. It's high time the government steps in,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, the secretary-general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG). "While there is no shortage of steroids as there are several manufacturers, on the other hand, here are half a dozen pharma companies that make Remdesivir. We need to ensure that the stocks are there, this is the second wave," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-cap-remdesivir-price-as-covid-19-rages-971995.html
08-04-2021||West||Motor Vehicles Act fines too steep: Goa to write to Centre seeking rationalisation of penalties||Claiming that fines imposed under the new Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act were exorbitant, the Goa government will write to the Centre over keeping the implementation of the central legislation in abeyance in the coastal state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. Earlier today, state Bharatiya Janata Party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade had requested the Chief Minister to delay the implementation of the tariff structure under the amended MVA in view of the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government is also expected to make a joint representation, with other states, to the Centre, in order to seek rationalisation of the high penalty structures in the central government legislation. Sawant's announcement comes two days after the state Transport Ministry notified a new tariff structure under the amended MVA, which drew sharp criticism from the Opposition, on account of the high increase in fines for traffic offences. Under the new tariff, fines have nearly tripled for traffic offences, some of which mandate suspension of the offenders' drivers licence for nearly three months. "The BJP president has already requested me. The government is thinking about it and we will come to a decision on how to implement it. We will inform the Centre too," Sawant said. When asked if he personally felt, if the penalties mandated under the new act were steep, Sawant said: "It is a bit high". Tanavade in his request to Sawant had said that the common man in Goa would not be able to afford fees under the new MVA fines. "We have requested the Goa government to keep the amended MVA in abeyance. We have spoken to the CM and Transport Minister. Common Goans will not be able to afford the fees. There should be discipline, but imposing fines alone does not inculcate discipline. Awareness (about traffic laws) should be created instead," Tanavade told reporters earlier. After the fines were notified two days ago, the Opposition had lashed out at the Goa government for making merry at the cost of the already depleted pockets of common citizens of the state.  "The Goa government wants to pinch the pockets of the people of Goa who are reeling under the impact of Covid-19. They want to use the amended MVA to make money to fill the government coffers," state Congress president Girish Chodankar had alleged. Transport Minister Mauvin Godinho, who has been in the eye of this controversy and had backed the implementation of the new penalty tariff, on Thursday said that he was in touch with other Transport Ministers across the country over the issue. " "I have spoken to other (transport ministers') states. They have agreed to opt for a joint representation (to the Centre) regarding the steep fines," Godinho said.   "The infection rate is increasing. Imposing such fines is not right at such a time. I have spoken to the CM," Godinho also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/motor-vehicles-act-fines-too-steep-goa-to-write-to-centre-seeking-rationalisation-of-penalties-971999.html
08-04-2021||West||Traders, hoteliers protest in Mumbai against Covid-19 curbs||Rattled and helpless by the stringent daytime norms, night curfews and weekend lockdowns, traders and hoteliers took to the streets of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on Thursday and appealed to have a relook at the ‘Break-the-Chain’ measures to fight Covid-19 pandemic. Major hotels and hospitality industry associations like FHRAI, HRAWI, NRAI and AHAR along with local bodies organised a silent protest named #MissionRoziRoti to highlight their woes to the government. BJP MLA Raj Purohit led a protest at the business hub of Kambadevi, Bhuleshwar, Zaveri Bazaar and Dagina Bazaar and termed the measures as a “political lockdown”. “The government should have a relook at the decisions within two days, otherwise the traders would open the markets from 8 am to 6 pm from next week,” said Purohit, however, added that the traders were okay with the weekend lockdown. “After last year’s lockdown, the Hospitality industry is in turmoil and is just not in a position to bear any more losses. Through our silent protests today, we are requesting the government to allow us to resume our work and if not, the government must take care of our incomes. The industry should get a complete waiver on all statutory fees and taxes, and establishments should not be billed for water and electricity for the duration of the curbs,” says Sherry Bhatia, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India. “Our businesses are under immense financial stress and the latest ‘Break The Chain’ order is equivalent to another complete lockdown. We assure the government that the industry is committed to following all the health and safety protocols and has our unwavering support towards the various efforts to combat the pandemic. We humbly request the government to look into this genuine request of the Hospitality industry and extend support in our fight for survival,” adds Pradeep Shetty, joint honorary secretary, Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India. “The lockdown has put businesses under tremendous financial strain. If the government doesn’t pay heed to our collective appeals, the industry is doomed. It is very painful to see people losing their livelihood and not knowing from where and when their next meal is coming in,” pointed out Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/traders-hoteliers-protest-in-mumbai-against-covid-19-curbs-972024.html
08-04-2021||West||Bombay High Court issues guidelines for effective implementation of POCSO Act||The Bombay High Court on Thursday issued guidelines for effective implementation of provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni also issued directions to ensure that victims in POCSO cases can participate in various stages of judicial proceedings under the Act. The bench said henceforth, all special juvenile police units (SJPU) must give a court, reasons in writing, if the victim's family, guardian or legal counsel could not be informed of judicial proceedings in a case. The High Court's judgement came on a public interest litigation filed by social worker Arjun Malge. In his plea, Malge had highlighted the rampant breach of salutary sections of the POCSO Act. His counsel Somashekhar Sundaresan said Malge found that in many POCSO cases, the police and trial courts failed to discharge their duties by not informing the victims of progress of the investigation and case. Sunderesan pointed out the lack of implementation of section 439(1)(a) of the Act that provides for a victim to be notified in case a bail application is moved by the accused, and for the presence of a relative or a "support person" of the minor victim during case hearings. Malge sought the court's intervention to ensure "strict implementation" of such provisions. In its judgement on Thursday, HC said that the SJPUs must mandatorily inform victims' guardians of all court proceedings, issue notices, intimations, etc., in accordance with the Act. The court also directed all concerned courts to ascertain, before hearing a bail application under the Act, the status of service of the notice to the minor victim's family. In case a notice had not been issued, the court must issue reasoned orders to secure the "ends of justice", the bench said. Copies of its judgement must be circulated among sessions courts, police authorities, the director of prosecution, legal services authorities, all presiding officers for effective implementation of the Act, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-issues-guidelines-for-effective-implementation-of-pocso-act-972030.html
08-04-2021||West||Mumbai's Covid-19 case count drops below 10,000 after 2 days||Mumbai reported 8,938 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, a drop from over 10,000 infections each on the previous two days, and 23 fresh deaths, the city civic body said. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) updated data, with the addition of 8,938 cases, the city's Covid-19 tally surged to 4,91,698, while the death toll jumped to 11,874. The financial capital had reported 10,428 new Covid-19 cases and 23 fatalities on Wednesday and 10,030 infections and 31 deaths on Tuesday. According to the BMC, 4,503 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, pushing the number of recovered cases to 3,92,514. Mumbai's number of active Covid-19 cases rose to 86,279, it said. As many as 48,902 more Covid-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the number of samples examined so far to 44,54,140, the civic body said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Mumbai has gone down to 80 per cent, according to the BMC. The overall infection growth rate has increased to 2.03 per cent, while the case doubling rate has dropped to 33 days, it said. The civic body said the city currently has 71 active containment zones, in slums and 'chawls' (old tenements), and 750 sealed buildings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-covid-19-case-count-drops-below-10000-after-2-days-972031.html
08-04-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray reiterates demand for Covid-19 vaccine production in Haffkine||Amid the pan-India vaccine shortage, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reiterated the request to allow the Mumbai-based Haffkine Institute to produce the Covid-19 vaccine. Thackeray once again, during the video-conference meeting, urged prime minister Narendra Modi to clear the proposal for vaccine production at Haffkine. “The Haffkine Institute can produce 22.8 crore vaccine doses a year,” Thackeray said. The Maharashtra government is keen that Bharat Biotech, which is producing Covaxin, enters an agreement with the state to enhance production. The state has proposed that in the Haffkine Institute, vaccines can be produced by way of technology transfer or fill-and-finish basis. The Haffkine Institute was established in 1899 and is named after the legendary scientist Dr. Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine who invented the plague vaccine. Since then, Haffkine Institute has emerged as a multi-disciplinary institute engaged in training, research and testing of various aspects of infectious diseases. The first-ever Phase-I clinical trial in India was perhaps conducted by the founder of the Haffline Institute in 1899, when he injected himself with the plague vaccine he developed for evaluating its safety and efficacy. In the first half of the twentieth century, the Institute extended its scope against various other common infectious diseases – like Cholera, Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis and Rabies. The institute also developed and manufactured Anti-rabies serum and anti-snake-venom serum. Later on, it undertook the production of Oral Polio Vaccine. The current research areas in the Haffkine Institute include studies of infections occurring in AIDS patients, surveillance and microbiological analysis of brucellosis, leptospira, the prevalence of drug resistance in bacteria, and continuous development of newer chemotherapeutic agents to combat microbial and zoonotic infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-reiterates-demand-for-covid-19-vaccine-production-in-haffkine-972051.html
08-04-2021||West||War of words erupts in Maharashtra over Covid-19 vaccine shortage||The BJP targeted the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance hours after Maharashtra's Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope rebuked the Centre for the way it was handling the crisis. “So why are vaccination centres deliberately shut down today and why spread the false news? Maharashtra to receive another 19 lakh vaccines between April 9-12. Due to lack of even basic facilities, sufferings of the people are on a rise day by day. Does the CM or ministers even care to pay attention to this?” Leader of Opposition and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said. “It is an absolute shame that vaccination politics is being played out to divert peoples’ attention,” he said. However, the leaders of MVA slammed Fadnavis and requested him to speak for Maharashtra. “Till today 6.5 crore have been exported to various countries by the Government of India while our Indians are dying here from shortage,” Shiv Sena leader Krishna Hegde said. “It is BJP’s policy to use cheap media tricks to divert attention from core issues. It is the Modi-government at the Centre that has a lackadaisical approach towards Maharashtra,” said NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase. “Today India is providing free vaccines to Pakistan but for Maharashtra, they are doing politics over it. BJP’s state and central leaders are targeting Maharashtra and they surely will face the consequences,” said Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/war-of-words-erupts-in-maharashtra-over-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-972052.html
08-04-2021||West||MVA has no right to stay in power: BJP||After fresh allegations of extortion demands by Maharashtra ministers, BJP on Thursday piled up pressure on the Shiv Sena-led MVA coalition saying it had no right to remain in power. The fierce attack from the BJP came a day after suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze claimed in a letter that the then Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had demanded Rs 2 crore from him to let him continue in the city police. Another minister Anil Parab had asked him to collect money from illegal gutka sellers and government contractors, he claimed. Parab has dismissed Vaze's charges. “It is not the Maha Vikas Aghadi government but a Maha Vasooli Aghadi with a common minimum programme to collect money through the police,” senior BJP leader and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters at the BJP headquarters. Seeking to link Vaze with the Shiv Sena, Javadekar said both Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Shiv Sena spokesman Sanjay Raut had hailed him as a “promising and capable” officer who was being harmed. Javadekar claimed that the Sena leaders had put up a strong defence of Vaze as they feared that the suspended police officer might spill the secrets of the MVA government. “The entire Sachin Vaze and Home Minister controversy show the character of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra. They have no right to remain in power and we demand their resignation,” he said. After Deshmukh's resignation as Home Minister on Monday, senior BJP leader B L Santosh termed it as the beginning of the fall of the “unholy, anti-people alliance government”. On Thursday, Javadekar reminded Shiv Sena that it had won the assembly elections with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as their poll mascot and betrayed the mandate to join hands with the Congress and NCP. The Supreme Court on Thursday rejected a plea by the Maharashtra government against the Bombay High Court order for a CBI inquiry into the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-has-no-right-to-stay-in-power-bjp-972054.html
08-04-2021||West||Gujarat reports biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases||Gujarat on Thursday reported its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 4,021 cases and 35 deaths in 24 hours. The steep surge in Covid-19 cases has plunged the state's hospitals into chaos with patients struggling to secure a bed. Although the state government announced increasing the number of beds, the sharp rise in cases has left the Covid-19-designated hospitals gasping for breath.  A video of a dead body on a pull cart in Vadodara, patients lying on hospital floors in Bhavnagar awaiting doctors and a large number of people lining up for a particular injection for treating coronavirus infection in Ahmedabad were the order of the day in the state. State Congress president Amit Chavda and Rajya Sabha MP Shaktisinh Gohil uploaded these videos on their Twitter account to criticise the state government for not doing enough. गुजरात के भावनगर में कोरोना मरीजो की बेहद दर्दनाक हालात Health Minister and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel refused to respond on these videos when reporters asked him during a press conference in Ahmedabad. He said that "I don't have time to see those videos. The concerned persons should take them to the administration concerned." Earlier, Patel announced that normal treatment has been stopped from SVP hospital and the 500 capacity facility will be turned into a Covid-19-designation hospital. He also said in the next four- five days, the capacity will be doubled. Similarly, beds are being increased in other hospitals as well. Later in the day the government claimed that over 12,000 beds have been arranged. According to a health bulletin, the state recorded a total of 4,021 new Covid-19 cases, of which, Ahmedabad alone reported 951 cases, followed by Surat, 723, Rajkot 427, Vadodara 389. The state also reported 35 deaths that included 14 in Surat, eight in Ahmedabad, two each in Rajkot, and Vadodara, while Ahmedabad, Amreli, Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Mehsana and Vadodara districts reported one death each. So far, 4,644 patients have passed away in the state since March last year when the pandemic broke out. The total active cases in the state stood at 20,473, out of which, 182 were on ventilator support. Earlier this week, Gujarat High Court suggested the state government a limited lockdown in wake of rising cases. The government responded by extending the night curfew in 20 cities from 8 pm to 6 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-972075.html
08-04-2021||West||Over 900 IIT students vaccinated in Gujarat amid reports of vaccine shortage for frontline workers||While states like Maharashtra and Odisha are reportedly facing vaccine shortage for its frontline workers, a controversy has erupted over reports that nearly 1,000 students at the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar (IITGn), received Covishield vaccines in a special drive on the campus even though they don't fall under the categories of people as prescribed by the central government. DH has accessed several emails written to the students living on the campus, informing them of the vaccination dates, venues, and possible side-effects and care. The drive was carried out between March 30 and April 2. In one of the emails written by the General Secretary, Student Council, Jainam Shah, it mentioned, "If you are receiving this email, you are scheduled for vaccination tomorrow (1st April 2021) between 9:00 am and 5 pm. Please be prepared accordingly; you will receive further communication from volunteers regarding the exact slot to go to the health centre in housing block 30 (near the gate). The vaccine that is being administered is Covishield..." In another email, Shah is mentioned stating, "There has been a slight change in the venue. It has been changed to Jasubhai Auditorium (in Academic Block-2). Also, it is advised to do mild physical warm up (like a few squats or climb a couple of flights of stairs)...before you come to the vaccine centre." When contacted, Shah hung up the phone asking to "contact the communication officer." The institute has created a "Control Room" to deal with Covid-19 related issues. An email, sent by the Control Room, informed students about arrangement of food packets at their hostel rooms and advised them of taking the medicine provided at the health centre. The email dated April 2, "We have received concerns regarding high fever, body ache, headaches, nauseating etc., from the residents of Aibaan, Beauki, Chimair, and Duven post-vaccination. Kindly do not panic; according to the doctors, these symptoms are normal and will be there for a few days. You are advised to take the medicine you would have received from the health centre after the vaccine and not the painkillers. However, if the symptoms are severe and persistent for a longer period, feel free to contact Dr. Deepa Shah..." Shah is one of the medical consultants with the institute. According to sources on the campus, the institute requested the Gandhinagar officials for vaccination when many students were agitating over handling the Covid-19 situation, particularly one hostel where nearly 200 students were living. "The institute was not isolating the Covid-19 positive students and were forced to stay together. The panicked students started sneaking into other hostels to be safe from the virus. The whole situation angered the students, who started agitating. This was happening till the last week of March. It was only after complaints of the students, the institute launched the vaccination drive", said a student requesting anonymity. He added, "We have been indirectly told not to speak to the media about anything, including vaccination." However, the institute denied that there was any agitation. It said, "IITGN has always been sensitive to students’ concerns and requirements, and communicates openly with them. There has been no agitation by students. Students’ safety and well-being remains the top priority of the Institute. We have taken several preventive measures to keep the student community safe from the pandemic." The institute is yet to respond to vaccination to students. When contacted, Gandhinagar collector Kuldeep Arya told DH, "I am not aware if students were vaccinated, but we will initiate a probe if it has happened." He said that the vaccines are only for frontline health workers, revenue officers, and citizens above 45 years of age. Alumni protest charging Rs 4,000 from students for quarantine facilities Over 100 alumni of IITGn have issued a statement on reports that students who want quarantine facilities on the campus are being asked to pay Rs 4000 as a "flat quarantine charge." The statement notes that "this is over and above current hostel, mess, laundry, and other charges." The statement reads that "Covid-19 and continuing regulations have affected students in various ways, and, unquestionably, students from marginalized communities have been affected the most. Questions of access—to space, privacy, computers, the internet, and so on—have been crucial in this situation. While many of them expect the campus to be a safe and hospitable environment which facilitates learning, extorting money—from students wanting to return—sends out inappropriate signals, to say the very least." The statement claims that the institute is charging for the "welfare of workers on campus." The alumni have stated, "While workers' welfare is necessary and desirable, it need not come at the cost of students' welfare. Penalizing students in this way clearly discriminates against marginalized students." The institute denied these allegations and said that it took several measures to keep students' safe from the pandemic. "The quarantine charge was one of them and was introduced to discourage needless and unnecessary entry and exit to the campus. Please note that the “quarantine charges” were never applicable if a student returned from home or joined the Institute. The quarantine charge is also not applicable to anybody quarantined due to medical reasons; it is only applicable to those choosing to undertake outstation travel voluntarily," read a statement issued by the institute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-900-iit-students-vaccinated-in-gujarat-amid-reports-of-vaccine-shortage-for-frontline-workers-972098.html
