09-04-2021||First Edit||Rethink Covid-19 vaccine strategy for larger coverage||Even as the number of Covid-19 cases is rising in the country, the availability of vaccines and the protocols and guidelines for vaccination have become matters of avoidable dispute. The daily tally of infections has gone over a record 1.25-lakh mark and there are fears that the second wave may be faster and more sweeping in its spread than the first. Some states have imposed restrictions like night curfews and other measures to reduce transmission, as in earlier days. What is different now is that vaccines are available, but there are unfortunate controversies about them. Some states like Maharashtra, which has the largest share of the caseload and new infections in the country, and Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh have said they are facing a shortage of vaccine doses. The Centre has asserted that there is no shortage. The matter has turned into a Centre-state dispute with political overtones. Though India has a large manufacturing capacity, the available supply cannot fully meet the demand. The Serum Institute of India (SII), which is the main manufacturer, and Bharat Biotech, which produces Covaxin, have sought more funds to expand capacity. The SII has also sought a higher price for its vaccine. The government needs to pay heed to this.  There is increasing demand to expand the vaccine coverage to more sections of the population. The government has said that vaccines would be given not to those who want it but to those who need it. That’s not good public policy. The government will do well not to arbitrarily decide who needs it. Everyone needs it. The current vaccination strategy was made when the number of cases was on the decline. It needs to be reformulated, now that the numbers are rising. It is a good sign that more people are going in for vaccination, and the government should try to extend the service. More people in the younger age groups are getting infected in the current wave, and they are more likely to spread the infection. So, the demand for extending coverage to these groups is justified. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has also supported it.  Till now, only about nine crore people have received the jab. Over three million people are being vaccinated every day, and at this rate it will take more than one year to cover two-thirds of the population. This is too slow a pace. It is necessary to give authorisation for more vaccines, increase vaccine production and expand the coverage. It is also imperative to keep politics out of the fight against Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/rethink-covid-19-vaccine-strategy-for-larger-coverage-972108.html
09-04-2021||First Edit||Karnataka night curfew serves no purpose||Does the coronavirus strike only during night? The 10 pm-5 am night curfew imposed by the Karnataka government from April 10-20 in eight cities -- Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Udupi, Manipal, Tumakuru, Kalaburagi and Bidar -- is illogical, unscientific and not backed by any empirical evidence that the virus is nocturnal and remains muted during the day. Night curfews have been imposed previously, too, each time there has been a surge in infections, but to no effect. Yet, the government tries the same trick again. This is only an eyewash, aimed at convincing people into believing that the government is doing something to contain the pandemic, given the state’s failure to meet its own vaccination target. Most business establishments are anyway shut by 10 pm, except for movie theatres, liquor bars and some restaurants. It is irrational to believe that late-night movie-goers or those eating out after 10 pm would cause the virus to surge while many other activities, including political rallies and religious events, can be allowed to take place without any consequences. Besides, no restrictions have been imposed on public transport from Covid hotspots to other districts, either during the day or night. Thus, in effect, the curfew serves virtually no purpose.    To add to the confusion, Deputy Commissioners (DC) of several districts have been passing whimsical orders violating instructions that no minister, department or officer can impose Covid-related restrictions without the approval of the Chief Minister and Chief Secretary. Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri issued an advisory that anybody entering the city from Bengaluru should possess an RT-PCR negative certificate that is not older than 72 hours. Thousands of people travel from Mysuru to Bengaluru and back on work each day, while thousands more from Bengaluru transit through Mysuru to various destinations. Going a step further, the district administration made it mandatory for people to carry a Covid-negative certificate to gain entry into convention halls, cinemas, resorts and recreation clubs. Similarly, Kodagu DC Charulata Somal banned entry to all tourist places and shutdown homestays and resorts. Fortunately, all such orders issued by the DCs without the Chief Secretary’s nod have now been rescinded by the government. Instead of indulging in gimmicks, the state government should strictly promote Covid-appropriate behaviour and come down heavily on violations, especially large gatherings. But it should first ramp up vaccination coverage as even after over 80 days since vaccination started, just about 1% of the state’s population has been inoculated. Unfortunately, a clear vision has been lacking on decisions regarding Covid right from the start, and the virus is having a field day while the government continues to flounder with one capricious directive after another.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/karnataka-night-curfew-serves-no-purpose-972565.html
09-04-2021||In Perspective||The nowhere children of Covid-19 pandemic||The story of Ekalavya in the Mahabharata best describes the modern concept of online classes for students. Child of a hunter belonging to the tribal class, the one ambition of this son of the forest was to learn the art of archery from that great teacher and warrior, Dronacharya. But, knowing that his tribal status would not permit this, he fashioned a statue of the teacher for inspiration and listened to the long-distance lectures delivered by an invisible mentor through his own powers of concentration. These virtual lessons, which proved more valuable than a real forest classroom, made Ekalavya a better pupil than the great Arjuna himself, which prompted the guru to demand the thumb of his right hand as “gurudakshina,” so that the Pandava prince would have no rival. I am relating this story not as a critique of the caste system or to prove the deception of Dronacharya. This episode from an ancient text defines a learning system that is very much in vogue today in many countries as a result of the ongoing pandemic. The online classroom has become the most potent communicating tool for teachers in schools, colleges and universities.   When Covid-19 hit our world with its savage intensity over a year ago, the first precaution that was called for was the prevention of large gatherings of people since this was a disease that spread through touch and proximity. In India, like in several other countries, students were made to attend virtual classes while schools and colleges shut down. Now, one year on, these countries can take stock of the situation and find out the benefits and drawbacks of such learning. Especially among younger learners who are still in primary, middle and high school years. If they do, they will find the results shocking, especially when they find the brutal impact of Covid-19 on young adolescents of 10 to 20 years. The relentless circumstances have compelled these children to live in a state of isolation and anxiety during these last 12 months. Deprived of their friends, classmates, teachers and the familiar school routine, many of these children have retreated into a cocoon of fear and helplessness, not knowing how to cope with this new way of life. Online learning is not as easy as it sounds. Staring into a monitor for long hours is a terrible strain for both teacher and pupil. But there is no escape. The alternative of exposing children to crowded classrooms and playgrounds comes with its own risks. The pandemic has also changed the methodology of teaching itself. Virtual communication cannot replace the comfort of human contact. If a teacher is imaginative, she can compensate the loss by innovative and creative alternatives. This may be possible in countries where classes are small and resources large. In India, it has been a tall order to conduct online classes for children who do not have the necessary infrastructure for such learning, by teachers who were not trained in such methods of teaching. In rural areas, the situation is worse, with poor electricity and no connectivity. Barring the small number of kids attending exclusive schools, it must be the same in the ghettos of rich countries as well. According to UNICEF, young adults, who constitute 16% of the world’s population, have been ruthlessly affected by Covid-19 and its harsh realities. Wearing of masks, distancing themselves from their peers, deprived of social contact, and not knowing when all this will end, have taken a heavy toll on them. It is for teachers and parents now to create an environment of safety and wellbeing to ensure that this generation does not grow up with the scars of the pandemic. In a country like India, where mental health has never been a priority for government spending, it is up to the Centre and the states to invest wisely now on programmes that will prevent alcoholism, drug abuse and suicidal tendencies among teenaged children affected by the fall-out of Covid-19. The immediate responsibility of parents cannot be underestimated in this regard. They should make sure that a child deprived of school, teachers and friends gets more companionship at home. Talking to them and engaging them in various chores at home or involving them in community programmes and group activities in sterile conditions outside should take the edge off their fears and apprehensions about this new normal which is anything but normal. The pandemic has disturbed countries and societies beyond words. But the way in which it has hurt children is its cruellest jab. As responsible adults, we can at least soften the blow even if we cannot ward it off completely. The five Pandavas formed a happy family, whereas Ekalavya was a lonely child. But even a dumb statue made of mud gave him the companionship and courage to learn the art of archery and excel in it too. There is a lesson to learn from this story.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-nowhere-children-of-covid-19-pandemic-972567.html
09-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Students overcome several odds to secure ranks, gold medals||Every rank holder in academics will have a story to tell. Likewise, Megha S N, who emerged as the golden girl with four gold medals in MSc in Mathematics at Davangere University’s 8th annual convocation held at Shivagangotri Campus here on Wednesday, wants to become a mathematics teacher with the sole intention of eradicating from the minds of students that it is a hard nut to crack. She is the daughter of Nagaraj, a school teacher in Davangere and Sudha, a homemaker. Speaking to DH, she said, many students find mathematics a tough subject due to wrong teaching methods adopted by teachers. If it is taught in the right way at the school level, all students would love it. “Being a daughter of the Mathematics teacher, I was taught it in the right method.” On her future plan, she said she is preparing for NET/KSET to become a teacher in a degree college. She also has a plan to do a PhD. Student suffering from epilepsy gets first rank Nisarga K P, the first rank holder in MA in English, was suffering from epilepsy during the examinations last year. She was bedridden. But her perseverance fetched her two gold medals. She is still undergoing treatment. She was hospitalised in Manasa nursing home in Shivamogga in April last year. She studied the subject on the phone and laptop on the bed as examinations were held in September due to lockdown. “I am alive today due to treatment by doctors Avinash and Vamana Pai. Parents and my brother Kotresh, BBM student, gave much-needed moral support." She told that many children from rural areas still find English as a hard nut to crack. “I want to set up a private school in the rural area and teach English to rural children effectively so that they not only overcome inferiority complex when they come to a city for higher education but also able to compete with their counterparts in urban areas.”  She is the daughter of Panchakshari, a civil contractor and Basamma, a homemaker, the residents of Vidyanagar in Davangere. BA rank holder aims fot IAS Jyothi Gupta V, a student of AVK college in Davangere, and who secured the first rank in BA, wants to become an IAS officer. Currently, she is doing MA in English at Davangere University. She is the daughter of Vinod Kumar Gupta, a businessman, and Reena Gupta. English, Sociology and Political Science were her optional subjects in BA. Street vendor’s daughter bags first rank Irshad Jabeen a native of Chitradurga, and the first rank holder in MSc in computer science, said, though her father Syed Islam is a street vendor. who sells sofa sets, he always encouraged her to do well in her studies. In order to realise her dream of becoming an IAS officer, she quit the job in Bengaluru and she is now preparing for UPSC exams. Currently, she is working as a lecturer in SRS PU College in Chitradurga. She travelled from Chitradurga to the campus every day and became the topper.  Hyder Ali, son of Mehboob Sab, a bangle seller at Bhanuvalli in Harihar taluk, bagged the first rank in MA in Political Science. “ My parents have five children and all are graduates. I am preparing for UPSC examinations,” he said. Chaitanya C M, daughter of Chennakeshava, Principal of the government the First-grade college in Chitradurga and Manjula B K, a homemaker, bagged the first rank in BCom. She is a student of SJM Degree college, Chitradurga. She also has a plan to become an IAS officer. Currently, she is doing MCom at the University of Mysore. Sindhu P K, the first rank holder in MSc (Physics), proved that poverty can never become an impediment to achieving success. Her father Karibasappa P T works in a grocery store in Davangere. She also wants to become an IAS officer, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/students-overcome-several-odds-to-secure-ranks-gold-medals-972119.html
09-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bus conductor ends life in Karnataka's Belagavi||A person working as a conductor at North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) Savadatti depot reportedly ended his life by hanging at his house Ugargol village of Savadatti taluk.  According to police officials, Shivakumar Neelgar (40) had borrowed loans up to Rs 5 lakh. The Incident took place on Thursday night and came to the fore on Friday. What led him to take the extreme step was not known. Savadatti police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bus-conductor-ends-life-in-karnatakas-belagavi-972251.html
09-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||647 grams of gold worth Rs 30 lakh seized at Mangalore International Airport||The officers of Mangalore air customs apprehended a man and seized 647 grams of gold that was being smuggled into the country, at Mangalore International Airport (MIA). The surveillance team led by Deputy Commissioner of Customs Avinash Kiran Rongali had profiled and intercepted a passenger named Ibrahim Panalam Abdullah hailing from Alampady in Kasargod on his arrival from Dubai. The passenger had arrived in the Spicejet flight SG 146 from Dubai. He tried to smuggle the gold by concealing it in his innerwear. The value of the seized gold is Rs 30.73 lakh. Further investigation is in progress. A Crucial role of surveillance and interception was carried out by Superintendents Sateesh and Shrikanth in the team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/647-grams-of-gold-worth-rs-30-lakh-seized-at-mangalore-international-airport-972291.html
09-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Moto Manipal team wins National Online E-Bike Design contest||Students from Moto Manipal, the official electric bike team of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), have secured first place in the National Online E-Bike Design Competition, Season-2, organised by the Fraternity of Mechanical and Automotive Engineers (FMAE). The team members said that the final presentation was held recently for the competition. In fact, the team had participated in the National Online E-Bike Design Competition, Season-1, and had emerged champions last year too. The team from Manipal Institute of Technology has been working for the competition for the last five months. “For the National Online E-Bike Design challenge Season-2, we were made to design an electric bike powered by a 2 kW brushless DC Motor using various CAD and CAE softwares for modelling and analysis. Complete research and development was done by the team, including complete reports on different components used in the bike, and the calculation behind it,” said Supreet Kulkarni, a team member. About the challenges, team manager Arav Gupta said, “since there was no physical contact with each another, communication was key in designing the model.The team made it a point to interact daily for a few hours to ensure that we made progress in the project.” “We had successfully designed and manufactured our first commercial electric Bike - "MM01", which we presented at the Asian E-Bike Challenge, 2019. The manufacturing of our second bike -- "MM02" was delayed due to the pandemic. However, everything is ready and all preparations have been made for the manufacturing to start as soon as we get a green signal from the college to work at our workshop once normalcy prevails in the MIT campus. This bike is being designed to participate in the Moto Student International Competition to be held in Spain in 2022,” said Rishabh Suri, team leader. What makes the win really special is the team coming together as one even during these testing times which bears testimony to the fact that team work helps in the success. The team hopes to participate in the upcoming competition, MotoStudent Electric - India to be held at Kari Motorspeedway later this year if the situation permits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/moto-manipal-team-wins-national-online-e-bike-design-contest-972346.html
09-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Parties depute community-wise leaders to woo voters in Basavakalyan and Maski||As the by-election to Basavakalyan and Maski assembly constituencies are crucial for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, both the parties are deputing leaders in a way to woo voters of their respective community. The outcome of the by-election is likely to determine the future of Yediyurappa as chief minister as rumours are rife that a change of leadership may happen post-May 4. It will also prove KPCC president D K Shivakumar's leadership qualities which is crucial to resurrect the Congress.    Mallikarjun Khuba, a Lingayat, rebelled against the saffron party for not fielding him and is in the fray as an independent candidate. To keep the votes belonging to the Lingayat community intact with the BJP, Housing Minister V Somanna, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and others are camping in Basavakalyan constituency and are holding meetings with village leaders. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi is also travelling between Basavakalyan and Bengaluru. To attract Koli-Kabbaliga votes which are in large numbers, the BJP deputed leaders like former minister Baburao Chinchansur who is organising regular meetings of the community leaders.   Nerved after JD(S) fielding a Muslim candidate, the Congress sent minority community leaders like MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan, KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed to safeguard the votes of the Muslim community, the tradition vote bank of the grand old party. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy has also camped in the segment to campaign for the party candidate. Former minister Bandeppa Kashempur also accompanied Kumaraswamy.   Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah campaigned for two days for Congress candidate Mala B Narayanrao. KPCC president D K Shivakumar held public functions on Friday.  Maski assembly constituency is reserved for the Scheduled Tribes. BJP State vice president B Y Vijayendra has camped in Maski, Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu is campaigning for the party candidate Pratapgouda Patil. Siddaramaiah, D K Shivakumar and former MP VS Ugrappa have also campaigned in the constituency for candidate Basanagouda Turvihal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/parties-depute-community-wise-leaders-to-woo-voters-in-basavakalyan-and-maski-972602.html
09-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Fertiliser price rise: BJP government, MPs lack courage, says Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday lashed out at the Centre over the increase in the prices of fertilisers, calling it “anti-farmer”, and said the BJP government here and the party’s MPs had no courage to question this.  “This attitude of BJP leaders will surely destroy annadatas,” Siddaramaiah said in a series of tweets. “After troubling farmers through anti-farmer acts, the government is now making inputs costly,” he said, referring to the rise in the prices of fertilizers.  According to the former chief minister, the Modi administration had increased the prices of fertilisers by over 60 per cent. “Prices of Di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP) fertiliser were increased by Rs 1,400 per quintal from April 1. It was Rs 2,400 till April 1, but now it is Rs 3,800,” he said.  Also, the Congress leader said prices of Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potash went up by Rs 1,250 per quintal. “It was available at Rs 2,350, but now farmers have to pay Rs 3,600. This increase will destroy farmers,” Siddaramaiah said.  He further rejected the claim that the reason for the rise in the prices of fertilisers was the increase in international prices. “This is absolutely baseless,” he said. “Rs 1,33,947 crore of subsidy was given last year, but it is reduced to Rs 79,530 crore from this year. Hence, market prices have increased.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/fertiliser-price-rise-bjp-government-mps-lack-courage-says-siddaramaiah-972478.html
09-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yatnal deserves to be expelled: Arun Singh||BJP National General Secretary in charge of state Arun Singh said that the activities of Vijayapur MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal deserve that he be expelled from the party. The disciplinary committee has issued notice to him and action would be taken. Party has zero faith in the MLA. Singh told reporters here on Friday that he would not take the name of Yatnal as it would give him undue publicity. His statements were not in the interests of the party and action will be taken against him. Yatnal if expelled immediately will be a freeman, hence the party disciplinary committee will take action against him at a suitable time. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would continue to lead the government in the state and anybody if thinks that there would be leadership change, it's their dream. There was no issue before BJP to change leadership nor was it under discussion, he said. Regarding Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa writing a letter to Governor Vajubhai Vala against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa over allocation of funds for his department, he said, the minister should not have written the letter and resolved any issues if had by holding talks with the chief minister. Eshwarappa himself has now stated that himself and Yediyurappa were one and the issue has been put to an end. Singh said BJP will retain power in Assam, while it would come to power in West Bengal by ousting TMC. NDA will form governments in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and BJP will improve its performance in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yatnal-deserves-to-be-expelled-arun-singh-972516.html
09-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cong seeks disqualification of Maski BJP candidate||Alleging that the BJP leaders and the workers were distributing money to voters in the bypoll-bound Maski Assembly constituency, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D K Shivakumar on Friday demanded the Election Commission to disqualify the BJP candidate. "People have openly said that the BJP workers are distributing cash for votes. Based on it, the Congress party will lodge a complaint with the EC, seeking the disqualification of the BJP candidate," Shivakumar told the reporters. "The deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and the staff in the poll-bound constituencies are acting like the agents of the state government. It is not possible without the support of the administration to commit such illegalities in open," the KPCC president charged. Going by the response of people, the Congress will win all three bypolls, he said. Expressing the wholehearted support to the ongoing strike by RTC workers, Shivakumar said, "Injustice is meted out to working class across the country. Both Centre and the state government have no heart for the labourers. The strike will have a bearing on the outcome of the bypolls. The BJP will realise it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cong-seeks-disqualification-of-maski-bjp-candidate-972541.html
09-04-2021||Main Article||Gender parity in the Indian Army||Two rounds of a prolonged legal battle by women officers of the Indian Army were won through Supreme Court judgements on February 17 and March 25. The actual ‘war’ is a quest for ‘Equality of Opportunity’, which the government is constitutionally bound to uphold. Unfortunately, its efforts in the courts point in the opposite direction. The continued effort by the government to deny justice to women officers is glaring. A 2010 judgement of the Delhi High Court that provided relief on the issue of Permanent Commission has remained unimplemented for a decade. The government’s negative attitude is apparent. That said, it is not that the government does not have a case. It certainly does. The legal battle is between the government’s prerogative to impose restrictions on women’s employment in the Army versus the infringement, in the form of gender discrimination, of such restrictions on ‘Equality of Opportunity’. National security being supreme, defence policies are an essential instrument of governance controlled by the executive. The government has been contending that the policies fashioned to exercise its powers of curtailment of Fundamental Rights is the preserve of the executive. They have rightly maintained that the effectiveness of the military instrument cannot be compromised even if it impinges on the Constitution’s ‘Equality of Opportunity’ clause. The courts have upheld this principle. But its implementation in practice has continued to be debatable. Though courts have acknowledged the above logic, the relevant defence policies considered to be discriminatory keep facing legal challenges. There are hardly any major instructions regarding women officers that have not been legally contested. It is apparent that policymakers are not subjecting the policy to an important test – will it stand legal scrutiny? Worse, the government has not been able to devise any policy that takes the battle out of the courts and brings it back to the executive in order to be able to render speedy justice. It is evident that only a system modification can deliver justice to the beleaguered officers. The change required is obvious. It must permit women officers entry to any part of the Army, including Combat Arms, as long as they volunteer for it and meet common minimum standards. The onus of proving equivalence must rest on the women officers and once met, no discrimination whatsoever should be permissible from commissioning to retirement. Gender-differentiated policies relating to appointments, promotions, pensions, etc., that have been legally contested for decades, will fade away. It will allow the framing of policies, rules and conditions that preserve the effectiveness of the military instrument. Policies that take validity from the military imagination of the battlespace, both present and future, should not be outweighed by ‘Equality of Opportunity’. Since the principle of executive prerogative has been legally upheld, it should be possible to balance organisational requirements and gender differences. Policymakers must not merely make policies to solve immediate messy situations arising from an earlier lack of vision. A system framed on common standards can provide relief more than any other policy initiative. Without a doubt, ‘common standards’ will be a highly contentious issue, but the prerogative for the decision must be exercisable by military leaders. The decision of the military leaders in 1992 to allow entry to Combat Support Arms like the Artillery, Engineers and Air Defence had partially opened the door for induction into Combat Arms. This is so because the issue at hand is coupled with the changing character of war. In the context of gender justice, Combat Arms and Combat Support Arms have to be considered as inseparable. The approach of policymaking has to shift from denial to provision of opportunity and acceptance to the extent feasible. Policymakers must safeguard the legal space for decisional autonomy. But it cannot be achieved without professional opinions outweighing societal norms sans prejudice. At the root of the issue is the cultural reluctance of males to accept female equivalence in physical resilience in combat. The males have a point that is mostly based on superior physical capability. But surely, this is not a showstopper as long as the females match up to the minimum common physical standards. Differences in the physicality of gender should not be, a priori, assumed to make females inferior in terms of physical performance. Also, physical proximity between the genders in combat and peacetime activities is inevitable, and as long as it is acceptable to an individual, it cannot be the reason for blocking entry. Equivalence between the genders in terms of mental capabilities has never been in dispute. The military leadership must pilot the future course of woman officers by jettisoning the legal stands it has so far preferred to follow, which apply different standards and criteria even for promotions and appointments. Women are presently not eligible for Command appointments in the rank of Colonel, while male officers are. The need to resolve the immediate problems of currently serving women officers should not be allowed to cloud the fashioning of a new system. The existing lot of officers have, of necessity, to be given whatever is their rightful due, in the awareness that they have been deprived of their rights earlier and cannot really be compensated except through a sympathetic outlook and temporary relaxations in policy matters. A woman as an infantry battalion commander may be difficult to imagine but that does not mean the gate should not be open for the achievement of that ultimate combat status. When that comes to pass, there should be nothing gender-based to stop a woman officer from even becoming the Army Chief. The extant situation of discrimination that exists is a far cry from this ideal. Without a doubt, progress has been made despite governmental resistance and judicial delays. The fighting spirit of the woman officers is the only reason for whatever positive changes have come to pass. The matter is germane to the Navy and Air Force, too. The executive must assume charge of acceptable changes, unshackled from judicial activism carrying the flag of gender justice and abstracted from the national security context. The ultimate power of the executive decisions dealing with induction, employment and retirement of women in the Armed Forces has to be vested in professional military judgement, even as it is subject to judicial scrutiny. The exercise of the power has to be freed from deep-rooted gender prejudices and yet when deemed necessary, hold its professional ground even when the cries of male prejudice rend the air. Ultimately, combat is a brutish dog-eat-dog arena of human activity sans moral compunctions that brooks no weakness even in the name of gender justice. (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former Military Adviser, National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/gender-parity-in-the-indian-army-972110.html
09-04-2021||Main Article||The Ayatollah and the Pope||"Men are either brothers by religion or they are created equal,” said the Grand Ayatollah Sayed Ali al-Sistani in his conversation with Pope Francis during the latter’s visit to Najaf in Iraq on March 6. This profound observation, recounted by the Pope to his entourage, encapsulates the essential dichotomy between a religious as opposed to the secular view of Man and Creation. Two of the three concepts in this thought, ‘religion’ and ‘equality’ are man-made abstractions or social categories of perception, while ‘creation’ is an objective reality.  What Ali al-Sistani meant is that in society, we can either have a ‘brotherhood’ of believers, with an innate but benign hierarchy that creates a bond of belonging with empathy and warmth, or we can have a relationship of ‘equality’ between unrelated strangers, as a notional status but enforced legally through the power of the State. In the religious cosmos, the State doesn’t come first. It is Bhagavan, God or Allah. It’s His commandment that you follow, and the State has to align itself to the laws of the ‘faith’ or ‘morals’. In a secular world, however, man’s position is defined not in relation to God but to other men. Everyone is equal in facing a hostile universe that is neither orderly nor predictable, but they have to unite in purpose and effort to strive for the common good. This secular State need not be irreligious, as faith is pushed into private life, but it has to imagine morals without religion and a saint in the absence of God. Philosophers of Existentialism, such as Albert Camus, have examined this human contingency. The men of robe conferring in Najaf seem to be confronted with similar questions. When Thomas Jefferson wrote the now-famous dictum that “We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal” as a foundational idea in the Declaration of Independence in July 1776, was he playing tricks with ‘evidence’? What is “self-evident”? Is it evidence looking at itself in the mirror?  Men are certainly not born equal in this world. Whether they are born in America or Somalia, their skin colour, race and religion, to rich or poor parents makes all the difference to their position in society and their journey in life. It is, of course, a noble ideal and an empowering one that has incited men to revolutions. But is it true as a belief? Perhaps it’s as true as religious beliefs, for instance the ‘Immaculate Conception,’ are. More importantly, Jefferson was breaking 1,700 years of Christian tradition that emphasised a ‘brotherhood of believers’ and asserting a fictional ‘equality’ of strangers, of atomised individuals that were to become the centrepiece of Liberalism, Democracy and Secularism. Did he mean ‘Equality’ as a verb, a state of occurrence in society, or did he see it as a promise to be fulfilled by the State?   ‘Brotherhood’ in both the Semitic religions has had a long history, but it was conceived more as a protection against the ‘Other’. For instance, the legendary armed religious order, the Knights Templar, born after the First Crusade in the early 12th century, was created as an army of Roman Catholics to protect pilgrims marching to Jerusalem against murderous attacks by Muslim militias. British historian Dan Jones explains in his book The Templars how they went from protecting pilgrims during the Crusades to controlling a vast financial empire, how their belief in religious martyrdom is shared by groups like ISIS, and why the Templars’ crusading spirit and anti-Muslim rhetoric is attracting a new generation of white supremacists and neo-Nazis. And more recently, we saw how the Christian church groups in America heavily funded and rallied in support of former President Donald Trump, an unabashed supporter of white supremacists. In Islamic countries, ‘brotherhood’ is mainly associated with the ‘Muslim Brotherhood’, an insurrectionary organisation founded by Hassan al-Banna in Egypt in 1928, a party that came to power for a year from June 2012 under the leadership of Mohamed Morsi, following the January 2011 Arab Spring. What was once conceived as a liberating force to fight against the monarchs and dictators in the Islamic world is now labelled a terrorist organisation. Further, the monarchs and dictators have become ever more powerful to sustain themselves in power by creating organisations such as the Taliban and the ‘Islamic State’ that are savagely violent and nihilistic, without any liberating or positive ideology of hope. All in the name of religion. Hinduism and ‘Brotherhood’ In Hinduism, where people are essentially seen as ‘Homo Hierarchicus,’ a religion that sanctioned a stratified society of unequal people, the notion that “all men are created equal” is perhaps non-existent. The notion of ‘brotherhood’, too, is difficult to imagine because Hinduism is not a monotheistic religion but an amorphous theology of multiple Gods and Goddesses, with each caste appropriating its own God. And in the absence of a monotheistic God, the brotherhood of believers gets dispersed into caste-wise aggregation. So, we have a religion with neither equality nor brotherhood.  Nevertheless, the effort to create a ‘brotherhood of Hindus’ began with the RSS in 1925 when they took up the task of protecting and promoting their interests through militant nationalism, not against British rule but against rising Muslim mobilisation. It is now the world’s largest voluntary organisation. How far has it succeeded in creating a ‘brotherhood of Hindus’ is open to question, particularly in view of allegations of upper-caste bias in its leadership. Nevertheless, this ‘brotherhood’ was not much of a force, either political or religious, till its ‘kar sevaks’, led by L K Advani’s ‘Rath Yatra’ destroyed the Babri Masjid in December 1992. Only when it turned malevolent and violent, the ‘brotherhood’ of religion became a weapon for capturing State power. Can there be a ‘brotherhood of men’ without religion? And can it be a force for peace and good? Wonder what the Ayatollah and the Pope have to say on that. (The writer is a former Cabinet Secretariat official)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-ayatollah-and-the-pope-972566.html
09-04-2021||National||Centre unveils NEP implementation plan||Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Thursday released the implementation plan for the national education policy (NEP) that aims at achieving uniform standards in learning outcomes and governance across public and private schools. The NEP implementation plan titled 'Students' and Teachers' Holistic Advancement through Quality Education' (SARTHAQ)' focuses on achieving 304 outcomes through 297 tasks through well-defined activities built on existing structures instead of creating new structures. “States and UTs have been given the flexibility to adapt this plan with local contextualization and also modify as per their needs and requirements,”an official statement said. SARTHAQ envisages reforms in curriculum with new national and state curriculum frameworks for school education, early childhood care and education (ECCE), teacher education and adult education. It also aims at increasing the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER), Net Enrolment Ratio (NER), transition rate and retention rate at all levels and reduction in drop outs and out of school children. The NEP also seeks to ensure access to quality ECCE and Universal Acquisition of Foundational Literacy and Numeracy by Grade 3; improvement in learning outcomes at all stages with emphasis on teaching and learning through mother tongue/local/regional languages in the early years. SARTHAQ has been developed through a wide and intensive consultative process with States and UTs, Autonomous bodies and suggestions received from all stakeholders; around 7177 suggestions/inputs were received from them, an official statement said. The implementation plan also seeks to achieve integration of vocational education, sports, arts, knowledge of India, 21st century skills, values of citizenship, awareness of environment conservation, in the curriculum at all stages. It also aims to introduce experiential learning at all stages and adopt innovative pedagogies by teachers in classroom transactions. The implementation plan also seeks to reform the manner in which board exams and various entrance tests are conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-unveils-nep-implementation-plan-972100.html
09-04-2021||National||At meet, PM Modi stresses service to people over politics on Covid-19 vaccine||With leaders of the ruling BJP and opposition parties accusing each other of politicking over the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said those who want to do politics are already doing it, but he believes in serving the people of India at such a difficult time. In his interaction with chief ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive, Modi said he is confident that all CMs, taking all parties and people together, would change the situation in their respective states. "As far as doing or not doing politics is concerned, I am seeing from day one and I have been putting up with all kinds of statements without joining the issue myself because I believe that serving the people of India is our responsibility," Modi said. "God has entrusted us this responsibility to serve the people in this difficult situation, we have to fulfil this. Those who want to do politics are already doing it, I don't want to say anything to them," he said. The Congress-led opposition has criticised the government over its handling of the Covid-19 and the vaccination drive, while the Centre has maintained that its timely steps have been instrumental in effectively dealing with the pandemic. Also, while some states have flagged a "shortage" of vaccine doses, the Centre has maintained that sufficient quantity of the jabs have been allocated to all the states and that many of them have been unable to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries. In his remarks, Modi called for 100 per cent vaccination of 45 years-plus population in the high case load districts. He also stressed on Dawai Bhi, Kadai Bhi (medicines as well as strict preventive measures)", and urged people not to compromise on that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-meet-pm-modi-stresses-service-to-people-over-politics-on-covid-19-vaccine-972123.html
09-04-2021||National||Maharashtra Congress seeks apology from BJP, Vardhan on Covid-19 comments||The Congress on Thursday attacked the BJP and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan over their stinging criticism of Maharashtra's Covid-19 management and handling of the vaccination drive, accusing them of "insulting" the state and demanded an apology. State Congress chief Nana Patole, addressing a press conference here, dubbed Vardhan was the "most incompetent health minister in the countrys history". The Congress is part of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in the state. On Wednesday, Vardhan had said "lackadaisical" attitude of the Maharashtra government has "singularly bogged down" the entire country's efforts to fight the virus. "Yesterday, he became very active and criticised Maharashtra in a very insensitive manner and inappropriate language. He has insulted the 13-crore people of the state," Patole said. Patole said the minister and his party, the BJP, should apologise to the people of Maharashtra. He said BJP leaders in the state should "wake up" the Centre from its slumber instead of continuing their "anti- Maharashtra rant". Maharashtra BJP leaders should seek more vaccines, Remdesivir injections, medical oxygen supply and other materials to help fight Covid-19 in the state, the worst-hit by the pandemic in the country, the MPCC president said. He said last year the Centre declared coronavirus as a national calamity and the entire responsibility of tackling the pandemic was with the Union government. But unfortunately, the Centre and Union minister Harsh Vardhan were making baseless allegations against Maharashtra, he said. Patole said the central governments job was to take cognisance of the second coronavirus wave and make planning accordingly to tackle it. "But the Centre has provided vaccines only to 8 crore population and sent vaccine doses free of cost to other countries, including 'enemy country Pakistan," he said. "The MVA government is tackling the an unprecedented crisis with courage and the Congress has decided to help out," he said. "Helplines will be set up in all district Congress offices,with the main control room in Mumbai, where party workers will ensure that Covid-19 patients get all the required help," Patole said. The party will also organise blood donation camps from April 14, the birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar, he said. Patole said the six working presidents of the state Congress willregularly review the Covid-19 situation in all the six divisions of Maharashtra. Among them are Shivajirao Moghe (Marathwada), Chandrakant Handore (Nagpur), Basavraj Patil (Western Maharashtra), Praniti Shinde (North Maharashtra) and Kunal Patil (Amravati division). All guardian ministers and co-ordination ministers of the Congress as well as relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar and medical education minister Amit Deshmukh will assist them in their task, he said. Meanwhile, state PWD minister Ashok Chavan, talking to reporters separately, said the BJP has been "infected with the disease of insulting Maharashtra". "If they dont bring this disease under control, the people of Maharashtra will treat it effectively," said Chavan, a senior Congress leader. Chavan hit out at Vardhan for stating that the Maharashtra government had "singularly bogged down" the entire countrys efforts to fight the virus. "This comment is defamatory, insulting and hurts the pride of the Marathi people. The language went against established protocols and not based on facts," Chavan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-congress-seeks-apology-from-bjp-vardhan-on-covid-19-comments-972134.html
09-04-2021||National||India says no third party involved in supply of vaccines to Paraguay||In a bid to steer clear of Beijing-Taipei row, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on Thursday said that India had supplied the Covid-19 vaccine doses to Paraguay following a request from the South American nation without any involvement of a ‘third party.' New Delhi subtly contradicted Taipei’s claim that it had persuaded India to provide vaccines to Paraguay after Beijing had sought South American nations to sever diplomatic relations with Taiwan if it wanted the shots from China. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a discussion with his counterpart in Paraguay, Eladio Loizaga Caballero, who requested him for supply of the Covid-19 vaccines. Jaishankar responded positively and a consignment of Covaxin, a Made-in-India vaccine against SARS-CoV-2, was sent to Asunción. “I would like to confirm that no third party was involved in this,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said. India shipped 100,000 doses of Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech Limited to Paraguay. His statement contradicted the claim made by Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu. Wu recently said that Beijing had tried to make Paraguay sever its diplomatic relations with Taiwan in lieu of Covid-19 vaccines from China. The One-China policy recognises only the People's Republic of China, which came into existence in 1949 after the communists defeated the nationalists in the civil war of China. It does not recognize the existence of Taiwan (or the Republic of China), where the nationalists retreated to and based the seat of their government after losing to the communists. India, like most of the other nations, has been adhering to One-China policy since 1949, recognising only the People's Republic of China. India, like most of the other countries, does not have formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan. India-Taipei Association, which is headed by a diplomat, functions as a de facto embassy of India in Taipei. Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre (TECC) in New Delhi is the de facto diplomatic and consular mission of Taiwan in India. Paraguay is one of the few countries having formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan. Wu said that Taipei had got in touch with the US, Japan and India after Beijing had sought to make Paraguay sever its diplomatic relations with Taiwan with the offer of supplying Covid-19 vaccines made in China to the South American nation. India already sent 100,000 vaccines to Paraguay and another consignment of similar numbers of doses would be sent later, sources in New Delhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-no-third-party-involved-in-supply-of-vaccines-to-paraguay-972183.html
09-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Poll rallies or recharge points for Covid-19?||India is witnessing a heated polling season with partiles holding massive political rallies to grab the voters' attention across the four states and one Union Territory of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. In the meanwhile, the country reported a record 126,789 Covid-19 cases on Thursday as several states struggle to contain a second surge in infections, complaining of vaccine shortages and demanding inoculations be expanded to younger people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-poll-rallies-or-recharge-points-for-covid-19-972191.html
09-04-2021||National||Government panel to review Covid-19 vaccine side effects after blood clotting concerns||India is currently administering AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, which is manufactured by the Serum Institute and branded Covishield, and a shot developed by Bharat Biotech called Covaxin. The review comes after Europe's drug regulator said on Wednesday it found a possible link between AstraZeneca's vaccine and rare blood clotting issues in adults who had received the shot, although it added the vaccine's advantages still outweighed the risks. India is banking on vaccinations to help contain a record surge in cases in its second wave. The country reported a massive 1,26,789 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday. "We are looking at side-effects of blood clots that have been seen in people who received Covishield and Covaxin, even if it was a mild case," a source told Mint, who added that a report on it was likely to be ready by next week. Following Europe's announcement, several countries have announced restrictions on the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine in younger people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-panel-to-review-covid-19-vaccine-side-effects-after-blood-clotting-concerns-972204.html
09-04-2021||National||India has accelerated work on Chabahar Port, likely to be declared operational by May: CRS||After a brief halt, India accelerated the work on Chabahar Port early this year and the strategic Iranian port is expected to be operational by next month, a Congressional report has said. In 2015, India agreed to help develop Iran's Chabahar Port and an associated railway that would enable India to trade with Afghanistan unimpeded by Pakistan, the independent Congressional Research Service (CRS) said in its latest report for the members of the US Congress. Prepared for the lawmakers for them to take informed decision, the report, running into nearly 100 pages, said that in May 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Iran and signed an agreement to invest $500 million to develop the port and related infrastructure. Even though the Trump administration gave India the "Afghanistan reconstruction" exception from its punitive Iranian sanctions, India largely stopped work on the project until late 2020. "It accelerated work in early 2021 and the port is expected to be declared operational no later than May 2021," said the CRS report. CRS reports are prepared by experts and are not considered as official report of the US Congress. Iran's economy is highly integrated into those of its immediate neighbours in South Asia, it said, adding that India cites the UN Security Council resolutions as its guideline for policy towards Iran. During 2011-2016, when UN sanctions were in force on Iran, India's central bank ceased using a Tehran-based regional body, the Asian Clearing Union, to handle transactions with Iran, and the two countries agreed to settle half of India's oil buys from Iran in Indian currency. India reduced its imports of Iranian oil substantially after 2011, but, after the sanctions were eased in 2016, India's oil imports from Iran increased to as much as 800,000 bpd in July 2018 - well above 2011 levels. India paid Iran the USD 6.5 billion it owed for oil purchased during 2012-2016. India has not imported Iranian oil since May 2019. The CRS said Iran's economic relations with Pakistan are less extensive than are its economic ties with India. One test of Pakistan's compliance with the sanctions was a pipeline project that would carry Iranian gas to Pakistan - a USD 7 billion project that US officials on several occasions stated would be subject to ISA sanctions. Iran reportedly completed the pipeline on its side of the border but, during Iranian President Hassan Rouhani's visit to Pakistan in March 2016, Pakistan did not commit to complete the line. In 2009, India dissociated itself from the project, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-accelerated-work-on-chabahar-port-likely-to-be-declared-operational-by-may-crs-972206.html
09-04-2021||National||From Lahore to Lucknow, crimes against women spur more surveillance||As cases of violence against women and girls have surged in South Asia in recent years, authorities have introduced harsher penalties and expanded surveillance networks, including facial recognition systems, to prevent such crimes. Police in Lucknow earlier this year said they would install cameras with emotion recognition technology to spot women being harassed, while in Pakistan, police have launched a mobile safety app after a gang rape. But use of these technologies with no evidence that they help reduce crime, and with no data protection laws, has raised the alarm among privacy experts and women's rights activists who say the increased surveillance can hurt women even more. "The police does not even know if this technology works," said Roop Rekha Verma, a women's rights activist in Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh state, which had the highest number of reported crimes against women in India in 2019. "Our experience with the police does not give us the confidence that they will use the technology in an effective and empathetic manner. If it is not deployed properly, it can lead to even more harassment, including from the police," she said. Lucknow is one of eight cities implementing a Safe City project that aims to create a "safe, secure and empowering environment" for women in public places, and curb crimes with "safer urban infrastructure and efficient access" to police. But the project - alongside the 100 Smart Cities programme that relies on technology to improve services - is being used to exponentially increase surveillance, said Anushka Jain, an associate counsel at the Internet Freedom Foundation in Delhi. "Authorities have used crimes against women as a justification to step up surveillance, but the massive spends on CCTV and facial recognition technology do not correlate to a corresponding drop in crimes against women," she said over the phone. "By targeting women disproportionately (authorities) are creating new problems in a society where women are already constantly tracked in their homes and for whom anonymity in public places is so important," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Lucknow Police Commissioner D.K. Thakur declined to give details on how the technology will be deployed, and how the data will be monitored or used. WATCHED CONSTANTLY Worldwide, the rise of cloud computing and artificial intelligence technologies has popularised the use of facial recognition for a range of applications from tracking criminals to admitting concert-goers. In Pakistan and India, these systems are being touted as necessary to modernise understaffed police forces and aid their information gathering and criminal identification processes. But technology and privacy experts say the benefits are not clear and that they could breach people's privacy, and that without data protection laws, there is little clarity on how the data is stored, who can access it and for what purpose. The technology is also plagued with issues of accuracy, particularly in identifying darker-skinned women, non-binary people and those from ethnic minorities. The Delhi Police, in 2018, reported that its trial facial recognition system had an accuracy rate of 2%. The Ministry of Women and Child Development later said the system could not accurately distinguish between boys and girls. "We must question the efficacy of this solution and the dependence on digital infrastructure to solve socio-technical challenges," said Ashali Bhandari, a senior urban planner at Tandem Research in Goa. "It's ironic that shielding women from unwanted attention involves watching them constantly through digital technology networks. It's not empowering women, rather it promotes the idea that women need to be watched for their own safety," she said. At least 50 facial recognition systems are in place across India, and the government plans to roll out a nationwide network. Dozens of cities have also introduced mobile safety apps. Meanwhile, a rape is reported every 15 minutes, according to government data, and crimes against women nearly doubled to more than 405,000 cases in 2019, compared to about 203,000 in 2009. TRADING PRIVACY There is a growing backlash in the United States and in Europe against the use of facial recognition technology. But in Asia, it is being widely deployed. Under Pakistan's Safe Cities project, thousands of CCTV cameras have been installed in Lahore, Islamabad, Karachi and Peshawar. Images from cameras in Islamabad of couples travelling in vehicles were leaked in 2019, while women at Balochistan University said they were blackmailed and harassed by officials with images from campus CCTV cameras the same year. Following the gang rape last year on a highway with CCTVs, the Punjab Police launched a mobile safety app that collects the user's personal information when she sends an alert to the police during an emergency. That includes access to phone contacts and media files - leaving women vulnerable to further harassment, say privacy rights groups. "Technological interventions that seek to increase surveillance of women in order to 'protect' them often replicate familial and societal surveillance of women," said Shmyla Khan, director of research and policy at the Digital Rights Foundation. "Women cannot be expected to trade privacy for vague assurances of safety without proper mechanisms, and transparency on the part of the government," she added. The Punjab Police did not respond to a request for comment. Chennai, Hyderabad and Delhi are among the top 10 cities with the most surveillance globally, according to virtual private network firm Surfshark. Chennai, which topped the index with 657 CCTV cameras per sq km compared to Beijing at the bottom with 278, is implementing the Safe City project by mapping high-crime areas and tracking buses and taxis with CCTV networks and "smart" poles. "The government did not want to just do more surveillance, but look at it more holistically to address challenges women face at home, on their commute, at work and in public places," said Arun Moral, a director at consulting firm Deloitte, which is advising the city on the project. "There is a tech intervention for every challenge." An audit of Delhi's Safe City project last year noted that the efficacy of cameras to prevent crimes against women had not been studied. Only about 60% of CCTVs installed were functional, and fewer than half were being monitored. The "heavily surveillance-centric project of Delhi Police needs to be reviewed," the audit said. Yet there has been little progress on tackling violence against women with measures such as education and increasing the numbers of female police officers, who make up less than 10% of the force, according to official data. "Authorities think technology alone can solve problems, and there is little scrutiny of the so-called solutions because they are being sold on safety," said Jain at the Internet Freedom Foundation. "Authorities - even your own family - can cite safety as a justification for more surveillance because safety is a bigger concern than privacy," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-lahore-to-lucknow-crimes-against-women-spur-more-surveillance-972211.html
09-04-2021||National||India sees biggest daily spike of nearly 1.32 lakh new Covid-19 cases||India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542, while the death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, the highest since October 18, the Union Health Ministry data showed. Registering a steady increase for the 30th day in a row, the number of active Covid-19 cases increased to 9,79,608, which is 7.5 per cent of the total infections, according to the data updated at 8 am. Noting that administration was appearing lax in many states with daily Covid-19 cases hitting new peaks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged chief ministers to strengthen their efforts for the next 2-3 weeks to check the spread of the virus on a "war-footing" and proposed to call the night curfew clamped in many places as "corona curfew" to maintain public awareness about the pandemic. He also called for observing a vaccine festival between April 11-14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries. April 11 is the birth anniversary of noted social reformer Jyotirao Phule, he noted. The recovery rate in the country has further dropped to 91.22 per cent, it added. The active Covid-19 caseload in the country was recorded at its lowest of 1,35,926 on February 12, comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,19,13,292, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.28 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,40,41,584 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the country so far, including 13,64,205 on Thursday. The 780 new fatalities include 376 from Maharashtra, 94 from Chhattisgarh, 56 from Punjab, 39 from Uttar Pradesh, 36 from Karnataka, 35 from Gujarat, 27 from Madhya Pradesh, 24 from Delhi, 19 from Tamil Nadu, 18 from Kerala and 11 from Haryana. A total of 1,67,642 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country. The figure includes 57,028 fatalities from Maharashtra, 12,840 from Tamil Nadu, 12,767 from Karnataka, 11,157 from Delhi, 10,370 from West Bengal, 9,003 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,334 from Punjab and 7,268 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-biggest-daily-spike-of-nearly-132-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-972230.html
09-04-2021||National||Priyanka Gandhi bats for online exams, says CBSE irresponsible to force students amid Covid-19 surge||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said it is irresponsible on the part of the CBSE to force students to appear for Board examinations and demanded that the exams be either cancelled or rescheduled in view of the Covid-19 situation in the country. She said the Board exams should be either cancelled or be held in such a manner that it does not require the physical presence of students. "It is downright irresponsible of boards like the CBSE to force students to sit for exams under the prevailing circumstances. Board exams should either be cancelled, rescheduled or arranged in a manner that does not require the physical presence of children at crowded exam centres," she said on Twitter. It is downright irresponsible of boards like the CBSE to force students to sit for exams under the prevailing circumstances. Board exams should either be cancelled, rescheduled or arranged in a manner that does not require the physical presence of children at crowded exam centres The Congress leader said the exam pressure will affect the mental health of children. "While corona is ravaging our country again, the added pressure of exams is bound to affect the mental health of children. Our education system needs to drastically alter its attitude and start reflecting sensitivity and compassion towards children rather than just talk about at their conclaves and conferences," she said. .. about it at their conclaves and conferences. 2/2 According to the revised date sheet for CBSE board exams 2021, the Class 10 exams would be held between May 4 and June 7 and those for Class 12 would be held between May 4 and June 15. India is seeing over one lakh cases every day for the past few days and on Friday morning, the country reported almost 1.32 lakh new Covid-19 cases, as per official data. There have been demands from students for holding online examinations and over one lakh students have already signed a petition to the CBSE in this regard. CBSE officials, however, said as per Covid guidelines exam centres across the country have been increased by 40-50 per cent to ensure social distancing among students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-bats-for-online-exams-says-cbse-irresponsible-to-force-students-amid-covid-19-surge-972254.html
09-04-2021||National||UN team in India supporting authorities to safely reopen schools, continue remote education: UN spokesperson||The UN team in India has been supporting authorities to safely reopen schools, and in some areas to continue remote education amid the pandemic, with a focus on reaching children in marginalised and disadvantaged communities, the spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General said. Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, told reporters at the daily press briefing on Thursday that the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has worked on e-learning and other programmes in 17 states in India, reaching nearly 60 million children, half of them girls. UNICEF also helped to train 400,000 people working in early childhood education. The UN Population Fund (UNFPA) has reached more than 22,000 teachers and half a million students on preventing the spread of Covid-19 in schools. The UN Refugee Agency helped more than 3,400 refugee children access education and provided nearly 3,000 education kits. “In India, our team there has been supporting authorities to safely reopen schools, and in some areas to continue remote education, with a focus on reaching children in marginalised and disadvantaged communities,” Dujarric said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-team-in-india-supporting-authorities-to-safely-reopen-schools-continue-remote-education-un-spokesperson-972256.html
09-04-2021||National||These states have imposed restrictions amid a Covid-19 surge||Prime Minister Narendra Modi ruled out complete lockdown on Thursday but several cities and districts across India imposed night curfews and other restrictions amid an unprecedented surge in the Covid-19 cases. PM Modi defended the curfew measure saying it has been experimented with globally to contain the virus. He proposed to call the night restriction as "corona curfew" to maintain public awareness about the pandemic. India registered a record single-day spike of nearly 1.32 lakh new Covid-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to over 1.30 crore, the Union Health Ministry data showed. Here is a list of cities that are under fresh pandemic-induced restrictions: Karnataka Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced a "night corona curfew" between 10 pm to 5 am in seven district centres of Karnataka along with Manipal, from April 10 to 20, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19. Curfew has been imposed in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru, Udupi-Manipal cities. It will also be applicable in district centres. Marriages, functions, meetings and events will have to happen within the limitations that have been fixed, he said, adding that Rs 250 fine is being imposed for not wearing the mask and it will be made more stringent. New Delhi The Delhi government on April 6 imposed seven hours of night curfew, from 10 pm to 5 am, with immediate effect for the entire April as an emergency measure for the "wellbeing and safety" of people in view of rising Covid-19 cases in the city. Mumbai The Maharashtra government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays till April 30, in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons to curb the surge in Covid-19 cases. The weekend lockdown will start from 8 pm on Fridays and last till 7 am on Mondays. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays.  Madhya Pradesh The Madhya Pradesh government announced the imposition of night curfew in all urban areas of the state from April 8. The state also decided to operate the government offices for five days every week for the next three months. The government announced a lockdown in urban areas of all districts every Sunday till further orders, and a lockdown in the entire Chhindwara district for the next seven days beginning from 8 pm on April 8. Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha ordered on April 8 the imposition of night curfew in the urban areas of eight districts, including Jammu and Srinagar, to check the spread of the soaring coronavirus cases. The night curfew will come into effect today.  The curfew will be in place from 10 pm to 6 am in the urban areas of 8 districts. These districts are Jammu, Udhampur, Kathua, Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam, Anantnag and Kupwara. The curfew will be in force in the municipal limits of the urban local bodies of these districts. Reasi district will be under close observation for any possible spikes in cases. Odisha Odisha has started imposing night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in Sundargarh, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Balangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput and Nabarangpur districts to contain the spread of the disease. Uttar Pradesh The authorities in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar, Allahabad, Meerut and Ghaziabad imposed night curfew to tackle the spiraling coronavirus situation. In Bareilly, the night curfew will be imposed from April 9, while similar restrictions were imposed in Kanpur and the Lucknow Municipal Corporation areas on April 7, taking the number of such districts to seven. The fresh restrictions will be in force from 10 pm to 5 am till April 17 from Thursday night in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad, the orders said. The movement of essential goods or commodities and medical and other essential services will be exempted from the restrictions, the orders issued by the Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar district magistrates said. Rajasthan Rajasthan government imposed a night curfew and ordered the closure of multiplexes, gymnasiums besides suspending Classes 1 to 9 at schools from April 5 to 19.  As per the guidelines, the night curfew will remain in force from 8 pm to 6 am. Dining at restaurants and hotels during the curfew hours has been prohibited but home delivery of food is allowed. According to the guidelines issued by Principal Secretary (Home) Abhay Kumar, the government also restricted the number of people at social gatherings to a maximum of 100. College classes, except for final-year students, will remain suspended but students can take their practical exams with prior permission. Gujarat Amid the sharp rise in coronavirus positive cases, the Gujarat government announced a curfew from 8 pm to 6 am in 20 cities in the state, which will be in force till April 30. The government has also banned political or social gatherings till April 30 and reduced the number of guests who can attend a marriage ceremony. The cities where the curfew is being imposed are Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamangar, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Gandhinagar, Anand, Nadiad, Mehasana, Morbi, Dahod, Patan, Godhra, Bhuj, Gandhidham, Bharuch, Surendranagar and Amreli. Punjab Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced the extension of night curfew to the entire state and a ban on political gatherings till April 30. The chief minister has extended the night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am to all 22 districts of the state. As part of the fresh curbs, the number of people who can attend funerals and weddings has been reduced to 50 people indoors and 100, outdoors. Chhattisgarh Restrictions have been imposed on shops after 9 pm in several districts of the state, including Raipur, while some areas are already observing night curfews. The operation of all temporary and permanent shops will be allowed from 6 am to 9 pm, while restaurants, dhabas and hotels can remain open between 8 am and 10 pm for indoor dining. In case any area is declared as a containment zone, then all shops and commercial establishments will remain shut there till further orders, and violation of guidelines would result in the closure of the concerned shop for 15 days along with legal action. Similar orders have been issued in Durg, Gaurela- Pendra-Marwahi (GPM), Sukma, Raigarh, Korba, Mungeli etc, though the orders issued in these districts did not mention the imposition of night curfew. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-states-have-imposed-restrictions-amid-a-covid-19-surge-972259.html
09-04-2021||National||Johnson & Johnson set to begin India trial of its single-shot vaccine: Report||The US drugs and healthcare giant has sent a letter to India's Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) saying it would "very shortly apply for permission to conduct clinical bridging trials in India," according to the report. The report comes as many vaccination centres in India grapple with a shortage of vaccine supplies as the country of 1.3 billion is battling a second wave of Covid-19 infections that has eclipsed the first. India's government, however, has repeatedly said there is no shortage of shots. Johnson & Johnson and the CDSCO did not immediately respond to Reuters requests for comment. India currently has two approved vaccines in use, one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and the other, a shot from local player Bharat Biotech. There are other vaccine candidates in trials in India including Russia's Sputnik-V, for which local drugmaker Dr Reddy's is currently conducting trials. Another shot developed by Cadila Healthcare Ltd is also in trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/johnson-johnson-set-to-begin-india-trial-of-its-single-shot-vaccine-report-972264.html
09-04-2021||National||Army chief Gen Naravane visits Bangabandhu museum in Bangladesh||Indian Army chief Gen M M Naravane on Friday paid tribute to Bangladesh's founding father Sheikh Mujibur Rahman by visiting the Bangabandhu Memorial Museum here. Gen Naravane, who is here on a five-day official tour, visited the museum along with his wife Veena Naravane. "Gen MM Naravane #COAS & Mrs Veena Naravane visited the ‘Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Memorial Museum’ in #Bangladesh. The museum signifies the life and struggle of Bangabandhu, who fought for the freedom of his nation," the Indian Army’s Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADG PI) tweeted. Meanwhile, the Armies of Indian and Bangladesh showcased their diverse culture at a campfire during a multinational military exercise, Shantir Ogroshena 2021, which is taking place at Bangabandhu Senanibas in Bangladesh. “Multinational Military Exercise #ShantirOgroshena2021. Indian & Bangladesh Army Contingents showcased their diverse culture during camp fire. Strengthening bonds of friendship,” the Indian Army’s Western Command said in a tweet. The visit of Naravane, who is here at the invitation of his Bangladeshi counterpart Gen Aziz Ahmed, comes less than two weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi travelled to the neighbouring country. The Bangabandhu Memorial Museum in the Dhanmondi area of Bangladesh's capital city was the personal residence of Mujibur Rahman where he was assassinated along with most of his family members in 1975. His daughters -- Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Sheikh Rehana -- survived as they were abroad at that time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chief-gen-naravane-visits-bangabandhu-museum-in-bangladesh-972284.html
09-04-2021||National||Deposit compensation for Indian fishermen killed by Italian marines, SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to deposit with its registry Rs 10 crore compensation meant for families of two fishermen killed off the Kerala coast in 2012 by two Italian marines. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to deposit the money within one week, to decide upon its plea for closing the criminal case against the marines. A counsel, appearing for the Italy government, submitted before the court the amount of compensation payable in terms of the international tribunal's award of May 21, 2020, saying it would be deposited on Friday itself by his client with the account specified by the Ministry of External Affairs. The court posted the matter for consideration on April 19. On August 7, 2020, the court had asked the Centre to bring on board members of the families of two fishermen, as they were required to be paid adequate compensation. The government had then said it was willing to withdraw the prosecution against the marines as Italy has agreed to prosecute them over there following the decision by the international tribunal. In July 2020, the Centre had informed the court that it decided to accept and abide by the tribunal's award.  The tribunal set up under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) had on May 21, 2020, ruled that the criminal investigation into the matter involving two Marines would take place in Italy due to sovereign immunity enjoyed by them, and India would be entitled for the grant of compensation.  The Centre has asked the top court to close the matter pending before it. On August 26, 2015, the top court had stayed the proceedings before it against the NIA probe, in view of the pendency of the issue before International Tribunal on Law of the Sea (ITLOS). Marines Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, who were aboard the Italian-flagged commercial oil tanker 'Enrica Lexie', were accused of killing two Indian fishermen on February 15, 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deposit-compensation-for-indian-fishermen-killed-by-italian-marines-sc-tells-centre-972286.html
09-04-2021||National||No plans to curtail train services: Railways||Despite increasing Covid-19 cases and announcent of lockdown by some states, the Indian Railways has said that it has no plans to stop or curtail train services in the country. "There is no shortage of trains for those who want to travel. Trains will be available for people who want to travel," Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma told mediapersons here. "Crowds at railway stations is normal during summer, and we can increase number of trains as required," said Sharma. The Railway Board chairman also ruled out the need for a Covid-negative certificate to travel by train. He said at present 78 per cent mail and express trains are operating and 90 per cent sub-urban trains running, he said. He also said no states have requested to stop train services. All existing trains will run as per schedule, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plans-to-curtail-train-services-railways-972295.html
09-04-2021||National||Delhi's Rajiv Gandhi hospital suspends non-Covid-19 services||Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGGSH) has been again converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility amid a massive surge in coronavirus cases in the national capital, officials said on Friday. All non-Covid services have been suspended till further orders, they said. RGSSH is a 650-bed facility in east Delhi and had played a critical role in combatting the pandemic in the city last year, when the national capital had witnessed its three waves of the spread of the virus, the last one being in November. "We have suspended all non-Covid services as the hospital is now a dedicated Covid facility. The decision was taken late on Wednesday seeing the massive surge in cases. As of now, 200 patients are admitted," Medical Director, RGSSH, Dr B L Sherwal said. He said all the 200 patients are in serious condition and the same treatment protocol was being followed as was done last year. "This surge is massive and people really need to be careful and follow all Covid safety measures. We had zero patients on March 5, and now 200. That too in the last few weeks. Most of the patients are elderly," Sherwal said. The younger population is also getting affected but many of them are in home isolation. Sherwal added that a nurse and a police personnel, who were on vaccination duty at the hospital, have been tested positive for coronavirus, and are under home isolation. The 650-bed RGSSH was declared a coronavirus facility when the pandemic began last year and in early January was converted into a partially operating Covid-19 hospital.  Recently, the Delhi government had issued an order to reserve 500 beds at this facility for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-rajiv-gandhi-hospital-suspends-non-covid-19-services-972296.html
09-04-2021||National||SC declines to consider PIL to check use of dubious means for religious conversion||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a PIL for a direction to the Centre and States to control black magic, superstition and religious conversion undertaken through gifts and monetary benefits to the vulnerable people.  A bench of Justices R F Nariman, B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy expressed their displeasure saying the PIL meant to generate publicity was of very harmful kind. The bench also warned petitioner,  BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay that the court would impose heavy cost if he argued on it. The top court said there was no reason why a person above 18 years of age can't be allowed to choose his or her religion. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, appearing for the petitioner preferred to withdraw the petition on strong observations made by the court. The plea claimed religious conversion by “carrot and stick” and “by hook or crook” not only offended Articles 14 (equality), 21 (life and liberty), 25 (religious freedom) but also went against the principles of secularism, which was an integral part of the basic structure of the Constitution. The petitioner contended that the cause of action accrued on May 10, 1995, when the top court in the Sarla Mudgal case directed to find out the feasibility of enacting anti-conversion law but the Centre did nothing to stop deceitful religious conversions. "Incidents are reported every week throughout the country where conversion is done by intimidating, threatening, deceivingly luring through gifts and monetary benefits and by using black magic, superstition, miracles and hypocrisy but the Centre has not taken appropriate steps to stop these menaces of society," the petitioner claimed. He contended due to the inaction of the Centre-States, many individuals, NGOs and institutions were involved in the conversion of poor people, particularly from the SC/ST community, to other religions by various means. Upadhyay pointed out that eight states Orissa (1967), Madhya Pradesh (1968), Arunachal Pradesh (1978), Chhattisgarh (2000), Gujrat (2003), Himachal Pradesh (2006), Jharkhand (2017) and Uttarakhand (2018) have enacted the anti-conversion laws, but there was urgent need by the Centre to bring out such a law with a minimum imprisonment of three years with a hefty fine, for implementation across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-consider-pil-to-check-use-of-dubious-means-for-religious-conversion-972301.html
09-04-2021||National||These 10 states show steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases||Ten states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan have shown a steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases accounting for 83.29 per cent of the new infections, the Union Health Ministry said. India's daily cases continue to rise, the ministry underlined. A total of 1,31,968 new cases were registered a day, the highest single-day rise recorded so far in the country. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 56,286. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 10,652 while Uttar Pradesh reported 8,474 new cases. India's total active caseload has increased to 9,79,608 and now comprises 7.50 per cent of the country's total infections. A net incline of 69,289 cases have been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Five states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradeshand Kerala cumulatively account for 73.24 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 53.84 per cent of the total active caseload of the country. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,19,13,292 with 61,899 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 780 deaths were reported in a day. Ten states account for 92.82 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (376). Chhattisgarh follows with 94 daily deaths, the ministry said. Twelve states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Odisha, Puducherry, Ladakh (UT), D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Mizoram,Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh  The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 9.43 crore, the ministry said. Cumulatively, 9,43,34,262 vaccine doses have been administered through 14,28,500 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 89,74,511 health care workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 54,49,151 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 98,10,164 frontline workers (FLWs) (1st dose), 45,43,954 FLWs (2nd dose). Besides, 3,75,68,033 and 13,61,367 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have received the 1st and 2nd dose, while 2,61,03,814 and 5,23,268  beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have been administered the 1st and 2nd dose respectively. Eight states account for 60 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. Over 36 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on day-83 of the vaccination drive (8th April), 36,91,511 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 32,85,004 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 49,416 sessions for 1st dose and 4,06,507 beneficiaries received 2nd dose of vaccine. "In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 37,94,328 doses administered per day," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-10-states-show-steep-rise-in-daily-covid-19-cases-972309.html
09-04-2021||National||COVAX says India's Serum Institute bound to supply Covid vaccines||The Serum Institute of India (SII) is legally compelled to ship coronavirus vaccine to global vaccine sharing facility COVAX, its co-lead Gavi has told Reuters, a provision that could complicate the firm's efforts to boost domestic supplies. India, where infections have surged to 13.06 million, suspended all major exports of vaccines last month to fill demand at home, forcing the world's biggest vaccine maker to divert nearly all its production to the domestic market. "The agreement is legally binding and served as a basis for the first-round allocation document, which has been communicated to all participating economies," a Gavi spokeswoman said in an email. The pact specified Gavi would receive from SII 1.1 billion doses of either the AstraZeneca vaccine or that of Novavax, with 200 million committed, and the rest on option. SII partner AstraZeneca has already issued it a legal notice over delays to other shipments, even as many Indian states have complained of a shortage facing priority recipients. . Gavi said its pact with SII took effect when the World Health Organization approved the AstraZeneca shot on February 15, after a source said SII had originally been supposed to send doses to COVAX only from May. "SII has pledged that, alongside supplying India, it will prioritise the COVAX multilateral solution for equitable distribution," Gavi added. COVAX had expected a total of more than 100 million doses from SII between February and May, excluding supplies for India, but has so far received only about 18.2 million. Serum has sent another 10 million doses to the Indian government through COVAX, Gavi said. Gavi did not respond on Friday to questions about what now lies ahead. SII also did not immediately respond to a request for comment. From an initial August target of vaccine coverage for 300 million of its highest-risk people, or just over a fifth of its population of 1.35 billion, India has upped the figure by about 100 million, adding pressure on SII to crank up supplies. India could resume vaccine exports by June, the firm's chief executive, Adar Poonawalla, told media this week. The firm has also sought $403 million from New Delhi as a grant to boost monthly output to more than 100 million doses by end-May, from 65 million to 70 million now. On Thursday, the foreign ministry said domestic demand would determine the extent of India's exports. It has already shipped 64.5 million doses and given out 92 million at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covax-says-indias-serum-institute-bound-to-supply-covid-vaccines-972343.html
09-04-2021||National||Man strips on Air Asia flight, asks crew for 'Italian smooch': Report||What is the most bizarre request a flier can possibly demand on board? Earlier this week, a passenger on an Air Asia flight from Delhi to Bengaluru took off his clothes twice and demanded to kiss a crew member. The article cites an internal report which is being examined by the Airports Authority of India (AAI).  On the flight scheduled for April 5, the passenger approached a cabin crew member with a "request of Italian smooch, which was refused firmly", the aviation ministry report stated. The report states that the passenger was advised to be seated and the crew checked if he was intoxicated or on medication. The man reportedly apologised. Later, a stewardess was shocked to find him naked in his seat and asked him to get dressed, which he did. However, when the plane landed, he stripped again, the report added. "On ground, after he deplaned, guest again got undressed. Again he removed his clothes and broke his own laptop on ground in the presence of AAI security staff. On repeated requests, guest got dressed," the report said. "Firstly, the unruly passenger started a heated argument with the cabin crew about life jackets. He later misbehaved with the crew on board and suddenly took off all the clothes in the flight," another passenger told news agency ANI. The airlines have filed a police complaint against the man, who might be facing a 30-day ban during which he will be on the no-fly list. Reports also suggest that Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri may be considering a ban on the passenger. Although it could not be confirmed, the airlines has said the flier may have been intoxicated. "An inebriated guest onboard i5-722, from Bengaluru to New Delhi on April 6, 2021, behaved in an inappropriate manner including with a cabin crew on duty inflight," an Air Asia India spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-strips-on-air-asia-flight-asks-crew-for-italian-smooch-report-972357.html
09-04-2021||National||Public roads can’t be blocked, causing undue harassment to people, SC rules||The Supreme Court on Friday said the free flow of traffic on public roads cannot be blocked, causing undue harassment to people. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul made the oral observations while hearing a plea by a woman resident of Noida seeking direction to ensure the roads between Noida to Delhi should be kept clear.  The roads had remained blocked for some months due to farmers' agitation for the repeal of the three farm laws. The court noted that the petitioner was facing undue harassment and the authorities concerned should make arrangements so that roads are kept free.  Earlier, the top court had issued notice to the Centre and Delhi Police Commissioner on the plea of Monicca Agarwal who alleged that instead of the normal 20 minutes, she ends up spending two hours for her travel from Noida to Delhi.   "Public streets should not be blocked, and this aspect has been emphasised repeatedly in previous orders of this court,” the top court said. It also said the petitioner was a single mother and it became harassing for her if roads were blocked. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that he was appearing on behalf of the Delhi government and requested the court to implead Uttar Pradesh and Haryana government as parties in the matter.  “We are not concerned, how you resolve this issue, whether politically, administratively or judicially….we have said this before that roads should not be blocked," the bench said The top court said it is only examining limited aspect in the matter and not looking at other aspects involved in blocking the roads. It fixed the matter for further hearing on April 19.  On January 12 during the farmers' protests, a separate bench, while staying implementation of three farm laws, said, "While we may not stifle a peaceful protest, we think that this order will encourage the farmers' bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and in order to protect the lives and properties of others." On October 7, 2020, judgement, the top court, while dealing with Shaheen Bagh sit-in against the Citizenship Amendment Act, had then declared that public roads and spaces can't be occupied indefinitely for protests, causing inconvenience to the people, and the demonstrations must be organised at designated places only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/public-roads-can-t-be-blocked-causing-undue-harassment-to-people-sc-rules-972366.html
09-04-2021||National||No fresh Covid-19 case reported in 149 districts in last seven days: Harsh Vardhan||No fresh Covid-19 case has been reported in 149 districts in a week, while eight have not registered any new infection in a fortnight, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday even as daily cases hit a record high of 1.31 lakh. Chairing the 24th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19 through a video link, he said more than 9.43 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country till Friday morning. More than three crore vaccine jabs have been administered to senior citizens, the health minister said. "India has also supported the global community through 'Vaccine Maitri', under which 6.45 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been sent to 85 countries. "While 3.58 crore doses have been supplied to 25 countries under commercial contracts, 1.04 crore doses have been sent to 44 nations as grants, and 1.82 crore to 39 countries under COVAX," Vardhan was quoted as saying in a statement. The Union health minister informed the meeting that there has been no fresh Covid-19 case in 149 districts in the last seven days. Eight districts have not reported any fresh case in the last 14 days, no new infection in three districts in the last 21 days and none in 63 districts in the last 28 days. Giving details about the total number of tests conducted for the detection of Covid-19, he said, "Till now, we have conducted 25,71,98,105 tests of which 13,64,205 were done in the last 24 hours. India has 2,449 laboratories, of which 1,230 are government ones and 1,219 private." India has substantially ramped up its hospital infrastructure for Covid-19 management. There are 4,68,974 beds in 2,084 dedicated Covid hospitals of which 89 are run by the Centre and 1,995 by different states, Vardhan said. Of the 4.68 lakh Covid beds, 2,63,573 are isolation beds, 50,408 ICU and 1,54,993 are oxygen-supported beds, the statement said, adding 4,043 dedicated Covid Health centres have been set up of which 85 are run by the Centre and 3,958 by states. These Covid health centres have 3,57,096 beds, of which 2,31,462 are isolation beds, 25,459 are ICU and 1,00,175 are oxygen-supported beds. Vardhan said with a renewed focus on collective efforts for effective adherence to the health ministry's SOPs for Covid-19 containment and management, and by maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour, India will overcome the recent surge in cases. About the status of Covid-19 in the top 11 high-burden states, NCDC Director Sujeet Kumar Singh highlighted that as of April 8, India's seven-day case growth rate, which is 12.93 per cent, is next only to the USA and Brazil. Although the country was seeing an average growth rate of 5.37 per cent in the daily cases, the national case fatality ratio has declined to 1.28 per cent. Singh also said stated that the national recovery rate has declined to 91.22 per cent in view of the surge. It was also pointed out that 11 states contribute 54 per cent of the total cases and 65 per cent of the total deaths in the country. Disproportionately higher deaths in Maharashtra and Punjab have further increased during the last 14 days. In the 11 states with a high Covid burden, a majority of the cases are reported among the 15 to 44 years age bracket and most of the deaths are among those above 60 years. A high test positivity rate is seen in Maharashtra where it is 25 per cent and in Chhattisgarh where it is 14 per cent. NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul explained the global approach underlying population prioritisation regarding vaccination. The same scientific and evidence-based approach has guided the Centre in its population age groups prioritization for Covid vaccination, he said. Paul also detailed efforts to ramp up production of the existing vaccines and also about the potency and timeline of vaccines undergoing clinical trials. The meeting was attended by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri, Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai, Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Mansukh Mandaviya, and Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-fresh-covid-19-case-reported-in-149-districts-in-last-seven-days-harsh-vardhan-972369.html
09-04-2021||National||Sahara's Subrata Roy tests positive for Covid-19||Sahara Group Chairman Subrata Roy Sahara has tested positive for coronavirus. Amidst the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Roy has appealed to everyone that the priority should be to "stay safe and take care of people around us", according to a release. As per the release, Roy, who is the Managing Worker and Chairman of Sahara India Pariwar, has tested positive for coronavirus. On Friday, India reported a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542. The death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, the highest since October 18, latest data from the Union health ministry showed. Registering a steady increase for the 30th day in a row, the number of active Covid-19 cases increased to 9,79,608, which is 7.5 per cent of the total infections, as per the data updated at 8 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saharas-subrata-roy-tests-positive-for-covid-19-972376.html
09-04-2021||National||Johnson & Johnson in talks with India for clinical trial of single-shot vaccine||Global healthcare major Johnson & Johnson is in discussions with the Indian government to begin a clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in the country, the company said on Friday. The US Food and Drug Administration has already approved Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine that works with just one dose for emergency use in February. "We are in discussions with the Government of India with the objective of starting a bridging clinical study of our Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India, subject to local regulatory approvals," Johnson & Johnson India spokesperson said in an email reply. Johnson & Johnson's vaccine can be stored at refrigerator temperatures. "At Johnson & Johnson, we remain fully focused on bringing a safe and effective Covid-19 vaccine to people around the world, if authorised for use by local health authorities", the spokesperson said. India is currently using two vaccines for Covid-19 -- one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and the other developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research - National Institute of Virology. Both the vaccines are being manufactured within the country by domestic firms. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542, while the death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, the highest since October 18, the Union Health Ministry data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/johnson-johnson-in-talks-with-india-for-clinical-trial-of-single-shot-vaccine-972379.html
09-04-2021||National||When Gayatri Devi sent Alphonso mangoes for Prince Philip||Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh and Queen Elizabeth II's husband passed away on Friday. He was 99. "It is with deep sorrow that Her Majesty The Queen has announced the death of her beloved husband, His Royal Highness Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.  His Royal Highness passed away peacefully this morning at Windsor Castle," the Royal Family posted on Twitter. It is with deep sorrow that Her Majesty The Queen has announced the death of her beloved husband, His Royal Highness The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.  Let us look back at Prince Philip's life and his connection with a much sought-after Indian fruit, Alphonso mangoes. Former Rajmata of Jaipur, the charismatic Gayatri Devi and her husband were great friends with Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip and every year, she would send a box of Alphonso mangoes from India for the Duke of Edinburgh's birthday, says a new book. In "The House of Jaipur: The Inside Story of India's Most Glamorous Royal Family", Australian author John Zubrzycki describes the history of the royal house, with stories of glamour, jewels, scandals and opulence. Gayatri Devi and husband Man Singh II, the last ruling Maharaja of the erstwhile Jaipur State - Ayesha and Jai as they were known to their friends - are central to the story of Jaipur over the past century, he says. "In the 1950s and 1960s, Jai and Ayesha were India's golden couple, its answer to John and Jackie Kennedy, Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip. They were the only Indians invited to Truman Capote's Black & White Ball in 1966 at New York's Plaza Hotel," he writes in the book, published by Juggernaut. "Ayesha was the only woman who was allowed to break the dress code, arriving in a gold sari and a necklace of emeralds. Frank Sinatra, Rose Kennedy and the Duke and Duchess of Windsor were there too. All were friends of the Jaipurs," he says about that masquerade ball. Like the historical series "Downton Abbey" and "The Crown", this book shows what life is really like inside the royal palace. It also reveals the poignant drama of how India's princely families came to terms with democracy and change. In the book, Zubrzycki mentions about Ayub Khan, a close confidant of Gayatri Devi. "Khan used to earn a few rupees a day as Gayatri Devi's ballboy on Lily Pool's now abandoned tennis courts. After he completed his college degree, she offered him a job as a typist and bought him a trusty Godrej manual typewriter," he writes. For three decades, Khan typed all her correspondence - responses to constituents seeking help for their daughters' dowries, invitations to heads of state to visit her in the Indian winter and complaints to politicians who were neglecting Jaipur's heritage. "'Every year she would send Prince Philip a box of Alphonso mangoes for his birthday," Zubrzycki quotes Khan as telling him. Khan regularly met the British royal at polo matches in England. Zubrzycki describes Jai as the quintessential modern-day maharaja, with a portfolio of gleaming palaces bursting with taxidermied tigers and sporting trophies, garages full of collectible cars and stables full of polo ponies and caparisoned elephants. Ayesha was unique among Indian maharanis, breaking the stereotype of Indian princesses demurely hidden behind their veils, he says. "Born into a small eastern princedom, she grew to be a woman who was an international social celebrity, in a class apart from the maharanis of bigger, 21-gun-salute princely states such as Gwalior or Kashmir. She combined the exotic allure of the East with the sophistication of Western aristocracy," Zubrzycki writes. Jai predeceased Gayatri Devi in 1970. According to Zubrzycki, if signatures could speak, Jai and Ayesha's guestbooks would tell a thousand stories. "The first signatures, dated 22 January 1961 when the Jaipurs lived at Rajmahal Palace, are those of Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip. A little over a year later, Jackie Kennedy and her sister Lee Radziwill memorialised their visit, as did Jackie's children, John and Caroline, in 1982," he writes. "Mexico's Octavio Paz was followed by the Italian photographer Pietro Francesco Mele, best remembered for his work in Afghanistan and Tibet. 'Reggie', 'Baby', 'Boopy' and 'Bunny' had a 'wonderful stay' in 1964," he adds. Zubrzycki says it's a little over a decade since Gayatri Devi died, but such was her stature it could have been a few weeks ago. "Her memory is revered, her portrait found in many Jaipur homes - though strangely enough not in the City Palace Museum. She was the woman who took on Indira Gandhi, winning three straight elections despite neither speaking nor understanding the language of her constituents, then paid for her success with a lengthy incarceration in Delhi's notorious Tihar Jail," he writes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-gayatri-devi-sent-alphonso-mangoes-for-prince-philip-972382.html
09-04-2021||National||All Delhi schools to be shut till further orders in wake of Covid-19||After a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Government on Friday announced that all schools in the national capital will remain closed for all classes till further orders. "Due to rising cases of Covid-19, schools in Delhi will remain closed for all classes till further orders," Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday. कोविड के बढ़ते मामलों के कारण, दिल्ली में सभी स्कूल (सरकारी, प्राइवेट सहित), सभी क्लासेज के लिए अगले आदेश तक बंद किए जा रहे हैं। Last week, the state government had announced that students of any classes will not be called to schools in the new academic session. However, class 10 and class 12 students who are due to appear in board exams in May-June were going to school with the consent of their parents. Delhi had recorded 7,437 Covid-19 cases Thursday, the highest single-day surge this year, while 24 more people had died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,157. Separately, the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Friday directed officials to "be vigilant and take all necessary measures" in order to control the spread of coronavirus infection on the campus. There are 27 active cases of Covid-19, including 24 students on the campus. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the central university has recorded 281 cases and five deaths among staff, family members of staffers and pensioners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-delhi-schools-to-be-shut-till-further-orders-in-wake-of-covid-19-972390.html
09-04-2021||National||Many states complain of Covid-19 vaccine shortage, Centre rubbishes claims||As India fights the second, deadlier wave of coronavirus, an internal spat has risen among states and the Centre as the former complained of a vaccine shortage and the latter assuring the public that these claims are incorrect. Multiple vaccination centres in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha remained shut as the states rationed their supply of vaccines amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote to the Prime Minister saying that India is facing a 'vaccine starvation' and demanded from him that production be ramped up. To counter these claims, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan took to Twitter to "stop the fear-mongering", saying that India has no shortage of vaccines. Total administered: 9 cr+In stock/nearing delivery to states: 4.3 cr+ At the heart of this debate is Maharashtra, the epicentre of the second wave of Covid-19 in India. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope, in a press conference earlier this week, said the vaccine stocks in the state are poor, blaming the Centre for the same. Tope took potshots at the Modi government saying that the state will soon exhaust its vaccine supply. He further alleged that BJP-ruled states including Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are getting priorities over the non-BJP states. "Maharashtra is a big state, geographically and population-wise. We have a population of 12 crore and we got 1.04 crore vaccines so far, but if we compare it with Gujarat, it has a population of 6 crore, nearly half of our state's size, but it got 1 crore vaccines,” he said. Similarly, the Jharkhand government said on Thursday it has enough vaccination doses left to inoculate people for two more days. Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta told NDTV, that 83 lakh people need to get first and second doses in the state and it needs around 1.60 crore doses. "We are getting it gradually. We do have vaccines available with us but there has been a shortage at some locations," he said. There was news of interruptions in vaccinations in Chennai due to a shortage of doses. Some districts of Andhra Pradesh also had to stop the drive due to a lack of doses.  It was reported that the Chhattisgarh government, which recently announced a 10-day lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, is not able to manage with the current stockpile of vaccines. Punjab's CM Amarinder Singh had made similar claims, saying that it was unable to ramp up inoculations despite the state witnessing an unprecedented surge in cases, as the supply was not as much as it should be. Dr Harsh Vardhan lashed out at Maharashtra and other states, accusing them of trying to cover their "failures" in containing the pandemic by making "deplorable" attempts through "irresponsible" statements to distract attention and spreading panic among people. In a strongly-worded statement, the minister rubbished Maharashtra government's claim of shortage of vaccines as "utterly baseless", and said the "lackadaisical" attitude of the state government has "singularly bogged down" the entire country's efforts to fight the virus. During his meeting with the Chief Ministers to assess the Covid-19 situation in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged everyone not to make this a political issue and fight together against the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-states-complain-of-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-centre-rubbishes-claims-972406.html
09-04-2021||National||India and China hold 11th round of military talks; focus on further disengagement in eastern Ladakh||India and China held another round of military talks on Friday to take forward the disengagement process in the remaining friction points such as Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said. The 11th round of the Corps Commander-level talks began at around 10:30 am at the Chushul border point on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, they said. The 10th round of the military dialogue took place on February 20, two days after both militaries concluded the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong lake. The talks lasted for around 16 hours. The Indian delegation at Friday's talks is led by Lieutenant General PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. One of the people cited above said India will insist on completing the disengagement process at the remaining friction points at the earliest. Late last month, Army chief General MM Naravane said the threat to India has only "abated" following the disengagement in the Pangong lake areas, but it has not gone away altogether. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong lake in February, in line with an agreement on disengagement. India has been insisting that the resolution of the outstanding issues, including at Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra, is essential for the overall ties between the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-china-hold-11th-round-of-military-talks-focus-on-further-disengagement-in-eastern-ladakh-972420.html
09-04-2021||National||India conveys concern to US over warship carrying out navigation operations off Lakshadweep without consent||India on Friday said it has conveyed concerns to the United States over a US Navy ship carrying out a freedom of navigation operation in the Indian exclusive economic zone (EEZ). In a statement, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said US Navy ship John Paul Jones was continuously monitored transiting from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits. India's reaction came after the US Navy, in an unusual move, announced that one of its ships conducted patrols in the Indian EEZ this week, without seeking consent from India. "The USS John Paul Jones was continuously monitored transiting from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits. We have conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the government of the USA through diplomatic channels," the MEA said. It said India's stated position has been that the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea does not authorise other countries to carry out military exercises or manoeuvres in an EEZ and on the continental shelf without the consent of the coastal nation. "India's stated position on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea is that the convention does not authorise other States to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal State," the MEA said. The US Navy, in a statement, announced that it asserted navigational rights and freedoms inside India's EEZ without seeking the country's prior consent. "This freedom of navigation operation upheld the rights, freedoms and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India's excessive maritime claims," the US 7th fleet said in a statement on April 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-conveys-concern-to-us-over-warship-carrying-out-navigation-operations-off-lakshadweep-without-consent-972450.html
09-04-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi condoles Prince Philip's demise||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday condoled the demise of the UK's Prince Philip, who passed away at age 99. "Heartfelt condolences to Her Majesty the Queen, her family and the people of Britain on the passing of His Royal Highness The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh," Gandhi tweeted. Heartfelt condolences to Her Majesty The Queen, her family and the people of Britain on the passing of His Royal Highness The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. Prince Philip, the husband of Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh, passed away on Friday aged 99, the Buckingham Palace said. In a statement issued on behalf of the 94-year-old Queen Elizabeth II, the palace said that the country's longest-serving royal consort died peacefully at Windsor Castle on Friday morning. "It is with deep sorrow that Her Majesty The Queen has announced the death of her beloved husband, His Royal Highness The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh," the palace statement read. The Duke, who was to mark his 100th birthday on June 10, had been discharged from hospital after a month since he had been admitted there and went on to have a successful heart procedure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-condoles-prince-philips-demise-972464.html
09-04-2021||National||Delhi Police summons Narsinghanand to join probe into case against him||The Delhi Police on Friday summoned religious leader Narsinghanand Saraswati to join the investigation days after registering an FIR against him for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, officials said. The FIR was registered on April 3 on a complaint from AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan. He had uploaded a video on social media, in which the legislator said that he has submitted a complaint against Narsinghanand. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said, "We have summoned Narsinghanand to join the investigation." In a video circulating on social media, the religious leader was seen uttering blasphemous words against a religion. The video was purportedly shot during an event at the Press Club. The police said they have registered a case in connection with the incident. "Taking cognizance of a video circulating on social media of a conference that took place at the Press Club, a case under relevant sections has been registered at the Parliament Street police station and investigation taken up," a senior police officer had said. Also taking suo motu cognizance of a video and a tweet, police had registered a case against Khan on Sunday for allegedly threatening Narsinghanand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-summons-narsinghanand-to-join-probe-into-case-against-him-972471.html
09-04-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi condoles Prince Philip's demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday condoled the demise of the UK's Prince Philip and hailed him for his distinguished career in the military as well as him being at the forefront of many community service initiatives. Prince Philip, the husband of Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh, passed away on Friday aged 99, the Buckingham Palace said. "My thoughts are with the British people and the Royal Family on the passing away of HRH The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh," Prime Minister Modi tweeted. "He (Prince Philip) had a distinguished career in the military and was at the forefront of many community service initiatives. May his soul rest in peace," Modi said. In a statement issued on behalf of the 94-year-old Queen Elizabeth II, the palace said that the country's longest-serving royal consort died peacefully at Windsor Castle on Friday morning. "It is with deep sorrow that Her Majesty The Queen has announced the death of her beloved husband, His Royal Highness The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh," the palace statement read. The Duke, who was to mark his 100th birthday on June 10, had been discharged from hospital after a month since he had been admitted there and went on to have a successful heart procedure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-condoles-prince-philips-demise-972474.html
09-04-2021||National||PM Modi holds virtual summit with Dutch counterpart||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday said there have been similarities of approach between India and the Netherlands in dealing with global challenges like climate change, terrorism and pandemics. He was speaking at a virtual summit with his counterpart from the Netherlands Mark Rutte. Modi also said that both the countries are developing convergences in areas like Indo-Pacific resilient supply chains and global digital governance. In his opening remarks, Modi said that setting up a fast track mechanism for investment promotion will give new momentum to the strong economic cooperation between the two countries. India and the Netherlands share cordial and friendly relations underpinned by shared values of democracy, rule of law and freedom, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Both countries have wide ranging cooperation including in areas of water management, agriculture and food processing, healthcare, smart cities and urban mobility, science and technology, renewable energy and space. There are over 200 Dutch companies present in India with a similar presence of Indian businesses in the Netherlands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-virtual-summit-with-dutch-counterpart-972481.html
09-04-2021||National||Prince Philip: Four royal visits to India and a tiger controversy||Britain's Prince Philip – the Duke of Edinburgh, the husband of Queen Elizabeth II, who passed away at the age of 99 on Friday morning, made three memorable royal visits to India in his long years of accompanying the 94-year-old monarch during her nearly 69-year reign. The UK’s longest-serving royal consort joined the Queen in India in 1959, 1961, 1983 and 1997 – during which he made quite an impression with his sense of humour, which often also got him into some controversy. “Deeply saddened at sad demise of HRH Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, an iconic pillar of the British monarchy, regarded by his people and world with the highest esteem and affection. India had the honour of receiving him and HM The Queen on four memorable occasions,” the Indian High Commission in London said in a statement. During his 1961 visit to India, he was pictured with the Queen and the Maharaja and Maharani of Jaipur with a dead eight-foot tiger he had shot while on a hunt. It happened to be the same year he became president of the World Wildlife Fund UK. He also shot a crocodile and mountain sheep on that trip but it was the photograph of the tiger that caused ripples around the world. Later in life, he went on to reinvent himself as an environmentalist and “champion of the natural world” as UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson referred to him in his tribute on Friday. During Prince Philip's last visit to India to mark the 50th anniversary of independence in 1997, he joined the Queen on a visit to Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar where the royals laid a commemorative wreath at the site associated with General Dyer’s orders to open fire on a large Baisakhi gathering in April 1919. As someone known for his gaffes, among his many infamous ones includes his query of the death toll at the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. "Two thousand? It wasn't, was it," he questioned, as he passed by a plaque at the memorial, which read “This place is saturated with the blood of about two thousand Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims who were martyred in a non-violent struggle". "That's wrong. I was in the Navy with Dyer's son. That's a bit exaggerated… it must include the wounded," he is reported to have said. Among his other gaffes included a quip at Indian-origin entrepreneur Atul Patel during a Buckingham Palace reception for hundreds of successful British Indians in 2009: “There’s a lot of your family in tonight.” Ten years earlier, while inspecting a factory in Edinburgh and coming across an old-fashioned fuse box, he said: “It looks as if it was put in by an Indian.” It had become common practice for the UK media to regularly compile a list of the Duke’s many gaffes, many of which were believed to have been made in a light-hearted vein. Philip was born on June 10, 1921, on the Greek island of Corfu, the youngest child and only son of Prince Andrew of Greece and Princess Alice of Battenberg. That heritage made him a Prince of Greece and Denmark, but the following year the family was expelled from Greece after a coup and a British warship carried them to safety in Italy with baby Philip. His childhood was turbulent and in 1930, when he was eight years old, his mother was committed to a secure psychiatric centre after suffering a nervous breakdown, a story most recently covered in the Netflix series ‘The Crown’. When Philip left school in Scotland, Britain was on the verge of war with Germany and he joined the Britannia Royal Naval College in Dartmouth, the UK's naval academy. He went on to serve with distinction in World War II, seeing military action for the first time in the Indian Ocean. When King George VI paid an official visit to the naval academy in July 1939, Philip was charged with entertaining his young daughters, Princesses Elizabeth – later to be Queen – and Margaret. He made an impression on the then 13-year-old Elizabeth and the couple were to later get married after a courtship through letters. The erstwhile Prince of Greece and Denmark became a naturalised British subject, formally joined the Church of England and gave up his foreign titles. On his wedding day, November 20, 1947, he was made Duke of Edinburgh, aged 26. The couple's marriage was to last 73 years, during which the Queen described him as her “strength and stay”, and they had four children – the eldest and heir to the throne Prince Charles, Princess Anne, Prince Andrew, and Prince Edward. He is also survived by eight grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren. As the Queen's consort, his primary function was to support his wife and he accompanied her extensively alongside his own royal charities and patronages until his retirement from royal duties in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prince-philip-four-royal-visits-to-india-and-a-tiger-controversy-972485.html
09-04-2021||National||Madras HC closes PIL against CM Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam||The Madras High Court on Friday closed a PIL petition, which among other things, sought to declare as null and void the 'posting' of O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami as Coordinator and joint coordinator, respectively, of the ruling AIADMK. Palaniswami is Tamil Nadu Chief Minister while Panneerselvam is his deputy. The main prayer of the petitioner G Sundaram of Kanagakurchi in Salem district was for a direction to the AIADMK to hold intra-party election to select co-ordinators and high level executive members and other members as per Rule-30 (ii) of AIADMK Party Rules and Regulations, much before the election to the state Assembly. When the matter came up today, the counsel appearing for the Election Commission told the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy that the EC had issued a communication to the AIADMK in this connection. The party had prayed for more time due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, he said. He also pointed out that the election to the Tamil Nadu Assembly has just concluded on April 6. Holding that no order can be passed on the issue at this stage, the bench closed the PIL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madras-hc-closes-pil-against-cm-palaniswami-o-panneerselvam-972488.html
09-04-2021||National||Ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi's mother Shanti Gogoi passes away after brief illness||Author Shanti Gogoi, wife of Assam's former chief minister Keshab Chandra Gogoi and mother of ex-Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, died on Friday at a private hospital in Delhi after a brief illness, sources in her family said. She was 87. She is survived by three sons and two daughters, they said. Shanti Gogoi, was an author and a prominent social worker, who founded Socio Educational Welfare Association (SEWA) to facilitate well-being of marginalised communities in 2000, two years after the death of her husband. She was former president of All Assam Lekhika Samaroh Samiti (women writers association), advisor of Mahila Samiti, besides being associated with various social institutions. Gogoi had authored several books, including Jugna Jiwanar Huwaroni, Europor Mitha Huworon, Padmakumari Gohainr Rosonahombhar and Sintar Jilikoni. Recognised for her works, she was awarded the prestigious Labanya Hazarika Adarsha Matri Award in 2013. Hailing from a political family, Gogoi's father was a member of the Legislative Council in the late 1930s and her mother Padmakumari Gohain was a Cabinet Minister in the Bimala Prasad Chaliha and Mahendra Mohan Choudhary ministries in Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-cji-ranjan-gogois-mother-shanti-gogoi-passes-away-after-brief-illness-972512.html
09-04-2021||National||4 dead, many hurt after fire breaks out at private hospital in Nagpur||At least four persons have died and some patients were left injured after a fire broke out at a private hospital in Maharashtra's Nagpur on Friday evening. Three men and one woman were killed in the fire that broke out at the Well Treat Hospital in the Wadi area around 8.30 pm, said reports. More than two dozen patients and hospital staff had a miraculous escape. Teams of Nagpur municipal corporation, fire brigade and police have reached the incident spot. More details are awaited. "The fire reportedly started from an AC unit of the ICU located on the second floor of the hospital. The blaze remained confined to that floor and did not spread further," Nagpur Municipal Corporation's (NMC) chief fire officer Rajendra Uchke told PTI, adding that it is a non-Covid hospital. "There were 10 patients on the second floor when the fire erupted. While six patients came out on their own, four others were rescued by the fire brigade personnel," he said. However, confusion prevailed over the hospital's Covid-19 tag as Nagpur MP and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari referred to the deceased as Covid-19 patients while condoling their deaths, "The deaths of 3 patients undergoing Covid treatment at the fire at Well Treat Hospital in Nagpur's Wadi area is extremely saddening," said the senior BJP leader. नागपूर जिल्ह्यातील वाडी येथील वेलट्रीट रुग्णालयात लागलेल्या आगीमध्ये 'कोविड'वर उपचार घेत असलेल्या तीन रुग्णांचा मृत्यू झाल्याची घटना अतिशय दुर्दैवी आहे. मृतांच्या नातेवाईकांसोबत माझ्या संवेदना आहेत. The Nagpur hospital fire comes close on the heels of the fire incident at the Sunrise Hospital in Dreams Mall in Bhandup in March that had left 11 patients dead. On January 9, 10 new born babies were killed in a fire that broke out at  the district hospital in Bhandara. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadanvis, who hails from Nagpur, spoke to senior police and district officials. "Pained to know about the incident," he said, adding that all assistance is being provided.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah also expressed grief over the loss of lives. Saddened by the hospital fire in Nagpur. My thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. Praying that the injured recover at the earliest. नागपुर के एक अस्पताल में आग लगने के समाचार से अत्यंत दुःखी हूँ। मैं दुःख की इस घड़ी में मृतकों के परिजनों के प्रति अपनी गहरी संवेदनाएं व्यक्त करता हूँ व ईश्वर से घायलों के शीघ्र ही स्वस्थ होने की प्रार्थना करता हूँ। (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-dead-many-hurt-after-fire-breaks-out-at-private-hospital-in-nagpur-972521.html
09-04-2021||National||Govt releases Rs 4,000 crore for Post Matric Scholarship Scheme for Scheduled Castes||The Centre has released funds to the tune of Rs 4,000 crore for the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme for Scheduled Castes, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Rattan Lal Kataria said on Friday. In a statement, he said Uttar Pradesh was allocated the highest funds at Rs 892.36 crore, followed by Maharashtra at Rs 558 crore and Andhra Pradesh at Rs 450 crore. The government had completely revamped the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme for Scheduled Castes to provide universal access to the youth of the community for higher education. The funding pattern under the scheme was changed from the committed liability formula to a fixed sharing pattern of 60:40 between the Centre and states (90:10 for north eastern states), thus increasing the commitment of the government in the scheme by almost four times, the minister said. "An amount of Rs 35,534 crore was committed by the central government for this scheme till 2025-26, and it is estimated that about 4 crore youth from the SC community will be benefitted during this period," he said. Kataria noted that apart from increasing the central share in the scheme, the government has brought in several process improvements to avoid delays in payment of scholarships using the direct benefit transfer (DBT) system. Underscoring the importance of education, he said, "Time and again Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emphasised the impact of quality education and its importance in moulding an individual to overcome the influences of ignorance and superstition in achieving their maximum potential, thereby transforming them into productive assets for the nation building process.” In another statement, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment said the Union government has released an amount of Rs 39.68 crore as central assistance to Madhya Pradesh under the centrally sponsored scheme of Post-Matric Scholarship for OBC Students during the year 2020-21. Earlier Rs 20 crore was released to the state government on ad-hoc basis on June 12, 2020 and Rs 19.86 crore on September 22, 2020, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-releases-rs-4000-crore-for-post-matric-scholarship-scheme-for-scheduled-castes-972533.html
09-04-2021||National||Over 9.78 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far: Government||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 9.78 crore, the Union health ministry said on Friday. A total of 9,78,71,045 vaccine doses have been given, according to a provisional report till 8 pm. The beneficiaries include 89,87,818 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 54,78,562 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 98,65,504 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 46,56,236 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 2,81,30,126 and 5,79,276  beneficiaries aged between 45 and 59 have been administered the first and second dose respectively. As many as 3,85,92,532 and 15,80,991 individuals over 60 years have been given the first and second dose respectively.  "Total 32,16,949 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm on Friday, the 84th day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination," the ministry said. According to the provisional report, 28,24,066 beneficiaries were administered the first dose and 3,92,883 received the second dose, the ministry said, adding that final reports for the day would be completed by late night. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with the inoculation of HCWs. The vaccination of FLWs started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years and those aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions. India opened vaccination for all people aged above 45 from April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-978-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-government-972543.html
09-04-2021||National||SC issues contempt notice to DoPT Secretary for violating order on promotion||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the secretaries of the Department of Personnel and Training to explain why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against them for breach of its status quo order on the promotion of central government employees. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran issued a notice to the top officers of the Union government on the contempt petition filed by Debananda Sahoo against them for violation of the top court's order of April 15, 2019. The petitioner led by advocate Kumar Parimal contended that the top court had on April 15, 2019, directed for maintaining the status quo as to the promotion of the officers. The DoPT made an application for permission to grant ad-hoc promotion, which was declined on July 22, 2020. However, the DoPT had on December 11, 2020, issued promotion orders in favour of 149 officers from selection grade (deputy secretary) of the central secretariat service to senior selection grade (director) on an ad-hoc basis. Of this, 55 deputy secretaries belonged to the reserved category and had taken benefit of reservation in promotion and consequential seniority in their career earlier.  "The promotion order was issued without reviewing the select list of under secretary for the year 2003 and onwards and consequential review of deputy secretary select list of 2003 and onwards in terms of Constitution bench judgements in M Nagaraj and Jarnail Singh," the plea claimed. Thus, it is crystal clear that the contemnors have deliberately, willfully and dishonestly disobeyed the order of this court, making them liable for punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, it contended. In the Constitution bench decisions of Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018), the top court had laid down conditionalities like the collection of data on the inadequacy of representation, the overall effect on efficiency on administration and removing creamy layers in considering reservation in promotion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-contempt-notice-to-dopt-secretary-for-violating-order-on-promotion-972582.html
09-04-2021||National||Govt raises Rs 32,853 cr through G-sec auction; highest weekly market borrowing in 11 months: Report||The government on Friday started off the first G-Sec auction of this fiscal by raising Rs 32,853 crore, the highest weekly market borrowing since May 2020, at a rate lower than the last auction in 2020-21, Care Ratings said. The amount of Rs 32,853 crore — higher than the notified quantum of Rs 32,000 crore — has been raised at a rate of 6.14 per cent, indicating that the central bank's liquidity and yield control moves are paying off. In the first G-Sec (government securities) auction of the new fiscal, the government has raised Rs 32,853 crore, the highest weekly market borrowing since May 22, 2020 and notably higher than the notified amount of Rs 32,000 crore, despite a Rs 10,000 auction almost fully devolving, Care Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis said in a note. The weighted average yield in Friday's auction was 6.14 per cent, 4 basis points lower than the cost of borrowing in the last auction held on March 19, 2021. The government's borrowing cost has been beyond 6 per cent during the past three auctions — something that got the government and the monetary authority worried. This led the central bank on April 7 to commit Rs 1 lakh crore of assured liquidity pumping this quarter by introducing a new tool called the government securities acquisition programme or G-SAP. The objective of the programme is to keep the bond yields under control so that the fledgling recovery is sustained. Significantly, the Reserve Bank introduced two new instruments at Friday's auction — one with a 5-year maturity ending 2026 (Rs 11,000 crore) and the other with a 14-year maturity ending 2035 (Rs 10,000 crore). Importantly, of the Rs 11,000-crore 5-year money, the RBI accepted bids worth only for Rs 73 crore, leading to a devolution of Rs 10,926 crore on the primary dealers. However, the RBI exercised the green shoe options in the other three instruments, aggregating Rs 5,852 crore, leading to the overall money raised much more than the notified amount, Sabnavis said. For the fiscal, the government has budgeted for total gross market borrowings of Rs 12.05 lakh crore, of which 60 per cent or Rs 7.24 lakh crore will be raised in the first half. In FY21, total gross market borrowings stood at Rs 13.6 lakh crore, marginally lower than the revised estimate for FY21 of Rs 13.9 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-raises-rs-32853-cr-through-g-sec-auction-highest-weekly-market-borrowing-in-11-months-report-972597.html
09-04-2021||National||India, Netherlands launch strategic partnership on water||India and the Netherlands agreed on a strategic partnership on water as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Dutch counterpart Mark Rutte held a virtual summit on Friday. Noting that innovation, technology and governance are key aspects of Indo-Dutch water cooperation, Modi and Rutte agreed to further intensify and broaden the cooperation in new areas including water budgeting, cost-effective decentralised treatment technologies, converting wastewater to energy, application of Artificial Intelligence in decision making, non-point pollution source assessment and abatement, mapping of ecosystem services, reclaiming river space, basin protection against disasters, river hazard management, introduction of new water technologies and capacity building through training programmes. They welcomed the extension of the Memorandum of Understanding to promote technical cooperation in the fields of spatial planning, water management and mobility management. Under the MoU, India seeks to explore cooperation with the Netherlands in urban development, utilizing its strength in integrated urban planning, including provision of adequate public spaces, pedestrianisation, cycling infrastructure and preservation of water bodies. Modi conveyed to Rutte that India welcomed the Netherlands’ guidelines on the Indo-Pacific, which recognised the importance of the region for global peace, security and prosperity and identifies India as a key partner to engage with. Both leaders emphasised the close convergence between each other's vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-netherlands-launch-strategic-partnership-on-water-972599.html
09-04-2021||National||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat tests Covid-19 positive, hospitalised||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has tested coronavirus positive and he has been admitted to a private hospital in Nagpur, sources said on Friday. Bhagwat has been admitted to the Covid-19 ward of the facility and he is stable, hospital sources said. RSS Sarsanghchalak Dr. Mohanji Bhagwat today tested Corona positive. He has normal symptoms and admitted to Kigsway hospital Nagpur. He is under observation, they said. An RSS functionary confirmed that Bhagwat has tested positive for the viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-tests-covid-19-positive-hospitalised-972609.html
09-04-2021||National Politics||West Bengal Assembly polls: The curious case of Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi's absence||The ongoing West Bengal Assembly elections 2021 have seen the most high-profile battles this political season. On the one hand, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) is looking to counter the anti-incumbency wave and come back to power for a third consecutive time. On the other hand, BJP is trying to grab power in a state that has to date rebuffed all its attempts. The saffron party is calling in the big guns with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and other big-shot BJP leaders like Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and BJP chief JP Nadda, among others, relentlessly firing salvos at Bengal's Didi. Amid this battle is Congress, not as high and mighty as the other two, but one that can hold its own in a few pockets. Congress, an erstwhile powerhouse in Bengal, CPI(M) and Abbas Siddique-led new political party Indian Secular Front (ISF), are fighting from a front named 'Sanjukta Morcha'. But Congress, or rather its top leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi have been conspicuously absent from the election arena in the state. Given that both Rahul and Priyanka have campaigned heavily in other states, their absence from Bengal is curious. In Kerala, where the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) is in a direct battle with the Left Democratic Front (LDF), the top leaders are seen frequently campaigning. Rahul has also visited Tamil Nadu multiple times, where the grand old party's alliance with M K Stalin's DMK gives it a strong chance to dethrone the AIADMK-BJP government. In Assam, Rahul has canvassed extensively for the candidates. The protests against Citizenship Amendment Act will be the main weapon for Congress, with Badruddin Ajmal's All India United Democratic Front as its ally, against the ruling BJP. In the 2016 Bengal Assembly election, Congress fought along with the Left Front and bagged 44 seats, thus becoming the largest Opposition party. Has the scenario changed so drastically in the last 5 years that Rahul and Priyanka ignored Bengal in this election so far? Evidently so. Congress's powers have dwindled, and it now mainly relies on the regional parties to challenge BJP and its allies in the state elections, as was seen in the Bihar Assembly election last year. The narrative of the poll fight in the state has revolved around the clash of TMC and BJP and many are afraid that Congress may not have place this time. Even though Congress has the direct support of CPI(M) and ISF, it will be difficult for Congress to break this binary. A Congress leader told the publication, "In Kerala, we are fighting against the Left while in Bengal the Left Front is our main ally. Simultaneously campaigning in the two states would have thrown up its own set of challenges for Rahul and so it was felt that our state leaders and some central observers should run the campaign for the first three-four phases and then Rahul can devote time after he is free from the engagements in Kerala and Assam, where again we are the main challenger to the BJP and the Left parties have a limited role in our grand alliance,” says a Congress leader. Another reason behind the absence of the Gandhis can be their apparent disinterest to go all out against Mamata Banerjee. Recently, Mamata wrote a letter to all the top anti-BJP political leaders of India, urging them to stand unitedly to thwart the saffron party. Leaders like Uddhav Thackeray, M K Stalin and Hemant Soren among others have expressed their support for Didi in this Assembly election and over the years, she has gradually emerged as one of the primary faces to counter Modi and Shah. Congress is seemingly wary of enraging her. Come May 2, Bengal's fate will be decided. It will also decide the future course of Congress, and indicate whether the party that boasts a rich history can turn around its present situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-assembly-polls-the-curious-case-of-rahul-and-priyanka-gandhis-absence-972269.html
09-04-2021||National Politics||Is it right to export Covid-19 vaccines, put Indians at risk, asks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday took a sharp swipe at the Prime Minister and questioning if the export of Covid-19 vaccines was right as the country faces shortage, putting the lives of Indians in danger. He said vaccine shortage is a very serious problem and the pandemic and is not a celebration, reffering to Modi's announcement of 'Tika Utsav' on Thursday. Calling the government's decision on export a publicity stunt, Rahul asked if it too was an 'oversight' "Was the export of vaccines also an 'oversight' like many other decisions of the government, or an effort to garner publicity?" Gandhi also called upon the central government to help states without any bias and help provide them with more vaccines. "Shortage of vaccine in view of the rise in Corona cases is a very serious problem and not a celebration," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Is it right to export the vaccine and put Indians at risk. The central government should help all states without any bias. We all have to fight this pandemic together and defeat it," he added. बढ़ते कोरोना संकट में वैक्सीन की कमी एक अतिगंभीर समस्या है, ‘उत्सव’ नहीं-अपने देशवासियों को ख़तरे में डालकर वैक्सीन एक्सपोर्ट क्या सही है? केंद्र सरकार सभी राज्यों को बिना पक्षपात के मदद करे। हम सबको मिलकर इस महामारी को हराना होगा। Some states have been demanding more vaccines and the Congress is seeking the vaccine for all. The Centre, however, has accused some states of doing politics on the issue of vaccines.  In his letter to the PM, Rahul offered suggestions including immediate moratorium on export, providing vaccine manufacturers with resources to produce more vaccines and offering support to the vulnerable affected by the second wave of the virus. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said that 9.1 crore vaccine doses have been utilised, while 2.4 crore are in stock and 1.9 crore vaccines are in the pipeline, indicating there are sufficient doses available for all states. He also dismissed as "farce" the "hue and cry" by certain states about partisanship by the Centre and called it an attempt to hide their own incompetence, referring to the case of Maharashtra which had alarm bells ringing across the country after its Health Minister said they had vaccines to last only 3 days as it faces acute shortage .  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-it-right-to-export-covid-19-vaccines-put-indians-at-risk-asks-rahul-gandhi-972275.html
09-04-2021||National Politics||Open up Covid-19 inoculation to 'everyone who needs it', halt vaccine exports: Rahul Gandhi to PM||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding an immediate moratorium on Covid-19 vaccine exports and opening up of the vaccination to "everyone who needs it". In the letter, Gandhi also sought more say to the state governments in vaccine procurement and distribution. He also asked for a provision of a direct income support to the vulnerable sections amid the disastrous second wave of Covid-19 in India, as he extended his support to the vaccination program. "I humbly request you to provide vaccine suppliers with necessary resources to increase manufacturing capacity and place an immediate moratorium on vaccine export," Gandhi said in his letter to the prime minister. "Open up vaccination to everyone who needs it," he demanded, seeking fast-tracking of approval of other vaccines as per norms and guidelines. Gandhi also asked the prime minister to double the central allocation for vaccine procurement from the existing Rs 35,000 crore and give state governments a greater say in vaccine procurement and distribution. His suggestions came a day after Prime Minister Modi said vaccines will have to be prioritised due to limited supply and lamented that some people were playing politics on the issue. Questioning the government for permitting large-scale exports of vaccines, he said, "While our nation is facing vaccine starvation, more than six crore doses of vaccines have been exported." Gandhi alleged that the state governments were repeatedly highlighting vaccine shortages only to receive intemperate statements by the union health minister. He accused the health minister of targeting Opposition-ruled states and undercutting cooperative federalism. "Was the export of vaccines also an 'oversight', like many other decisions of this government, or an effort to garner publicity at the cost of our own citizens," Gandhi asked. Stressing that his party supports a well-planned, universalised and speedy vaccination drive, he said, "Our vaccination program has to move beyond an individual's picture on the vaccine certificate, towards guaranteeing maximum vaccination." Expressing concern over the rising cases of the coronavirus, the former Congress chief said that over the last year, the country suffered irreparable losses, made tremendous sacrifices, and yet, it is under a renewed attack by this virus. "This is unfortunate considering our scientific community and vaccine suppliers worked overtime to develop a solution but their efforts are undermined by the Centre's poor implementation and 'oversight'," he said. Lamenting that the vaccination drive is slow, Gandhi claimed at the current rate, it would take years to inoculate 75 per cent of the population. "This will have catastrophic effects and will gravely decelerate India's economy," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/open-up-covid-19-inoculation-to-everyone-who-needs-it-halt-vaccine-exports-rahul-gandhi-to-pm-972297.html
09-04-2021||National Politics||Gyanwapi mosque will be removed: BJP MLA Surendra Singh backs Varanasi court order||Controversial BJP MLA Surendra Singh on Friday waded into the Kashi Vishwanath temple-Gyanwapi mosque row, saying the mosque will be removed and India will become a "Hindu Rashtra" soon. A Varanasi court on Thursday ordered an archaeological survey of the Kashi Vishwanath temple and the Gyanwapi mosque premises to resolve a lingering dispute involving the two shrines. Referring to the order, the Bairia MLA told reporters, "I welcome the decision of the Varanasi court. I am happy with it. Gyanwapi mosque will be removed from Varanasi and a grand Shiva temple will be built." "This is an era of change and empowerment of Hindus. Similar to the hurdles in establishing 'Ram Rajya', there are problems at present too. These issues will be resolved and Bharat will soon become a 'Hindu Rashtra'," the legislator said. This dream will be fulfilled during the regime of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Regarding the ticket distribution for the upcoming panchayat polls in the state, Singh said he was justified in fielding three of his supporters against party candidates. The order in the temple-mosque row was issued by a senior division civil court in Varanasi on a plea pending before it since 2019, the petitioner's counsel said. Reacting to the court order, UP Sunni Central Waqf Board in Lucknow said it will challenge the subordinate court's order in the Allahabad High Court. Last month, Singh courted controversy when he said the iconic Taj Mahal in Agra will be renamed as "Ram Mahal" and claimed that the Mughal-era monument used to be a Shiva temple before it was demolished and rebuilt into the famous tomb.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gyanwapi-mosque-will-be-removed-bjp-mla-surendra-singh-backs-varanasi-court-order-972313.html
09-04-2021||National Politics||J&K integral part of country; India doesn't need unasked for advice: Vice President Naidu||Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India and the country is capable of solving its own problems, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said here Friday, asking other nations to "confine themselves to their domestic problems" rather than giving unsolicited advice to India. On his first Jammu and Kashmir visit since the August 2019 abrogation of Article 370, without naming any country or individual, he said some people from the neighbourhood always try to create problems and disturbances because they do not want India to progress. “My advice to some friends who are trying to give unasked advice to us in between and make commentaries to confine themselves to their domestic problems. We are capable of taking care of our own problems and they need not worry about us,” he said, addressing the 3rd and the 4th annual convocation of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) here. Union minister Jitendra Singh and J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha also attended the function, during which degrees were awarded to 148 MBA graduates who have successfully completed their courses. "My dear youngsters, where you are studying is an integral part of India," the vice president told the students. "And we are of the opinion we are capable of solving our problems. No country for that matter has any business to interfere or make comments on the internal affairs of another country or any other country." In his nearly half-an-hour speech, he said, "We all believe in democracy and civilisation. If you are really civilised you are not expected to interfere in the affairs of any other country. I am very clear about it." He said this part of the country is very beautiful and so are the people who need to have peace. "Peace is the prerequisite for progress. If you have tension, you cannot pay attention. This has to be understood by one and all. That is why peace is very much required," he said. The vice president said some people from the neighbourhood always try to create problems and disturbances for India. "We should not allow them to succeed. We should be guided by the spirit of national integration - nation first, party and profession next and self last. That should be our attitude, nation first attitude irrespective of caste, creed, sex, religion and region," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jk-integral-part-of-country-india-doesnt-need-unasked-for-advice-vice-president-naidu-972367.html
09-04-2021||National Politics||People of West Bengal have decided to end TMC's rule: J P Nadda||BJP national president J P Nadda on Friday claimed that the people of West Bengal have decided to end the rule of the Trinamool Congress and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is scared of losing the assembly election. There is no rule of law in the state under the TMC government, Nadda alleged after a colourful roadshow at Baguiati in North 24 Parganas district. "Bengal has decided to put an end to the TMC's rule and bring the BJP to power. In the last 10 years of the Mamata Banerjee government, women were attacked and youths were suffering from frustration," he said. Nadda alleged that the TMC established a dictatorship, promoted "syndicate raj" and corruption and pursued the policy of appeasement. In West Bengal, 'syndicate' means the business run by persons allegedly enjoying political patronage, who force promoters and contractors to buy construction materials, often of inferior quality at high prices. Good fortune will come to the state after the saffron party forms the government, the BJP leader claimed after the roadshow held in support of Shamik Bhattacharya, BJP candidate for the Rajarhat-Gopalpur constituency. Later, Nadda also participated in roadshows at Chakdaha in Nadia district and Bardhaman in Purba Bardhaman district.  In all the places, Nadda stood atop a decorated vehicle waving to people, while BJP workers shouted slogans. An eight-phase assembly election is being held in West Bengal and the fourth phase will be conducted on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-of-west-bengal-have-decided-to-end-tmcs-rule-j-p-nadda-972427.html
09-04-2021||National Politics||'Exporting to Pakistan': AAP, BJP spar over Covid-19 vaccine shortage||The AAP on Friday questioned the Centre's policy on the export of Covid-19 vaccines amid a shortage in the country and asked whether it is necessary to save the lives of Indians or send the vaccines to Pakistan and Afghanistan. In response, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of running an anarchic campaign, trying to create an atmosphere of fear and confusion. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said on one hand, the BJP-led Centre claims that Pakistan exports terrorism to India and on the other, India is exporting vaccines to the neighbouring country. "India is directly or indirectly exporting more than six crore vaccine doses to Pakistan. Today, there is a shortage of the vaccines across the country, yet the Centre has exported 6.45 crore doses to 84 countries. "After the vaccination of the 135 crore people of the country, the (Narendra) Modi government should export the vaccines and earn trivial appreciation, we have no objection," he said. Chadha said when countries like the US, the UK, Hungary and Canada have accumulated enough stocks of vaccines "to vaccinate their entire population thrice, our government is busy exporting vaccines to other countries". Due to a shortage of the vaccine doses, 109 vaccination centres in Pune, 26 in Mumbai and more than 700 in Odisha have been shut down, he said. "If the Centre removes all restrictions vis-a-vis eligibility and makes stocks available, the (Arvind) Kejriwal government will vaccinate the entire population of Delhi in three months," the AAP leader said. Reacting to Chadha's remarks, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the AAP's continued statements alleging a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the country are a part of its anarchic strategy. "Today, when the country is successfully running its Covid vaccination campaign, leaders like Arvind Kejriwal and Raghav Chadha, with their anarchic campaign, are trying to create an atmosphere of fear and confusion," he said. Chadha quoted figures of different states but kept mum on Delhi's vaccine stock availability because there is no shortage in the national capital, Kapoor said, adding, "Every state gets the vaccine stock as it can stock and use and the production of vaccines is an ongoing process." He further said in a bid to be seen on a national platform, the AAP is trying to create confusion on the vaccine stock, but the truth is that there is no shortage of the vaccines and their production is ongoing in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/exporting-to-pakistan-aap-bjp-spar-over-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-972468.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Night curfew in urban areas of 8 districts in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha ordered on Thursday imposition of night curfew in the urban areas of eight districts, including Jammu and Srinagar, to check the spread of the soaring coronavirus cases. The night curfew will come into effect from Friday, the office of the Lt governor said. "Directed the divisional administration to impose corona curfew from 10 pm to 6 am in the urban areas of 8 districts affected by the recent COVID spike," it tweeted. These districts are Jammu, Udhampur, Kathua, Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam, Anantnag and Kupwara, it said. The curfew will be in force in the municipal limits of the urban local bodies of these districts. Reasi district will be under close observation for any possible spikes in cases, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-in-urban-areas-of-8-districts-in-jk-972122.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Over 3,300 people penalised for not wearing face mask: Noida Police||Over 3,300 people were fined across Noida and Greater Noida on Thursday for not wearing a face mask in public place, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said. Challans were also issued to the owners of nearly 1,700 vehicles for flouting Covid-19 protocols and traffic rules, the police said, adding 27 vehicles were impounded in the action. Amid a surge in cases of Covid-19, the district police alerted people through public announcement system and patrolled crowded places to raise awareness about the situation, a police spokesperson said. "As many as 3,364 people who were found without face masks in public places were issued challans and Rs 3.36 lakh collected from them in fines," the spokesperson said. "Action was taken under Section 188 (disobeying government order) against 70 people and FIRs were lodged in 30 such cases," the official added. Challans were issued against the owners of 1,685 vehicles and Rs 1.99 lakh collected from them in fines while 27 vehicles impounded, the police said. Besides checking for face masks, vehicles were checked for traffic rules like usual routine, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-3300-people-penalised-for-not-wearing-face-mask-noida-police-972128.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Night curfew Delhi: Nearly 87,000 of over 1.19 lakh applications for e-passes rejected||District authorities in Delhi have received over 1.19 lakh applications for e-passes that allow people to travel during night curfew hours and nearly 87,000 of them have been rejected, officials said on Thursday. Most applications were rejected either because the applicants did not fall in exempted categories or due to wrong entries made by them, they said. The number of pending applications has come down to 20,055 from over 30,000 on Wednesday, official data showed. A total of 1,19,369 applications were received and only 12,068 were approved. As many as 86,909 applications were rejected, the data showed. The Delhi government on Tuesday imposed seven hours of night curfew, from 10 PM to 5 AM, with immediate effect for this entire month as an emergency measure for the "wellbeing and safety" of people in view of rising Covid-19 cases in the city. People require a soft or hard copy of an e-pass to travel during curfew hours. The e-pass can be obtained from the Delhi government website -- www.delhi.gov.in. The highest number of applications were received in New Delhi district at 20,267, followed by 19,646 in South West and 13,025 in West. New Delhi and South districts saw over 16,000 applications being rejected, the highest across districts. As many as 9,812 applications were rejected in South West district and 9,706 in West Delhi. At 7,206, South West district had the highest number of pending applications, followed by 4,684 in North West and 3,247 in New Delhi, the data showed. Several categories of people, including those going for Covid-19 vaccination, persons associated with essential services, pregnant women, central and Delhi government officials involved in emergency services, etc. are exempted from the night curfew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-delhi-nearly-87000-of-over-119-lakh-applications-for-e-passes-rejected-972138.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||ED summons Mehbooba Mufti's mother in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned the mother of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti for questioning in a money laundering case, officials said on Thursday. They said Gulshan Nazir, in her seventies, has been asked to appear before the central probe agency at its office in Srinagar on April 15. Mufti, 61, also the president of the People's Democratic Party (PDP), was questioned in this case on March 25 in Srinagar. After her five-hour-long questioning that day, Mufti had told reporters that central agencies like the NIA, CBI and the ED were being "misused" to silence the opposition. A PDP spokesperson said the latest summons are "part of the political vendetta against Mehbooba Mufti and PDP". "It is an attempt to stop her from giving voice to the sentiments of the people in which they have failed miserably." Nazir is the wife of former J&K CM Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. The criminal case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the ED, after raids on an alleged associate of Mufti, in which some purported payments made from the CM's discretionary fund were made in alleged contravention of rules. These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the tenure of Mufti as the CM of the erstwhile state. Few lakh of rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the account of Nazir and some others about which the ED wants to question her. The J-K Police CID had recently rejected the passport applications of Nazir and Mufti following adverse police reports against the mother and the daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-summons-mehbooba-muftis-mother-in-money-laundering-case-972143.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Cut GST on Covid-19 medicines, devices: Baghel at PM meet||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday urged the Centre to provide the required stock of Covid-19 vaccines for a week in advance and sough reduction in the GST rate on medicines and devices used in the treatment of the infection, officials said. Baghel made these demands while speaking at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's video conference meeting with chief ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation and progress of the vaccination drive, a public relations department official said. In the meeting, the chief minister requested the Centre to provide one week of required vaccines stock in advance as this would facilitate smooth vaccination in remote districts, he said. The CM urged the Centre to reduce the GST rate on medicines and devices used in the treatment of Covid-19, saying it would reduce financial burden on coronavirus patients. Baghel also sought the Centres support for continuous supply of Remdesivir injection and oxygen cylinders, setting up of four virology labs and 1,000 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the official said. Briefing about the vaccination coverage, the Chief Minister said in Chhattisgarh, the first dose of vaccine has been given to 87 per cent of the healthcare workers, 84 per cent of the frontline workers and 43 per cent of the people above 45 years of age. Till April 7, as many as 33.61 lakh vaccine doses have been given to people in the state, he added. In Chhattisgarh, 2,04,420 tests are being done per 10 lakh population, while at the national level 1,89,664 tests are being conducted per 10 lakh population, he said. The RT-PCR test percentage in the state was 26 per cent in October 2020, which has increased to about 40 per cent in April 2021, the CM said in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cut-gst-on-covid-19-medicines-devices-baghel-at-pm-meet-972156.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Sunni Waqf Board to challenge Varanasi court order||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board said on Thursday that it would challenge in the high court the Varanasi court order on the disputed premises claimed both by the Kashi Vishwanath temple and the Gyanwapi mosque. The order, given by a senior division civil court, asked the state government to get the disputed premises examined by a five-member team of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) at its expense. In a statement, Sunni Central Waqf Board chairperson Zufar Ahmad Farooqui said the order would be challenged before the Allahabad High Court. "Our understanding is clear that this case is barred by the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991," Faruqi said. "The Places of Worship Act was upheld by a five-judge constitution bench of the Supreme Court in the Ayodhya judgment. The status of the Gyanwapi mosque is, as such, beyond question," he said. The chairperson added that the order was "questionable" because technical evidence could only supplement certain foundational facts. "No evidence has been produced before the court that suggests that there was a prior existing temple at the site of the mosque," he said. Even in the Ayodhya judgment, the ASI excavation was ultimately of no use. The ASI did not find proof that the Babri Masjid was built upon demolition of a temple, Farooqui said. The Supreme Court has specifically observed that there was no such evidence and this practice of mosques being "investigated" by the ASI has to be stopped, the statement said. "We will be approaching the Hon'ble High court immediately against this unwarranted order," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sunni-waqf-board-to-challenge-varanasi-court-order-972164.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Tourists coming to Kashmir by road will undergo Covid-19 tests||All travellers coming to Kashmir by road shall undergo coronavirus tests in Kulgam district, an official said on Thursday. Srinagar Deputy Commissioner Mohammed Aijaz Asad chaired a meeting to review the coronavirus situation, a spokesperson said. Asad said the testing for travellers coming by road shall be started in Lower Munda area in a couple of days as this would help in containing the spread of virus in the Valley. The deputy commissioner said mass vaccination of hotel staff, drivers, houseboat staff and others shall be started across all tourist destinations. A special training programme shall be conducted for the staff members to ensure that all standard operating procedures are followed strictly while dealing with the tourists, he said. Asad urged the tourism stakeholders to ensure proper sanitation and hygiene in all hotels. The deputy commissioner asked the hoteliers to keep two rooms available for isolation of tourists in case they test positive. Dr Gazalla, the incharge COVID-19 testing at Srinagar Airport, deliberated on the importance of vaccination. Various tourism stakeholders from Srinagar, Gulmarg, Pahalgam and Sonamarg also attended the meeting. The tourism players raised various demands, including hiring of separate hotel accommodation for isolation of infected tourists, permission to tourists to the valley only after their RT-PCR test reports, improvement in testing facility at the Airport and sanitation of hotels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tourists-coming-to-kashmir-by-road-will-undergo-covid-19-tests-972172.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Terrorist holed up inside mosque in J&K after overnight gunfight; 2 ultras killed||At least one terrorist is believed to have taken refuge in a mosque in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian on Friday, after an overnight encounter with security forces, even as two ultras were gunned down in Pulwama district's Tral region. The encounter in Shopian town broke out on Thursday evening and has now turned into a stand-off, police said, adding three militants were killed and four security forces personnel injured. "Brother of holed up #terrorist & local Imamsahab sent inside mosque to persuade the #terrorists to come out & #surrender. Efforts are on to save the mosque," the police said in a tweet. In an earlier tweet, the police had said that the chief of terror outfit Ansar Ghazwatul Hind was among those trapped. "Chief of proscribed #terrorist outfit AGuH (JeM) trapped," it read. In a separate encounter in Tral area of Pulwama on Friday morning, two unidentified militants were gunned down by security personnel, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-holed-up-inside-mosque-in-jk-after-overnight-gunfight-2-ultras-killed-972239.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||7 terrorists gunned down by security forces in 2 encounters in Jammu and Kashmir||Seven militants, including terror outfit Ansar Ghazwatul Hind chief Imtiaz Ahmad Shah, were gunned down by security forces in two encounters in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian and Pulwama districts, police said on Friday. "Five terrorists have been killed in a Shopian operation, while two others were killed in the encounter at Nowbugh in Tral area of Pulwama district," a police official said. Earlier, the Kashmir Zone Police had said that efforts were being made to get two militants hiding inside a mosque in Shopian after an overnight encounter to surrender. "Brother of holed up #terrorist & local Imamsahab sent inside mosque to persuade the #terrorists to come out & #surrender. Efforts are on to save the mosque," the police said in a tweet. The police had earlier tweeted about the Ansar Ghazwatul Hind chief trapped inside the mosque. "Chief of proscribed #terrorist outfit AGuH (JeM) trapped," the tweet said. The encounter in Shopian town broke out on Thursday evening. Giving an update about the operation the same night, police said three militants had been killed and four security forces personnel injured. In a separate encounter in Tral area of Pulwama on Friday morning, security personnel gunned down two unidentified militants, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-terrorists-gunned-down-by-security-forces-in-2-encounters-in-jammu-and-kashmir-972294.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||One more body recovered from Uttarakhand's Tapovan tunnel; disaster toll rises to 78||More than two months after the glacial disaster in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, one more body was recovered from the Tapovan tunnel, pushing the toll in the tragedy to 78, officials said on Friday. Rescue teams recovered another body from the main tunnel at the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project on Thursday, Chamoli District Disaster Management Officer N K Joshi said. An avalanche on February 7 had caused large-scale damage to the project besides totally demolishing the Rishiganga hydel project at Raini village in the district. Seventy-eight bodies and 35 human body parts have been recovered so far from different places hit by the disaster, Joshi said, adding that 47 bodies have been identified. DNA samples of the bodies which have not been identified are being preserved, he said. As many as 126 people are still missing since the tragedy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-body-recovered-from-uttarakhands-tapovan-tunnel-disaster-toll-rises-to-78-972306.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Three elderly women who went for Covid-19 jab in Uttar Pradesh got vaccinated for rabies instead||Close on the heels of an ANM (Auxiliary Nursing Midwife) who vaccinated a woman twice, three elderly women were allegedly administered rabies vaccines in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, about 500 kilometres from here, at a Covid vaccination centre. The incident happened at a Covid Vaccination Centre at Community Health Centre (CHC) at Kandhla in the district on Thursday, according to the sources here. Sources said that the women, all residents of Kandhla, had reached the CHC to receive shots of Covid-19 vaccine. The health workers reportedly asked their attendants to procure three syringes from outside and then administered them the vaccine. One of the women later complained of dizziness and was taken to a private hospital. The doctors, who examined the prescription issued by the CHC, there were shocked to find that she had been given shot of rabies vaccine. The woman was admitted to the hospital. Sources said that the health workers, who administered the rabies vaccine, said that they could not differentiate between the two vaccines. The chief medical officer of the district said that a probe had been ordered in the matter. "We will take stern action against the lax health workers," he said. Barely a few days back a woman had been vaccinated twice within a span of five minutes against Covid-19 in Kanpur Dehat district in the state. The administration has since barred the vaccination duty employees from carrying mobile phones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-elderly-women-who-went-for-covid-19-jab-in-uttar-pradesh-got-vaccinated-for-rabies-instead-972317.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Omar Abdullah tests positive for Covid-19||National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah Friday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. "For a year I did my best to dodge this damn virus but it's finally caught up with me. I tested positive for #COVIDー19 this afternoon. I'm completely asymptotic. Based on medical advice I'm self-isolating at home & monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels etc," he said in a tweet.   His father Farooq Abdullah had tested positive for coronavirus last week and is currently recuperating from the infection. "I am very grateful to everyone reaching out to me here on Twitter to wish me well. I apologise for not replying individually. For the next few days I'm focusing on beating this virus & will be back here after the battle is won," Omar Abdullah added in his tweet.  National Conference Provincial President Devender Singh Rana and other senior party leaders wished him a speedy recovery. "Our prayers are with our beloved leader and we wish for his fast recovery," the senior NC leaders said in a joint statement issued from Jammu party headquarters 'Sher-e-Kashmir Bhavan’. They also expressed satisfaction over Farooq Abdullah getting discharged from the hospital and prayed for his complete recovery from the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omar-abdullah-tests-positive-for-covid-19-972322.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Two held in South Delhi for robbing people using monkeys||Two men were arrested for allegedly using monkeys to threaten and rob people in south Delhi's Malviya Nagar area, police said on Friday. The accused duo, Balwan Nath (26) and Vikram Nath (23), were waiting near Chirag Delhi bus stand with their two monkeys when the police team nabbed them on Thursday, they said. The police said the two monkeys have been deposited with Wildlife SOS centre. The accused, who are residents of Okhla Mor in the city, along with their third associate, Ajay used monkeys to threaten people and rob them of their valuables, police said, adding efforts are being taken to catch hold of Ajay, who is still absconding. The accused men had caught the monkeys from Tughlakabad Fort jungle around three months ago. The matter came to light on March 2, when an advocate from Khirki Extension reported that three men carrying monkeys surrounded them and forcefully robbed Rs 6,000 from him, according to police. When the lawyer was sitting in an auto-rickshaw, the duo made the monkeys sit inside the vehicle with one in the front and the other at the back seat and demanded money from him. When the advocate took out the wallet, the duo robbed him and escaped. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "A case was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 392 (punishment for robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) at Malviya Nagar police station and since it was a peculiar incident involving monkeys, a dedicated team was constituted to nab the culprits." Further, relevant provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 were added against the accused in the case, he said. The team scanned through several CCTV footages and conducted raids in and around Delhi based on inputs from sources and informers, the officer said. "On Thursday, our team got a tip-off that two men with monkeys were present at Chirag Delhi bus stand who had committed the robbery earlier and could commit further thefts. We acted upon the information and apprehended them along with the two monkeys," the officer said. During interrogation, the duo confessed to their involvement in the incident along with their associate Ajay who is absconding, he said. The arrested accused are being further interrogated for their other involvements if any, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-held-in-south-delhi-for-robbing-people-using-monkeys-972334.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Serious failure of authorities in performing responsibility: NGT to Gurugram civic bodies||The National Green Tribunal has slammed Gurugam civic bodies over clearing of legacy waste at Bandhwari landfill site saying there has been serious failure of the authorities in performing their responsibility. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said though an action plan has now been filed, whether the municipal corporations concerned and the Urban Development Department of Haryana execute it in mission mode and within reasonable time remains a moot question. "It is established on record that so far there has been serious failure of the authorities in performing their responsibility under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 to effectuate the right of the citizens to clean environment," the tribunal said. "Since the tribunal has already monitored the failures of the authorities for sufficiently long time, the State must now take ownership of its basic responsibility in the interest of rule of law, protection of environment and public health," the bench said. The green panel also directed that compensation for damaging the environment may be deposited in a separate account and used for restoration of the ecology. Legacy wastes are the wastes that have been collected and kept for years at some barren land or a place dedicated for Landfill (an area to dump solid waste). Out of 33 lakh ton dumped waste, less than 1 lakh ton (which is hardly 2 per cent) has been remediated in the last more than one year, the tribunal had noted. The green panel had earlier directed the Gurugram Municipal Corporation to clear 25 lakh tonnes of legacy waste at Bandhwari landfill within six months and warned that failure to do so may result in coercive action, including non-payment of salaries. NGT had slammed the Haryana government and its civic bodies over the disposal of industrial waste and construction debris in the Aravalli forests along the Gurgaon-Faridabad road. The green panel was hearing a plea filed by environmentalist Vivek Kamboj and Amit Chaudhary, alleging that the municipal corporations of Gurugram and Faridabad were disposing industrial waste and construction debris in these forest areas. Kamboj had referred to a media report which said construction debris were found dumped in the forest and quoted a local resident as saying that several vehicles dumped waste there every Sunday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/serious-failure-of-authorities-in-performing-responsibility-ngt-to-gurugram-civic-bodies-972352.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Anil Vij says he is concerned over farmers camped along Delhi border amid Covid-19 surge||With Haryana witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday said he was concerned about the farmers sitting on the state's borders with Delhi and would be writing to the Union Agriculture Minister for resuming talks and solve the issue. Vij, who is also the Health Minister, said all required steps are being taken to check the spread of coronavirus in the state. “We are doing all that...but my concern is that a large number of farmers are sitting along Haryana's borders. Coronavirus cases are spreading fast and I have to save them too from corona." “I am going to write to the Union Agriculture Minister to resume talks soon so that this issue is resolved and farmers who are sitting in large numbers can go back home. A solution to any problem can be found only through dialogue,” Vij told reporters in Ambala. Notably, Haryana had recorded the highest daily spike in over four months on Thursday as 2,872 more people had tested positive for coronavirus, the Health Department said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur -- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops. The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anil-vij-says-he-is-concerned-over-farmers-camped-along-delhi-border-amid-covid-19-surge-972358.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Priest's death: Rajasthan rights panel seeks report on protest by BJP leaders||The Rajasthan human rights commission has sought a report from the state authorities regarding a protest being staged by BJP leaders here along with the body of a deaf and mute priest who died amid a row over the registration of a piece of land. Shambhu, a resident of Dausa’s Mahwa, had died last Friday, after which it was claimed that the priest had fallen sick as his land was fraudulently registered in the name of two people. BJP's Rajya Sabha MP Kirori Meena, former state party chief Arun Chaturvedi and Jaipur MLA Kalicharan Saraf had joined a sit-in over the issue in Mahwa and brought the body to Jaipur, where they are protesting near the Civil Lines railway crossing. In a letter to the state chief secretary, principal secretary (home) and the DGP, member of the rights panel Mahesh Chandra Sharma said it is heart wrenching that the funeral of the priest could not be conducted till now and politics is being played over the issue. Sharma sought a factual report over the issue till April 12. Meanwhile, Dausa SP Anil Kumar suspended Mahwa SHO Naresh Chand for dereliction of duty. “Some of those present at the dharna outside the Mahwa police station silently shifted the body from the dharna site to Jaipur on Wednesday night. The SHO came to know about it in the morning. On dereliction of duty, the SHO has been suspended,” the SP said. He said that those who were protesting in Mahwa have been dispersed and police have been deployed to check the movement of people for the protest in Jaipur. Rajya Sabha MP Kirori Meena, who is leading the sit-in in Jaipur, said Shambhu fell sick after his two-bigha plot was fraudulently registered in the name of other people. He demanded action against the officials involved in the registration process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priests-death-rajasthan-rights-panel-seeks-report-on-protest-by-bjp-leaders-972360.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Controversy after BJP fields rape convict ex-MLA Kuldeep Singh Senger's wife in Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls||BJP on Friday nominated the wife of its rape convict ex-MLA Kuldeep Singh Senger as its candidate in the forthcoming panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh. According to sources in the saffron party, Senger's wife Sangeeta Senger would be contesting for the post of member of the district panchayat from Fatehpur Chaurasi in UP's Unnao district. Sangeeta was earlier the chairperson of the district panchayat of Unnao. While the senior leaders of the party here refused to say anything on the nomination, local leaders of the party at Unnao had registered their protest against the nomination, sources said. Kuldeep Senger was serving life sentence after being found guilty of raping a minor in 2017. The victim had tried to immolate herself before the UP chief minister's residence but was stopped by cops. Later a Delhi court also convicted Senger in the case of death of the rape victim's father in police custody in Unnao. He was held guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the case. Senger, in a bid to deter the victim and her family from pursuing the case, had got her father arrested on fictitious charges. He died in Unnao jail under mysterious circumstances. Senger was also an accused in the case of allegedly conspiring to get the victim and her family killed in an accident. A truck had smashed into the car in which the victim, her two aunts and her lawyer were travelling in the neighbouring Raebareli district in 2019 killing the aunts on the spot and wounding the victim and the lawyer critically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/controversy-after-bjp-fields-rape-convict-ex-mla-kuldeep-singh-sengers-wife-in-uttar-pradesh-panchayat-polls-972362.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||More young people getting infected in current wave of Covid-19 in Delhi: Experts||More young people, especially in the 30-50 age bracket who go out for work, are seemingly getting infected by Covid-19 amid its current wave in the national capital, say experts. While the country is going through the second wave of Covid-19, Delhi is reeling under the fourth wave of the pandemic, with cases escalating at an unprecedented rate. Some doctors say that the reason for a large number of people getting infected this year vis-a-vis last year could be that the "virus has mutated" and the current strain is more infectious that the one in circulation previously. "The younger population goes out and works, uses public transportation and hence, has more chances of coming in contact with others. Many people are still not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing, which has contributed to the rise in cases," said Suranjit Chatterjee, a senior consultant at Apollo Hospitals here. The doctor, however, said the number of deaths is still much lower, compared to what was recorded during the previous waves in Delhi in June, September and November last year. Chatterjee, who is a Covid survivor, said doctors in their 40s and 50s and other healthcare workers, much younger, say in 30s are getting infected in the current wave, despite most of them having received the two vaccine jabs. Thirty-seven doctors at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here have tested positive for Covid-19 and five of them were hospitalised. Many of them had taken both doses of Covishield vaccine, hospital sources said on Thursday. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had recently told reporters that it seems younger population was getting afflicted more by the coronavirus in the fourth wave of the pandemic here. Delhi recorded 7,437 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the highest single-day surge this year, while 24 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,157, according to the city health department. The positivity rate also mounted to 8.1 per cent from 6.1 per cent a day before, amid a massive spike in cases in the span of the last few weeks. This is also the first time that over 7,000 cases have been reported in a day this year. On preceding two days, the cases count had stood above 5,000. The highest single-day spike in Delhi till date -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11, while on November 19, the city recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date. Richa Sareen, Consultant, Pulmonology and Critical Care Medicine, Fortis hospital here, said, "Given the pace of spread, it definitely seems there is a different variant in circulation and it is more infectious than the previous one". She said more younger people were getting infected as they are going out, socialising, partying or travelling, which increases the chance of getting infectedwhile the elderly are preferring to stay indoors and most of them have been vaccinated. Delhi government on Tuesday imposed a night curfew in the national capital from 10 pm to 5 am till April 30, after reports that many people were holding parties and social gatherings. A senior doctor at the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, which has been turned into a fully Covid-19 hospital again, said about 200 patients are currently admitted, mostly elderly. "Younger population is getting afflicted too, but as they may be having mild or no symptoms, they are being home isolated. One nurse and a police personnel, who were on Covid vaccination duty at our hospital, have also contracted the virus, and currently home quarantined," he said. Jain on Wednesday had warned that the new cases "could cross" the last single-day spike record registered in November, given the pace of the spread of infection. So far, a UK strain, Brazil and South African variants have been reported in Delhi. In last week of March, when cases had started to spiral up in the country, the Union health ministry had said the new "double mutant" variant of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in Delhi, Maharashtra and some other places in addition to the three "variants of concern" -- first noticed in the UK, South Africa and Brazil -- that have been found in at least 18 states and union territories. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542, while the death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, highest since October 18, the Union Health Ministry data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-young-people-getting-infected-in-current-wave-of-covid-19-in-delhi-experts-972394.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Angry locals block road over unavailability of Remdesivir in Indore||Angry over not being able to get Remdesivir injections, people on Friday blocked the road in front of a medical store in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, police said. According to eye-witnesses, families of Covid-19 patients queued up at a store in dava (medicine) market in the morning hours, and blocked the main road in frustration, when a poster outside the shop read "Remdesivir not available". "After being misguided, some people protested at the main road for a while. We convinced them to move away," inspector Rajeev Tripathi of Sanyogitaganj police station said. The owner of the medical store did not open his establishment as the consignment of Remdesivir had not arrived, the official said. "I came to the shop around 6 am and stood in a queue waiting for it to open, as the owner had given a coupon to my father on Thursday and assured him that he will get the injection the next day," said Aman Gadbadi (21), who desperately needed the injection for his mother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-angry-locals-block-road-over-unavailability-of-remdesivir-in-indore-972404.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-negative report must for labourers to enter HP's Spiti valley||A Covid-negative report has been made mandatory for the labourers of other states to enter Himachal Pradesh's Spiti valley for work, an official said on Friday. A negative RT-PCR report has been made mandatory for labourers of other states due to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, Lahaul-Spiti Sub Divisional Magistrate Gian Sagar Negi said. All the contractors in Spiti valley too have been asked to ensure Covid-19 tests for their labourers, he added. The SDM also urged the public to strictly adhere to the anti-Covid protocol of maintaining social distance and wearing masks to check the spread of the fatal disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-negative-report-must-for-labourers-to-enter-hps-spiti-valley-972416.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Haryana police asks travellers to avoid KMPE on Apr 10 to avoid blockade by farmers||Haryana Police has issued a traffic advisory asking travellers to avoid Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on Saturday to avoid a 24-hour blockade, the call for which has been given by farmers protesting against the Centre's farm laws. The farmers have threatened to block the Expressway for 24 hours from 8 am on April 10. While giving the blockade call earlier this month, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha had also said farmers will also march to Parliament in May. The travellers should avoid the KMP expressway during the blockade period, the traffic advisory said. Haryana's Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk on Friday said elaborate arrangements have been put in place to maintain peace and order, prevent any kind of violence and facilitate the traffic and public transport on this important expressway. Owing to the likely mass gathering of farmers during the proposed blockade on the KMP expressway, all senior police officers, including additional director generals, inspector generals, commissioners and superintendents of police have been instructed to ensure maintenance of law and order with minimum inconvenience to the general public. Besides, proper traffic diversions had already been planned by the affected districts especially Sonipat, Jhajjar, Panipat, Rohtak, Palwal, Faridabad, Gurugram and Nuh, Virk said in a statement. He added that all citizens are being informed about these arrangements in advance so that they can plan and modify their journey to avoid any inconvenience. Concerned districts have also been asked to issue local advisories in this regard, he said, adding smooth traffic, however, continues on all other routes across the state. Virk said passengers coming from Ambala/Chandigarh side on the National Highway-44 may go towards UP Ghaziabad and Noida via Karnal to Shamli and from Panipat to Sanauli. Similarly, vehicles going towards Gurugram and Jaipur can take National Highway-71A from Panipat and travel via Gohana, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari. Virk said maintaining law and order is the priority of the police. No person would be allowed to take the law in their hands and strict action would be taken against those who try to disrupt the law and order, he said. Also, all precautionary steps are being taken to ensure the convenience of citizens and travellers coming from outside, he added. Hundreds of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi — Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur — demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops. The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-police-asks-travellers-to-avoid-kmpe-on-apr-10-to-avoid-blockade-by-farmers-972421.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||JNU directs officials to be vigilant after 24 students test Covid-19 positive||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Friday directed officials to "be vigilant and take all necessary measures" in order to control the spread of coronavirus infection on the campus. The university observed in a statement that there are 27 active cases of Covid-19, including 24 students on the campus. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the central university has recorded 281 cases and five deaths among staff, family member of staffers and pensioners. In view of the rising cases of coronavirus, the university has sent out a number of instructions to the officials and residents of the campus which include ensuring adherence to safety guidelines like wearing a face mask, maintaining hand hygiene and social distancing. "The Provosts and Wardens of the hostels are required to be vigilant and take all necessary measures to enforce Covid-19 guidelines such as strict enforcement of wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing," it said. It also advised the Dean of Students to frame "ethical guidelines and form hostel-level student committee" to sensitise hostel residents towards adherence of guidelines. "The NSS and NCC students should volunteer to create social awareness in all the common premises of the campus in this regard. The sanitation department shall facilitate the sanitisation of workplace, common facilities and all points which frequently come into human contact for example door handles etc. All the stakeholders are encouraged to carry their own hand sanitiser," it said. The entry of visitors will now be restricted to only through the north gate of the campus. The varsity reiterated its earlier directive of making face masks mandatory in public places on the campus, including on the street, health centre, school buildings, library, offices, markets and dhabas. The varsity has authorised security personnel to take photographs, "if anyone is not wearing the face mask" and stressed that "appropriate disciplinary action including fine shall be imposed in this regard". Delhi recorded 7,437 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day surge this year, while 24 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,157, according to the city's health department. The varsity may consider taking stricter actions like "restricting the movement or reducing the number of persons in the given premises or vacating of the premises, if the Covid-19 cases rise exponentially or lead to the potential development of red zone and containment zone", it said. The university directed shopkeepers, staff of the canteens and other establishments to strictly follow the instruction to wear the mask at all the times. Goods should be only sold to those who are wearing a mask. Any violation would attract closure of shops, canteens for two days initially and further violation will be dealt with according to the guidelines issued by the central/Delhi governments/university notification, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-directs-officials-to-be-vigilant-after-24-students-test-covid-19-positive-972426.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Sengar's wife to contest UP panchayat polls on BJP ticket||The BJP on Friday nominated rape convict ex-MLA Kuldeep Singh Senger's wife as its candidate in the forthcoming panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh. According to the sources in the saffron party, Senger's wife Sangeeta Senger would be contesting for the post of member of the district panchayat from Fatehpur Chaurasi in UP's Unnao district, about 70 kilometres from here. Sangeeta was earlier the chairperson of the district panchayat of Unnao. While the senior leaders of the party here refused to say anything on the nomination, local leaders of the party at Unnao had registered their protest against the nomination, sources said. Senger was serving a life sentence after being found guilty of raping a minor in 2017. The victim had tried to immolate herself before the Uttar Pradesh chief minister's residence here but was thwarted by the police. Later, a Delhi court also convicted Senger in the case of death of the rape victim's father in police custody in Unnao. He was held guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the case. Senger, in a bid to deter the victim and her family from pursuing the case, had got her father arrested on fictitious charges. He died in Unnao jail under mysterious circumstances.  Senger was also accused in the case of allegedly conspiring to get the victim and her family killed in an accident. A truck had smashed into the car in which the victim, her two aunts and her lawyer were travelling in the neighbouring Raebareli district in 2019, killing the aunts on the spot and wounding the victim and the lawyer critically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unnao-rape-convict-kuldeep-sengars-wife-to-contest-up-panchayat-polls-on-bjp-ticket-972439.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccine stock to finish in two days, provide at least 30 lakh doses: Gehlot to PM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the stock of coronavirus vaccine in the state will finish in next two days and urged him to immediately provide at least 30 lakh doses. In a letter to the PM after a video conference with him on Thursday, Gehlot said the state has administered 86,89,770 doses till April 7. "The present stock of vaccine in Rajasthan will finish in next two days. Therefore, it is requested that at least another 30 lakh doses of vaccine be provided to us immediately so that the momentum that we have built up can be maintained and maximum eligible beneficiaries can be vaccinated at the earliest," he said. "I want to assure you that we will leave no stone unturned in our efforts to control Covid-19," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccine-stock-to-finish-in-two-days-provide-at-least-30-lakh-doses-gehlot-to-pm-972441.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Tirath reverses Trivendra's decision, takes 51 temples out of Char Dham Devasthanam board’s control||Reversing his predecessor’s decision, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday decided to remove the management of 51 temples from the control of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board and reconsider its formation. "I have decided to take out of the Devasthanam Board’s ambit 51 temples which had been brought under it,” Rawat Rawat told reporters after a meeting with seers during the ongoing Kumbh Mela here. He added that the government will also review the decision to form the Board. Set up during former Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s term, the Devasthanam Board was assigned the management of 51 temples of the state, including the four famous Himalayan shrines of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri. The formation of the panel through legislation in December 2019 had not gone down well with the seers and 'teerth-purohits' who felt their traditional rights over the temples had suffered because of it. They had also complained that the state government had not taken them in confidence before taking such a major decision, directly affecting them. Despite repeated assurances by former Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat that enough safeguards had been taken in the law bill to protect the rights of 'teerth-purohits', the priests in the state, including those in Uttarkashi, were agitated over the issue. Some of them even approached BJP leader Subramanian Swamy who later moved the Uttarakhand High Court challenging the government's decision to take over the control of temples. Stating the objective of the bill in the state assembly, Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj had said the creation of a board like this was necessary for better management of the temples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tirath-reverses-trivendras-decision-takes-51-temples-out-of-char-dham-devasthanam-board-s-control-972465.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||GNCTD Act will paralyse governance in Delhi: 76 ex-civil servants in joint statement||The provisions of the recently enacted GNCTD (Amendment) Act will not only paralyse governance in Delhi but also have grave repercussions on how federal governance is carried out in the country, a group of 76 former civil servants said in a joint statement on Friday. This is an unfortunate move and bad in law, said the signatories to the letter including former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar, former secretary of Planing Commission N C Saxena, former IAS officer Aruna Roy, and ex-secretary of Department of Agriculture Siraj Hussain. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 accords primacy to Delhi's Lieutenant Governor (L-G) over the elected government. According to the legislation, the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor". "Section 44 of the Act now states that before taking any executive action, the elected government shall have to take prior permission of the Lieutenant Governor, even in matters in which the Assembly has the right to make laws. This is in direct contravention of the Supreme Court's judgement...," the letter said. By curtailing the powers of the Delhi Assembly and subordinating the executive power of the elected government to the Lieutenant Governor, Parliament has negated the provisions of Article 239 AA of the Constitution without amending the Constitution, but merely through amendments to the GNCTD Act, it said. "This is an unfortunate move and bad in law. It deprives Delhi's citizens of the right to govern themselves in matters such as health, education, water, power, electric supply and roads. There is no justification to concentrate all powers of governance in the Union Government merely because Delhi is the country's capital," the letter stated. This move will not only paralyse governance in Delhi, much to the detriment of public interest but also have grave repercussions on how federal governance is carried out in India, it said. "In India's democracy, we have adopted a republican structure and the Westminster model, in which the Governor is a titular head, acting on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers," the letter said. This constitutionally mandated structure has been repeatedly upheld and endorsed by the honourable Supreme Court, it said. "That the legislature is supreme within its functional powers is a cardinal federal principle. Elected representatives link the will of the people with that of the Government, regardless of whether citizens live in a state or a Union Territory," it added. The demand for full statehood for Delhi has been consistently championed by all political parties, even though it is a National Capital Territory that may necessitate differential treatment, the letter said. That led to the insertion of Article 239 AA into the Constitution of India, establishing an elected legislature for Delhi. The opening lines of Article 239 AA state that "the Council of Ministers shall be collectively responsible to the Legislative Assembly", it said. Interpreting the scope of this provision, the honourable Supreme Court ruled that "the Lieutenant Governor has not been entrusted with any independent decision-making power. He has to either act on the 'aid and advice' of the Council of Ministers or he is bound to implement the decision taken by the President on a reference being made by him (Para 277)," it further said. However, the recently enacted GNCTD (Amendment) Act, 2021 strikes at the root of these principles and renders null the democratic right of the citizens of Delhi, said the letter, written by the former civil servants under the aegis of Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG). The CCG, according to the letter, has "no affiliation with any political party but is committed to the values and principles enshrined in the Constitution of India". The former civil servants further said, "We are deeply concerned that Parliament should pass a law which appears to make a mockery of constitutional provisions and their interpretation by the Supreme Court. We recognise that the same strategy of ramming through changes in law, with no consultation with the legislature or discussion with other political parties, was gone through when Article 370 was abrogated with respect to Jammu and Kashmir." "We fear that a pattern is being established by which similar strategies could be adopted to destroy the federal principles on the basis of which India's governance has been structured. The dangers of unilateral decision making to establish a culture of unitary politics will put federal democracy in danger. This would violate the basic structure of the Constitution," they said. "We sincerely hope that the honourable Supreme Court, taking note of the fact that this law violates their own order, will declare it unconstitutional and restore the status quo ante," they said. President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the GNCTD (Amendment) Bill on March 28. The Centre has maintained that the Bill is in line with the Supreme Court's July 2018 ruling on the ambit of powers of the Lieutenant Governor and the Delhi government after a series of run-ins between the two. Union Minister G Kishan Reddy had said the amendments would lead to transparency and clarity in governance in the NCT of Delhi and enhance public accountability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gnctd-act-will-paralyse-governance-in-delhi-76-ex-civil-servants-in-joint-statement-972469.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Doctors contract Covid-19 in several Delhi hospitals||As the number of new Covid-19 cases crossed the 8,500 mark in Delhi on Friday, doctors in several big hospitals were found positive for Covid-19, putting further stress on the health care system in the national capital. At the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 20 doctors and six medical students tested positive in the last 10 days. Out of the 20 doctors, two are faculty members while the rest are resident doctors. There are more than 3,000 doctors, including resident doctors at the AIIMS in New Delhi. The virus has also struck Sir Ganga Ram Hospital where 37 doctors tested positive. "Serving Covid patients at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, 37 doctors of the hospital have tested positive for Covid-19. While 32 are in home isolation and the rest have been admitted in the hospital," said a hospital source. In Delhi government’s Maulana Azad Medical College, nearly 200 students were exposed to a Covid-19 patient. While it's not known how many of such students developed the infections, the hospital issued a gag order preventing the doctors and staff from talking to the press. Delhi on Friday reported 8,521 new Covid-19 positive cases with 39 deaths and a positivity rate of nearly 8 per cent. Nearly half of 9,000 plus Covid beds of Delhi are occupied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctors-contract-covid-19-in-several-delhi-hospitals-972477.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal meets chairman of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital after 37 doctors test Covid-19 positive||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday met the head of the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in the wake of 37 of its doctors testing positive for Covid-19 since the recent surge in coronavirus cases, officials said. Kejriwal met Dr D S Rana, the chairman of the board of management of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, at his residence and enquired about the health of the infected doctors. Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chaddha was also present at the meeting. "While serving covid patients at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, 37 doctors have tested positive for Covid-19. A majority of these corona warriors have mild symptoms. Thirty-two doctors are in home isolation and the rest are admitted in the hospital," a hospital source had said on Thursday. Sir Ganga Ram Hospital has been among the facilities, which have been at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic for nearly a year. In a statement issued by the Delhi government, Kejriwal was quoted as saying, "Our doctors have been at the forefront of fighting coronavirus. I pray for the swift recovery of all the doctors who have tested positive. The hospital can reach out to the Delhi government at any point, if and when required, and we will provide them with all the help possible." During the meeting, the chief minister was apprised that most of the 37 doctors who have tested positive are asymptomatic and have been recommended home isolation.  The five who have exhibited serious symptoms have been admitted to the hospital and are being taken care of, the statement said. Kejriwal also expressed serious concern over the spike in coronavirus cases in the national capital in the last few days. Delhi recorded 7,437 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the highest single-day surge this year, while 24 more people succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 11,157, according to the city health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-meets-chairman-of-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-after-37-doctors-test-covid-19-positive-972509.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||India's double whammy, Covid-19 cases up but vaccines run out in several states||India on Friday was hit by a double whammy of 1.32 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases and closure of vaccination centres in populous states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha where hospitals had to refuse people turning up for vaccination. The Union Health Ministry did not clarify the reasons for vaccine shortages as flagged by the states, but at a special meeting, a Group of Ministers on Covid-19 discussed strategies to hike the production of the two vaccines. NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul informed the GoM on the efforts being taken up to ramp up production of the existing vaccines and shared details about the potency and timelines of vaccines undergoing clinical trials, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. “The vaccine shortage is due to poor logistics planning and coordination. If a software platform was built to forecast demand through pre-registration, then there should be no reason for a shortage. Yes, opening up the vaccination to all above 45 years may have some increase in demand but there has not been a population explosion overnight,” a community health specialist told DH. Serum Institute of India has a capacity to produce 70 million doses of Covishield every month while Bharat Biotech can produce 10-20 million doses of Covaxin. However, neither the two companies nor the central government disclosed the current production volume of the shots. In Mumbai, out of 120 Covid-19 vaccination centres run by the BMC as many as 71 had to shut due to a paucity of the doses. Nearly 30-35% of more than 3,600 vaccination centres across Maharashtra – the worst affected state in the second surge – have to close in the absence of a fresh supply of doses. In Noida and Ghaziabad in the National Capital Region, private hospitals turned away people who had registered on Co-WIN and reached the hospitals. In Odisha, out of 1,400 vaccination centres, nearly 700 have run out of vaccines. Last month Rajasthan too had complained about vaccine shortage. “No one expected there would be such a surge in the Covid-19 cases as being witnessed. The vaccination strategy was designed assuming that there was reasonable herd immunity as per the series of serosurveys. But most of the assumptions that formed the basis of the vaccine delivery strategy no longer hold good,” explained Oommen John, a senior public health researcher from the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi. A day before, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the Centre had distributed 13.5 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccines of which the states utilised 9.1 crore doses while 2.4 crore doses are in the stock. Another 1.9 crore doses are in the pipeline and would reach the states soon. In addition, 12.89 crore doses of the vaccines were either gifted or sold to foreign countries. In a television interview, Vardhan insisted there was no vaccine shortage in India, but did not share the data on vaccine production and supply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-double-whammy-covid-19-cases-up-but-vaccines-run-out-in-several-states-972514.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Payment of extortion doesn't mean terror funding: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said payment of extortion money does not amount to terror funding or giving protection money cannot be termed as raising funds for promoting a banned organisation. The top court allowed bail to Suresh Kedia, who was accused of paying money to the members and operatives of terrorist organisation Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) for smooth running his coal transport business in Jharkhand. "The main accusation against the appellant is that he paid levy or extortion amount to the terrorist organisation. Payment of extortion money does not amount to terror funding," a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said. The court also pointed out that it was clear from the supplementary charge-sheet that other accused, who are members of the terrorist organisation, have been systematically collecting extortion amounts from businessmen in Amrapali and Magadh areas. Kedia was engaged in the business of transporting coal on behalf of GVK Power and Godavari Commodities. "It is alleged in the second supplementary charge-sheet that the money to the members of the TPC for smooth running of his business. Prima facie, it cannot be said that he conspired with the other members of the TPC and raised funds to promote the organisation," the court said. The court set aside the Jharkhand High Court judgment of February 14, 2020, which upheld the denial of bail to Kedia, in the case registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and provisions of other laws. With regard to allegations that Kedia met members of TPC, the court relied upon his statement recorded under Section 164 Criminal Procedure Code that he was summoned to meet members of the organisation in connection with the payments made by him. "Prima facie, we are not satisfied that a case of conspiracy has been made out at this stage only on the ground that he met the members of the organisation," the bench added. As to the recovery of Rs 9.95 lakh as "terror fund" from the house of accused, the court referred to accused's version that the amount was withdrawn from the bank to pay salaries to his employees. "We do not agree with the prosecution that the amount is terror fund. At this stage, it cannot be said that the amount seized is proceeds from terrorist activity. There is no allegation that he was receiving any money. On the other hand, he is accused of providing money to the members of TPC," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/payment-of-extortion-doesnt-mean-terror-funding-sc-972515.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Law student shot dead, cousin injured in suspected road rage incident in Delhi||In a suspected case of road rage, a 22-year-old law student was shot dead and his cousin suffered gunshot wounds when an unidentified man opened fire at them after a brawl at a CNG station in Rohini on Friday, police said. Yash, a resident of Khajuri Khas, along with his cousin Arjun (23) had gone to submit documents at a college in Rohini. The incident took place in Rohini Sector -16 on Friday afternoon. Yash and Arjun had an argument with the man over some issue at the CNG station, following which the two men hit him and went back to their car. Later, the man took out a pistol from his car and shot at them, said a senior police officer. The two men were rushed to a hospital, where Yash was declared brought dead by doctors while Arjun was undergoing treatment, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said. According to the police, it is suspected to be a case of road rage but the exact cause of the fight between them is not known yet. A case of murder has been registered and CCTV cameras installed near the CNG station are being examined to identify the culprit and ascertain the sequence of events, the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/law-student-shot-dead-cousin-injured-in-suspected-road-rage-incident-in-delhi-972554.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Haryana government shuts schools till April 30 for students up to Class 8||The Haryana government has decided to close schools till April 30 for students up to Class 8. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the decision has been take due to a spike in coronavirus cases. He, however, told reporters in Gurgaon that there is no need to panic as the situation is under control. “As far as schools are concerned, we have decided to close these for primary and up to middle classes till April 30. Further decision will be taken according to the situation,” he said. The CM said wearing of masks, social distancing norms, sanitisation of public places and gathering restrictions will be strictly enforced. While all this strictness will be imposed, the normal life too has to go on, he said. “There is no need to panic as was seen in March-April last year at the outbreak of the pandemic. The situation is under control. We have stepped up the vaccination drive. We are taking all necessary steps to check further spread of the virus,” said Khattar. Asked to comment on the ongoing wheat procurement, he said the process is going on smoothly, though “arhtiyas” (commission agents) have gone on a strike at some places. The commission agents are protesting the government's decision of direct payment to farmers. The payment is being directly credited into farmers' accounts within 72 hours and if there is a delay beyond this period, then farmers will be paid 9 per cent interest. A total of 5,60,669.66 metric tonnes of wheat has been procured at the minimum support price (MSP) at 396 mandi and procurement centres in Haryana since April 1, an official statement said. Meanwhile, according to a state government release, the Haryana government is striving for radical changes in the education sector. In this series, the chief minister, taking another step towards digital education, initiated projects worth more than Rs 10.60 crore in various districts of the state, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-government-shuts-schools-till-april-30-for-students-up-to-class-8-972570.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Army jawan shot dead by militants in J&K's Anantnag||Militants shot dead an Army jawan, who had come home on leave, in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said. The ultras shot at and injured Havaldar Salim outside his residence at Goriwan in Bijbehara area of the district, a police official said. Salim was rushed to the hospital but he succumbed to his injuries, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-shot-dead-by-militants-in-jks-anantnag-972573.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi records over 8,000 Covid cases, highest since Nov 11; 39 more deaths||Delhi recorded 8,521 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest single-day surge since November 11 last year, while 39 more people died due to the infection, taking the death toll to 11,196, according to the city health department. The highest single-day spike in Delhi till date — 8,593 cases — was reported on November 11 in 2020, while on November 19, the city had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date. On Friday, the daily infection tally inched almost close to that record spike figure, indicating a much faster rate of spread of the infection. This is also the first time that over 8,000 cases have been recorded in a day this year. The positivity rate reduced slightly to 7.79 per cent on Friday from 8.1 per cent a day before, according to the health department. The national capital has seen a massive spike in cases in the last few weeks. According to the department's latest bulletin, a record 1,09,398 tests were conducted on Thursday, including 70,403 RT-PCR tests and 38,995 rapid antigen tests. The city had recorded 7,437 cases on Thursday, which was the first time that over 7,000 cases had been reported in a day this year. On preceding two days, the case count had stood above 5,000. On November 27 last year, the city had recorded 5,482 cases and 6,224 cases on November 24 and 7,486 on November 18, as per official data. The number of cumulative cases on Friday stood at 7,06,526. Over 6.68 lakh patients have recovered from the virus, the bulletin said. It said that 39 more people died due to the disease, taking the toll to 11,196. The number of active cases rose to 26,631 from 23,181 a day before. The number of people under home isolation increased to 13,188 from 11,367 on Thursday while the number of containment zones mounted to 4,768 from 4,226 a day before, the bulletin said.  Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday had warned that the new cases "could cross" the last single-day spike record registered in November, given the pace of the spread of infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-over-8000-covid-cases-highest-since-nov-11-39-more-deaths-972580.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand: 25 additional trains to be run for Kumbh on main bathing days||Twenty-five additional trains will be run on the main bathing days during the ongoing Kumbh Mela from Haridwar for the convenience of pilgrims, Managing Director of Northern Railways Ashutosh Gangal said on Friday. Gangal was here to take stock of the preparations for the Kumbh Mela. On the Shahi Snan (royal bath) days on April 12, 14 and 27, he said, 25 special trains will be run from Haridwar to various destinations, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-25-additional-trains-to-be-run-for-kumbh-on-main-bathing-days-972591.html
09-04-2021||North and Central||AAP says PM Modi suggested adopting Delhi model of curbing Covid-19; BJP hails Shah’s role||The AAP on Friday claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggested adopting Delhi model of fighting Covid-19 in his recent meeting with chief ministers, even as the BJP called the claims “self-glorification”. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Atishi said the prime minister had asked to implement ‘Home Isolation, Aggressive Testing and Micro Containment Zone’ model of the Arvind Kejriwal government to tackle the coronavirus menace in the country. "The Union home minister had rejected the Delhi government's move of home isolation last year, but now the prime minister is promoting home isolation across the country," she said. The AAP leader said out of 13 lakh Covid-19 tests being conducted daily in the country, one lakh tests are done in Delhi. "Today, the PM is asking the chief ministers of the country to implement the Kejriwal model of fighting against Covid-19," she added. Reacting to AAP’s claims, the BJP alleged that the ruling party in Delhi had ignored the fact that the city’s first coronavirus wave ended after Union Home Minister Amit Shah's intervention. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said AAP leaders specialise in the “art of self-glorification” and Atishi's press conference was one such effort in this direction. “She boasted of her government's work, but cleverly ignored the fact that Delhi's first coronavirus wave ended only after Shah's intervention and controlling and strengthening measures to curb the virus,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-says-pm-modi-suggested-adopting-delhi-model-of-curbing-covid-19-bjp-hails-shah-s-role-972594.html
09-04-2021||Opinion||The healthcare crisis we don’t see||April 7 was World Health Day, and discussions were largely focused on the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. When fighting a war, all thinking and resources are naturally focused on the immediate target. But how well we do in war time is a factor of how well we work and prepare in peace time. Sooner rather than later, the nation must come to terms with the simple fact that our health sector is in a crisis that is far deeper than is visible. The poor suffer because they don’t get healthcare. The rich also suffer because they may get more than they can take; aggressive intervention and huge bills don’t necessarily mean that the sick are taken care of. Between the two, the system is becoming heartless, a place where expertise, even if it’s available, will fail to deliver because it is disconnected from humaneness. Here are two stories known personally to one of the writers here, coming from in and around Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of Kerala. From his ICU bed, a 75-year-old man screamed at his daughter, unhappy about the state he was put in. His arms and legs were tied to the bed with canvas restraints. She heard her father shout at the nurse; she had never expected this behaviour from him. Some 100 km away, a housemaid lay ill and alone on a straw mat in a village hut. She could not walk; she had to crawl. On the other side of the mat was a chamber pot into which she had to urinate and defecate. Her granddaughter, on her way back from school, would come and clean up. Her sons and daughters would not come. They had quarrelled about the division of her tiny piece of land. Both patients had received healthcare in the past. The precise diagnosis had been arrived at and treatment did indeed sustain them for a year or two. Now in a state of incurable illness, one was delirious in hospital and tied up while the other was lying alone in utter helplessness. Both are cases in Kerala, a state with “significantly higher healthcare spending per capita than all other states, driven by higher-than-average government spending as well as out-of-pocket spending, which has borne dividends in the handling of the Nipah outbreak as well as in keeping mortality from Covid-19 relatively low despite unfavourable demographics”, as an RBI study of state finances put it in October 2020. Higher spending on healthcare, especially in the public sector, is desirable but it must be accompanied by approaches that promote welfare of the sick, not push them out or put them in an assembly line of the infirm and the suffering. For example, in India, only about 2% of the needy have access to pain relief. A draconian law passed in 1985 made three generations of doctors unfamiliar with medicines like oral morphine, and the medical curriculum till 2019 did not include pain management. The essential medicines, though inexpensive, are inaccessible to patients in most hospitals. India grows poppy, produces opium and exports it to the rest of the world. Morphine is extracted from opium. When a major operation, a fracture or cancer causes severe pain, morphine (or one of its derivatives) is essential for relief; no substitute exists in the world for medicines of that class. The scientific world today recognises the principle of balance, which brings in enough restrictions to limit their non-medical or inappropriate use, while at the same time ensuring the access to morphine for pain relief. The necessary modification of the relevant law was made by Parliament in 2014. However, the relevant rules, which were published in 2015, have errors that need correction, and 28 states and eight Union Territories have to implement them individually. Thankfully, though slowly, many positive things are happening. Students who joined medical colleges from 2019 onwards have pain management and most aspects of palliative care built into their curriculum. A growing number of states are implementing the amended law. The Government of India’s National Health Policy of 2017 “recognises the growing need for palliative and rehabilitative care for all geriatric illnesses and advocates the continuity of care across all levels.” Currently, healthcare providers all over the country are being trained in palliative care. The national-level trainers have already been trained and as they spread education, palliative care will be integrated with primary healthcare up to a point all over the country. In the future, perhaps, patients will hopefully get more compassionate and necessary medical attention from healthcare providers in their homes and not be only dependent on intermittent visits from family. This will demand the encasing of healthcare with ideas of service that alone can offer care with quality and compassion, within reach of the vast majority.  We will need primary care to be pushed up and then work for the integration of palliative care into primary care. But this will be grossly inadequate without tertiary healthcare institutions, including medical colleges, following suit. Secondly, there is something for all of us to do. Healthcare will never be complete till the community around the person and family are engaged. The disintegration of the extended family, the migration of young men, urbanisation have all caused a social change resulting in the isolation of nuclear families during an illness. This needs to be alleviated by the participation of the community. The theme for World Health Day this year was “Building a fairer, healthier world.” If that is to make any sense to us, people should get the right kind of healthcare. And that means healthcare should not only focus on curing diseases but should also prioritise relief from suffering. (Dr Rajagopal is Chairman of the non-profit Pallium India and Director, WHO Collaborating Centre for Training and Policy on Access to Pain Relief. Rattanani is a journalist and faculty member at SPJIMR) (Through The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-healthcare-crisis-we-don-t-see-972113.html
09-04-2021||Panorama||Judiciary and Right to Food amid the Covid-19 crisis||The Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSP) are constitutional directives given to the State to achieve transformative goals but aren’t enforceable by any court, unlike the constitutionally guaranteed Fundamental Rights. There are instances, however, when the judiciary has preferred to enable socio-economic aspirations specified under the DPSP over a narrow interpretation of Fundamental Rights, such as in the Kesavananda Bharati case, 1973, or when DPSPs were exalted to give them the substance of a Fundamental Right, such as over the Right to Food. Judiciary & Right to Food A group of civil society organisations in Rajasthan filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court in 2001 (PUCL vs Union of India and Others) requesting the release of grain stocks to avoid mass hunger and death. The government claimed that eight hunger-relief programmes were in operation, but the petitioners countered that they weren’t implemented well enough to serve the purpose. The campaign for the Right to Food had two main objectives. The first was to recognise it as an enforceable right, and to demonstrate how it arose from the directive principles but went to the core of the Constitution itself – Fundamental Rights. The second was to bring about reformative action to ensure that it was carried out in a progressive manner. The petitioners’ main goal was to establish that the Right to Food was protected under the Right to Life (Article 21). When it became a matter of people’s lives, the judiciary was determined to view the DPSP in the context of Fundamental Rights. Since the first PIL was filed in the Right to Food campaign, the Supreme Court and various High Courts have issued 74 interim orders. Several independent institutions were also established by the Supreme Court, including a Commission to keep track of all interim orders issued by the court in this case and 12 commissions at the state level to be advisers to the Commissioner’s Office. Following the midday meals decision in 2001, the Supreme Court was kept informed and was periodically updated on the status of its implementation. The court also remained involved in the programme’s finer details, such as ensuring that quality standards were fully implemented and that discrimination against Dalit cooks did not obstruct the scheme’s effective implementation. The court required that these programmes, such as midday meals or the opening of Anganwadis in all settlements, be implemented within a certain time frame. Orders requiring the government to make the list of Public Distribution System (PDS) beneficiaries available for public review are examples of the court insisting on accountability and transparency from the government. The judiciary chose a proactive approach to ensuring food as a right. Judiciary during Covid-19 Migrant workers in the unorganised sector are a vulnerable section as they do jobs with barely any social security, far from their homes. Often, being daily wage workers, they face hazardous working conditions, extremely low wages and poor living conditions. The economy almost came to a complete halt with the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown last year. During this period, several issues of fundamental rights surfaced and PILs were filed over the availability of food to stranded workers, wages for those in the unorganised sectors, transport facilities for migrants returning home, etc.  While the courts heard some of these PILs on an urgent basis, despite the long lockdown, all judges did not resume hearing cases via digital platforms. Thus, there were delays in hearing many cases. Justice A P Shah, former Chief Justice of the Madras and Delhi High Courts, in an interview, critiqued the priorities of the Supreme Court as being misplaced. For instance, he pointed out the contrast between several petitions on the rights of migrant workers not being heard as urgent matters while a bail petition of journalist Arnab Goswami was heard within several hours.   The Supreme Court may thus be seen to have become less sensitive to the rights of the marginalised and as having gone back on Article 21. This Article was earlier given a wide interpretation by the court, broadening the definition of life to not just include “mere animal existence” but the right to live with human dignity, which includes the right to livelihood and shelter. Activists filed petitions that sought immediate payment of minimum wages to workers suffering due to the lockdown. To this, the court said that this was a policy issue and was the prerogative of the government. The government contended that free food was being provided to the poor. Chief Justice S A Bobde asked, “If they are being provided meals, then why do they need money for meals?” After being stranded for several weeks without jobs, shelter and, in many cases, food, the migrant workers were asked by the government to pay transport fare if they wished to go back to their villages. The Supreme Court should have taken cognisance of their plight. Does the judiciary continue to be an enabler of socio-economic rights? Some high courts like the Odisha High Court were responsive and directed the state to make sure that the identities of Covid-19-positive individuals, for instance, were safeguarded. We observe that marginalised women are a section that’s doubly discriminated against. During the lockdown, pregnant women walking long distances due to the lack of transport facilities, and starvation and death due to lack of access to primary healthcare weren’t rare episodes. Restricted access to contraception and healthcare is seen to result in an additional 2.38 million unintended pregnancies, 679,864 child births, 1.45 million abortions and 1,743 maternal deaths. These significant issues have been ignored by both the State and the judiciary. Apart from a few relief policies like transfer of Rs 500 to women’s Jan Dhan accounts under the Garib Kalyan Scheme, relief measures have hardly taken notice of the severe conditions faced by women. The core question during the Right to Food campaign and during the Covid-19 crisis was the extent and purpose of the courts’ interventions. The judiciary’s promptness in acting during the Right to Food campaign was a hallmark feature. Orders were released on time, which kept the executive in check and helped to avoid red tape by enforcing deadlines. The court did not wait to be nudged, rather it put itself out there to keep the government accountable. Socio-economic rights such as food and employment have for a long time been covered under government policies, but the Right to Food has not only set a legal precedent on the justiciability of socio-economic rights, it is also an example of the court defending these rights by requiring the government to stand by its own promises. When the courts choose to leave the issue of timely wage payment to poor daily wage workers under the jurisdiction of the government or remain silent in the face of lax policy execution and neglect of priority sections, however, they allow themselves to be seen as being indifferent to the systemic violence that befalls millions of vulnerable citizens.   In the wake of the pandemic, cracks in the bureaucratic system, such as that in the PDS and healthcare, surfaced, but the judiciary did not take cognisance of the issue. A suo moto intervention from the judiciary would have taken a rights-based route to impel the executive to exhibit accountability. As a nation that still strives to accomplish fundamental human rights on issues like hunger and malnutrition, we require a judicial system that is proactive as justice delayed is justice denied. (The writer is a public policy researcher)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/judiciary-and-right-to-food-amid-the-covid-19-crisis-972114.html
09-04-2021||Panorama||Mental health and human rights||The universality of the affliction of mental illness underlines the fact that human beings inherently have a neurochemical constitution that makes them susceptible to psychological turbulence, at least, and serious mental disorders, at the worst. Recently, India has been ranked 139 out of 149 countries in the human happiness index. In the 2020 Human Freedom Index, India’s rank was 111 out of 162. On further examination of the rankings, what is noticeable is, that those countries which rank higher up on the human happiness index such as Sweden, Denmark and Switzerland also rank well in the human freedom index. There seems to be a positive correlation between human liberty and human happiness. Inevitably, higher respect given to the inherent dignity of each human being accords each human being greater mental well-being. The first article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.” This innate liberty and equality of human beings on the basis of which human beings enjoy the right to a dignified life and other human rights have been justified in the UN declaration on the basis of the “reason and conscience” of humankind. The idea of human rights has often been subjected to what Amartya Sen calls “The Legitimacy Critique”. What has been mostly missing from the traditional response to this legitimacy critique is the idea of ‘mental health’. That, more than reasoning power, it is the psychological and emotional response to trauma that is universal. Thus the universal yet differential impact of trauma on human psychology and human emotion needs more recognition in terms of strengthening the foundation of human rights. Central to the sustenance of human rights and human freedom are strong democratic institutions. India, which was once, known for being the world’s most vibrant democracy is now called “a partially free democracy”, “flawed democracy” and “electoral autocracy” by various international reports. The Middle East and Africa have the maximum number of authoritarian regimes and rank the lowest in the human freedom index. Similarly, Middle Eastern Countries such as Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, Palestine, Yemen and African countries such as Zimbabwe, Rwanda, Tanzania, Malawi and Lesotho are in the lowest position in the World Happiness Report 2020. Thus, there is an inextricable corresponding connection between the three factors: Human happiness, Human Rights and Human Freedom. Hence, a democratic country with a sound framework for ensuring human rights to its citizens is an integral component of the pursuit of human happiness. It is not a coincidence that India’s ranking has fallen on all three parameters simultaneously: Human Rights Index, Human Freedom Index and Human Happiness Index.  In a scholarly canon justified on the basis of the soundness of reasoning and rationality, emotional and psychological response of human beings to the traumatic experiences of their life which include violation of their fundamental human right to equality of dignity and liberty of autonomous agency has not been sufficiently taken into consideration. For instance, it is no surprise that authoritarian regimes which thrive on suppressing their citizens through a reign of imbibing fear of disagreeing and peaceful dissent, also rank the lowest in the human happiness index. Fear is an emotional and psychological response, which is not always and entirely based on logical reasoning. Yet, we do not take into account this fundamental essence of all human beings who are deeply sentient beings, the essence of being able to perceive a violation of their rights and respond emotionally with fear and mental trauma(albeit to varying degrees), while defining the legitimacy of human rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/mental-health-and-human-rights-972115.html
09-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Losing my marbles||When it comes to childhood memories, not even a wink is required to recall them. Any person for that matter will roll back to the past, musing over the pleasantries of the early days. Most of these memories come from schooling. Unlike the present-day schools, we use to have a lot of free space. A part of the school building was a well-maintained garden with beautiful colourful crotons and flower plants, the rest of it was reserved for prayer assembly in the morning and later in the day, a play yard for children.   The best part of schooling was the recess break. During break-time, we used to chase each other around and play games of marbles. Sometimes, little holes were dug several inches apart and we tried to shoot the marbles. We did not have to shoot the marble into the hole or declare which marble we were aiming for. We would aim at all our opponent’s marbles; if you hit one, it was yours. We played simple games without complex rules.     Flicking one with my thumb off my fisted hand and hearing the sharp, cracking sound as it hit its target was deeply satisfying. I always thought that there is something magical and alluring about marbles. I found them appealing. I used to naturally reach out to touch and hold them. I never resist the urge to pick up a marble if I come across one.   I was never too good at this game, but I was not as bad as I was at most other childhood activities. My friends back then were marble hustlers. I have consistently gone home empty-handed, leaving my opponents with all my colourful little treasure. The game still brought some excitement into my life at that age. My marble shooting was not perfect when compared to my playmates. In spite of it, I proudly held the shooter marble in the crook of my index finger, and, with my fingers curled and knuckles down, used my thumb to flick it like a perfectionist. I did not provide much of a challenge for any of my competitors. It did not mean I did not enjoy myself. I did. Nothing I ever did in my life when I was a kid was quite as exciting as playing marbles. The winning spree, the triumphant yells were ecstatic. As children, we had the gift of living in the moment and finding wonder in the ordinary. The vestige of those hysterical shouts and bawls still finds traces somewhere afresh in my memory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/losing-my-marbles-972112.html
09-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Monkey business||Until recently, some of the most vibrant spaces were classrooms. The most enjoyable hour for the young learners was when they rushed out of the gates after the bell.   In my school days, this was a time to demonstrate our sprinting skills. It was a melee which happened during the lunch break too. Inside the classroom, the ephemeral breaks between one class and the next were a time to settle scores; a friendly punch or just a slap on the back. These ceremonies were conducted under sacred rules. Smaller spats were settled thus; graver issues waited for the lunch break or the closing bell. The rules were unwritten but no one dared to cross the ‘Lakshman-Rekha’ and complain. An insipid lesson prompted us to invent mischief. Scribbled notes and articles made clandestine travel across the benches. Paper projectiles aimed at a friend sitting across from you needed great expertise. When it misfired, the whole class went into an expressionless mode; with faces turned serious and serene, like that of a statue of meditating Budha. The whole class then stood in punishment but no one ever gave out away a name, doing so was sacrilege.  There were teachers in whose class even the most mischievous sat attentively. Such teachers made learning enjoyable and pure fun. One always looked forward to such lessons when learning would become an indulgence.  Fast forward to the present times, all has changed to an extent that no devil of devastation could have planned this in the wildest of intrigues. Today, the halls of learning are deserted. With online teaching, the once prohibited mobile phone has turned a saviour.  I once read about a school teacher in the United  States who was sent on paid administrative leave after she had compared her students to monkeys. “ The monkeys of my zoo came back today,” she had written on a now withdrawn Facebook post.  We couldn't afford to be that touchy when our teachers addressed us as donkeys and monkeys. Instead, we loved it. Also, we coined a moniker for every teacher. From the ‘specky’ to the embarrassingly funny ‘LLTT’ (looking London, talking Tokyo) and so on.   Presently with no students to establish an ambrosial bond, teachers must be bored to death. The ‘donkeys’ and ‘monkeys’ must be yearning to be back to school and the teachers must be wishing for new monikers as their code names.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/monkey-business-972576.html
09-04-2021||Second Edit||Indefensible conduct||The resignation of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has come too late to be of any political use or moral advantage for him, his party, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), or the government. Deshmukh resigned in the wake of the Bombay High Court’s order for a CBI investigation into the charge made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh that the minister had demanded collection of Rs 100 crore per month from liquor bars, restaurants and other establishments. The minister’s position had become untenable after the charge was made in public, and he could have set a good precedent and saved himself from embarrassment if he had quit and offered to face an investigation then. His party also did not consider it necessary to tell him to resign. NCP leader Sharad Pawar thought it would be a loss of face if the minister resigned but has now had to stomach a bigger embarrassment. If he had other designs, they are not known yet. While Deshmukh has resigned, it made little sense for the Maharashtra government to approach the Supreme Court to prevent the investigation. The court has rightly rejected its petition. What the High Court has ordered is a preliminary investigation, to be completed in 15 days. The government’s opposition to the probe only exposed its own bad faith and weakness. The collection of hafta by politicians in power is a known fact. What is different here is that a serving police officer made the charge. The government was duty-bound to clear its name and should have welcomed a probe. It should have ordered a credible investigation on its own. It did not do that, and when the court ordered one, it tried to block it. It is true that the CBI is a “caged parrot”, and its investigation might not give comfort to the government, the minister or the parties behind them. But the court acted because the government did not. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray must have been relieved that Deshmukh resigned. He was not in a position to demand the minister’s resignation because of coalition compulsions. A dismissal could have had adverse consequences for the government. A preliminary investigation for 15 days can turn into a longer one and can give a breather to the government. But it will also continue to be under pressure as long the investigation is on. The fact that Param Bir Singh made the charge of extortion against the minister only after he was moved out of his post makes his position weak, but that may not make the charge weaker. The probe might dig up more dirt and could hurt the government more in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/indefensible-conduct-972107.html
09-04-2021||Second Edit||RBI must be on guard against inflation||It was expected that the RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) would leave the interest rates unchanged in the present situation, which offers both short and medium-term challenges. At its meeting on Wednesday, it decided to continue with its accommodative policy to support growth, though it took note of the inflationary pressures building up in the economy. It was only last week that the RBI’s inflation-targeting framework for the next five years was reaffirmed, with a 4% target and 2% tolerance band on the upper and the lower sides. At its meeting, the MPC also projected a GDP growth rate of 10.5% for the current fiscal. This is lower than the forecast made by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), but even this may not be easily achieved. It has noted that “the renewed jump in Covid-19 infections…could dampen the demand for contact-intensive services, restrain growth impulses and prolong the return to normalcy.’’  The MPC may have decided to adopt a stance that induces growth because of the adverse indications that are widely seen. The Manufacturing Purchasing Mangers’ Index (PMI) for March had shown that business sentiment was at a seven-month low. There have been reports that job losses have continued and ever since the Covid-19 pandemic started, there has not been a month when there was a recovery of jobs. Companies are under stress, private investment is low, exports have not returned to old levels, and other indicators of industry and business have also not been promising. Wherever some recovery has been seen, it has been uneven. The informal sector, which is much bigger than the formal sector and was more affected, is still struggling. All this made growth the main imperative of policy, and the MPC had no option. The policy statement has measures to increase liquidity in the banking system and to encourage credit off-take. The RBI’s move to step up open market purchase of government securities will also shore up liquidity, prompting recovery.  This does not mean that the RBI’s primary mandate on inflation control can be neglected. The monetary panel has observed that core inflation has shown an upward trend and reached 6%, which is the high point of tolerance. It was noted that the monsoon will influence food prices which are an important component of the price index. The committee has also underlined the need to keep the prices of petroleum products under control because they feed inflation by increasing transportation costs. Commodity prices are increasing, and that too can fuel inflation. The RBI has to be on guard on the price front, though its priority now is growth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/rbi-must-be-on-guard-against-inflation-972564.html
09-04-2021||South||AI express flight to Kuwait makes emergency landing at Kozhikode's Karipur Airport after fire alarm goes off||An Air India Express flight to Kuwait, which took off from the nearby Karipur airport on Friday morning with 17 passengers and six crew made a "precautionary" landing shortly after take-off after a fire alarm went off in the cargo section, airport sources said. Airport Director-in charge, Muhammed Sahid told PTI that all the passengers and crew on board the flight IX 393 are safe. The flight had taken off at 08.38 AM and landed safely by 9.11 AM. After the alarm went off, the pilot chose to return and the aircraft landed safely, AIE sources said, adding on investigation, it was found that it was a false alarm. The aircraft is still under investigation and alternate arrangements are being made for the passengers, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-express-flight-to-kuwait-makes-emergency-landing-at-kozhikodes-karipur-airport-after-fire-alarm-goes-off-972279.html
09-04-2021||South||Madras High Court stays Former TN chief secretary's appointment as expert member of NGT||Madras High Court on Friday stayed the appointment of Girija Vaidyanathan, former Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary, as an expert member in the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT).  The first bench of the High Court restrained Vaidyanathan from assuming charge while passing interim orders on a case filed by environmental activist G Sundarrajan who contended that the retired bureaucrat did not have requisite expertise on issues related to environment.  “We are not happy with the qualification,” the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy observed, while staying her appointment till the disposal of the writ petition.  Vaidyanathan, who served as Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu from December 2016 to June 2019, was to assume charge as expert member of the NGT at its Southern Bench in Chennai on April 19.  Poovulagin Nanbargal, an NGO fighting on issues related to environment headed by Sundarrajan, approached the High Court in December, 2020 seeking to quash the appointment of Vaidyanathan on the grounds that she was not qualified to hold the post.  In its writ petition, the NGO alleged that Vaidyanathan's appointment clearly violated the guidelines that say anyone appointed to the post should have five years experience in the field of environment or should have been associated with related organisations. The NGO also said Section 5 of the NGT Act clearly stipulates administrative experience of 15 years, including experience of five years in dealing with environmental matter either in the central or state governments or in a reputed institute.  “While the guidelines stipulate that the member should have an experience of at least five years in environment field, Girija Vaidyanathan has worked in the related field only for 3.5 years. Moreover she was the Chief Secretary of TN for three years and some of the projects that she cleared might have landed before the NGT. She cannot be judicially reviewing projects that she cleared while in administration,” Sundarrajan told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-stays-former-tn-chief-secretarys-appointment-as-expert-member-of-ngt-972326.html
09-04-2021||South||Sangh supporters attempt to give communal colour to Kerala medicos' viral dance||A dance video clip by two medicos in Kerala that went viral has now triggered an ugly spat in the social media with a section of Sangh Parivar supporters giving a communal colour to it. Naveen Razak and Janaki Omkumar, students of the Thrissur government medical college, had made a 30 second video clip dancing to the tune of Boney M classic 'Rasputin'. The two were in scrubs and the video was shot in their hospital corridor. They posted the video of social media and it went viral and two students became celebrities overnight. Naveen said that he had posted some videos earlier also. But those did not receive this much viewership. What made this video different was that they were in scrubs and it was shot in the hospital corridor.  However, an ugly spat triggered over the video after one Krishna Raj, said to be a Sangh Parivar supporter, made a post the other day referring to the communities of the two students and cautioning Janaki's parents that he was smelling a rat. Raj also make a reference to Nimisha, a Kerala girl who reportedly joined the ISIS along with her husband. A large section had strongly flayed Krishna Raj for his comment, even as he received support from a section of like-minded Sangh Parivar supporters. Some forum of medical students had also flayed the communal colour being given to the viral video clip. Naveen and Janaki told a section of media that they were just ignoring such comments and would continue to be good friends. They also said that the support they received from the social media was so overwhelming.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sangh-supporters-attempt-to-give-communal-colour-to-kerala-medicos-viral-dance-972432.html
09-04-2021||South||Kerala Lokayukta finds Minister K T Jaleel guilty of nepotism; directs government to remove him||The Kerala Lokayukta has found Kerala Higher Education and Minority Welfare Minister K T Jaleel guilty of nepotism and declared that the minister should not continue as a member of the council of ministers. The Lokayukta gave a report to Kerala Chief Minster Pinarayi Vijayan to take appropriate action. The allegation against Jaleel was that his second cousin K T Adeeb was appointed as general manager of Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation by altering the qualifications required for the post. Following the allegations, Adeeb had resigned from the post in 2018 November. According to the order issued by Lokayukta Justice Cyriac Joseph and Upa Lokayukta Justice Harun-Ul-Rashid on Friday, allegations of abuse of power, favouratism, nepotism and violation of oath of office against the minister were substantiated. The action of the minister to change the qualification for the post was to make his second cousin Adeeb eligible for the post. "We also declare that since such allegation have been substantiated against the second respondent (Jaleel) he should not continue to hold the post as a member of the council of ministers," said the report. According to sources, the Lokayukta sent the report about its declaration to the government and sought action under section 14 of the Kerala Lokayukta Act and hence the government will have to accept it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-lokayukta-finds-minister-k-t-jaleel-guilty-of-nepotism-directs-government-to-remove-him-972454.html
09-04-2021||South||Assembly polls: Kerala opposition parties raise suspicion over postal voting||Opposition parties in Kerala, both Congress and BJP, have raised suspicions over the postal voting. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and BJP state president K Surendran approached the Election Commission seeking transparency and scrutiny of the postal votes to check double voting. The allegations surfaced after a couple of persons who already cast votes received proforma for postal voting as well. This time persons aged above 80 and Covid-19 patients were also given the option of postal voting. But these votes were not securely kept. There were also allegations that officials having lenience towards the left-front were deployed for collecting postal votes. Chennithala alleged that widespread malpractice in the postal votes for around 3.5 lakh service voters in the state was suspected as many were reportedly getting option for postal voting even after they cast their votes. Both Chennithala and Surendran demanded the Election commission to make public the number of postal votes. The opposition had earlier alleged massive duplicate entries in the electoral rolls. While Election Commission found that there were 38,000 duplicate entries, Chennithala alleged that 4.3 lakh duplicate entries were there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/assembly-polls-kerala-opposition-parties-raise-suspicion-over-postal-voting-972484.html
09-04-2021||South||Covid-19 night curfew will be imposed if new restrictions don't yield results: Tamil Nadu||With the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 increasing rapidly, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday said it would be forced to go for “night curfew” if the new restrictions that come into force on Saturday do not yield desired results in containing the spread of the novel coronavirus. Daily bulletin issued by the Health Department said 4,456 persons tested positive for the coronavirus on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 10,000. As the dust over assembly elections settled, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday imposed a slew of restrictions like limiting the seating at theatres and restaurants to 50 per cent of their total capacity to control the spread of the virus. In a statement issued on Friday on behalf of Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, the government said fever camps are being organised across the state to identify people with symptoms and take them to the nearest health care facilities. Contending that over 2 crore RT-PCR tests have been conducted so far, the government said awareness is being created among people over appropriate Covid-19 behaviour like wearing a face mask, and maintaining social distancing in public places. The government's ban on the conduct of religious and cultural festivals and restrictions to be imposed in malls and restaurants kick in on Saturday. “If these restrictions do not yield results, we will have to go for night curfew,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-night-curfew-will-be-imposed-if-new-restrictions-dont-yield-results-tamil-nadu-972490.html
09-04-2021||South||Jayalalithaa's memorial opens for public viewing||The sprawling memorial built for former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, which was shut immediately after its inauguration for “maintenance work”, has now begun welcoming visitors. On Friday, hundreds of people visited the memorial built at cost of over Rs 50 crore at the resting place of Jayalalithaa, who died on December 5, 2016. The memorial, which includes a museum and a knowledge park, was inaugurated on January 27 but was closed immediately as the AIADMK Government feared V K Sasikala would drive there straight from Bengaluru after completing her prison term. The reason then cited was “maintenance work” and “completion of pending work” at the memorial. Officials said the memorial was thrown open without any fanfare due to elections. “Since the formal inauguration was over in January, we just opened the memorial for public viewing without any announcement,” an official said. Hundreds of people were seen clicking selfies at the memorial which has a museum. Sasikala visits her new bungalow in Poes Garden Meanwhile, Sasikala made a trip to Poes Garden, where the residence of her late friend Jayalalithaa is located, to oversee work at a bungalow being constructed for her use. The new bungalow is just opposite to Veda Nilayam, Jayalalithaa's address for about five decades. Video footage showed Sasikala visiting the under-construction building and leaving the premises in an SUV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jayalalithaas-memorial-opens-for-public-viewing-972495.html
09-04-2021||South||Six arrested for murder of two Dalit youths near Chennai||Six persons belonging to a dominant community have been arrested for the murder of two Dalit youths in a village near Arakkonam, 75 km from Chennai, in Ranipet district on Wednesday. The murder took place at Gautham Nagar near Guruvarajapet in Ranipet district after a wordy dual turned into a clash between two groups belonging to different communities. All six arrested for the crime hail from the dominant Vanniyar caste, while the deceased – Suriya and Arjunan – were Dalits. Three more youth belonging to the Dalit community were injured in the attack and two of them are being treated at Tiruvallur District Government Hospital, while one has been sent home after treatment. “Eight persons were named in the complaint and we have arrested six persons so far. We are investigating the case, and all perpetrators will be brought to justice. It began with a quarrel ending in the murder of two people,” R Sivakumar, Superintendent of Police, Ranipet District, told DH. Besides other sections of the IPC, police have also invoked provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989 against the alleged accused. While Sivakumar ruled out “caste” or “political” angle to the murder, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) chief Thol. Thirumavalavan has alleged the Dalit youths were beaten to death by men from Vanniyar community due to various incidents that took place during the just-concluded assembly elections. VCK contested the April 6 assembly poll in Arakkonam constituency taking on ruling AIADMK. Thirumavalavan claimed that sons of an AIADMK functionary along with “caste fanatics” in the ruling party and its alliance partner, PMK, have committed the “double murder”. “Dalits have been attacked in several places in Tamil Nadu after voting has concluded. The fear of losing the election has caused some of the AIADMK-BJP-PMK to indulge in violence...caste fanatics are unable to digest the fact that the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance which includes the VCK will achieve a massive victory in the elections,” Thirumavalavan said in a statement. DMK President M K Stalin also issued a statement condemning the “double murder” and urged the police to take strict measures to maintain law and order till a new government is formed in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-arrested-for-murder-of-two-dalit-youths-near-chennai-972520.html
09-04-2021||South||Sexual assault victims' mother alleges of malicious campaign||A woman who contested against Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the Assembly election said that a malicious campaign was carried out against her on social media as part of a conspiracy. Her two daughters were victims of sexual assault. She also alleged that the campaign could have been carried out with the knowledge of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The minor Dalit sisters were found hanging in their house in a gap of around 50 days on January 13 and March 4, 2017. Medical reports of the deceased indicated sexual assault. Their 40-year-old mother contested in the election at Dharmadam in Kannur against Pinarayi Vijayan to stage a protest alleging that justice was denied to the family. She alleged that no action was taken against the cops who sabotaged the investigation. On the heels of the election, a prominent social activist made a social media post alleging that the mother of the two children was also responsible for the ill fate of the two sisters. The woman alleged that though she approached the police against the post, so far no action was taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sexual-assault-victims-mother-alleges-of-malicious-campaign-972528.html
09-04-2021||State||Karnataka bus strike: Govt invites retired drivers, conductors to join work||As the commuters endured a second day of the transport workers’ strike on Thursday, the government reiterated its stand on salary revision on Thursday, while inviting retired employees to rejoin service as part of alternative arrangements. Principal secretary of Transport department Anjum Parvez said the workers of the four RTCs were not open for talks. Their demand for salary on a par with 6th pay commission was untenable. He said the government will continue to work to expand the alternative transport services. “We had 21,000 private vehicles, including buses, maxicabs and others, offering services today (Thursday). We are inviting retired RTC employees, so that the buses owned by the corporations can also be operated,” he added. A notification issued later invited retired employees below 62 years of age to work on a contract basis, with an honorarium of Rs 800 for drivers and Rs 700 for conductors, provided they clear the fitness test, including vision test.  The principal secretary said the government had exempted the private vehicles from the permit system temporarily. Reacting to the government’s “threats”, leader of striking workers Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said said the strike will continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bus-strike-govt-invites-retired-drivers-conductors-to-join-work-972133.html
09-04-2021||State||Compassionate jobs: Rules notified for married daughters||The state government on Friday notified the Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) (Amendment) Rules, 2021, under which married daughters will be considered as equal stakeholders in claiming jobs on compassionate grounds. Till now, married daughters were not eligible to get government jobs on compassionate grounds if the father or mother die while in service.  The new rules were approved by the Cabinet in January and the government hopes that this will make a positive difference to hundres of families.  According to the new rules, even divorced daughters are eligible for employment on these grounds. The rules specify that in case of death of a government employee, the widow/widower will be the first one to be considered for a job. However, if they do not qualify, then they can choose the son or daughter for employment. If the spouse is pre-deceased, then preference for employment will be based on the order of the age of children. The new regulations also permit guardians/any other dependent, who lived with the deceased government employee, to be considered for the job, if ]there are no children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/compassionate-jobs-rules-notified-for-married-daughters-972524.html
09-04-2021||State||Woman, who tried to end life before minister's house, dies||The woman, who had attempted to end her life in front of Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi's house in the city, died on Friday. After the suicide attempt, she was admitted to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Science (KIMS) for treatment. But she could respond to the treatment, police said. Shridevi Veeranna Kammar from Garag in Dharwad taluk had come to Joshi's house seeking additional compensation for her house which was damaged in the previous year's rain, on April 7. But she tried to end her life by consuming poison. In a suicide letter, she said the government had not given proper compensation to her. When she approached MLA Amrut Desai he asked her to approach Joshi. But Joshi was asking her to meet MLA Desai. In the letter, she said she was taking the extreme step at Joshi's house as she was dejected after visiting the MLA and the MP's houses. She has also written that her husband Veeranna was also not feeling well. Therefore, she took the extreme step, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/woman-who-tried-to-end-life-before-ministers-house-dies-972525.html
09-04-2021||State||More employees dismissed as RTCs explore alternatives||The road transport corporations (RTC) on Friday continued their offensive with the BMTC dismissing 120 trainee and probationary staffers while the KSRTC sending about 300 employees on punishment transfer. In a communication, the BMTC said 60 trainee employees and 60 probationary employees have been dismissed from their service on Friday. The KSRTC sent 244 drivers and conductors, 34 mechanical staff, five traffic supervisors and nine others on punishment transfer for "instigating other employees to go on strike and threatening them not to report for duties". The corporation also sought to recruit on a temporary basis candidates who in 2015 participated in recruitment and scored a minimum 40 marks but failed to make it to the next round.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/more-employees-dismissed-as-rtcs-explore-alternatives-972531.html
09-04-2021||State||Thundershowers bring welcome relief to north Karnataka||Many parts of north Karnataka, including Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Vijayanagar, experienced heavy showers, coupled with strong winds and thunder activity on Friday evening. The evening showers were a welcome relief from soaring heat in the region, where temperatures were hovering in late-thirties. As many as 12 electricity poles were uprooted when a massive tree fell on the power line following the high intensity winds at Belur in Badami taluk, Bagalkot district. A few poles came crashing on the houses. However, no casualties were reported. Power supply to the village has been disrupted. Badami town and surrounding areas received showers, along with thunder and lightning on Friday evening. A car parked near Uday Hostel in Dharwad was damaged after a massive branch of a tree fell on it. The twin cities witnessed strong winds for a while before skies opened. It poured for over one hour in both the cities. Many low-lying areas were waterlogged following a spell of heavy rain. Many parts of Vijayapura district, including city, Alamel, Talikote, experienced thundershowers. The pre-monsoon showers have left the grape growers in the district worried. They fear that a few more spells would damage the raisin. Kalaburagi city and parts of taluk also witnessed mild to moderate showers in the evening. The showers brought some respite from the surging temperatures, which have crossed 40 degrees-mark in the city. Meanwhile, the showers have brought smiles back on the faces of the coffee and arecanut growers in Kalasa and surrounding areas in Chikkamagaluru district. The region received rain, accompanied by strong winds, for more than half-an-hour in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/thundershowers-bring-welcome-relief-to-north-karnataka-972539.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka RTC workers strike enters third day, bus services hit||Bus services were hit in Karnataka for the third consecutive day on Friday, as the stalemate between the employees of the road transport corporations, who are on an indefinite strike on wage-related issues, and the state government continued. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appealed to the employees to resume work, even as he made it clear that implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission report was not possible. Also ruling out any talks, he asked employees not to be stubborn under someone's influence, and understand the financial difficulties of the government in the given situation. "I request the transport workers with folded hands don't be stubborn under someone's influence. Last year, despite COVID related issues when your corporations didn't have money to pay your salary, we have paid salary to you by utilising Rs 2,300 crore from the government's exchequer," Yediyurappa told reporters here. With the government on Thursday evening reiterating that it was not possible to fulfil their demand for the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission report, RTC employees decided to continue with the strike. As employees belonging to all the four transport corporations did not attend duty, buses continued to remain off the roads across the state, including Bengaluru, affecting daily commuters. Passengers travelling to and from distant areas and office-goers were the most affected. Private buses, mini buses, maxi cabs and other passenger transport vehicles were seen providing services to stranded passengers in different parts of the city and the state. However, the number of passengers using private buses continued to remain scarce in the city, as people were using their own vehicles or were seen using cabs, Metro and auto rickshaws, especially in the city areas, private operators said. Metro has increased the frequency of its services between 7 AM and 9 PM. Amid threats of ESMA and "no work no pay", very few RTC workers have returned to work and buses are said to be operating on some routes in the city along with police escort, sources said, adding there are similar reports from few other places in the state. The Chief Minister pointed out that 85 per cent of the government's revenue is spent on salary for government employees, various kinds of pensions and other non-plan expenditure, and only 15 per cent is available for developmental works. "...in such a situation, transport workers should not be stubborn, we have fulfilled 8 of your nine demands. If there are any issues with those eight demands, rectifying it and seeing to it that you get its benefits is our responsibility and I will do it," he said and asked them to cooperate and get back to work. Noting that the Transport department is for the service of the people, the Chief Minister asked employees to think whether it is fair to remain stubborn when people are facing difficulty. "Understand the financial situation of the government and cooperate by resuming bus services in the public interest," he said, as he clarified that the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission report for RTC workers was not possible for any reason, in the given situation. Transport Department Principal Secretary Anjum Parvez on Thursday had said as a temporary arrangement, employees who have retired in the last two years have been requested to come back to service. "They should be physically fit, medical and eye tests will be done." Also requesting employees to return to work, as the government has fulfilled eight of their nine demands and has decided for an eight per cent salary increase as an interim relief, he had said the per day loss because of the strike is about Rs 20 crore. RTCs that have been warning employees about continuing with the strike, have started taking action against trainee employees and are issuing notice for absence from work. As employees belonging to all the four transport corporations did not attend duty, buses continued to remain off the roads across the state, including Bengaluru, affecting daily commuters. Authorities have roped in private buses, minibuses, maxi cabs and other passenger transport vehicles to manage the crisis and help commuters. Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League which is spearheading the strike, has been maintaining that the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission report was their primary demand and it has to be considered, until then they will continue their strike. Responding to a question as to whether he will call for talks, Yediyurappa asked "whom should I talk to? Through you (media) publicly I'm requesting." "...there is nothing remaining for talks. What is there to talk after fulfilling eight out of nine demands. I'm not stubborn. As eight demands are fulfilled employees should come back and resume bus services, they should not fall prey listening to some people," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-rtc-workers-strike-enters-third-day-bus-services-hit-972255.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't be stubborn, CM Yediyurappa tells transport staff on strike||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday asked transport employees, who are on strike for the third consecutive day, to resume duty while asserting that the government will not meet their demand for wages as per the 6th Pay Commission.  “Don’t be stubborn by listening to some people,” Yediyurappa appealed with transport workers.  Government bus services remain largely suspended across the state, crippling life for many citizens who depend on them on a daily basis. Authorities have roped in private buses to tide over the crisis.  “Wages as per the 6th Pay Commission cannot happen in the current circumstances. When you know we won’t do it, why are you expecting something like this? It’s wrong,” he said.  The administration has met 8 out of 9 demands made by the transport employees, Yediyurappa pointed out. “What else is there to talk about? We’ve met eight demands. And, I’ll set right any shortcoming in the fulfilment of these eight demands.” Laying bare Karnataka’s financial situation, Yediyurappa said 85 per cent of the state's revenue went toward non-plan expenditure such as salaries and pensions. “Even Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said in the legislature session that the government had just 15 per cent funds for development. This being the case, transport employees shouldn’t be so rigid,” he said.   The CM also pointed out that the government pumped Rs 2,300 crore toward transport employees’ salaries in the pandemic-hit 2020.  “When people are suffering (during a pandemic), is the strike justified? Employees should ask themselves,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-be-stubborn-cm-yediyurappa-tells-transport-staff-on-strike-972258.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New mining policy by month-end, says Murugesh Nirani||The new state mining policy with focus on the requirements of the coastal districts will be released by the end of this month, Karnataka Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani has said. Addressing reporters here on Thursday, he said the draft of the policy will be sent to district-level officials, experts and journalists to elicit their views and suggestions. The minister said the Mines department has accepted the demand from stone quarry owners in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi for exemption from the explosive licence of the Directorate General of Mines Safety as they operated in less than five acres of land. Those operating in more than five acres of land have been asked to procure the licence within 90 days. The minister said Hatti gold mines, from where about 1.7 tonnes of gold are being obtained annually, will be renamed as Karnataka Hatti gold mines Limited on April 30 during the 'Gani Adalat in Bengaluru. The department is planning to sell mined gold in the form of coins with the state emblem on the one side and images of prominent personalities of the state on the other, he said. Nirani said the new mining policy proposes to offer sand to people building houses for less than Rs10 lakh at a nominal rate of Rs 100 per tonne excluding transportation cost, while others will have to buy sand at the prescribed rates after paying royalty to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-mining-policy-by-month-end-says-murugesh-nirani-972280.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RTCs try to push more buses on road as gap widens between govt, workers||By 2 pm in the afternoon, the four corporations together had run as many as 601 buses led by KSRTC which accounted for nearly 250 of them as a few more trainee employees returned to work. While the operation of 1,000 buses will not be able to meet the demands of the public which were earlier met by about 22,000 buses, officials hope it will encourage more employees to return to work. Maxicabs, private buses and auto rickshaws became the first preference of passengers who seemed to have got used to the absence of the state run buses. "We have got work to do and can't worry anymore about the lack of buses. I need to reach Anekal by evening to begin my work," said Marappa, a security guard. Meanwhile, the government ruled out the provision of 6th Pay Commission salary yet again, making the workers despondent. Earlier in the day, a driver from NWKRTC killed himself following the worry over delay in crediting his salary and warning of stringent action. Officials continued to press the workers to drop the strike and return to work. Notices were continued to be issued to trainees and probationary staffers. In NEKRTC, the workers got support from none other than their reporting officers. Shashank Babu, a supervisor, wrote to the chief technical officer of NEKRTC stating that he will continue to work but won't sign the attendance diary and requested for deduction in salary. Stating that it was his moral responsibility to support the colleagues, Babu wrote that it was his moral responsibility to support the strike though he will continue to work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rtcs-try-to-push-more-buses-on-road-as-gap-widens-between-govt-workers-972348.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Night shifts, health and essential services permitted during 10 days 'Corona Curfew' in Karnataka||A day ahead of the 10-day "corona curfew" coming in to effect in some district centres of the state, the Karnataka government said on Friday factories, companise and organisations that have night shifts can continue to do so, but employees have to report at the work place before 10 pm. It also has given exemptions to health and emergency services and also to vehicles providing essential services, among others. Following the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday had announced the curfew between 10 pm to 5 am in seven district centres of the state along with Manipal, from April 10 to 20, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19. An order signed by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, while prohibiting all kinds activities during curfew hours, has announced exemptions to certain essential services. Those given exemptions include those who have been suffering with health issues along with their attendants for obtaining health services. All other commercial activities have been prohibited, according to the order. Only vehicles providing essential services, those carrying freight, home delivery, E-commerce and empty vehicles have been allowed to operate during the curfew hours, it said. Also travelling to distant places by bus, train and aeroplanes have been allowed, it said, adding that passengers are allowed to travel by auto, cabs and other modes from their house to bus or train stations or airport and vice versa on the basis of their official tickets. Directing officials concerned to strictly implement the order, it further said action will be taken under the the Disaster Management Act 2005, IPC and other acts against those found violating it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/night-shifts-health-and-essential-services-permitted-during-10-days-corona-curfew-in-karnataka-972415.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cuts districts’ powers to centralise Covid-19 decisions||The withdrawal of the advisory came soon after Principal Secretary (Revenue) and Karnataka Disaster Management Authority’s member-secretary N Manjunatha Prasad issued a circular in which he underlined that only the chief secretary can sign off on directions related to Covid-19.  This is a significant departure from how decisions were made during the first wave of the pandemic last year when Deputy Commissioners were free to take measures they saw fit to contain Covid-19 in their districts.  According to the circular, all decisions on Covid-19 containment, including curbs on movement of people and operation of activities, will be routed through the disaster management wing of the Revenue Department and signed off only by the chief secretary, who also heads the state’s Disaster Management Authority. This, the circular stated, was to ensure “uniformity and steadiness” in containing the spread of Covid-19 and in line with the system being followed by the Centre.  Any decision will need the Chief Minister’s approval, the circular stated. “No minister or official can issue statements on imposing new restrictions, but can only explain details of orders already issued,” the circular said, adding that some district administrations were acting in contravention of this norm.  This means DCs, heads of departments and even the BBMP cannot take decisions at their level. However, they can propose measures to the government.  While Sindhuri withdrew the advisory acknowledging that her power had been curtailed. She stated that she would propose to the government that a Covid-19 negative report should be insisted on by those entering Mysuru from Bengaluru.   However, her order requiring citizens to carry a Covid-19 negative report to visit tourist places, theatres, recreation clubs and other crowded places has not been rolled back. This order is to come into effect from April 10 for ten days. An officer confirmed that the order had not been withdrawn and that a final call will be taken after consulting higher-ups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cuts-districts-powers-to-centralise-covid-19-decisions-972455.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||It's been 70 days at home for 7,000 MBBS doctors awaiting rural postings amidst second Covid-19 wave||A Covid ward requires three to four times more staff than a general ward due to the shifts required of staff and medical tests required to be done. At a time when the State is struggling to get a hold of the pandemic with limited manpower, as many as 7,000 MBBS doctors in Karnataka who have finished their one year internship are at home awaiting rural postings. They completed their internship in January. Generally after completion of internship, they visit the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) and request for an NOC (no-objection certificate) for a Karnataka Medical Council registration and release of original documents from the college. However, after more than two months, they're awaiting the health department to post them to rural areas. Dr PG Girish, Director of Medical Education, said, "Health department has to post them. The DME has no role to play. The court has exempted students who joined before July 2015, all private and management quota students. We have forwarded a series of letters from students to the health department saying they're waiting, asking them to post them in PHCs, taluk hospitals or any public health institute." Abdul Khadar, one of these doctors who is awaiting rural posting told DH, "This year when we went to DME and requested for NOC, they said they will not issue NOC and that we must do compulsory rural service for one year. They said they will forward our request to the health department. We are not refusing to do rural service, we are ready for it. But the Government is delaying it. We are wasting our precious time. It's emotionally very frustrating." "Even after the High court order the department is not allotting us to primary health centres (PHCs). If they delay this further, we may face consequences during our admission to postgraduate courses (PG) next year. PG courses will begin in April and we will be stuck in PHCs. As many as 7,000 doctors have been made unemployed by the Government for more than 70 days," he added. Shilpa G, who studied at and finished her one-year internship from Bengaluru's ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar, told DH there is still confusion among students about rural service due to a series of contradictory court orders after March 15. "By now, we could have completed two months of rural service," she said. Health Commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra and Director Dr Omprakash Patil did not respond to calls and messages from DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/its-been-70-days-at-home-for-7000-mbbs-doctors-awaiting-rural-postings-amidst-second-covid-19-wave-972459.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 7,955 new Covid-19 cases, 46 deaths||Karnataka logged 7,955 new Covid-19 cases and 46 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 10.48 lakh and the toll to 12,813, on Friday. Out of the 7,955 fresh cases reported on Friday, 5,576 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 29 of the 46 deaths reported on Friday. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu told DH, “The projections say that there will be an increase day-by-day. There will be a lag time between the surge in cases and deaths. Based on Karnataka’s data, it will be 10 to 17 days. The deaths we’re seeing now is a result of cases we saw two weeks ago. The current surge will reflect in deaths two weeks later.” “The reason is once people get infected, they get admitted when they develop severe illness. They’re put on oxygen or in an ICU. The death generally occurs between 14 and 17 days. Those deaths correspond to the cases that are surging now,” he said adding that the lag between swab collection and getting test reports has been reduced at the most to two or three days in some places. The state government has called for an emergency meeting of the State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee and the Vision Group. “Bengaluru till midnight yesterday (Thursday) reported 6,034 cases. We are much ahead of the conservative projections made. Based on the models we have been studying, the speed of transmission is much higher than the conservative estimates,” he added. Out of 58,084 active cases, 378 are in intensive care units. The day also saw 3,220 patients getting discharged after recovery. Cumulatively, 10,48,085 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 9,77,169 discharges. Mysuru reported five deaths, Belagavi and Kalaburagi two each while Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Bidar, Chikkaballapur, Chitradurga, Dharwad, Mandya and Uttara Kannada recorded one death each. On Friday, Mysuru accounted for 283 fresh infections, Kalaburagi 211, Bidar 186, and Hassan 153. A total of over 2,24,58,762 samples, including Friday’s 1,35,163, have been tested so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-7955-new-covid-19-cases-46-deaths-972470.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt bans RTC workers' strike, refers wage dispute to tribunal||The state government on Friday issued an order "banning" the strike called by the workers of four road transport corporations (RTCs) and referred their demand to the Industry Tribunal, even as the workers said the strike will continue on Saturday. The order from the Labour Department, which came late in the evening, noted that the state government on January 22 had declared KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC as essential service providers. The order took note of the Labour Commissioner's report that though the workers had given notice to begin strike from April 7, the actual strike began a day earlier, on April 6. It noted the strike violated the rule that such a move should not be made at a time negotiation proceedings were underway under Section 22(1)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. "In view of the inconvenience caused to the public and the violation of the provisions of the Dispute Act. The Government of Karnataka is banning the strike by the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League with immediate effect," it said. 6 months to settle dispute In a separate order, the Labour Department referred said the dispute between the League and the managements of the four RTCs has been referred to Industrial Tribunal, Bengaluru, which has been directed to decide two key matters in six months. The tribunal will first decide on whether the demand for salary on par with the 6th Pay Commission was justified. Secondly, whether the strike which began from the afternoon of April 6, is justified. 'The strike will continue' The leader of RTC workers on Friday night said they will continue the strike on Saturday regardless of the government order banning the strike and referring the wage dispute to the Industrial Tribunal. Asked about the two government orders, president of Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League R Chandrashekhar said, "We have given the notice as per the rule and not done anything in violation. It's a strategy by the government which anyway controls all departments. The strike will continue," he said. About the referring of the wage dispute to the Industrial Tribunal, he said the strikers workers will not budge until the government issues an order providing the 6th Pay commission salary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-bans-rtc-workers-strike-refers-wage-dispute-to-tribunal-972482.html
09-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BMS Trust served with notice on 'seat blocking'||The BMS Educational Trust in Bengaluru has been served with a notice by the Admission Overseeing Committee (AOC) over the suspected seat-blocking during admission to its engineering colleges. The notice by Justice B Manohar, a retired High Court judge and chairperson of the AOC was issued following several complaints received from the public. The notice, accessed by DH is issued on April 7 to the member secretary of the BMS Educational Trust. According to the initial observation by the AOC, the BMS College of Engineering (BMSCE) and BMS Institute of Technology (BMSIT) have been allegedly involved in the suspected seat blocking. The AOC in its notice also referred to the communication sent by the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (Comed-K) which stated, “In both the institutions the number of not reported cases is alarmingly high over the last three years in prime branches. Before counseling this year, these institutions were cautioned about this observation of the previous two years and despite the same, the same pattern is observed this year also. It is around 55% in BMSCE and 44% in BMSIT this year." Documents available with DH showed that under Comed-K this year, in BMSCE out of the 277 allotted seats, 152 candidates did not report and the numbers were 161 and 92 during the previous academic year. Similarly, in BMSIT, this year, out of the 180 allotted seats, as many as 79 students did not report to the college for admission. “On verification of allotment made by the KEA, 18 students selected for the prime branches were not reported and seven students have canceled the admissions after the casual round in respect of BMSCE and six students did not report and one student canceled the admission at BMSIT,” the notice said. The committee has observed that these unreported candidates seats have been filled by the management under the management seats without informing the selecting authorities and without following the merit and transparency. "There is a lot of demand for the engineering seats in and around Bengaluru city. It is very difficult to believe that such a number if students selected by the selecting authorities to the prime branches of engineering were not reported to the colleges. The records produced by Comed-K clearly disclosed that the college authorities demanding for refund of the fee paid by the unreported students," the notice says. Response by the Trust Seeking clarification on the issue DH reached out to donor trustee Dr Ragini Narayan. She asked to get in touch with Dr Murali Krishna, Director of the College. Dr Krishna clarified that he has nothing to do with the admission procedure. The Admission Committee Chairperson of the Trust Dayanand Pai was not available for comments after repeated calls and text messages. However, M Madan Gopal, IAS (retired) and Trustee at BMS Educational Trust and also a member of the admission committee said, "We cannot fill the surrendered seats from CET. If we have done, then it is illegal. The Comed-K seats will be surrendered every year and those seats will be filled at the management level. If there are any allegations of irregularities, let there be an inquiry conducted.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bms-trust-served-with-notice-on-seat-blocking-972568.html
09-04-2021||West||Ajit Pawar refutes charges made against him by Vaze in letter||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said the allegations made by suspended police officer Sachin Vaze against him in a letter were completely false and he had neither met the cop nor spoken to him ever. Pawar called for an inquiry into the allegations to make things crystal clear. His remarks come a day after Vaze claimed in his letter that he was approached by one Darshan Ghodawat, who introduced himself as a "very close circle person" of junior Pawar, and insisted him (Vaze) to collect a monthly amount of Rs 100 crore from illegal gutka sellers. "I laughed when I saw my name in the letter. I never met him (Vaze), nor I have spoken to him ever. Everyone knows my strict working style...So conduct an inquiry," Pawar told reporters. "Let there be an inquiry and there will be 'doodh ka dhoodh, pani ka pani' (things will become crystal clear)," he said, adding that the allegations made in the letter were completely false. He was speaking on the sidelines of campaigning for the upcoming bypoll for the Pandharpur-Mangalvedha assembly constituency. Vaze, who was reinstated in the police force last year, made the sensational claim in a letter which he tried to submit before a special NIA court in Mumbai on Wednesday. However, special judge PR Sitre refused to take his letter on record. Vaze, an accused in the case of an explosives-laden car found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai and the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran, is currently in the National Investigation Agency's custody. Pawar added that an attempt to destabilise the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was on. "For the last three days, it has been going on that another wicket will fall (another minister will resign). I do not understand how these people can know such things in advance," he said. When asked about the blame game that is going on between Centre and the state over the supply of COVID-19 vaccines, Pawar said the state is not getting enough number of vaccines. "In haste, the Centre sent vaccines to other countries...I can understand that the neighbourly relations need to be maintained with other countries, but at the same time, the Centre should fulfil the states' requirement," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ajit-pawar-refutes-charges-made-against-him-by-vaze-in-letter-972139.html
09-04-2021||West||CBI will now expose extortion racket: Fadnavis on SC ruling||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said that with the Supreme Court rejecting former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's plea against the Bombay High Court order, the CBI will now investigate and expose the "extortion racket". In a setback to the Uddhav Thackeray-led-Maharashtra government and former minister Deshmukh, the Supreme Court Thursday dismissed their pleas challenging the Bombay High Court order directing a CBI probe into allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Speaking to reporters in Nagpur, Fadnavis said, "The Bombay High Court had very clearly said that the allegations are such that the minister is under suspicion and this being a high profile case should be investigated by the CBI." "There was no point of him (Deshmukh) going to the SC, but he approached it nonetheless and the decision by the top court has given a befitting reply to the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders, who were commenting on this issue," he said. "After the decision, the CBI will investigate this case and expose this extortion racket," he added. Singh, in his plea filed on March 25, had sought a CBI probe against Deshmukh who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. Deshmukh has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-will-now-expose-extortion-racket-fadnavis-on-sc-ruling-972159.html
09-04-2021||West||Maharashtra not lagging in Covid-19 fight, Uddhav Thackeray tells PM Modi at meet||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state was not lagging behind in the fight against Covid-19, and urged him to affirm that there should be no politics in this effort. He was speaking during the video-conference meeting with Modi to review the coronavirus situation in the country. His statement comes a day after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan made a stinging attack on the Maharashtra government, saying that it had "singularly bogged down" the entire country's effort to fight the virus. A statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said that Thackeray requested the prime minister to address the leaders of all political parties, asking them to refrain from indulging in politics on the issue. He said Maharashtra has increased the number of daily tests and requested for additional vaccine doses. He also sought PM's help in procuring oxygen and ventilators from other states. Thackeray urged Modi to approve the proposal of Haffkine Institute to manufacture anti-coronavirus vaccine. During the meeting, union health secretary expressed satisfaction that out of the total tests conducted, 71 per cent were RT-PCR tests and 28 per cent rapid antigen tests, and requested the numbers to be increased, the statement said. Thackeray said the state had succeeded in keeping the virus in check, but the grampanchayat elections, marriage events resulted in the spread of the virus. There was a sudden spike in Vidarbha and the spread was rapid. There was a virus mutation when the situation was being normalised. He added that the state government aims to complete vaccination of 1.77 crore population in the priority list, for which 40 lakh vaccine doses are required per week. The state has so far received 1,06,23,500 doses, out of which 92 lakh to 95 lakh have been administered. But the stocks have dried up and many vaccine centres have been shut. He said that the Centre has assured supply of 17.43 lakh doses after April 15, but then there would be interruption in the vaccine drive. He reiterated the demand for lowering the vaccination age limit to 25 years. Thackeray also sought the supply of anti-viral drug remdesivir, oxygen and ventilators. He said that in the last three days, over two lakh tests were conducted daily, out of which 1.25 lakh were RT- PCR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-not-lagging-in-covid-19-fight-uddhav-thackeray-tells-pm-modi-at-meet-972224.html
09-04-2021||West||Man caught with 12 Remdesivir injections in Mumbai||A 22-year-man was caught with a dozen 12 vials of Remdesivir, a key medicine in the treatment of coronavirus, police said on Friday. The man, Sarfaraz Hussain, was caught by the Crime Branch with the injections at Andheri (East) on Thursday evening, an official said. According to the official, the Crime Branch laid a trap after getting information about the man trying to sell the anti-viral drug in the black market. During a search, the Crime Branch found at least 12 vials of Remdesivir in his possession, adding it was not yet known whom he was going to deliver the seized injections to. With Maharashtra witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases, Remdesivir injections are in high demand in the state. On Thursday, the Maharashtra government capped the price of Remdesivir between Rs 1,100 and Rs 1,400 per vial and warned against its hoarding and black marketing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-caught-with-12-remdesivir-injections-in-mumbai-972240.html
09-04-2021||West||State wastage lesser than half of national average: Rajesh Tope contests Centre's vaccine wastage claim||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday rejected the Centre's claim that more than five lakh vaccine doses were wasted in the state, the worst hit by Covid-19 in the country. Tope contested the figure put out by Union Minister Prakash Javadekar on vaccine wastage, saying it was not correct. "Wastage quoted is actually national average wastage percentage. State wastage is lesser than half of the national average wastage percentage," Tope tweeted. On Thursday, Javadekar had said the Maharashtra government should not play politics over vaccination. Giving figures, Javadekar had said the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses supplied to the state till date was 1,06,19,190. "Theconsumptionwas 90,53,523 (of which 6% per cent wastage - over 5 lakh), Vaccine in pipeline - 7,43,280 andDosage available - nearly 23 lakhs," the Union Minister had tweeted. Maharashtra Govt should not play politics over vaccination. Here are the facts: Total number of COVID vaccine supplied to State till date- 1,06,19,190 ;Consumption - 90,53,523 (of which 6% wastage - over 5L)Vaccine in pipeline - 7,43,280. Dosage available - nearly 23 lakhs Maharashtra, reeling under a spurt in Covid-19 cases, has sought more vaccine supplies from the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/state-wastage-lesser-than-half-of-national-average-rajesh-tope-contests-centres-vaccine-wastage-claim-972252.html
09-04-2021||West||Mumbai reels under severe Covid-19 vaccine shortage||Serpentine queues were witnessed, confusion and chaos prevailed and tempers ran high amid the sweeping second wave of Covid-19 as Mumbai, the financial hub of India and several urban towns reeled under severe shortage of vaccine on Friday. The entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) is suffering from vaccine shortage. Other worst-affected areas and hotspots like the cultural capital of Pune, the pilgrimage town of Nashik and the winter capital of Nagpur are also seeing the same trend. “I visited a vaccination centre in the morning but saw a long queue. Only 150 persons were taken in and the rest were given tokens… I could get a token for Monday after waiting for two to three hours,” said M K Chakraborty, a resident of Vasai. Mumbai’s biggest vaccination centre—the Jumbo Field Hhospital at the Bandra-Kurla Complex has been shut temporarily. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been trying hard to convince people that they have run out of stocks. "We have 160 doses left. We will be giving that to people as per rule… those above 45 years of age and frontline workers," said Dr Rajesh Dere, the dean of the field hospital. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said that she has been told that by evening some stocks would come from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. "There are several vaccination centres that have zero vaccines now and vaccination has stopped there... I have come to know that some 76,000 to one lakh doses are about to reach Mumbai by today but I don't have any official info on this,” she said. In Mumbai, 70-odd vaccination centres of the 120 total have run out of vaccines. The BMC, in its Twitter handle, said: “Dear Mumbaikars. Some of the vaccination centres are short of vaccines due to the non-receipt of stocks from the Govt of India but all centres should be up and vaccinating soon. We regret the inconvenience and we shall keep you updated.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-reels-under-severe-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-972261.html
09-04-2021||West||Flying squads fanned out to check Remdesivir stock in Mumbai||Concerned over illegal stocking and black-marketing of broad-spectrum antiviral drug Remdesivir, flying squads have been fanned out across the state for a crackdown. Over the last 24 hours, there have been raids by teams of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and police at several places including the financial capital of Mumbai. During the raids, over 100 vials of Remdesivir – used for the treatment of Covid-19 – have been seized. State's Public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope, food and drug administration minister Rajendra Shingne and medical education minister Amit Deshmukh are constantly reviewing the situation. “We have stocks for seven to eight days in government hospitals. We will release it for private hospitals through district collectors… we will not allow a panic situation to be created,” Dr Shingne said on Friday.  He also said that over the last two weeks more than four rounds of meetings have been held with pharma companies and efforts are on to cap the price of Remdesivir Between Rs 1,100 and Rs 1,400.   Representatives of Cipla, Zydus Cadila, Hetero, MylanJubilant, Dr Reddy’s, Sun Pharma, representatives of Indian Pharmaceuticals Association and officials of FDA attended the meeting. “The MRP has to be reduced to counter illegal hoarding and make it affordable,” Dr Shingne said.  “Nearly 10 to 20 per cent of Remdesivir produced in India is also exported… we are also requesting them that, if exports are not covered under specific clauses, it can be deferred,” he said.  On the issue of irrational use of Remdesivir, he said: “We are not saying that all doctors are prescribing Remdesivir, but, we have across instances when Remdesivir is being given as soon as a patient is being brought in hospitals.”  Dr Shingne said that the prescription should be done as per the protocols and guidelines of the Covid-19 Task Force headed by Dr Sanjay Oak and another committee headed by Dr Sudhakar Shinde, the chief executive officer of Mahatma JyotibaPhule Jan Aarogya Yojana.   “We have to just follow the protocols,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/flying-squads-fanned-out-to-check-remdesivir-stock-in-mumbai-972263.html
09-04-2021||West||Central Railway stops sale of platform tickets in six railway stations in Mumbai||The Central Railway has stopped the sale of platform tickets at its six long-distance train stations, including Mumbai CSMT, from immediate effect to avoid unnecessary rush in view of Covid-19, an official said on Friday. Central Railway chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said besides Mumbai CSMT, they have stopped issuing platform tickets at LTT, Kalyan, Thane, Dadar and Panvel stations from where long-distance trains operate. He said the decision has been taken to avoid unnecessary rush at these stations. "The decision has been taken to avoid unnecessary crowding and ensuring social distancing at stations during the current summer rush," Sutar said. Earlier last month, the Central Railway had increased the price of platform tickets to Rs 50 from 10 at some key stations in Maharashtra to avoid crowding in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/central-railway-stops-sale-of-platform-tickets-in-six-railway-stations-in-mumbai-972281.html
09-04-2021||West||Fire engulfs school building in Ahmedabad; 3 workers rescued||Three workers were rescued by the fire brigade after a major blaze engulfed a six-storey school building in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city on Friday, officials said. Initially, locals thought three students were trapped on the terrace of the Ankur International School in the Naroda area after the building was engulfed in flames and resultant smoke. However, the school management informed fire brigade officials that the trapped persons were carpenters who were called there for furniture work. The fire, which started at around 11 am, was brought control after one-and-half hour-long operation involving 20 fire tenders, said fire officer Mithun Mistry. "The fire started on the ground floor and engulfed some upper floors quickly. The fire has been brought under control. "Three workers, who were trapped on the terrace, were rescued by our team and brought down using the main staircase," said Mistry. In view of the coronavirus situation, the school was shut and no student was present in the building, he said. "Locals thought three students had got trapped. However, they were workers engaged in furniture work. "The fire might have started in the wood polishing chemical which was kept on the ground floor along with plywood sheets. Either an electrical short-circuit or a burning cigarette triggered the fire," said Mistry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-engulfs-school-building-in-ahmedabad-3-workers-rescued-972298.html
09-04-2021||West||Mumbai court dismisses cop's defamation plea against Arnab on SSR case||A sessions court in Mumbai has dismissed a criminal defamation complaint filed by a Mumbai police officer against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over certain claims made during the coverage of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The plea, by Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abhishek Trimukhe, was dismissed by the court on April 1, but a detailed order was made available on Thursday. Trimukhe's complaint had also named ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which owns Republic Media Network, and Goswami's wife, who is a director in the company. The complainant had alleged that there were some tweets by Goswami and others which misrepresented him. Additional sessions judge Uday Padwad found that Trimukhe's complaint was not in conformity with the mandatory requirement of section199(2)of the CrPC for the court to take cognisance. As per provisions of 199(2) of the CrPC, any offence falling under Chapter XXI of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) is alleged to have been committed against a public servant in connection with the discharge of his public functions, a court of session may take cognisance of such offence upon a written complaint by a public prosecutor. Upon perusal of the complaint submissions made before the court, the judge noted the complaint, in this case, was filed by the DCP himself and not through a public prosecutor. The judge, however, said the complainant can take his grievances to a magistrate court. "It is not that the aggrieved public servant against whom the said offence is alleged to have been committed has no forum to take his grievances to. He has the remedy to make a complaint before the competent magistrate," the court said. "His filing of the complaint even through the public prosecutor, however, would not confer any jurisdiction on this court to take cognisance of the alleged offence," it added. The DCP had filed the complaint in February under Indian Penal Code sections 499, 500 (defamation) and 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory). Goswami made "grossly false", "malicious" and "defamatory" statements during the coverage of actor Rajput's death in June last year, the police officer had claimed. The 34-year-old Bollywood actor was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra. These defamatory statements were telecast on the channel, Republic Bharat, during a discussion about phone records of actor Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput's girlfriend, the complaint said. "The said defamatory attacks have been made with a singular view of assassinating his (Trimukhe's) official character and thereby...maliciously and deliberately causing undue humiliation of the Mumbai Police Department," the complaint had said. Goswami also tweeted the contents of the telecast to a larger audience, the complaint said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-court-dismisses-cops-defamation-plea-against-arnab-on-ssr-case-972303.html
09-04-2021||West||High Court offers-rape accused journalist interim protection deal||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted interim protection from arrest to Mumbai-based television journalist in a rape case provided he joins the police investigation. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notices and sought responses of the Delhi Police and the complainant woman on journalist Varun Hiremath's plea seeking anticipatory bail in the case. "Petitioner be not arrested till the next date of hearing subject to him joining the investigation as and when directed," the high court said. It listed the matter for further hearing on April 16. Hiremath has approached the high court after his earlier anticipatory bail plea was dismissed by a trial court here in March. The 22-year-old woman in her complaint alleged she was raped by Hiremath at a five-star hotel in Chanakyapuri on February 20. The counsel for the 28-year-old man claimed before the court that that there had been a history of previous sexual relationship between the accused and the complainant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/high-court-offers-rape-accused-journalist-interim-protection-deal-972305.html
09-04-2021||West||Only passengers with confirmed tickets allowed to board long-distance trains: Western Railway GM||As Maharashtra undergoes a nearly mini-lockdown during April to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave, the Mumbai-headquartered Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) clarified that only confirmed passengers would be allowed to board long-distance trains. Some old videos showing crowds at various stations and trains were making rounds in social media – which prompted the Ministry of Railways and Press Information Bureau to clarify that these are of previous year. Last year, the CR and WR, saw extreme rush as lakhs of migrant workers in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) left for their home states, particularly in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand. CR general manager Sanjeev Mittal and WR general manager Alok Kansal, addressing separate news conferences, said that people are being advised not to believe in rumours. “The railways run more trains in summer for the convenience of passengers and adequate tickets are available as only passengers having confirmed tickets are being permitted to board the trains,” said Mittal. “Only authorized confirmed passengers are allowed to board long-distance trains,” added Kansal. The passengers have been advised to adhere to all norms, SOPs related to Covid-19 during the boarding, travel and at destination. The railway administration has decided to stop issuing platform tickets with immediate effect at various MMR stations like Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Kalyan, Thane, Dadar, Panvel, Mumbai Central, Bandra, Borivali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/only-passengers-with-confirmed-tickets-allowed-to-board-long-distance-trains-western-railway-gm-972310.html
09-04-2021||West||CBI quizzes Vaze for 3rd day on Deshmukh corruption allegations||The CBI recorded the statement of suspended API Sachin Vaze for a third consecutive day on Friday in connection with the corruption allegations levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, an official said. A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is in Mumbai to conduct a preliminary enquiry (PE) into the allegations, on Friday morning went to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) office here and recorded the statement of Vaze, the official said. The suspended assistant police inspector (API) is in the custody of NIA, which is probing the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, 'Antilia', in south Mumbai on February 25. Vaze is also under the scanner for the alleged murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiren, who was in possession of the SUV. Armed with an order of a special NIA court here, the CBI has been questioning Vaze. Following an order of the Bombay High Court, the CBI on Tuesday registered a case to probe the allegations against Deshmukh. Singh was shifted from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to the Home Guards department on March 17. Singh later filed a petition in the HC seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh, alleging the NCP leader had asked Vaze and other police officers to extort Rs 100 crore from restaurants and bars in Mumbai. Deshmukh, who has rejected the allegations levelled against him, resigned from the cabinet on April 5 after the HC order. The CBI team recorded the statement of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Enforcement) Raju Bhujbal on Thursday night in connection with the allegations. Singh, in a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, had mentioned the names of Bhujbal, ACP Sanjay Patil and Vaze, while making the allegations against Deshmukh. Earlier, the CBI had also recorded the statements of Singh, ACP Sanjay Patil and advocate Jayshree Patil. The HC had ordered the CBI probe against Deshmukh on a criminal writ petition filed by advocate Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-quizzes-vaze-for-3rd-day-on-deshmukh-corruption-allegations-972320.html
09-04-2021||West||Maharashtra leads vaccination drive with highest inoculations among all states||Leading the inoculation drive in the country, Maharashtra has vaccinated the highest number of beneficiaries -- 93,45,052 -- against Covid-19 so far, the state health department said on Friday. The statewide data for vaccination, which started on January 16 in Maharashtra as part of a nationwide drive, is till April 8, the department said in a statement.  The statement said that 10,41,053 healthcare workers, whose vaccination started in the first phase, have got their first dose, while 5,00,899 such professionals have received the second and final shot. As many as 9,22,947 frontline workers have got the first dose of the vaccine and 3,00,117 the second dose, it said. A total of 64,77,277 citizens aged above 45 have got the first dose and 1,02,759 people in the same age group have been administered the second shot, the statement said. On April 8 alone, as many as 3,54,027 beneficiaries across priority groups were vaccinated, the department said. The vaccination drive is being conducted at 3,647 centres across the state, which has recorded the maximum number of coronavirus cases in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-leads-vaccination-drive-with-highest-inoculations-among-all-states-972344.html
09-04-2021||West||Maharashtra film body bans crowd shooting sequences in fresh SOP amid rising Covid-19 cases||The Federation of Western India Cine Employees (FWICE) has formed a "monitoring team" to ensure that all Covid-19 shooting guidelines -- including safety precautions on set, avoiding filming of crowd sequences-- are strictly followed amid the surge in coronavirus cases in Maharashtra. The film and TV industry has been badly hit due to the rising Covid-19 cases in the state and particularly the capital city. Several on-ground productions like "Ram Setu", "Gangubai Kathiawadi" and Dharma Productions-backed "Mr Lele" halted shoots after their leading actors, including Akshay Kumar, Alia Bhatt, Vicky Kaushal and Bhumi Pednekar tested positive for coronavirus. Apart from the actors, as many as 45 members of Kumar's "Ram Setu" have also tested positive for the novel coronavirus. According to a statement from the FWICE on Friday, the office-bearers had a meeting with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and assured him that the industry will be "responsible" in following the SOPs (Standard Operating Procedure). "FWICE in coordination with experts has laid down guidelines which all people involved in pre-production, shooting and post-production work will have to adhere to. These guidelines as of now will be applicable till April 30," the statement read. According to the new guidelines, shooting of crowd sequences and songs with dancers in large numbers will not be allowed. "Wearing of masks and continuous sanitization are compulsory on the sets, in production offices, and in post-production studios. "An FWICE monitoring team has been constituted to visit sets and post-production studios regularly to check that all guidelines are being followed. Any individual or production unit flouting the rules or creating any kind of hindrance in the adherence of the guidelines will face disciplinary action," the statement read. The Maharashtra government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown in the state from 8 pm on Friday to 7 am on Monday in a bid to curb the growing numbers of Covid-19 cases. "Shooting, setting, pre-production activities should be avoided during this period (of weekend lockdown). It is permissible to shoot from Monday to Friday. All members are hereby advised to schedule their shootings as per the above permissible days," the statement added. The statement was signed by B N Tiwari, FWICE President, Ashok Dubey, General Secretary, Gangeshwar Srivastav, Treasurer and chief advisors Sharad Shelar and filmmaker Ashok Pandit. Maharashtra reported 56,286 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking its caseload to 32,29,547. Mumbai, meanwhile, saw a single-day spike of 8,938 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-film-body-bans-crowd-shooting-sequences-in-fresh-sop-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-972354.html
09-04-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Court sends Sachin Vaze to judicial custody||After nearly 40 days of interrogation, a special NIA court in Mumbai on Friday sent suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to judicial custody till April 23. The NIA had arrested Vaze on March 13, in connection with the planting of Scorpio laden with gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani. On March 24, a special court in Thane ordered the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) to hand over the case of the murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren to the NIA – as the Ministry of Home Affairs asked the federal agency to take over the case. During the hearing, special NIA judge PR Sitre sent Vaze to judicial custody after the central agency did not press for custodial interrogation. Earlier this week, two other accused in the case – Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed police constable and Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie, were sent to judicial remand. During the course of investigations, the NIA took Vaze to multiple locations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and seized 8 high-end cars and SUVs and a bike. It also recovered the electronic gadgets that he had dumped in the Mithi river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-court-sends-sachin-vaze-to-judicial-custody-972363.html
09-04-2021||West||McDonald's India to operate 24/7 for contactless delivery in Mumbai||Westlife Development, which operates McDonald's restaurants in southern and western region in India, on Friday said the quick service brand's restaurants will operate 24/7 for contactless delivery from select stores in Mumbai. "In wake of the new restrictions announced to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra, Westlife Development Ltd owned McDonald's restaurants will operate 24/7 for contactless McDelivery from select stores in Mumbai," Westlife Development said in a regulatory filing. The brand will further be doubling up on its convenience channels of McDelivery, takeaway and On-the-Go as the state has announced new set of restrictions to arrest the mounting Covid-19 cases, the company added. Saurabh Kalra, Chief Operating Officer, McDonald's India West and South said “We have been able to cater to our customers' demand through our omni-channel strategy making McDonald's food available for consumers wherever, whenever and however they want.” Westlife Development recently announced vaccination cover for all its 10,000 employees which includes both its corporate office employees as well as the McDonald's restaurant staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mcdonalds-india-to-operate-24/7-for-contactless-delivery-in-mumbai-972375.html
09-04-2021||West||Covid-19 surge: MPSC exam scheduled for April 11 postponed||The Uddhav Thackeray government on Friday postponed the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination scheduled for April 11 in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. The decision was taken in an online meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and attended by cabinet ministers, Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Pravin Darekar, MNS chief Raj Thackeray and senior officials. A statement from the chief minister's office (CMO) said the age mentioned by candidates in the form will be considered whenever the exam is held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-surge-mpsc-exam-scheduled-for-april-11-postponed-972409.html
09-04-2021||West||Maharashtra to decide on full lockdown at all-party meeting||Amid the worsening Covid-19 pandemic situation in Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has convened an all-party meeting to discuss the fallout of the second wave and a possible total lockdown. Maharashtra has been reporting an average of over 55,000-plus cases daily for nearly a week now. The night curfew, prohibitory orders during the day does not seem to be yielding desired results and further strengthening of the restrictions. The two issues before the government are conducting the 10th and 12th board examinations in Maharashtra and whether to impose restrictions on travel in local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The Maharashtra Public Service Commission – scheduled for April 11 - has been postponed due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s suggestions of the April 11-14 ‘Tika Utsav’ would also be discussed during the meeting. Official confirmation of the all-party meeting is awaited. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil, when asked, said that the Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar would attend the meeting. Besides the lockdown, other issues that would figure include the emerging situation and projections, Covid-19 vaccination, shortage of vaccine, Remdesivir injections, oxygen and pressure on health infrastructure would be discussed. “I personally feel that a three-week lockdown may be necessary, however, it is my opinion,” state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said. State public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope too indicated a lockdown. “We are heading towards a lockdown but I hope that we don't have to go for one. Before that, if we contain the virus, we will be happy, satisfied and contented. We are hoping for the best," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-decide-on-full-lockdown-at-all-party-meeting-972414.html
09-04-2021||West||Lockdown can be imposed in Maharashtra if govt can't cope with Covid-19 surge: Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope has said that a "complete lockdown" of two to three weeks is required in the state to improve the health infrastructure in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, and added that such a step could be taken if the government is unable to cope with the situation. He, however, expressed hope that with the curbs in place at present, the government would be able to tame the surge. Tope also admitted that the "chalta hai" (laidback) attitude had creeped in after the government flattened the infection curve. "We would need a complete lockdown for 15 days to three weeks even though I am not in favour of that immediately. If hospitals are overwhelmed, if there is a shortage of medicines and if the government is unable to cope with the growing number of patients then such a step can be taken," Tope told NDTV. Lockdown is required to ramp up the health infrastructure, he said. "I hope we can contain the virus with the present curbs. We will be happy and content. We are hoping for the best," he said. Tope said the state government was concerned over the spike in cases and need hand-holding by the Centre. He rejected the allegations of mismanagement on the part of the state government, saying that the numbers were rising because it was not hiding anything. "We have followed the principle of rigorous testing, tracing and treatment," he said. "The 'chalta hai' attitude did creep in after the government was able to flatten the curve and opened up several activities. We thought there would be no second surge," he said. Tope also rejected the criticism of the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan against the state government, saying that the state had adhered to all the protocols laid down by the Centre. He reiterated there was discrimination against the state in the allotment of vaccines. "Recently we were given seven lakh doses and after we pursued our demand for more, we were given ten lakh additional doses," he said. So far, Maharashtra has got 1.04 crore vaccine doses and we have sought 40 lakh per week so that we can expedite the daily vaccinations to six lakh per day, he said. In Mumbai, out of 120 centres, 70 were shut since there was no stock and the situation was embarrassing, the minister said. "We sought weekly stock of 40 lakh vaccines so that we get time to transport them to different parts of the state," he said. Maharashtra reported 56,286 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, which took its caseload to 32,29,547, while on Wednesday it had recorded the highest daily count of 59,907 cases. Last Sunday, the state government announced a weekend lockdown and a number of strict restrictions till April 30, including a night curfew and prohibitory orders during the day time to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-can-be-imposed-in-maharashtra-if-govt-cant-cope-with-covid-19-surge-rajesh-tope-972425.html
09-04-2021||West||Maharashtra politicos getting vaccinated at home: HC warns of action||Coming down heavily on some political leaders in Maharashtra receiving the Covid-19 vaccine at their residences, the Bombay High Court on Friday said if the prime minister and president of the country can go to hospitals and get inoculated, then politicians in the state should also follow suit. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni was hearing public interest litigation filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari seeking a door-to-door vaccination facility for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially-abled persons and those who are bedridden or wheel-chair bound. Advocate Advait Sethna, appearing for the Centre, told the court that a door-to-door vaccination facility was not yet available. The bench asked if the policy was not available then how come some political leaders of Maharashtra were getting vaccinated in their homes. "Political leaders in Maharashtra are getting the jab sitting at their homes. If policy does not permit door-to-door, then how come for these politicians the policy is different. There has to be uniform policy for all," Chief Justice Datta said. "Everyone including the prime minister and president of India are going to centres and hospitals to get the vaccine. The political leaders of Maharashtra are not a class apart. This sends a wrong message," the court said. The court warned the concerned state department of action if it came across any such incident in future. "Whatever has happened has happened but, henceforth, if we find or come across any such report that a politician got a jab at home then we will take action," Chief Justice Datta said. The bench also noted another issue of concern in the state, which is the lack of vaccines. "The state is running out of stock of vaccines. This is another concern that needs to be addressed," Chief Justice Datta said. The bench posted the petition for further hearing on April 21 and said it would also look into how the process of registering for the vaccine can be made more user-friendly. "The process is presently online. Many people, especially elders, in our country do not have access to the internet. This also needs to be looked into," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-politicos-getting-vaccinated-at-home-hc-warns-of-action-972472.html
09-04-2021||West||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani urges SEC to postpone civic polls in Gandhinagar||Considering the coronavirus situation, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday urged the State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone the upcoming polls to the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC). As per the SEC's election schedule, polling for the GMC will be held on April 18, while counting will take place on April 20. In view of the sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases, Rupani has written to the SEC, urging it to postpone the election to prevent the spread of the virus, a government release stated. In the letter, Rupani said it is natural that political leaders and their supporters would gather in large numbers for poll campaigning. Apart from this, several government employees would also be engaged in election-related work. "In such a scenario, it is very much possible that Covid-19 infection would spread further. Hence, I urge the SEC to consider these factors and postpone the election to the GMC in the larger public interest," the CM said. Notably, the Congress and the new entrant Aam Aadmi Party had already requested the SEC to postpone the election in view of the current Covid-19 situation. Gujarat on Thursday recorded 4,021 new Covid-19 cases that took the state's tally of infections to 3,32,474.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-urges-sec-to-postpone-civic-polls-in-gandhinagar-972475.html
09-04-2021||West||Maharashtra allows antigen test option to non-vaccinated staff||The Maharashtra government on Friday allowed the non-vaccinated staff from various sectors in the state to take a rapid antigen test instead of the RT-PCR test, which was earlier mandatory as part of the Covid-19 curbs. An order issued on Friday said that rapid antigen test is being allowed as an option to the RT-PCR test and the rule will come into force from April 10. The RT-PCR test was mandated for non-vaccinated staff for various fields, including transport, film and television industry, home delivery services, staff conducting (academic) examinations, marriage and funeral venues, manufacturing sector, e-commerce firms, permitted construction activity, RBI-related institutions, among others. The order said that institutions that provide one window system for various government services and which are an extension of government offices, can remain open on weekdays between 7 am and 8 pm. Strict curbs to contain the spread of the virus came into force in Maharashtra from April 5. These restrictions include a weekend lockdown, prohibitory orders during day time and night curfew. The curbs will be in force till April 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-allows-antigen-test-option-to-non-vaccinated-staff-972479.html
09-04-2021||West||Mumbai's Covid-19 tally crosses 5 lakh with 9,200 new infections||As the second wave sweeps the country leading to an unprecedented spread of Covid-19, the total progressive coronavirus cases in the financial capital of Mumbai crossed the five-lakh mark in the last 13 months. The first case and death in Mumbai were reported on March 11 and March 17, respectively. Mumbai on Friday reported 9,200 new Covid-19 cases, taking the progressive total to 5,00,898, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). During the day, 35 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 11,909. The total active cases now stand at 90,333. The doubling rate now is 34 days while the overall growth rate between April 2-8 is 2 per cent.  The recovery rate in Mumbai is 79 per cent. During the day, Maharashtra reported 58,993 cases and 301 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-covid-19-tally-crosses-5-lakh-with-9200-new-infections-972483.html
09-04-2021||West||58,993 new Covid-19 cases reported in Maharashtra, daily deaths cross 300||Maharashtra on Friday reported 58,993 new cases of coronavirus, which pushed its overall tally to 32,88,540, while the death of 301 patients took the toll to 57,329, the state health department said. The state has been recording more than 55,000 cases over the past few days. The highest single-day spike of 59,907 cases was reported on April 7. With a record number of 2,45,707 tests conducted during the day, the count of people who have been tested so far in the state has grown to 2,16,31,258. Of the total number, 15.2 per cent have tested positive for the virus. The state's recovery rate is 81.96 per cent, while the fatality rate is 1.74 per cent, it said. Mumbai city registered a one-day spike of 9,202 cases. Mumbai division, comprising Mumbai city and its satellite towns, saw 18,408 cases and 52 deaths. This took the total number of cases there to 10,45,980 and death toll to 20,939. With 45,391 patients getting discharge from hospitals during the day, the recovery count rose to 26,95,148. There are 5,34,603 active cases in the state at present. Currently,26,95,065 people are in home quarantine and 24,157 in institutional quarantine. Of the 301 deaths reported on Friday, 158 had occurred in the last 48 hours, the health department said in a statement. Pune division saw 11,862 cases, including 5,714 in Pune city and 2,026 in Pimpri Chinchwad. Nagpur division reported 10,335 new cases, including 4,492 in Nagpur city alone, while Kolhapur division reported 774 cases, Aurangabad division 2,851 cases, Latur division 4,472 cases, Akola division 1,916 cases and Nashik division 8,375 cases. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held meetings with private hospitals and representatives of the diamond industry over the pandemic situation. The weekend lockdown announced as part of the curbs to break the virus chain came into force from Friday night. The coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total number of cases 32,88,540, deaths 57,329, recoveries 26,95,148, active 5,34,603, total tests 2,16,31,258.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/58993-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-maharashtra-daily-deaths-cross-300-972511.html
09-04-2021||West||Need for compulsory licence for generic production of Remdesivir: OMAG to PM Modi||Amid a pan-India zoom of Covid-19 cases, the Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG) has urged the Centre to allow compulsory licence for generic production of Remdesivir, broad-spectrum antiviral drug. Though Maharashtra is registering high numbers as on now, the situation is equally bad in several states and as the situation unfolds, it will be clearer, said Dr IS Gilada, the secretary general of OMAG, the umbrella organisation of 15 professional medical associations representing 2,50,000 post-graduate doctors. The OMAG also wrote a letter to prime minister Narendra Modi suggesting the steps that need to be taken. The only medicines that work in Covid-19 are steroids and Remdesivir. “The patent owner Gilead had given licence to six Indian pharmaceuticals. There is an acute shortage of Remdesivir injections, possibly due to hoarding and racketeering, especially in Maharashtra. This will have cascading effects in rest of India,” he said. It has MRP range from Rs 2,800 to 5,400 among different companies whereas procurement rates at hospitals range between Rs 600 to 1,000. After OMAG pointed out this discrepancy, the Maharashtra government has once again capped the price to Rs 1,000 to 1,400 per injection. Each eligible patient needs six doses and is required only for treating moderate or severe Covid cases. Dr Gilada urged Modi to Remdesivir in Drug Price Control Order (DPCO), as is done for other life-saving medicines. This will help reduce MRP to a reasonable level and remove buffer margins and scope for black-marketing. He suggested granting a Compulsory Licence under section 84 of Indian Patents Act, 1970 to ramp-up Remdesivir production. It can bring-down procurement cost to below Rs 500 per vial, to save lakhs of Indian Covid patients as also several more globally; who will benefit from made-in-India generic Remdesivir. “Rationalise use of Remedesivir with strict adherence to guidelines. Make multiple Remdesivir stores or Remdesivir Banks with strict sales control,” he said. He also suggested that racketeering of Remdesivir be made punishable under the Epidemic Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/need-for-compulsory-licence-for-generic-production-of-remdesivir-omag-to-pm-modi-972518.html
09-04-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh corruption case: CBI questions Mumbai bar owner||The CBI on Friday recorded the statement an owner of a city-based bar in connection with the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, an official said. "A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is conducting a premilinary inquiry into the allegations against Deshmukh, recorded the statement of bar owner Mahesh Shetty," the official said. According to sources, Shetty is the owner of Love Bird orchestra bar and he had allegedly met suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze on March 3 this year. During the questioning, the CBI team asked Shetty the purpose of the meeting, the sources added. In 2015, Shetty had been arrested in connection with the murder of a journalist of a weekly in Bhayandar, the said. On Friday morning, the CBI team recorded the statement of Vaze for the third consecutive day in connection with the case, the official said. Param Bir Singh, who was under flak over the handling of the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner on March 17. Three days later, he wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, in which he alleged that Anil Deshmukh had asked Vaze to collect Rs 100 crore per month from bars and restaurants. The Bombay High Court had on Monday directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations against Deshmukh. Soon after the order, Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader, resigned as home minister. Vaze is currently in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the probe into the explosives-laden SUV. Vaze is also under scanner for the alleged murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of that SUV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-corruption-case-cbi-questions-mumbai-bar-owner-972534.html
