10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Private bus operators up against KSRTC in Mysuru||The private bus owners and the drivers raised objection against KSRTC authorities for running KSRTC buses along with private vehicles. The private buses were allowed to operate from the KSRTC bus stand following the protest by KSRTC employees demanding implementation of 6th Pay Commission recommendations. The protest entered its fourth day on April 10. According to private service providers, KSRTC buses are being driven by trainee employees and will affect their service. "The KSRTC and the government should take one decision. Either they allow us to operate fully or else they should leave us," said a driver.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-bus-operators-up-against-ksrtc-in-mysuru-972736.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt attempting to suppress voice of RTC employees: Kodihalli Chandrashekar||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha president Kodihalli Chandrashekar, while leading the protest by employees of Road Transport Corporation, said that the government should not make efforts to suppress the voice of employees, instead, it should come up with solutions to their demands. Chandrashekhar told reporters here on Saturday that people have been suffering as buses are not available. The government needs to take a decision. Efforts to suppress the protest were not fair. Working people want wages commensurate with their labour. RTC employees were finding it difficult to meet ends. Rightful demands cannot be termed as vested interests. It appears that government wants to shut RTCs to benefit private operators, he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-attempting-to-suppress-voice-of-rtc-employees-kodihalli-chandrashekar-972778.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Union leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar detained as Karnataka RTC employees' strike enters 4th day||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha President Kodihalli Chandrashekar, who had come to Belagavi city to meet farmer leaders and leaders of Road Transport Corporation employees, was detained by Police from the hotel where he was staying on Saturday. Chandrashekhar had arrived in the city on Saturday morning and was scheduled to meet farmers and RTC employees leaders. Police on getting information of his arrival came to the hotel room and detained him. He did not have permission for the meetings, the police said. Meanwhile, fissures seem to have opened among sections of the state-owned transport corporation bus employees' federation as the strike over their salary related issues entered the fourth day on Saturday. The Karnataka government on Friday banned with immediate effect the indefinite strike by employees of the road transport corporations, which affected bus services across the State. Citing inconvenience caused to the public and that the strike was against provisions of the industrial disputes act, the Labour department issued the ban orders. The dispute has been referred to the industrial tribunal, Bengaluru for adjudication, it added. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appealed to the employees to resume work, even as he made it clear that it was not possible to meet their demand for wages as per the 6th Pay Commission. With the government reiterating its stand on wages as per the 6th Pay Commission, RTC employees decided to continue with the strike on Saturday as well. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, honorary president of the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, said the strike is on and will continue for the fourth day on Saturday. On Saturday a few union leaders expressed their displeasure over the way Chandrashekhar handled the issue. The Karnataka Transport Employees Federation has chosen Chandrashekhar as their honorary president to lead their agitation and negotiate with the government for the implementation of the sixth pay commission. "The strike is continuing, but we are caught in a problem due to the impractical demand. Now we cannot move forward, return backward," the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation union leader K Prakash said. Chandrashekhar should not have put forth just one demand, which will fizzle out because it cannot be fulfilled in view of the present situation, another union leader said requesting anonymity. Chandrashekhar was not available for his comment. There are four state-owned transport corporations and all of them have gone on strike demanding salaries on par with the state government employees. The stalemate has caused inconvenience to the commuters, many of whom alleged that private transporters overcharged for the trips. The government has sacked trainee and probationary employees of various corporations, including 216 Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation in the past two days for taking part in the agitation. The government also managed to run 652 buses till 10 am. Yet, it was way too short of the demand. The Railways too are operating nine special trains on Saturday. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/union-leader-kodihalli-chandrashekar-detained-as-karnataka-rtc-employees-strike-enters-4th-day-972780.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Develop high work ethics, Sudha Murthy tells young Mangalore University graduates||Pursuit of knowledge is a continuous process that remains with an individual throughout life, said Infosys Foundation Chairperson Sudha Murthy. Addressing the Mangalore University graduates virtually during the 39th annual convocation of the institution, she called upon them to improve their knowledge. "Knowledge is supreme. The pursuit of knowledge keeps one young. Attaining a degree is the beginning of life. The day you stop learning, you become an old person. Don’t become old at the young age of 25 itself,” she advised the students. She called upon the youngsters to develop high work ethics which can change their life. “One should learn to adjust with people at the workplace and achieve success. One should learn from failure.” Stating that there is no short cut for success, Infosys Foundation Chairperson said hard work takes one to the pinnacle of great heights. Hard work paves way for success in life. The graduates when they come out of the university and enter the competitive world, it is only the hard work which comes in handy in their success, she added. The students have teachers to guide and a set of the syllabus while in university or colleges. “When you come out of the university, you face the exam daily but there is no fixed syllabus. Life itself becomes a learning process,” said Sudha Murthy. The universities and the colleges in the west are supported by their strong alumni, she said and urged the graduating students to come back to their alma mater and support the institution which laid the foundation for their personality and success. “A portion of the earnings should be given back to the society,” she said and urged the students to respect parents and teachers.   During the convocation, Mangalore University awarded 117 Doctor of Philosophy degrees (Arts- 27, Science - 63, Commerce- 14 and Education- 13). A total of 10 gold medals and 69 first ranks were given away on the occasion. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) candidates, gold medal winners, and first rank holders received their degree in person. Cash prizes will be sent through cheque by post to the students. Those students who had applied for a degree certificate will receive their certificates by post, said Mangalore University Vice-Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/develop-high-work-ethics-sudha-murthy-tells-young-mangalore-university-graduates-972827.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC bus driver attempts to end life||A Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus driver, who was on protest, made an attempt to end his life as a depot manager allegedly pressurised him to return to work, at Malavalli, on Saturday. M P Ravishankar, 52, consumed poison at a vacant place at the bus depot. Ravishankar is shifted to a hospital in Mandya after treatment in taluk hospital in Malavalli. It is alleged that Depot Manager Shankar telephone Ravishankar had threatened him of transferring if he failed to attend work. It has to be noted that KSRTC authorities had transferred four employees, who were not attending works due to protest. In addition, higher ups had deducted two days salary of Ravishankar, last month. Upset over the transfer, Ravishankar consumed weedicide. However, Shankar denied the allegation and said, “I did not either call or pressurise Ravishankar. Following the incident, the KSRTC employees staged a protest at the depot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-bus-driver-attempts-to-end-life-972847.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||10th standard student in Kalaburagi ends his life||A 16-year-old 10th standard student ended his life by hanging himself in a classroom of Aysha School located at Madina Colony near MSK Mills here on Saturday. The deceased, Sheikh Umar, son of Sheikh Mahiboob, was a resident of Shaha Jilani Colony, police officials revealed. The reason for taking this extreme step is not known. The parents scolded him on Friday night, asking him to study well. Upset over it, he might have ended his life, they said. Before taking the extreme step, the student had scribbled on a blackboard that "today is my last day and will die today. Let parents bless me". He had entered the classroom at around 7.30 am on Saturday morning and the incident came to light when the staff arrived at the school and opened the door at 9.30 am, the police said. The parents, who rushed to the spot, clarified that they had no doubt on anyone and pleaded to the police not to conduct the post-mortem. The body was however shifted to the district hospital after the police convinced the grieving parents. A case has been registered at Raghavendra Nagar Police station||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10th-standard-student-in-kalaburagi-ends-his-life-972888.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC strike: Protest continues; some employees resume work, few transferred||The protest of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) employees demanding implementation of 6th Pay Commission recommendations completed four days and a few employees returned to work in the region. In Hassan, a total of 30 KSRTC buses operated on the day. A total of 150 employees, including 86 mechanics, 50 drivers, and others attended work. The buses operated with the police security. In Mysuru, the private bus owners and the drivers raised objection against KSRTC authorities for running KSRTC buses along with private vehicles in Mysuru. The private buses are allowed to operate from KSRTC bus stand following KSRTC employees protest. According to private service providers, KSRTC is running buses through trainee employees, but it will affect their service. The KSRTC and the government should take a decision. "Either they should allow us to operate fully or else they should leave us," said a driver. In Maddur, Mandya district, a total of 12 employees returned to work and five buses operated. The KSRTC also transferred several employees to different divisions from Mysuru region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-strike-protest-continues-some-employees-resume-work-few-transferred-972899.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Support pours in for re-construction of gutted library||Support poured in for Syed Ishaq to rebuild his library, which was gutted by miscreants on Friday. The miscreants had set fire on the library, which had a collection of more than 11,000 books, including 3,000 Kannada books, 3,000 copies of Bhagavad Gita, 1,500 copies of Bible and 1,000 Urdu books. An online campaign have been launched to raise funds for rebuilding library and Rs 6 lakh have been collected in a span of five hours. In addition, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar has assured of supporting Ishaq for rebuilding the library. The minister also assured of visiting the spot soon. Several people have come forward to donate books to the library. The members of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike,who met Ishaq, gave him copies of Indian Constitution, Bhagavad Gita, Quran and Bible. N M Biradar of Chanakya Career Academy, Vijayapura, assured of giving books worth Rs 1 lakh and also assured of lending support to construct the library structure on the same spot. Meanwhile, the city police formed a team to arrest the miscreants, who set library on fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/support-pours-in-for-re-construction-of-gutted-library-972901.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Study to revisit traditional medicine to combat Covid-19||With the outbreak of Covid-19, the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR), a branch of the Union government, is exploring the role of traditional medicines of princely state of Mysore and Madras in combating Covid-19 like pandemic diseases erupted during 1800-1940. Due to the upsurge in Covid cases, the Indian Council of Historical Research, New Delhi, has awarded a research project to the Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy (CSSEIP), University Of Mysore (UoM), with the title ‘Historiography of Epidemics, Public Health, and Traditional Medicine in the Princely State of Mysore and Madras 1800-1940’. Associate Professor D C Nanjunda will carry out the study referring historical documents. The research will aid in understanding the mutual impact of Western medicine on the indigenous medical system. Nanjunda said, "Traditional medicines have played a role in combating influenzas like plague, cholera and others. In 1918, the influenza virus first appeared in Bengaluru, which was part of the princely state of Mysore. According to government records, the total number of incidents in Mysuru state was 8,83,491, with 1,66,390 deaths. The Bubonic Plague struck Mysuru in 1896, claiming many lives." The plague resulted in 14,831 attacks and 12,273 deaths. There were 3,346 attacks and 2,665 deaths in Bengaluru city alone. Following that, during Mysore's presidency, cholera claimed the lives of approximately 45,900 people in 1871. From 1898 to 1914, smallpox killed 76,319 people in Mysuru. In princely state of Mysore, approximately 3.2 lakh people died of tuberculosis and other chest-related issues. However, Indigenous medical practitioners were being pitted against the Western medical system when it comes to dealing with various epidemics. Ayurvedic medicines were widely used to treat Malaria and Plague. There was an argument that Ayurvedic medicine was better suited to Indians than to Britishers. However, the British government attempted to disband India's traditional medical system. Because of surgical issues, the western medicinal system had an advantage over indigenous medicines, Nanjunda told DH. According to Nanjunda, the interdependence of indigenous medical practices and the western system during the colonial time is an intriguing area of research “During the epidemic outbreak, the indigenous medical system performed admirably. Medical pluralism was also well-liked. The researcher criticised indigenous medical practitioners for their use of the Western medical system in dealing with various epidemics,” Nanjunda added. The study of public health in colonial India provides important insights into modern medical systems. Even though India is known for Ayurvedic medicine, the concept of the western medical system originated during British Imperial rule. It is critical to research the history of epidemics and public health in princely India to understand the political reality and medical system during the British colonial period, according to Nanjunda. The study will concentrate on the role of Western medical institutions and the impact of local medical pluralism on the Indian indigenous medical system in dealing with the above-mentioned epidemic outbreaks. The study will also focus on the growth and development of the medical system during the British regime on developing health policies, as well as the people's continued skepticism in accepting it at the time. This research will also look into the effects of improved sanitation on the control of epidemic diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/study-to-revisit-traditional-medicine-to-combat-covid-19-972903.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Plans afoot for Mysuru Biennale on lines of Kochi-Muziris||In order to invoke a historic cosmopolitan legacy of Mysuru, the district administration has planned Mysuru Biennale, an expo set in spaces in the city, on the lines of Kochi-Muziris Biennale. While interacting with journalists at Mysuru District Journalists' Association (MDJA) here, on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said that the concept Mysuru Biennale is still under planning stage. Mysuru has a lot of heritage, history and biennale would attract more tourists. The Kochi-Muziris Biennale is an international exhibition of contemporary art held in the city of Kochi in Kerala. The exhibition is set in spaces across Kochi, with shows being held in existing galleries, halls and site-specific installations in public spaces, heritage buildings and disused structures. The DC said that in Kochi, artists exhibit artworks at an old shipping town and biennale will be held twice a year and now, the place is attracting a large crowd. “We are planning to establish similar biennale in Mysuru by linking heritage places. We have identified 12 heritage structures, including structures at University of Mysore, old DC office. The tourists flow is high in Mysuru and biennale will attract more tourists,” she said. The Kochi-Muziris Biennale is the largest art exhibition in the country and the biggest contemporary art festival in Asia. The Kochi-Muziris Biennale is an initiative of the Kochi Biennale Foundation with support from the Kerala government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/plans-afoot-for-mysuru-biennale-on-lines-of-kochi-muziris-972904.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru to get planetarium, science centre, democracy building: DC||If everything goes as per the plan, the city will have a planetarium, science centre and democracy building. The structures are planned to be established on the lands of University of Mysore (UoM) at foot of Chamundi Hill. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri during an interaction with journalists at Mysuru Disttrict Journalists’ Association here, on Saturday, said, “The University of Mysore has 22 acre of land at foot of Chamundi Hill. The authorities have asked the authorities concerned to give a part of land for the structures.” “Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was looking for proper place for planetarium and it was planned to establish in Dharwad, but we have asked the minister to establish the same in Mysuru. A large number of tourists visit Mysuru and we should have planetarium here,” the DC said. The authorities have identified the lands and vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar has agreed to provide land. The planetarium will be established on Central government funds, she informed.    Sindhuri also said, “Science Centre will come up on seven acre next to planetarium. In addition, Election Commission of India is planning to establish a ‘Democracy Building’.” The DC also said that there are 3,000 lakes in the district and all measures will be taken to protect them. Kukkarahalli Lake located in the heart of the city and maintained by the UoM, will be developed. For better improvement, the lake has to be undertaken either by Forest department or Mysuru City Corporation or Lake Development Authority and the VC has agreed for it, the DC said. “Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED) organised Aadi Mahotsava, an expo, at Delhi and similar mahotsava will be planned in Mysuru too. We had asked to organise Aadi Mahotsava during Dasara,” she said. In addition, the district administration has planned to establish a unit for the welfare of tribal and 200 acre of land has been identified in Hunsur in the district. The tribal people have lost jobs and many have no revenue, she said.  “The district administration has requested Tourism Minister to allot Rs 2 crore to display signboard in front of heritage structures. The city has many structures and not many people are aware about the structures and signboards would play a major role,” the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-to-get-planetarium-science-centre-democracy-building-dc-972907.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man accused of raping Briton in Goa held in Karnataka||A man accused of raping a British national in Goa was held in Hoskote in neighbouring Karnataka seven months after he escaped for the second time from a jail in Colvale near here, police said on Saturday. Ramachandran Yellappa was arrested in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday after a seven-month hunt across Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu, an official said. Yellappa is accused of raping a British woman tourist in Canacona village in 2018, and he had managed to escape from jail in September last year, as well as earlier in June, 2019, being held from Bengaluru on that occasion, the official said. A police spokesperson informed that Yellappa has said he escaped from Colvale jail last year after climbing the walls and slithering through drainage ducts. "During the time he was on the run,he travelled across Goa, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana doing odd jobs, including driving and working with his old associates, sometimes committing thefts and burglaries. He was careful to not remain in the same place for long and remained on the run," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-accused-of-raping-briton-in-goa-held-in-karnataka-972941.html
10-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM should realise BJP's ship is sinking: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah termed the BJP as a "sinking ship" and said that the Chief Minister needs to realise it before commenting on Congress. Responding to a statement by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah said, "Congress has lost elections and our ship has already sunk but the BJP’s ship sinking has been made known by Vijayapur MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal." The Chief Minister had earlier called the Congress party a "sinking ship". Statements made by Yatnal, Siddaramaiah added "have some ground and it does not appear that he has been lying. Yediyurappa should know that his ship has been sinking." A known critic of Yediyurappa, Yatnal has been doggedly pursuing the Category 2A status for the Panchamasalis, the sect that he belongs to. Siddaramaiah further said that he does not need to reply to statements made by BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi. "Ravi always lies and his statement that Congress has made Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency candidate Satish Jarkiholi as a scapegoat in the by-election was also a lie. What has BJP done to its candidate Mangala Angadi? Earlier many other names had been doing rounds and now she has been made a candidate," Siddaramaiah said. He said, during a campaign at Savadatti on Friday, the response of the people was more than the expectations. "We expect to make history and win Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency. Congress will also win Maski and Basavkalyan Assembly constituencies in the by-election," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-should-realise-bjps-ship-is-sinking-siddaramaiah-972744.html
10-04-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri withdraws Covid-19 advisory||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, on Friday, withdrew the Covid-19 advisory issued by her on Thursday. The DC had issued an advisory that insisted travellers entering Mysuru from Bengaluru of carrying a Covid-19 (RT-PCR) negative certificate. Withdrawing the advisory, the DC said that she has proposed the government to implement the suggestions. The DC had issued the advisory following a series of holidays between April 10 and 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-dc-rohini-sindhuri-withdraws-covid-19-advisory-972695.html
10-04-2021||National||No hike in fertilizer prices, says Centre||After facing criticism for sudden increase of some varieties of fertiliser prices by manufacturers, the Centre on Friday directed fertiliser companies not to increase the maximum retail price (MRP) of non-urea fertilisers such as DAP and asked them to sell at old rates. Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya, who chaired a meeting with fertilizers manufacturers, said here that the companies have agreed that they will not increase the price of DAP, MoP and NPK.  This means, the farmers will get these fertilisers at old rates. "Giving priority to the interest of the farming community, there won't be any increase in prices of fertilisers", the Minister tweeted. Retail prices of non-urea fertilisers such as di-ammonium phosphate (DAP), Muriate of Potash (MoP) and NPK are decontrolled and are determined by manufacturers, while the Centre gives them fixed subsidies each year.   Due to the rise in global prices of raw materials, domestic fertiliser companies and cooperatives have increased the retail prices of DAP and other complex fertilisers.  DAP is a widely used fertiliser by farmers after urea in the country. The price hike gained significance, coming after the end of voting in four Assembly elections . Even a section of farmers have been protesting the new farm laws and demanding law to ensure minimum support price to farm produce. KRIBHCO, MCFL, Zuari Agro Chemicals, Paradeep Phosphates have increased retail prices of DAP to Rs 1,700 per bag with effect from April 1. Similarly, Chambal Fertiliser and Chemicals Ltd (CFCL) has hiked DAP rates to Rs 1,600 per bag, and Indoram India Pvt Ltd to Rs 1,495 per bag from Rs 1,200 per bag. India’s largest fertilizer maker IFFCO Limited (Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited) has effected a sharp hike in fertilizer prices, with as much as a 58.33% hike in the price of DAP. But later the company said it was a tentative cost and not meant for sale to farmers. Even IFFCO clarified that it will sell the old stock of 11.26 lakh tonne of complex fertiliser at an old rate of Rs 1,200 per bag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-hike-in-fertilizer-prices-says-centre-972610.html
10-04-2021||National||Complacency, missteps deepen a Covid-19 crisis in India||When the coronavirus first struck India last year, the country enforced one of the world’s strictest national lockdowns. The warning was clear: A fast spread in a population of 1.3 billion would be devastating. Though damaging and ultimately flawed, the lockdown and other efforts appeared to work. Infections dropped and deaths remained low. Officials and the public dropped their guard. Experts warned fruitlessly that the government’s haphazard approach would bring a crisis when a new wave appeared. Now the crisis is here. India on Friday reported a daily record of 131,878 new infections as Covid-19 races out of control. Deaths, while still relatively low, are rising. Vaccinations, a mammoth task in such a large nation, are dangerously behind schedule. Hospital beds are running short. Parts of the country are reinforcing lockdowns. Scientists are rushing to track new strains, including the more hazardous variants found in Britain and South Africa, that may be hastening the spread. But the authorities have declared contact tracing in some places to be simply impossible. Complacency and government missteps have helped turned India from a seeming success story into one of the world’s worst-hit places, experts say. And epidemiologists warn that continuing failure in India would have global implications. But politicians in India, still stinging from the pain of the last national lockdown, have mostly avoided major restrictions and have even returned to holding big election rallies, sending mixed messages to the public. India’s vaccine rollout was late and riddled with setbacks, despite the country’s status as a major pharmaceutical manufacturer. The sheer number of infections during the first wave led some to believe the worst was over. India’s youthful population, less susceptible to symptoms and death, created misperceptions about how damaging another outbreak could be. What India needs now, epidemiologists and experts say, is concerted and consistent leadership to contain infections and buy time to make vaccinations wider and faster. “Public behavior and administrative behavior matters,” said Dr. K Sreenath Reddy, the chairman of Public Health Foundation of India. “If we do something for six weeks, or four weeks, and then declare victory and again open the door wide open, then we are in trouble.” A stricken India will set back the global effort. The government has restricted vaccine exports to the country’s own needs. If inoculations don’t quicken, India would need more than two years to inoculate 70% of its population, said Dr. Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, with headquarters in Washington and New Delhi. “India’s size is going to dominate the global numbers — how the world performs on Covid is going to be very dependent on how India performs on Covid,” Laxminarayan said. “If it is not over in India, it is not really over in the world.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday played down the possibility of another countrywide lockdown, instead pushing for “micro containment zones.” He said India could contain a second wave with “test, track, treat, and Covid-appropriate behavior.” Modi’s officials have blamed mismanagement by state governments, and the population’s flaunting of safety measures such as masks and social distancing, for the new wave. The roots of India’s crisis lie in the previous one. The coronavirus hit the country hard, and India long held the second largest number of infections after the United States. (It is now behind the United States and Brazil.) The economic blowback of the resulting lockdown was devastating. But the numbers at the time actually understated the first wave, scientists now say, and deaths in India never matched levels of the United States or Britain. Leaders began acting as if the problem had been solved. But improvements in testing capacity have led to more accurate counts this time. The virus likely raced through some populations like the urban poor, infecting between 300 and 500 million people, Laxminarayan estimates. While they may have won a level of immunity, that led to a lull until the virus hit others. “The sad thing is that in a country like India, you can have 400 million infections, but that means 900 million people are not yet infected,” Laxminarayan said. The mortality data was also misleading. Official figures show about 167,000 deaths, or 0.04 per 100,000 people, an astonishingly low rate compared with other countries. But about two-thirds of the population here is younger than 35. Among people between 45 and 75, fatality rates could be on par with or worse than Italy, Brazil, and the United States, Laxminarayan said. India’s vaccine preparedness was also worse than it seemed. For months, the Serum Institute of India, one of the world’s largest vaccine makers, boasted of a major stockpile of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which makes up the bulk of the country’s drive. The government even launched a “vaccine diplomacy” campaign that sent doses to other countries. But the initial rollout within India was slowed by complacency and plagued with public skepticism, including questions about the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and lack of disclosure about an Indian-developed dose. Now the vaccination program is not matching the spread. The Serum Institute has said that practically all of its daily production over the next two months, about 2 million doses, will go to the government, delaying commitments to other countries. Several Indian states now worry that their vaccines stocks will run out. Mumbai, India’s largest city, had shut more than half of its vaccination centers, local media reported on Friday. The central government’s health minister lashed out at the states, reassuring that there would be no shortage and that more supplies were in the pipeline. Still, many people shed masks and resumed normal life. In Pune, one of the worst-afflicted places in the hard-hit state of Maharashtra, relaxed attitudes and an overwhelming proportion of largely asymptomatic cases worsened the spread, said Sudhir Mehta, the response coordinator there. The district of about 10 million people reported more than 12,000 new cases on Friday, while the cumulative death toll has crossed 10,000. In a letter to the central government, Mehta described transmission as so rampant that contact tracing was almost impossible. “There are so many mild cases where people even don’t realize that they have Covid,” Mehta said in an interview. (The positivity rate for tests in Maharashtra over the past week was one quarter, compared with a roughly 8% national average.) Some of the relaxed attitude comes from the top. India’s senior leaders, who have taken vaccines publicly to support the inoculation effort, have been urging people to take precautions even as they hit the campaign trail for state elections. Prime Minister Modi has addressed more than 20 rallies, each with thousands of often-unmasked people. On Wednesday, Delhi officials said that even a solo car driver would be punished for not wearing a mask properly. The same day, Amit Shah, the country’s de facto No. 2 leader, drove through a campaign crowd in the state of West Bengal, waving without a mask and throwing rose petals. The government also gave the go ahead for a long Hindu religious festival called Kumbh Mela, which runs through the end of April. Between 1 million to 5 million people attend the festival each day in the city of Hardiwar, on the banks of the river Ganges in the state of Uttarakhand. Tirath Singh Rawat, the state’s chief minister, said no one would face restrictions as “the faith in God will overcome the fear of Covid-19.” Days later, Rawat tested positive for Covid. The positivity rate of random tests is rising at the festival, and more than 300 participants have tested positive, said Dr. Arjun Singh Senger, a health officer at the festival. The sheer speed of new infections has surprised health officials, who wonder whether variants might be a factor. Answering that question will be difficult. India has put only about 1% of its cases through genome sequencing tests, according to Reddy, of the Public Health Foundation of India, but researchers require a minimum of 5% to determine what is circulating. So far, the government has found variants from the U.K. and South Africa as well as a local mutation. Limited information suggests that more infectious variants are circulating in India, as well, Reddy said. Even if the variants have not yet been a major part of the new wave of infections, they have cast a shadow over India’s crucial vaccination drive. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been rejected by South Africa ineffective against that variant. “This time, the speed is much faster than the last time,” said Dr. Vinod K. Paul, the head of India’s Covid response task force. “The next four weeks are very, very crucial for us.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complacency-missteps-deepen-a-covid-19-crisis-in-india-972629.html
10-04-2021||National||Nepal asks India to facilitate supply of Covid-19 vaccine||Nepal's Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali on Friday called his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar and requested him to facilitate the supply of the vaccine against the Covid-19. Gyawali had a telephone conversation with Jaishankar to discuss the cooperation in fighting the coronavirus pandemic, the Foreign Ministry here said. "During the conversation, the two sides exchanged views on intensifying efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. "Foreign Minister Gyawali expressed sincere thanks to the Government of India for supporting Nepal in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, including through the generous gift of one million doses of COVISHIELD," it said in a statement. Gyawali requested Jaishankar for the necessary facilitation for the supply of the vaccine to Nepal to continue administering the second dose for people at highest risk. "The External Affairs Minister of India assured him of a continued support to Nepal in its fight against the pandemic, including through the supply of vaccines," the statement added. Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) which has collaborated with Oxford University and pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca for making the vaccine. Nepal's Health Ministry has recommended to restrict any gathering involving more than 25 people at a time in a bid to arrest the spread of the coronavirus. The ministry has also recommended halting physical classes of schools and colleges. In the last 24 hours, Nepal detected 332 new Covid-19 cases, taking the national tally to 279,100.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-asks-india-to-facilitate-supply-of-covid-19-vaccine-972634.html
10-04-2021||National||EC flags instances of star campaigners, leaders not wearing masks while campaigning||Amid rising coronavirus cases, the Election Commission on Friday flagged instances of star campaigners and political leaders not wearing masks while campaigning, and asked them to follow in all seriousness the guidelines on Covid-appropriate behaviour issued by it last year. In a letter to leaders of all recognised political parties, the poll panel said, "It is widely known that in the recent weeks, Covid cases are being reported in larger numbers. However, instances of election meetings/campaigns have come to the notice of the commission, where norms of social distancing, wearing of masks have been flouted in disregard to the commission's guidelines." The letter pointed out instances of star campaigners and political leaders or candidates not observing Covid-19 protocols, "including non-wearing of masks themselves at stage or while campaigning". "By doing so, the political parties and candidates are exposing themselves as well as the public attending such election meetings to the grave danger of the infection," the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-flags-instances-of-star-campaigners-leaders-not-wearing-masks-while-campaigning-972637.html
10-04-2021||National||Mumbai's dabbawalas condole death of UK's Prince Philip||Mumbai's famous 'dabbawalas' (tiffin carriers) have expressed grief over the death of Britain's Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh. Philip, the longest-serving consort in British history, died on Friday at the age of 99. "On behalf of all the dabbawalas of Mumbai, I pay my heartfelt condolences to Prince Philip," said Raghunath Medge, an office-bearer of the dabbawalas' association. In 2005, Medge and his colleague Sopan Mare had an opportunity to attend Prince Charles's second wedding with Camilla Parker Bowles. Recalling his eight-days visit to London for the Royal wedding, he said they had an opportunity to have breakfast with Queen Elizabeth-II and Prince Philip, along with other Royal family members at Windsor Castle. "At Windsor Castle, we had breakfast with the royal family twice when queen Elizabeth-II and her family members, including Prince Philip, were present," said Medge, adding that though they did not get an opportunity to interact with him, they found him a very humble person. Prince Charles has become our family member ever since he came to see us at Churchgate station in Mumbai in 2003, he said. "Therefore, we are saddened to hear the news of Prince Philip's death, and we stand by the family in the moment of grief," said Subhash Talekar, a leader of dabbawalas. Medge said that the dabbawalas have been providing tiffin service to the city for over a century, but they first came to limelight when Prince Charles visited them in November 2003 and admired their clockwork precision with which they deliver tiffin boxes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbais-dabbawalas-condole-death-of-uks-prince-philip-972666.html
10-04-2021||National||NHRC recommendations results in action against Odisha teachers for negligence||The persistence of the National Human Rights Commission in a case of food poisoning of 15 children in a government school in Maliguda in Odisha has resulted in payment of Rs 8 lakh in compensation, the rights panel said on Friday. The NHRC in a statement said, out of the total amount, Rs 50,000 each has been paid to the 14 students who fell sick and Rs 1 lakh to the mother of a boy who succumbed to his illness. "For negligence, two teachers were put under suspension and departmental proceedings initiated against them. The complaint was received about the incident on January 2018," it said  Earlier, in response to notices of the commission, the state government had said that an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh was already sanctioned by the Collector for the payment to the next of kin of the victim.  Punitive action was initiated against the two teachers for negligence, it added. "Subsequently, the commission issued a show cause notice to the chief secretary of the state as to why a sum of Rs 1 lakh be not recommended to be paid under section 18 of the Protection of Human Rights Act to the next of kin of the deceased student in addition to the ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh already sanctioned by the Collector," it said. Pursuant to the directions of the NHRC, the state government submitted the compliance report along with proof of payment, wherein it has been stated that Rs 1 lakh has been paid to the mother of the deceased boy and Rs 50,000 each to other 14 students, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-recommendations-results-in-action-against-odisha-teachers-for-negligence-972676.html
10-04-2021||National||DH Toon | 'We have the fastest jet in the world'||French publication 'Mediapart', citing an investigation by the country's anti-corruption agency, reported that Dassault Aviation had paid about one million Euros to Defsys Solutions for 50 models of the aircraft which were to be given as "gifts". The BJP said the claims were “completely baseless.” The allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal suggesting that reports in the French media in this regard could be on account of "corporate rivalry" in that country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-we-have-the-fastest-jet-in-the-world-972705.html
10-04-2021||National||With 1.45 lakh new cases, India reports biggest Covid-19 spike||With a record 1,45,384 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,32,05,926, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months, while the death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,68,436 with 794 more fatalities, the highest since October 18 last year, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 31st day in a row, the number of active coronavirus cases in the country has gone up to 10,46,631, accounting for 7.93 per cent of its total caseload, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 90.80 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12, accounting for only 1.25 per cent of the total number of cases in the country. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,19,90,859, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.28 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,52,14,803 samples have so far been tested in the country for the viral disease, including 11,73,219 on Friday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-145-lakh-new-cases-india-reports-biggest-covid-19-spike-972726.html
10-04-2021||National||India’s hospitals swamped by second coronavirus wave as vaccines run low||By Muneeza Naqvi, Bibhudatta Pradhan and Dhwani Pandya India is facing an escalating health crisis, with its second wave of virus infections hitting record highs, overwhelming hospitals around the country as supplies of intensive care beds and vital drugs come under pressure. Maharashtra’s Health Minister Rajesh Tope warned the state had about three days worth of shots in stocks and vaccination centers across the state were being forced to shut down, and later announced a strict weekend lockdown to try and contain the outbreak. Its capital, Mumbai, has currently used up all but 3% of its intensive care hospital beds. India’s capital New Delhi -- which is operating under a nightly curfew -- reported more than 8,500 new infections on Friday, the highest so far in this year, with health care workers some of the worst affected. At Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, one of the city’s top institutions, 37 doctors had been infected with Covid-19 with mostly mild symptoms, two people at the hospital said, asking not to be identified because the information wasn’t public. In Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh’s capital, as many as 40 doctors at the state-run in King Georges’ Medical University College have been infected, according to two people with knowledge of the situation. Struggling Hospitals “It’s going to be a horrible next two months,” said Shuchin Bajaj, a director at the Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals, which runs 14 hospitals across north India. “The impact is ten times what it was last year. This time it seems to be affecting younger patients.” A state-run Mumbai hospital had run out of ICU and oxygen beds, a doctor who asked not to be identified due to the sensitive nature of the information said, adding the new surge in infections was bringing larger numbers of daily patients than the country’s first wave. There were also reports of shortages of Remdesivir, a broad spectrum anti-viral medication used to treat Covid-19, Bajaj said, adding that getting supplies of the drug was becoming difficult at his hospitals. Surging Numbers Last month India paused exports of Covid-19 vaccines to focus on its domestic requirement, a blow to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s much-touted vaccine diplomacy efforts. The country sent out more than 64 million shots between mid-January and March, 10.5 million as grants or aid and another 18 million for the WHO-led Covax initiative. India has administered a total of 98 million doses to 3.6% of its population, of which 6% have received one dose and only about 0.9% have received the two shots required, according to the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker. This is well below the country’s target of immunizing 300 million people by August. The twelve-fold jump in India’s daily new infections, from some 11,000 in early February, comes as five Indian states are in the middle of conducting local elections and northern Uttarakhand is holding the monthlong Kumbh Mela, a pilgrimage that is expected to draw hundreds of thousands of devotees to the banks of the Ganges river. “The second wave is bigger and nastier than the first wave, but we have lost our coordinates to politics,” said Kunal Sarkar, a cardiologist at the Medica Super Specialty Hospital in Kolkata, West Bengal. “Politicians are happy gathering votes as the pandemic is on the rise.” Over the last few weeks, television footage and newspapers have been full of images of massive crowds at campaign rallies, with both social distancing and masks absent. “The only good news that we know now what needs to be done,” said Bajaj. “We know what the warning signs are. We’re not experimenting with patients.” --With assistance from Archana Chaudhary, Upmanyu Trivedi and Sudhi Ranjan Sen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-hospitals-swamped-by-second-coronavirus-wave-as-vaccines-run-low-972742.html
10-04-2021||National||Locket Chatterjee's car attacked allegedly by TMC cadre in West Bengal's Hooghly||BJP leader Locket Chatterjee's car was attacked allegedly by TMC cadres amid the ongoing polling in the fourth phase of the West Bengal Assembly elections. According to ANI, Chatterjee to an Election Commission official over the phone and said that she was attacked by locals at polling booth no.66 in Hooghly. She also said that journalists have been attacked too and demanded that additional forces be sent there.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locket-chatterjees-car-attacked-allegedly-by-tmc-cadre-in-west-bengals-hooghly-972745.html
10-04-2021||National||Sonia Gandhi reviews efforts to tackle Covid-19 in Congress-ruled states||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday reviewed the efforts by the states ruled by her party to tackle the second wave of the coronavirus infection and the vaccination drive. Addressing a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states and ministers of the party in states where it is in power in alliance with others, she said the priority should be to test, track and vaccinate. Gandhi also reviewed the efforts to fight Covid-19, including the availability of vaccines, access to medicines and ventilators, Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. Priority is test, track & vaccinate. "The priority is to test, track and vaccinate," he wrote on Twitter, quoting Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-reviews-efforts-to-tackle-covid-19-in-congress-ruled-states-972758.html
10-04-2021||National||Wherever Mamata goes, she curses me, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday slammed West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over violence in the state, saying that violence won't protect her from "the 10 years of ill-governance". "Didi, this violence, tactics of instigating people to attack the Security Forces, the tactics of obstructing the polling process will not protect you. This violence can't protect you from the 10 years of your ill-governance," PM Narendra Modi said while addressing a rally in Siliguri. Offering condolences to the families of those who died today, PM Modi said, "Didi and her goons are perturbed, seeing the people's support for BJP. She has stooped to this level as she can see her chair slipping away." The prime minister alleged that Mamata Banerjee is training people to gherao central forces and attack them. "Central forces aren't afraid of terrorists and Naxals, they won't fear your goons," Modi added. "It's time to change the kind of political environment that has been created in Bengal for the past several decades. 'Tolabaaj mukt' Bengal will be formed now. 'Syndicate mukt' Bengal will be formed now. 'Cut money mukt' Bengal will be formed now," the prime minister said. PM Modi further said that wherever Mamata goes, she curses him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wherever-mamata-goes-she-curses-me-says-pm-modi-972765.html
10-04-2021||National||These five states account for 72% of India's active Covid-19 cases||Five states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, and Kerala -- cumulatively account for 72.23 per cent of the country's total active Covid-19 cases which have breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-half-months, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. Ten districts including Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur, Bengaluru Urban, Nashik, Delhi, Raipur, Durg and Aurangabad account for 45.65 per cent of the total active cases which have climbed to 10,46,631 and now comprise 7.93 per cent of the total infections, it said. A net increase of 67,023 cases have been recorded in the total active cases in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra alone accounts for 51.23 per cent of the total active cases in the country, the ministry said. Ten states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan — have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases accounting for 82.82 per cent of the new infections, it said. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,45,384 new coronavirus infections on Saturday taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,32,05,926, Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 58,993. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 11,447 cases while Uttar Pradesh reported 9,587 new cases. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,19,90,859 with 77,567 recoveries being registered in a day.  "Daily Deaths continue to show an upward trend. A total of 794 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours," the ministry said, highlighting that 10 states account for 86.78 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 301 followed by Chhattisgarh (91). Twelve states and union territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said. These are Puducherry, Ladakh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Mizoram, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Arunachal Pradesh, it said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 9.80 crore, the ministry said. Cumulatively, 9,80,75,160 vaccine doses have been administered through 14,75,410 sessions till 7 am, according to the provisional report. These include 89,88,373 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 54,79,821 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 98,67,330 FLWs who have received the first dose, 46,59,035 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 3,86,53,105 and 15,90,388 beneficiaries aged above 60 have been administered the first and second dose respectively and 2,82,55,044 and 5,82,064 beneficiaries aged between 45 to 60 received the first and second dose respectively. Eight states including Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala account for 60.62 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. Over 34 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours, it said. As on day-84 of the vaccination drive (April 9), 34,15,055 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 30,06,037 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 46,207 sessions for the first dose and 4,09,018 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine. In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 38,93,288 doses administered per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-five-states-account-for-72-of-indias-active-covid-19-cases-972791.html
10-04-2021||National||PM Modi condoles death in CISF firing in Cooch Behar, blames TMC for violence||Condoling the death of four people in firing by central forces in Cooch Behar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday requested the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible for the incident and blamed the ruling TMC for perpetrating violence during the polls. He also accused Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of instigating people against the central forces.  "What happened in Cooch Behar is unfortunate and sad. I extend my condolences to the bereaved families and urge the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible for the incident. "Mamata Didi and her TMC goons have become jittery because of ground swell of support for BJP," Modi told an election rally here in North Bengal. Four persons were killed when CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles" in Cooch Behar district. The incident took place in Sitalkuchi area when voting was underway, a senior district police officer said. "Didi, this violence, the tactic of instigating people to attack the security forces, the tactic of obstructing the polling process will not protect you. You have to go out of power. Didi is asking people to attack and gherao security forces who are here to protect the rights of the people of the state," he said. Attacking Banerjee over the culture of violence and "tolabaji" (extortion), Modi said people of Bengal had made up their mind to defeat the TMC. "Didi, you don't preside over the destiny of the people of Bengal, they are not your 'jagir' (fiefdom)," he said. North Bengal, he said, was critical to national security which has been undermined due to appeasement politics of Banerjee. Reaching out to the numerically strong Dalit Rajbongshi and Matua communities, Modi said the TMC insults them, and claimed a party leader was shown in a video likening the scheduled caste people to beggars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condoles-death-in-cisf-firing-in-cooch-behar-blames-tmc-for-violence-972792.html
10-04-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 cases rise to record for 5th time this week||India's daily coronavirus cases on Saturday rose by a record for the fifth time this week and deaths surged to the highest in more than five months, with hospitals and crematoriums overflowing in parts of the country. New cases in the world's second-most populous country have totalled the most of anywhere in the world over the last two weeks. India's overall tally of 13.21 million is the third-highest globally, just shy of Brazil and below the worst affected country, the United States. The second surge in infections, which has spread much more rapidly than the first one that peaked in September, has forced many states to impose fresh curbs but Prime Minister Narendra Modi has refused to impose a national lockdown given the high economic costs. Authorities in Maharashtra, the Indian state with the highest cases, have ordered a weekend lockdown that will end early on Monday. Mega cities such as Mumbai, the country's financial centre and Maharashtra's capital, and the national capital of New Delhi have also imposed nightly curfews until the end of April. India reported 145,384 new Covid-19 cases and 794 deaths, the Health Ministry reported. Despite that, Prime Minister Modi again addressed an election rally crowded with thousands of people, many without masks, in the eastern state of West Bengal. The government has blamed the resurgence mainly on crowding and a reluctance to wear masks as businesses across the country have reopened since February, only to be partially shut again to control the current surge. "Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid, for which all of us are responsible to some extent," Sonia Gandhi, the chief of the main opposition Congress party, said in a statement. In Mumbai, hundreds of poor migrant workers crammed onto trains this week to flee, potentially risking a wider outbreak in smaller towns and villages. The railways department called it a usual rush this time of year for people to harvest crops back home and celebrate festivals. Vaccine shortage Many states have complained of a vaccine shortage though immunisations are currently restricted to only about 400 million of India's 1.35 billion people. The health minister said on Thursday the government had more than 43 million doses in stock or in the pipeline, which may be enough for only about 10 days going by the immunisation trend. India, the world's biggest maker of vaccines, has so far administered 97.5 million doses, using the AstraZeneca shot and another developed at home by Bharat Biotech. Arvinder Singh Soin, a surgeon and leading liver transplant specialist, is one of many top Indian medical authorities that have criticized the government for its slow approach to approving other vaccines by insisting on the need for local trials for shots formulated abroad. "We need to immediately facilitate the approval of the next lot of vaccines," Soin said on Twitter. "Insistence on bridging trials data not relevant anymore given the situation. Millions have had these all over the world." The country breached the 100,000 mark for the first time on Monday. Only the United States has reported more cases in a day since the pandemic began over a year ago. India's total deaths have now swelled to 168,436, health ministry data showed, though it has one of the lowest fatality rates, partly attributed to its relatively younger population. Still, crematoriums have been overwhelmed in some Indian cities. In Surat in the western state of Gujarat, officials were seeking additional crematorium workers to handle the overflow. It has dropped a plan to rope in teachers after online criticism. In the northern city of Lucknow, distraught relatives had to wait for hours to perform the last rites of their family members in the area's only electric crematorium, said its officer-in-charge Mohammad Wasimuddin. In Hinduism, the religion for the majority of Indians, cremation is the traditional method for dealing with the physical body after death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-rise-to-record-for-5th-time-this-week-972805.html
10-04-2021||National||India protests US Navy's transit through exclusive economic zone||India protested to the United States for a navy vessel conducting a transit through its exclusive economic zone (EEZ) without consent, the foreign ministry said on Friday, in a rare row between the friendly navies of the two countries. The USS John Paul Jones "asserted navigational rights and freedoms," inside India's EEZ in line with international law by sailing about 130 nautical miles (241 km) west of India's Lakshadweep islands, the US Seventh Fleet said in a statement on Wednesday. But an Indian foreign ministry spokesman said in a statement that UN rules did not allow such passage without consent. "The Government of India's stated position on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is that the Convention does not authorise other States to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state," the spokesman said. India's military monitored the movement of the John Paul Jones as it transited from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits, the foreign ministry said. The US Navy has previously conducted so-called freedom of navigation sails through Indian waters without consent, with the last one in the fiscal year for 2019, according to an annual US Defense Department report. However, the former Chief of India's Naval Staff Arun Prakash questioned why the US announced the operation in the waters of an apparent ally. "For the 7th Fleet to carry out FoN missions in Indian EEZ in violation of our domestic law is bad enough. But publicising it?" he wrote on Twitter on Friday. The navies of India and the United States carry out large scale exercises each year that now involve Japan and Australia. The four countries have formed an informal security grouping called the Quad to push back against China's expanding power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-protests-us-navys-transit-through-exclusive-economic-zone-972812.html
10-04-2021||National||Higher qualifications can't be demerit for JEs post: SC||In an important decision, the Supreme Court has said that higher qualifications cannot be treated as a demerit or disqualification for a job. A bench of Justices Uday Umesh Lalit and S Ravindra Bhat allowed B E or B Tech degree holders to apply for jobs to the post of Junior Engineers in Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board. Dealing with the main question of whether degree holders can also apply for the posts of JEs, the top court pointed out a close examination of the rules showed that a lion’s share of the posts at the JE level was set apart for direct recruitment.  However, when it is at the level of the higher post i e Assistant Engineer, which is a promotional post, direct recruitment is only to the extent of 36 per cent. Of the balance 64 per cent, various sub-quotas have been stipulated for feeder cadres, the largest percentage being for Junior Engineers, it said.  "This only shows the intent of the rulemakers not to exclude degree holders from consideration for the lower post of Junior Engineers," the bench said. The court allowed a batch of appeals filed by Puneet Sharma and others against the Himachal Pradesh High Court's judgment which had held that the degree holder cannot be permitted to urge that they possess higher qualifications enabling them to apply for the post of Junior Engineers. Writing the judgment, Justice Bhat rejected a contention by diploma holders that the minimum qualification for the post of JEs was matriculation and that the technical qualification was just diploma as "incorrect". The HPSEB, for its part, argued that it is the inherent right of the employer to seek out better-qualified individuals for public appointment. "Undoubtedly, eligibility is amongst those who passed in matriculation or 10+2 or its equivalent qualification. The minimum qualification for the post cannot be deemed to be only matriculation but rather that only such of those matriculates, or 10+2 pass students who are diploma holders would be eligible. The term “with” in this category has to be read as conjunctive," the court said, interpreting the rules. It directed the electricity board to process the candidature of all applicants, including the degree holders who participated in the recruitment process and proceed to issue the final selection list of all successful candidates, after holding the interview, depending on the relative merits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/higher-qualifications-cant-be-demerit-for-jes-post-sc-972819.html
10-04-2021||National||India has finalised air bubble pact with Sri Lanka: Aviation Ministry||India has established a bilateral air bubble arrangement with Sri Lanka for operation of special international passenger flights between the two countries, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Saturday. With this, India now has such pacts with 28 countries, including Afghanistan, Bahrain, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, the Maldives, Nigeria, Qatar, the UAE, the UK and the USA. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international passenger flights can be operated by their airlines into each other's territories under restrictive conditions. "India has finalized an air bubble agreement with Sri Lanka, making it the 6th such arrangement in SAARC region and the 28th in total," the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Twitter. "All the eligible passengers will be able to travel between the 2 countries in the near future," it noted. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May last year and under bilateral air bubble arrangements since July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-finalised-air-bubble-pact-with-sri-lanka-aviation-ministry-972820.html
10-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: India sees record daily Covid-19 cases for fifth straight day||In your evening news brief, India sees a record number of Covid cases for the fifth straight day; Election Commission adjourns polling at a station in West Bengal’s Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency amid reports of violence, and a Prashant Kishor audio clip rakes up a row.  Here is the top news of April 10, 2021: A controversy erupted on Saturday amid the polling for 44 assembly seats in West Bengal, with the BJP releasing an audio clip where Trinamool Congress' election strategist Prashant Kishor is purportedly heard saying Prime Minister Narendra Modi is "as popular as" Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the state. Sharing excerpts of Kishor's chat with some journalists, BJP's IT cell chief Amit Malviya claimed that "TMC's election was just thrown away!" Kishor dared the BJP to release the full record of the chat on Clubhouse, a social media platform, and claimed that the saffron camp would not get more than 100 assembly seats in the ongoing elections. The Election Commission (EC) on Saturday ordered adjournment of polls at polling station number 126 in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency of West Bengal amid reports of violence.A spokesperson of the poll panel said the decision was based on an interim report filed by special observers. The decision comes against the backdrop of four persons being killed as central forces allegedly opened fire after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", in West Bengal's Cooch Behar district on Saturday. India's daily coronavirus cases on Saturday rose by a record for the fifth time this week and deaths surged to the highest in more than five months, with hospitals and crematoriums overflowing in parts of the country. India reported 145,384 new Covid-19 cases and 794 deaths, the Health Ministry reported. Meanwhile, Congress president Sonia Gandhi accused the Centre on Saturday of "mismanaging" the Covid situation and creating a vaccine shortage in the country by exporting it, as she called for cancelling all public gatherings and poll rallies in view of the rising number of Covid cases. Source: DHNS/PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-sees-record-daily-covid-19-cases-for-fifth-straight-day-972848.html
10-04-2021||National||SC asks Centre, 4 states to respond on plea seeking repeal of provisions criminalising begging||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre and four states, including Maharashtra and Gujarat, to file their response within three weeks on a plea seeking a direction to repeal the provisions criminalising begging. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy noted in its order that though a notice was issued on the plea on February 10 this year, only Bihar has so far filed its response in the matter. “Although notice has been issued on February 10, 2021, a reply has been filed by the respondent - state of Bihar - only and other respondents have not yet filed their reply. Let reply be filed within three weeks,” the bench said in its order passed on Friday. The apex court has posted the matter for hearing after three weeks. The top court had in February sought a response from the Centre, and the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Bihar on the plea which has claimed that the sections of the statute criminalising begging are violative of constitutional rights. The plea filed by Meerut resident Vishal Pathak has referred to the August 2018 verdict of the Delhi High Court which had decriminalised begging in the national capital and said that provisions of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959 which treats begging as an offence cannot sustain constitutional scrutiny. “The provisions of the statutes criminalising the act of begging put people in a situation to make an unreasonable choice between committing a crime or not committing one and starving, which goes against the very spirit of the Constitution and violates Article 21 i.e. Right to Life,” said the plea, filed through advocate H K Chaturvedi. Referring to the Census 2011, the plea has said that the total number of beggars in India is 4,13,670 and the number has increased from the last census. It said that the government has the mandate to provide social security to everyone and ensure that all have basic facilities, as embedded in the Directives Principles of State Policy in the Constitution. “However, the presence of beggars is evidence that the State has failed to provide these basic facilities to all its citizens, thus instead of working on its failure and examining what made people beg, criminalising the act of beggary is irrational and against the approach of a socialist nation as embedded in the preamble of our Constitution,” the plea has claimed. It said that a person, who is compelled to beg due to certain circumstances, cannot be faulted for his actions. The plea has claimed that ‘The Abolition of Begging and Rehabilitation of Beggars Bill 2018’ was introduced in Lok Sabha but “till date, this bill is not passed and is wedged in length parliamentary procedures, that has resulted in thousands of poor facing more hardships because of present arbitrary statutes”. The petition has sought directions to declare as “illegal and void” all provisions, except some sections, of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959, Punjab Prevention of Beggary Act, 1971, Haryana Prevention of Begging Act, 1971 and Bihar Prevention of Begging Act 1951. It has also sought to declare all other similar Acts prevailing in any part of the country as illegal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-4-states-to-respond-on-plea-seeking-repeal-of-provisions-criminalising-begging-972856.html
10-04-2021||National||A year on, India's Covid-19 situation grimmer with 'more infectious' variants, surge in cases||When millions of Indians switched off lights and lit candles and earthen lamps in the early days of the pandemic in solidarity with Covid warriors, many probably though the fight will be over soon, but a year on, the situation has become grimmer. On April 10 last year, five days after millions responded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to show the nation's "collective resolve and solidarity" in the fight against the coronavirus, the number of confirmed infections stood at 6,761, while the death toll was 206. Cut to the present, India registered a record 1,45,384 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing its infection tally to 1,32,05,926, while the death toll stood at 1,68,436. Delhi alone recorded over 8,500 new cases on Friday, while Maharashtra reported more than 58,000. As per the health ministry, 10 states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan -- are showing a steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases at present. They accounted for 82.82 per cent of the new infections on Saturday, it said. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months, and the country recorded 794 more fatalities in a day, the highest since October 18 last year. India crossed the grim milestone of one crore Covid-19 cases on December 19 last year. The spread of the virus slowed down briefly and there was an improvement in the situation in January 2021. The country's lowest daily spike of just 8,635 infections was reported on February 2. But the ebbing did not last long, and the infections began surging again in March 2021. A large number of healthcare workers have contracted the virus too, including those who have taken both doses of the vaccine. Over 9.78 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far to healthcare and frontline workers, and people above 45. India is racing against time to contain the second wave of the coronavirus by again imposing restrictions like night curfews and vaccinating over 20 lakh people daily. Making matters worse, several more infectious variants of the coronavirus have surfaced, and many experts believe might be behind the surge of cases in the country. Three variants of concern have been identified – the UK variant, Brazil variant and the South African variant. India has also detected a new "double mutant" Covid-19 variant in states like Maharashtra and Delhi, where a surge of cases is being recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-year-on-indias-covid-19-situation-grimmer-with-more-infectious-variants-surge-in-cases-972859.html
10-04-2021||National||TTD to unveil book to 'prove' Lord Hanuman was 'born' in Tirumala hill||An 'evidence' based book to 'prove' that Lord Hanuman was 'born' on one of the seven sacred hills of Tirumala, home to the Sri Venkateswara Swamy shrine, would be released on April 13, a senior official of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams said on Saturday. The book with "astronomical, epigraphical, scientific and puranic evidence," to prove that Lord Hanuman was born on the Tirumala hills would be unveiled by a committee of scholars on 'Ugadi', the Telugu New Year day, the official, who did not want to be named, told PTI. However, Prof V Venkataramana Reddy, former Director of National Mission for Manuscripts, said such a 'quest' on the 'birthplaces of divinities' was not proper, while chief priest of the hill temple, AV Ramana Dikshitulu declined to comment. TTD executive officer KS Jawahar Reddy had constituted a high-level committee of scholars last December to study and gather evidence to establish that 'Anjanadri,' one of the seven hills, is the birthplace ofLord Hanuman. Telugu Desam Party spokesperson N B Sudhakar Reddy said there was "every possibility to believe that Lord Hanuman was born and raised on Tirumala hills." "Once, the hills were a dense rain forest and also close to Sri Lanka, which was then ruled by demon king Ravana who abducted Maa Sita," he said. The temple of Lord Venkateshwara is located on Venkatadri hill, the seventh and Narayanadri, Seshadri and Garudadri are among the other hills of Tirumala. Hanuman is also hailed as 'Vayuputra' and as son of Anjana Devi who did 'tapas' in the one of the seven hills of Tirumala and it was named after her as 'Anjanadri'. Hanuman is popularly known as 'Sri Anjaneyaswamy' in south India. The committee of scholars comprises Prof Sannidhanam Sudarshana Sharma, Vice-Chancellor of Sri Venkateswara Vedic University here, Prof Muralidhara Sharma, Vice-Chancellor of National Sanskrit varsity, professors Ranisadasiva Murthy, Sri Janumaddi Ramakrishna and Sankaranarayana of the varsity. Also, scientist Sri Murthi Remilla, Deputy Director of State Archaeology, Vijay Kumar are members and the panel is led by project Officer, Higher Vedic studies, A Vibhishana Sharma who is also the convenor, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ttd-to-unveil-book-to-prove-lord-hanuman-was-born-in-tirumala-hill-972860.html
10-04-2021||National||Tomar appeals to farmers to call off protest, says govt ready for talks||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar Saturday appealed to the farmers protesting at Delhi borders to call off their long-running agitation, saying the government is ready for a discussion whenever they come with a concrete proposal. Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three new agri-marketing laws for nearly five months now, braving the raging pandemic. There has been no headway in the logjam over the issue since January 22, when the 11th and the last round of formal talks happened between the Central government and the protesting farmer unions. Tomar expressed concerns about the farmers’ health and wellbeing as India witnessed a record surge of over 1.45 lakh coronavirus cases on Saturday. "Now in the second wave of pandemic, the entire nation and the world is following Covid-19 protocols. Even protesting farmers should follow the protocols. Their life is important for us," Tomar said. “In the current Covid-19 situation, I urge them (agitating farmers) to call off their protest. The government is ready for a discussion whenever they come with a proposal," he told reporters. Stating that there is no "dissatisfaction" among the farming community across the country over the new farm laws, the minister said many farm bodies in fact are in the favour these legislations, while some are opposing them. "Ours is a democratic country, be it farmers or citizens, if they have any doubt, the government believes it is its responsibility is to clear doubts and find a solution," he said. The minister said the three laws were not drafted all of a sudden, but there was a long discussion in the past and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken it forward, he said. He said that normally any protest continues if the government is not ready for talks. But this government has held with open heart 11 rounds of discussion with representatives of protesting farm unions, yet their agitation did not stop, he said. In these meetings, the government had identified their concerns and offered them a proposal to suspend the laws for 1.5 years and set up a committee to examine them. "We proposed that a committee be set up to look into these laws and the MSP (issue) also. After the committee submits its report, the government will discuss. This proposal was welcomed across the country, but the protesting farmers rejected it without citing any reason," he said. Farmers could have resumed their protest had they found the proposed committee's recommendations unsatisfactory, he added. "We had told farm unions to come up with their own proposal and we were ready for discussion on that also," the minister said, asserting the government is ready for talks even today. Tomar reiterated that he had appealed to the farmer unions in all 11 rounds of meetings to send back senior citizens and children from the protest sites in view of the pandemic. The minister also said the agitating farmers should understand that ordinary citizens are facing difficulty due to their sit-in protest at the border. India reported a record 1,45,384 fresh cases Saturday, pushing the tally to 1,32,05,926. The number of active cases also breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months, while the death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,68,436 with 794 more fatalities, the highest since October 18 last year. Delhi, meanwhile reported 7,897 cases and 39 new fatalities Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tomar-appeals-to-farmers-to-call-off-protest-says-govt-ready-for-talks-972866.html
10-04-2021||National||'Tika Utsav' from April 11 aims to vaccinate maximum eligible people||A 'Tika Utsav' or vaccine festival will be marked in the country from April 11-14 at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an aim to inoculate maximum number of eligible people against the coronavirus amid a surge in cases. Several states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are gearing up with appeals being made to eligible people to get themselves vaccinated during the duration of the 'Tika Utsav'. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also issued an appeal to people to get vaccinated in large numbers during the 'Tika Utsav'. In his interaction with chief ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive on Thursday, Prime Minister Modi had urged them to focus on vaccinating all those who are above 45 years in age in high caseload districts. "Sometimes, it helps in changing the atmosphere. The birth anniversary of Jyotiba Phule is on April 11 and on April 14, there is the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb. Can we organise a 'Tika Utsav: or vaccine festival and create an atmosphere of 'Tika Utsav'?" he had said "We should vaccinate as many eligible people through a special campaign and decide on zero wastage. If there is zero wastage in four days during 'Tika Utsav', it will also increase our vaccination capacity," Modi had asserted. He has also called for making optimum utilisation of vaccination capacity. "Let’s see how we can mobilise things from April 11 to 14 and there will be satisfaction of achievement. It will greatly help in changing the situation. I have also told the Indian government to provide as many vaccine doses as possible," he said. This should be our endeavour to vaccinate maximum eligible people during the 'Tika Utsav', Modi had asserted. The daily count of positive cases reached new record highs in the last few days despite having dipped to about 20,000 a few weeks back. While some states have flagged a "shortage" of vaccine doses, the Centre has maintained that a sufficient quantity of the jabs have been allocated to all the states and that many of them have been unable to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tika-utsav-from-april-11-aims-to-vaccinate-maximum-eligible-people-972879.html
10-04-2021||National||Explained | Why India is concerned over US warship operation off Lakshadweep||In an unusual move, the US Navy announced earlier this week that it conducted a freedom of navigation operation in Indian waters without prior consent to challenge India's "excessive maritime claims," triggering a reaction from India, which on Friday said it has conveyed concerns to Washington through diplomatic channels. The Ministry of External Affairs also contested the US Navy's 7th Fleet statement of April 7 that the freedom of navigation operation (FONOP) by the guided-missile destroyer USS John Paul Jones "upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses" of the sea recognised in international law. The MEA in its statement said, "India's stated position on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) is that the Convention does not authorise other states to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state. What is Freedom of Navigation Operation (FONOP)? This is an operation that involves the US Navy passing through waters claimed by coastal nations as their territory. The US' Freedom of Navigation (FON) program has been in force for 40 years and according to the Department of Defense, it "continuously reaffirmed the United States’ policy of exercising and asserting its navigation and overflight rights and freedoms around the world". The DoD "challenges excessive maritime claims asserted by a wide variety of coastal States including allies, partners, and other nations on a worldwide basis to maintain global mobility of US forces", through the FON. What is the 7th Fleet? The 7th Fleet is the largest forward-deployed fleet of the US Navy and at any given time, there are about 50-70 ships and submarines, 150 aircraft, and about 20,000 sailors in the 7th Fleet, according to its website. The fleet is headed by a 3-star Navy officer. Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) As per the United Nations, an exclusive economic zone is "an area beyond and adjacent to the territorial sea, subject to the specific legal regime" under which the "rights and jurisdiction of the coastal State and the rights and freedoms of other States are governed by the relevant provisions". The EEZ of India is "an area beyond and adjacent to the territorial waters, and the limit of such zone is two hundred nautical miles from the baseline". The navies of India and the United States carry out large-scale exercises each year that now involve Japan and Australia. The four countries have formed an informal security grouping called the Quad to push back against China's expanding power. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-why-india-is-concerned-over-us-warship-operation-off-lakshadweep-972881.html
10-04-2021||National||Delhi: Men who used monkeys to steal cash arrested||Two men who roamed New Delhi using monkeys to rob unsuspecting victims have been arrested, New Delhi police said Saturday. The pair were apprehended after one victim complained to officers that three men carrying monkeys had surrounded and robbed him of Rs 6,000, a local police official told AFP. Authorities across India have been grappling with the menace posed by monkeys in Delhi and other populated cities, where they often enter homes in search of food. But it is illegal for Indians to capture them under a 1972 law. "When the victim was sitting in an autorickshaw, the men also entered (the vehicle) and asked one monkey to sit on the front seat and another at the back," the official said. "They took the money the lawyer had in his wallet and fled with the monkeys." Police suspected the gang were behind other similar thefts and officers set up a dedicated team to track down the culprits, who were arrested Thursday at a bus stop along with their animal accomplices. The third thief is still at large while the monkeys have been sent to an animal rescue centre. Monkeys are often trained as street performers in India and incidences of the hairy simians attacking residents are not uncommon. Last year a troop of monkeys attacked a medical official and snatched blood samples of patients who had tested positive for coronavirus in Meerut city in northern India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-men-who-used-monkeys-to-steal-cash-arrested-972882.html
10-04-2021||National||India becomes fastest nation to administer 100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses||With the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossing 10 crore, the Union Health Ministry on Saturday said that India is the fastest nation to administer 100 million doses in 85 days. The US took 89 days to administer 10 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, while China took 102 days to cross the same number, it said. In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 38,93,288 doses administered per day, the ministry said. The US had administered 92.09 million doses in 85 days, while China and the UK administered 61.42 million doses and 21.32 million doses, respectively, in 85 days, it said. Eight states — Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and Kerala — account for 60.62 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country, according to the ministry.  The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated while the vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.  India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-becomes-fastest-nation-to-administer-100-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-972883.html
10-04-2021||National||Eastern Ladakh: India, China agree to maintain stability on ground; avoid any new incidents||India and China have agreed at their 11th round of military talks to jointly maintain stability on the ground, and avoid any new incidents in eastern Ladakh. A day after the talks, the Indian Army on Saturday said the two sides agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols. "The two sides had a detailed exchange of views for the resolution of the remaining issues related to disengagement along the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in Eastern Ladakh," it said. "The two sides agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols," the Army said in a statement. In this context, the Army said it was also highlighted that completion of disengagement in other areas would pave the way for the two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in bilateral relations. "The two sides agreed that it was important to take guidance from the consensus of their leaders, continue their communication and dialogue and work towards a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest," it added. "They also agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground, avoid any new incidents and jointly maintain peace in the border areas," the statement said. The 11th round of Corps Commander-level talks took place at the Chushul border point on the Indian side of the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The parleys began at around 10:30 AM and ended at 11:30 PM. The border standoff between the armies of India and China erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas in eastern Ladakh and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February in line with an agreement on disengagement. India has been insisting that a resolution of outstanding issues including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra is essential for overall ties between the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eastern-ladakh-india-china-agree-to-maintain-stability-on-ground-avoid-any-new-incidents-972885.html
10-04-2021||National||Film shooting disrupted by Sangh Parivar supporters||A film shooting at a temple premises in Kerala was disrupted allegedly by Sangh Parivar supporters alleging that the film was based on a Hindu-Muslim love story. The incident took place at Palakkad district in Kerala on Saturday, soon after attempts by some Sangh Parivar supporters to give communal colour to a viral dance video of two medical students in the adjacent Thrissur district. The shooting of the Malayalam film 'Neeyam Nadi' was taking place at the premises of Vayilyamkunnu temple at Kadambazhippuram near Sreekrishnapuram about 25 kilometres from Palakkad town. The miscreants allegedly damaged some shooting equipment and the crew was forced to call off the shooting. Police sources said that a romantic scene was being shot at the venue and one of the actors was in Muslim attire. This provoked some local activists who raised an objection. Though the crew maintained that they got the verbal permission of the temple authorities and the prescribed payments were to be made once the shooting was over, the executive officer of the temple maintained that he was unaware of any such permission granted for shooting, said the police. Police said that a case was registered and further action would be taken in the due course. Sources said that the temple authorities may also file a petition alleging that the shooting was carried out without permission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/film-shooting-disrupted-by-sangh-parivar-supporters-972910.html
10-04-2021||National||India first, says Sonia as CMs flag vaccine shortage; Amarinder says farm protests hit vaccination drive||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked the Modi government to focus on India’s vaccination needs before exporting the vaccines abroad, as chief ministers of Congress-ruled states complained of shortage plaguing the immunisation drive against Covid-19. Gandhi chaired a meeting of chief ministers of Congress-ruled states, ministers in coalition governments and senior party leaders to assess the Covid-19 situation in the country. “We must focus on India’s vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries,” the Congress President said as Chief Ministers Bhupesh Baghel, Amarinder Singh and Ashok Gehlot flagged shortages of vaccines in the state. Singh told the meeting that the anger among the people of Punjab against the Centre over three farm laws was affecting the vaccination drive. “People in Punjab were still not coming out in large numbers for the vaccination due to the massive anger prevailing against the Government of India on the issue of farm laws,” Singh said adding that he has managed to administer 16 lakh doses since the beginning of the drive in January. Gandhi also called for cancelling public gatherings and election rallies as the country witnessed a record 1.45 lakh fresh cases in a single day on Saturday morning. “Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid for which all of us are responsible to some extent. We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own,” she said. Amarinder pointed out that Punjab's stock of vaccines will last for five more days, while Baghel said Chhattisgarh will run out of the vaccine stock in three days. Gehlot said the Centre should not see the states ruled by other parties as adversaries. The Congress President said cooperation with the states meant showing respect to federalism and it was equally important for the states to be constructive and cooperate with the Centre in its efforts to fight the pandemic. “We are all united in this fight,” she said. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi called for putting money in the hands of the poor, who are hit the hardest during the pandemic. He also urged the government to look at new mutations of the virus, which were considered as the source of the second wave, and called for joining hands and energies, instead of complacency and premature victories. Gandhi said strict measures need to be taken in the Congress-ruled states to ensure that the pandemic does not go out of control and large-scale testing, preparation of adequate facilities and setting up temporary ones should be ensured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-first-says-sonia-as-cms-flag-vaccine-shortage-amarinder-says-farm-protests-hit-vaccination-drive-972916.html
10-04-2021||National||Jal Jeevan Mission a success story; India ready to share experience with others: Kataria||Terming the Jal Jeevan Mission a success story, Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria on Saturday said India is ready to share its experience from the scheme with other developing nations. Speaking at a webinar organised by the BRICS International Forum, a civil organisation, he called upon BRICS nations to share their innovations and best practices in the water sector. Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS) are members of the grouping Highlighting the achievements under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), the minister of state in the Jal Shakti ministry said India launched the initiative in August 2019 with a total outlay of Rs 3.60 lakh crore, which is around USD 48 billion. "A scheme of this scale is unprecedented in the history of this nation and probably in the world," he said. Kataria said that in a short span of one and a half years, India has provided over 40 million rural households piped water connections. He said at this pace, it is expected to meet the ambitious target of covering all rural households well within 2024. "The outcome of the Jal Jeevan Mission cannot be limited to providing piped water connections to households. It is ushering a social revolution as each and every household - irrespective of caste, colour, creed or religion -- is getting water at 55 litre per capita per day (lpcd), following an inclusive approach," the minister said. It is reducing drudgery for women who used to travel long distances to get water for their families. In fact, village-level committees have been constituted for making plans for augmenting water supply, he said. Fifty per cent participation has been ensured for women in such committees. This step will empower women to take important decisions linked to water management, Katari said. The mission includes a huge investment in the water supply network infrastructure like pipes, taps, pumps and storage tanks, and it will create a huge demand for skilled and semi-skilled workers like pipe fitters, plumbers, electricians and pump operators, he said. Therefore, the mission includes a component of skill training for the rural youth so that they can earn their living, the minister added. "Terming the JJM a success story, Kataria said that India is ready to share its experience with other developing nations," a statement quoting the minister said. Kataria highlighted the role of BRICS nations in resolving common problems like lack of access to safe drinking water. He cited the example of Cape Town, South Africa, which became the first major city to have run out of water in 2017-18, to highlight the gravity of crisis of water in the world. Kataria mentioned that around 3 million people in Brazil still lack access to safe drinking water. Russia on the other hand has one-fourth of the world's fresh surface and ground water resources and provides 248 lpcd water to its residents for domestic use, he said. Kataria added that the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated the existential global crises like hunger, poverty and water scarcity. He emphasised on learning from each others valuable experience in handling water crisis as 2.2 billion people across the globe still struggle to have access to safe drinking water. The minister termed providing safe drinking water to people as an inescapable duty of any government and also a human right as enshrined in a UNGA resolution. The webinar was attended by Prof Prince William Mishiki, Minister of Congo; Yulia Berg, Co-Founder of the International Business Acceleration Centre, Russia; Purnima Anand, President, BRICS International Forum, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-jeevan-mission-a-success-story-india-ready-to-share-experience-with-others-kataria-972917.html
10-04-2021||National||Dawood’s 'lieutenant' Jabir Moti to be freed from UK prison as US drops extradition request||Jabir Moti, described in court as a “top lieutenant” of Dawood Ibrahim’s D Company worldwide criminal network, is set to be freed from a London prison and fly out to Pakistan after the US dropped an extradition request for him to face drug trafficking, money laundering and blackmail charges. Moti, a 53-year-old Pakistani national also known as Jabir Motiwala and Jabir Siddiq, had appealed against his extradition order in the High Court in London and was awaiting judgment when the extradition request was withdrawn this week. The US extradition request had stated that Moti reported directly to underworld don Dawood, who is a designated terrorist and wanted for the 1993 serial bombings in Mumbai. “Mr Motiwala was granted unconditional bail by Westminster Magistrates’ Court. The USA have withdrawn the extradition request. Therefore, we will not be appealing any decision to grant bail,” said the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which appears in court on behalf of the US authorities in extradition matters. Moti, who has been behind bars at Wandsworth prison in south-west London since his arrest in 2018, had appealed against the Westminster Magistrates' Court extradition order of District Judge John Zani from February last year, which had concluded that there are no bars to his extradition. According to sources, Moti now awaits a final Home Office sign off on the bail order and is expected to fly out to Pakistan in the coming days. The UK Home Office declined to make a statement, saying it did not “comment on individual cases”. Last month, Pakistani media reports claimed that a former Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) agent had come forward stating that his FBI bosses had ordered him to trap Moti at any cost. The former agent was quoted by ‘Geo News’ as saying that he had "irrefutable evidence" proving Moti's innocence. Besides money laundering, Moti faced extradition to the US on charges of extortion and conspiracy to import unlawful substances such as heroine after his arrest by Scotland Yard’s Extradition Unit in August 2018. Meanwhile, at the last appeal hearing in the High Court on March 25, Lord Justice Jeremy Stuart-Smith and Justice Robert Jay noted that this was no “straightforward case” as they reserved their judgment on the appeal, which was expected later this month. Moti’s barrister Edward Fitzgerald had asserted that the accused faced a very real risk of an enhancement of charges to terrorism. The terror charge would have put Moti at risk of being sentenced to life imprisonment without parole under the US law, which his lawyer argued would be in breach of his human rights. He also argued that Moti’s clinical depression is such that it would be oppressive to extradite him, given his very high risk of suicide. John Hardy, appearing on behalf of the US government, pointed to diplomatic assurances from the American authorities and that there was “no instance” of such assurances being dishonoured. Unlike the India-UK Extradition Treaty, the US-UK treaty involves a relatively simpler legal process for extradition as the requesting state is not required to establish an elaborate prima facie case against the accused before the British courts. District Judge Zani’s ruling in favour of extradition was handed down last year in two parts, one open to the public and the other partly closed and classified due to "sensitive" evidence presented in-camera to the court. It noted that according to information set out in the US extradition request, Moti is said to be an important member of an international criminal organisation called “D Company”, based in Pakistan, India and the UAE. That organisation is said to have conducted criminal activities in the US, which include drug trafficking, money laundering and blackmail. During closing arguments in the case in November 2019, the judge had sought clarity from the US authorities about the terror aspect of the case, due to references to Moti's links with D Company. “There is an added element to this case in that there is a clear reference to this man’s (Moti) position, who is said to be a lieutenant of the man (Dawood) who is involved in the most horrendous crimes, including bombings in India,” Judge Zani had noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dawood-s-lieutenant-jabir-moti-to-be-freed-from-uk-prison-as-us-drops-extradition-request-972930.html
10-04-2021||National||PMC Bank scam: Bail pleas of Viva group MD, chartered accountant rejected||A special PMLA court in Mumbai has denied bail to Mehul Thakur, managing director of Viva group, and chartered accountant Madan Chaturvedi in connection with the Rs 4300-crore PMC Bank fraud case. Their plea for default bail was rejected by special judge Abhijeet Nandgoankar on April 8, and a detailed copy of the order was made available on Friday. Thakur and Chaturvedi were arrested on January 23 by the Enforcement Directorate and are currently lodged in Arthur Road jail. They filed for default bail on the ground that the probe agency had not filed its charge sheet within the mandatory 60 days from the date of their first remand. However, special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves, appearing for ED, submitted that the charge sheet was filed on March 19, which is well within the time. Hence, this application was without any substance and should be rejected, he told the court. The court, after perusal of documents on record, found that the charge sheet was filed within the statutory period. The ED has filed a criminal case of money laundering against HDIL, its promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, his son Sarang Wadhawan and others as part of its probe into the alleged loan fraud in Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. The ED has alleged that the Wadhawans, in connivance with Viva Group, have diverted over Rs 160 crore from HDIL to many companies and entities belonging to Viva Group in the garb of commission. The source of these funds from HDIL to Viva Group is apparently the illegal fund diversion from PMC Bank, the ED has claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmc-bank-scam-bail-pleas-of-viva-group-md-chartered-accountant-rejected-972953.html
10-04-2021||National Politics||No question of post-poll tie-up with Mamata Banerjee: Adhir||West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury ruled out the possibility of extending support to the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC or seeking her support in case the high-octane assembly elections throw up a fractured mandate. Accusing the chief minister of trying to communalise the elections, Chowdhury said that the TMC and the BJP might join hands if both the parties fall short of the requisite numbers to form the government. "BJP and communal politics have found a foothold in West Bengal because of Mamata Banerjee. There is no question of supporting the TMC in a post-poll scenario if it falls short of a majority. "Similarly, there are zero chances of the Congress- Left-ISF Sanjukta Morcha or United Front alliance seeking her support to form the government. There is no possibility of any post-poll tie-up with the TMC," Chowdhury told PTI in an interview. When asked whether the Congress and Left's refusal to extend support to the TMC will help the BJP, the two-time state Congress chief said, "In such a scenario, you will see the TMC and the BJP joining hands to form the government." "Just like old wine tastes better, old friends are also trustworthy. The TMC and the BJP, who were earlier alliance partners, will join hands. They are like two sides of a coin," he said. Chowdhury, however, mocked Banerjee for "surrendering" before Congress president Sonia Gandhi through her letter seeking the support of all the opposition parties. "Mamata Banerjee had deliberately destroyed the Congress in West Bengal in the last 10 years despite the grand old party helping her come to power. Now see the irony, she has become so nervous that she surrendered before the same Congress, which she tried to finish off politically," he said. The TMC had joined hands with the Congress to oust the Left Front from power in 2011. However, the alliance fell apart after coming to power. "The Congress leadership is well aware of the political character of the TMC. Earlier the TMC had called the Congress a spent force, but now it is begging before us," he said. Terming Banerjee the "biggest and most-trusted ally" of RSS-BJP, Chowdhury said her party lacks the credibility as an anti-BJP force and time has come to bid farewell to TMC's "misrule".  "Sanjukta Morcha is fighting the elections to win it and form the next government. We are not here to play second fiddle to anyone. The credibility of the TMC as an anti-BJP force is completely zero. The BJP, on the other hand, is inducting corrupt leaders and is a communal force," he said. Expressing happiness over the "massive response" that the Sanjukta Morcha is getting during campaigning, Chowdhury said that despite efforts of the TMC and the BJP, a triangular contest is being witnessed in the elections and not a bipolar one, as expected by the two parties. He accused both the TMC and BJP of taking West Bengal's political discourse to an "all-time low" through a "vitriolic and communal" campaign. "I have been in politics for a long time. I have never seen the political discourse stooping to such a low level. Such kind of vitriolic and communal campaign by both the TMC and the BJP is against the culture and ethos of West Bengal. Personal attacks are unacceptable," he said. Accusing the TMC of fuelling identity and appeasement politics, Chowdhury said that Banerjee, through her comments that Muslims should vote en masse for her party "is not only communal but also a reflection of her frustration". "She has been doing this for the last 10 years. I fail to understand how a chief minister can make such a comment that goes against the principles of our Constitution. It is shameful and distasteful," he said, referring to Banerjee's comments at a recent election rally that prompted the Election Commission to issue her a notice. Chowdhury, the five-time MP from the Berhampore Lok Sabha seat, claimed that the Sanjukta Morcha is fighting the elections to bring the state out of the "dark days" of the TMC rule and take it to a "new era of development". He dismissed allegations both from within and outside that the Congress and Left Front have compromised with communalism by allying with Abbas Siddiqui's Indian Secular Front (ISF). "The ISF has publicly stated its policies and principles, and it is no way a communal force. It is a secular party just like ours, and all of us are fighting to save West Bengal from the communal onslaught," he said. He said the alliance has been stitched well and possibilities of "friendly fights" in some seats are only "exceptions". "Only in one seat, we are having a friendly fight with the Left. In some seats allotted to us, the ISF has expressed the desire to contest the polls. Nothing has been decided yet," he said. Elections for the 294 assembly seats in West Bengal are being held in eight phases. The votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-question-of-post-poll-tie-up-with-mamata-banerjee-adhir-972715.html
10-04-2021||National Politics||Shortage in Congress-ruled states is not of vaccines but of commitment: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Hours after Rahul Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging "vaccine starvation" in the nation, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hit out at him, claiming the shortage in Congress-ruled states is not of vaccines but of commitment. Gandhi, in his letter to the prime minister, demanded an immediate moratorium on Covid-19 vaccine exports and opening up of the vaccination to "everyone who needs it". Hitting back, senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad wrote on Twitter, "Rahul Gandhi must know that shortage in Congress-ruled states is not of vaccines but of basic commitment towards healthcare." After failing as a part-time politician, has Rahul Gandhi switched to full time lobbying? First he lobbied for fighter plane companies by trying to derail India’s acquisition programme. Now he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines "He should write letters to his party's governments to stop their 'vasooli' (extortion) ventures and concentrate on administering the lakhs of vaccines they are sitting on," he said. India is not facing vaccine starvation but Gandhi is facing "attention starvation", Prasad said. "Why has Rahul Gandhi not yet taken vaccine? Is it an oversight or he doesn't want it or has he already taken one in many of his undisclosed trips to foreign locations but doesn't want to disclose?" he posed. In his letter to PM Modi, Gandhi has also sought more say to the state governments in vaccine procurement and distribution. He also asked for a provision of direct income support to the vulnerable sections amid the disastrous second wave of Covid-19 in India, as he extended his support to the vaccination programme. Gandhi also sought fast-tracking of approval of other vaccines according to norms and guidelines. "After failing as a part-time politician, has Rahul Gandhi switched to full-time lobbying? First, he lobbied for fighter plane companies by trying to derail India's acquisition programme. Now he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines," Prasad said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shortage-in-congress-ruled-states-is-not-of-vaccines-but-of-commitment-ravi-shankar-prasad-972719.html
10-04-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi decries Centre's 'arrogance' over not heeding to good suggestions||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday called for giving money into the hands of common people during the second wave of coronavirus but lamented that the "arrogant government" is allergic to good suggestions. "The failed policies of the central government have led to a terrible second wave of coronavirus and migrant labourers are forced to migrate once again," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Besides increasing vaccination, it is important to give money into their hands -- both for the life of the common man and the economy of the country. But this arrogant government is allergic to taking good suggestions," he further tweeted.  केंद्र सरकार की फ़ेल नीतियों से देश में कोरोना की भयानक दूसरी लहर है और प्रवासी मज़दूर दोबारा पलायन को मजबूर हैं। टीकाकरण बढ़ाने के साथ ही इनके हाथ में रुपय देना आवश्यक है- आम जन के जीवन व देश की अर्थव्यवस्था दोनों के लिए। लेकिन अहंकारी सरकार को अच्छे सुझावों से ऐलर्जी है!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-decries-centres-arrogance-over-not-heeding-to-good-suggestions-972760.html
10-04-2021||National Politics||Mamata appeals for calm, alleges CRPF opened fire on voters standing in queue||Appealing to people to remain calm, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday alleged armed central police shot dead people standing in a queue to vote in Sitalkuchi. The chief minister speaking at at a public meeting here, asked Union Home Minister Amit Shah to explain why five lives were lost in central forces' firing in Sitalkuchi in Coochbehar district during fourth phase of polling. Claiming she had long apprehended such a situation after watching the "high handedness" of central forces for long, Banerjee said "after killing so many people they (Election Commission) are saying the firing was in self defence. They should feel ashamed.This is a lie." "The CRPF opened fire on people standing in a queue to vote, killing 4 in Sitalkuchi. I have been apprehending that the forces' would act in such manner for long. As BJP knows it has lost the people's mandate, they are conspiring to kill people," Banerjee charged. She alleged this was part of a conspiracy hatched by the Union home minister. "However, I would ask everyone to remain calm and cast their vote peacefully. Avenge the deaths by defeating them," she said. Banerjee said that the death toll in this election was far higher than that in the Panchayat elections held three years ago. "If you count the total number of killings since the elections began some 17-18 persons were killed. At least 12 people belonged to our party alone." Banerjee said the EC owed the people an explanation on today's incident. "We are not in charge of the administration. The EC is in charge of administration," she pointed out. "They have removed the senior IPS Surajit Kar Purakaystha. They have removed my OSD Ashok Chakraborty, who is a lower ranked retired officer from RPF. Yet the EC bringing in retired officers to oversee polls here," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-appeals-for-calm-alleges-crpf-opened-fire-on-voters-standing-in-queue-972773.html
10-04-2021||National Politics||Political storm erupts after 5 killed during West Bengal polls||Five people were killed, including four in the firing by CISF personnel, during the fourth phase of polling on Saturday for 44 assembly seats of West Bengal, triggering a political firestorm. An estimated 52.89 per cent of 1.15 crore voters exercised their franchise till 1 pm. Four people were killed as central forces opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", in West Bengal's Cooch Behar district, police said. The Election Commission ordered stopping the voting exercise at polling station number 126 in Sitalkuchi where the incident happened when polling was underway. "According to preliminary reports, four persons were killed as CISF personnel opened fire after coming under attack in a village. "A scuffle took place, and locals gheraoed them and attempted to snatch their rifles, following which the central forces opened fire. Further details are awaited," a police official said. The EC has sought a detailed report on the incident. According to official sources, the preliminary report submitted by EC's special police observer Vivek Dubey said a huge mob of around 350-400 people had gheraoed the central forces, following which they fired in "self-defence". The incident led to violence in the area where bombs were hurled, prompting central forces to baton-charge to bring the situation under control. In another incident, an 18-year-old voter, Ananda Barman, was gunned down outside booth number 85 in Pathantuli, also in Sitalkuchi, after clashes broke out between activists of the ruling TMC and the BJP. Condoling the deaths in Cooch Behar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday requested the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible for the incident and blamed the ruling TMC for perpetrating violence during the polls. He also accused Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of instigating people against the central forces. "What happened in Cooch Behar is unfortunate and sad. I extend my condolences to the bereaved families and urge the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible. "Mamata Didi and her TMC goons have become jittery because of ground swell of support for BJP," Modi told an election rally in North Bengal's Siliguri. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee demanded the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah and a reply from him on firing by the central forces which led to the death of people "standing in the queue to vote". Asserting that she had apprehended such an incident all along, Banerjee said, "After killing so many people, they (Election Commission) are saying the firing was in self-defence. They should feel ashamed." "This is a lie....the CRPF opened fire on people standing in the line for voting, killing 4 in Sitalkuchi. I had been apprehending the forces would act in such a manner for long. As the BJP knows it has lost the people's mandate, they are conspiring to kill people," she said at a rally in North 24 Parganas. The chief minister said she will visit the scene of the incident.  In the Ganguly Bagan area in Jadavpur constituency, the booth agent of CPI(M) candidate Sujan Chakraborty was reportedly attacked by a "fake voter", who threw chilli powder at her, the officials said. A central police contingent was rushed to the spot following the incident. In Bangor in South 24 Parganas, clashes were reported between ISF and TMC workers after the former alleged the ruling party was not allowing their polling agents to enter the booth. In Chanditala in Hooghly, CPI(M) activists scuffled with TMC supporters outside a booth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-storm-erupts-after-5-killed-during-west-bengal-polls-972796.html
10-04-2021||National Politics||Centre has mismanaged Covid-19 situation, allowed vaccine shortage: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi accused the Centre on Saturday of "mismanaging" the Covid situation and creating a vaccine shortage in the country by exporting it, as she called for cancelling all public gatherings and poll rallies in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases. Addressing a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states and ministers of the party in states where it is in power in alliance with others, she said the priority should be to test, track and vaccinate. She was reviewing the efforts by the states ruled by the Congress to tackle the second wave of the coronavirus infection after the country saw a record 1,45,384 fresh Covid-19 cases and 794 deaths on Saturday. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh and Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel were among those who participated in the meeting. Rahul Gandhi called for putting money in the hands of the poor. While Singh pointed out that Punjab's vaccination stock will last for five more days, Baghel said Chhattisgarh will run out of the vaccine stock in three days. Gehlot said the Centre should not see the states ruled by other parties as adversaries. The Congress chief also reviewed the efforts to fight Covid-19, including the availability of vaccines, access to medicines and ventilators, chief spokesperson of the party Randeep Surjewala said. "The (Narendra) Modi government has mismanaged the Covid situation. It has exported the vaccines and allowed a shortage to be created in India," the Congress chief said at the meeting. She said all public gatherings and poll rallies should be cancelled as the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise. "Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid for which all of us are responsible to some extent. We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own," Sonia Gandhi said. Rahul Gandhi expressed concern over the second wave of Covid-19 hitting the country. He urged the government to look at new mutations, which are the source of the second wave, and called for joining hands and energies, instead of complacency and premature victories. He also pointed towards a direct connection between the spread of the infection and nutrition and livelihood. He said the virus attacks the poorest and disadvantaged the hardest, as he reiterated his demand for a "basic income support" by the government. Surjewala said the Punjab chief minister has pointed out a vaccine shortage. "He candidly points out that the Central government has given no assurance of numbers and supply," he wrote on Twitter. Surjewala also said Gehlot has pointed out that the shortage of the vaccines is a reality that cannot be wished away. "Pointing to the spurt in infections, he states that the Centre must take States on board as stakeholders and not as adversaries," he said. Quoting Baghel, Surjewala said he underlined the steps taken by the Chhattisgarh government to fight Covid-19 and pointed out that the state has only three days of vaccine stock left. In her introductory remarks, Sonia Gandhi said the number of coronavirus cases is going up and as the principal opposition party, it is the responsibility of the Congress to raise issues and push the government to move away from "PR tactics" and act in the interest of people. "We must focus on India's vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries. We must stress on responsible behaviour -- adhering to all laws and Covid regulations without an exception," she said. The Congress chief said cooperation with the states is showing respect to federalism and it is equally important for the states to be constructive and cooperate with the Centre in its efforts to fight the pandemic. "We are all united in this fight," she said. Sonia Gandhi said strict measures need to be taken in the Congress-ruled states to ensure that the pandemic does not go out of control and large-scale testing, preparation of adequate facilities and setting up temporary ones should be ensured. "We must make all efforts to support those who face the brunt of reduced economic activity as the restrictions become harder and more stringent," she said. "Is there enough vaccine available? Has the central government been cooperative? What are our states doing to ensure the availability of oxygen, ventilators and other facilities as the pandemic grows? "What are your views on another lockdown? What about the economic fallout? How bad is the situation in your state? Should public gatherings, including election rallies, not be cancelled?" she asked. Stating that various packages have been announced by the Centre to help MSMEs and stimulate the economy, the Congress chief asked, "What impact have these packages had and what more should the government be doing to deal with the continuing crisis? Do you see economic recovery happening in the manner that is being officially claimed?" "According to our discussion on Covid, I would like to be briefed on the latest situation regarding the agitation of farmers that has been going on for well over five months now. "The Congress-ruled states have passed their own laws but those have not received the presidential assent. What more should we do even though the keys to the solution are with the Centre, which has created the problem in the first place," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-has-mismanaged-covid-19-situation-allowed-vaccine-shortage-sonia-gandhi-972802.html
10-04-2021||National Politics||India needs jobs and jabs, BJP govt gives 'jumlas, jibes': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said money should be given in the hands of the common people to tide over the impact of the second coronavirus wave and alleged that the "arrogant government" is allergic to good suggestions. In another swipe at the Centre, he said the government should give people "jobs and jabs" instead of indulging in rhetoric. "The failed policies of the central government have led to a terrible second wave of coronavirus and migrant labourers are forced to migrate once again," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Besides increasing vaccination, it is important to give money in their hands - both for the life of the common man and the economy of the country. But this arrogant government is allergic to good suggestions," he further tweeted. During a review meeting with Congress-ruled states, Gandhi on Saturday suggested that money should be given to the poor and the underprivileged as they were the most hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. "What India needs? - Jobs & Jabs. What BJP Government gives? - Jumlas & Jibes," Gandhi said in another tweet. India saw a record 1,45,384 fresh cases with 794 more fatalities as the Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,32,05,926, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months, while the death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,68,436.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-needs-jobs-and-jabs-bjp-govt-gives-jumlas-jibes-rahul-gandhi-972868.html
10-04-2021||National Politics||Centre renews talks offer as farmers block key expressway||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday renewed the offer for talks with farmers opposing the three farm laws, even as the protestors began the 24-hour blockade of the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway skirting the national capital. Farmers squatted on some stretches of the 136-km long expressway in Haryana throwing goods traffic out of gear. Some places such as Tewasan in Haryana witnessed some tense moments as the state police forcibly tried to remove the farmers from the expressway. The 24-hour blockade of the expressway received a mixed response, particularly at Dasna on the eastern fringes of the national capital, where farmers have been camping for the past 135 days demanding the repeal of the three farm laws. As the Covid-19 pandemic raged through the national capital, Tomar issued a fresh appeal to the farmers to suspend their agitation and resume talks with the government by submitting a fresh proposal. “The government is ready for a discussion whenever they come with a proposal,” said the agriculture minister, who has led the 11-rounds of talks with the farmers that have proved inconclusive. At the same time, Tomar made it clear that there was no dissatisfaction among farmers over the three laws in the rest of the country. “A large number of farmers’ organisations have expressed their support to the farm laws while a few were opposed to it,” the minister said. He said the government had offered to suspend the laws for 18 months, a proposal that was welcomed by many but rejected by the farmers who have been protesting at Delhi’s borders. The Supreme Court too had set up a committee to listen to the grievances of agitating farmers and the views of the government and make recommendations. The Committee comprising farm sector experts Pramod Joshi, Anil Ghanvat, and Ashok Gulati has submitted the report to the apex Court after 12 rounds of meetings with various stakeholders and 11 rounds of internal deliberations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-renews-talks-offer-as-farmers-block-key-expressway-972958.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||BJP offers Rs 1 lakh prize for best video against Delhi govt’s new excise policy||The Delhi BJP on Friday announced that it will give a prize of Rs 1 lakh to a video depicting the best message against the AAP government’s new excise policy, on social media. The party will conduct a mass movement across the city against the excise policy, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. "… a competition will be organised on social media and the best video depicting the message against the new excise policy will be given a prize of Rs one lakh by the BJP," he said. Gupta said the party campaign in this regard will start from Saturday and go on till April 27. Other protest programmes will be held in May, he said. "The protest programme will begin with a signature campaign against the new excise policy and people will be encouraged to send post cards to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in protest against the policy. "The plan is to send one lakh such post cards to the chief minister," the Delhi BJP chief said while putting his signature on one such card. The protest will also include performing an ‘aarti’ at Hanuman temple in Connaught Place on May 27, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-offers-rs-1-lakh-prize-for-best-video-against-delhi-govt-s-new-excise-policy-972639.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Former Madhya Pradesh minister, Congress leader Mahesh Joshi dies||Senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh minister Mahesh Joshi died at a private hospital here after a prolonged illness, his family sources said on Saturday. He was 82. Joshi died Friday late night, they said. The three-time MLA was first elected to the state assembly in 1967 from Indore-1 constituency. He was later elected twice from Indore-3 assembly segment. Joshi became a state minister in 1985. His mortal remains would be consigned to flames in his home district Indore on Saturday. Meanwhile, state Congress chief Kamal Nath expressed grief over his death. उनका निधन कांग्रेस पार्टी के लिये एक अपूरणीय क्षति है। ईश्वर उन्हें अपने श्रीचरणो में स्थान व पीछे परिजनो को यह दुःख सहने की शक्ति प्रदान करे। Taking to Twitter, Nath said Joshi's death was an irreparable loss to the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-madhya-pradesh-minister-congress-leader-mahesh-joshi-dies-972753.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||UP minister Anand Swaroop Shukla tests positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla has tested positive for Covid-19. The minister of state for parliamentary affairs said he got himself tested for the disease on Thursday after noticing some symptoms. The test report came out as positive for Covid-19 on Friday, Shukla added. "I have isolated myself. Those who came in contact with me in the past few days should get themselves tested," the BJP MLA from Ballia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-minister-anand-swaroop-shukla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-972757.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||No lockdown in Delhi but new restrictions soon: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Amid escalating cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said lockdown is "not an option" but some restrictions will be put in place in the national capital which is reeling under the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The chief minister said this during an interaction with reporters after visiting the LNJP Hospital -- the mainstay of Delhi's fight against Covid-19 -- to review its preparedness. "Lockdown is not an option, however, we will be putting some restrictions in place to contain the spread of the virus. We will release the restrictions in the coming few days. Covid centres are being rebuilt and some have already started functioning," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the chief minister's office. Kejriwal said the administration and hospitals are working to contain the fourth wave of the pandemic in the city.   "We are currently in a comfortable position with reference to beds and ventilators. We will ensure that the people of Delhi stay safe, to the best of our abilities," he added. Coronavirus cases in Delhi have mounted at a very rapid rate in the last few days, and the number of deaths too have risen. Delhi recorded 8,521 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the highest single-day surge since November 11 last year, while 39 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,196. The highest single-day spike in Delhi till date -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11 in 2020, while on November 19, the city had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date. "Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital on Saturday, to review its preparation in the face of the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic that has hit Delhi. He took stock of the situation and the facilities provided to the patients in the hospital," the statement said. At present, 1,500 beds out of 2,000 are reserved for Covid-19 patients, and the number might be increased according to requirements in the future, Kejriwal said. "The last few days have seen a rise in the number of corona cases in the entire country, including Delhi. We need to simultaneously spearhead an aggressive vaccination campaign and also put in place measures that can effectively contain the spread of the virus along with making the hospital management equally effective," he said. This is the fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi. The last wave was in November after which the new cases had become so few in Delhi that "health system and agencies began to lax", he was quoted as saying in the statement. It is imperative that they gain their momentum again and begin to function in the same efficient manner that they did, which helped contain the spread of the virus, the chief minister said.  "The Delhi government and hospitals of Delhi are working in earnest to revert to their November level of preparation that helped contain the virus," he said. The Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital has 2000 beds. During the last wave, all 2000 were declared as Covid beds. Right now, we have declared 1,500 of those as Covid beds, 500 are still non-Covid. Slowly, the outpatient department will also be shut at the hospital and if the situation demands, all 2,000 will be made available for Covid patients, the chief minister said. "Whatever is required by the hospitals from our end, will be provided. We sincerely hope and pray to God that no one falls prey to the disease but in the scenario that they do, we will ensure that the hospitals are ready for the challenge and the people of Delhi face no obstacles in recovery," he said. Asked about the vaccination campaign and preparation of the government in the face of rising cases, Kejriwal said, "I have written a letter to the prime minister (Narendra Modi), in which I have said that if adequate doses of the vaccination are made available to us; if we are given permission to increase the number of vaccination centres and if the age limit is removed then within 2-3 months we can vaccinate the entire state". "I cannot talk about the rest of the country, but according to Delhi government's level of preparation, if these three pre-conditions are met, we can assure you that all residents of Delhi will be vaccinated within 2-3 months," Kejriwal asserted. Once everyone is vaccinated, it will greatly aid in containing and ending the severity of the virus, he said. "At the moment, we have vaccination for 7-10 days and the conditions for administering them, particularly the age limit, are very rigid. According to me, there is an impending need to remove these obstacles that are coming in the way of the vaccination campaign," the statement said. During his visit to the hospital, Kejriwal also spoke to a patient admitted in the Covid-19 ward through a video call facility and enquired about his condition. With the help of the video call facility at LNJP, patients can directly talk to their family members, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-lockdown-in-delhi-but-new-restrictions-soon-cm-arvind-kejriwal-972770.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Punjab left with just 5 days of Covid-19 vaccine stock: Amarinder Singh||Punjab's Covid-19 vaccine stock will last another five days, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday as he urged the Centre to share the schedule of supply of the vaccines. The state has been inoculating 85,000-90,000 beneficiaries in a day, and at this rate, Punjab's current stock of 5.7 lakh vaccine doses will run out in five days, he said. Pinning hopes on fresh batches of vaccines from the Centre, Singh stressed that if Punjab was able to meet its target of administering two lakh shots a day, then its current supplies will last only three days. In an official statement here, he said he wrote to the prime minister and the Union health minister to give confirmed supply schedules for the next quarter. Despite being a slow-starter in vaccination, Punjab has inoculated more than 16 lakh people, at an average of around 85,000-90,000 per day, the Punjab chief minister said at a meeting convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the party-ruled states. The meeting was attended by chief ministers of Congress-ruled states, as well as senior party leaders, including Rahul Gandhi. Singh said people in Punjab were still not coming out in large numbers for vaccination due to the "massive anger" against the government of India on the issue of farm laws. Since Punjab has a majority population of the agriculture community, even the common man is affected by the farmers' agitation, he said. "This anger is impacting the vaccination drive," Singh added. The chief minister said his government was undertaking an extensive media campaign to address misinformation around Covid-19 and vaccination hesitancy. Ranked 18th in the country at present in terms of daily cases reported, Punjab is showing a positivity rate of around eight per cent, with an average of nearly 3,000 new cases per day for over two weeks now, Singh told Sonia Gandhi. The number of daily cases is slightly stable, he pointed out, adding, "This shows that the steps taken in the last three weeks are in the right direction." Even in the graphs put up by the Health Ministry in the prime minister's review meeting, the "curve appears to have flattened over the past fortnight", Singh added. He said the state currently has around 27,200 active cases and a recovery rate of 87.1 per cent. Thanking the Congress president for the opportunity “to discuss and learn from each other on Covid management”, Singh said the number of daily fatalities was a concern for Punjab as it was reporting around 50-60 deaths in a day, with a case fatality rate (CFR) just under two per cent in the second surge of the disease. Overall, the CFR is 2.77 per cent for all reported cases since March 2020, he added. Pointing out that on April 9, a total of 3,459 people tested positive in Punjab and 56 deaths were reported, the chief minister said the high death rate is due to late reporting to hospitals and high comorbidity (non-communicable diseases). Also, Punjab has reported all Covid-19 cases very faithfully, Singh added. He noted that as per reports received from the NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control) and the IGIB (Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology), high positivity is being seen in the younger population. More than 80 per cent samples have been found to be positive for the more contagious and virulent UK variant of the disease, the CM said as he spoke about measures taken by his government to combat the spread. Singh also apprised Sonia Gandhi of his communication with the central government to seek flexibility for states to devise their local vaccination strategies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-left-with-just-5-days-of-covid-19-vaccine-stock-amarinder-singh-972774.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||UP panchayat polls: Woman's nomination rejected for village head as papers show her first husband's name||A woman's nomination papers for contesting as a village head in the upcoming panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh were rejected in Purkazi block on Saturday after she filled in the form with her first husband's name, officials said. According to returning officer R K Shrivastava, all the documents of Sonia, the candidate, that she had submitted were found to have her husband Satendra's name. The voters list in Kallanpur village of Purkazi block only has her first husband Devender, who apparently left the family, listed as Sonia's husband. Sources said Sonia later married Satendra, who is Devender's brother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-panchayat-polls-womans-nomination-rejected-for-village-head-as-papers-show-her-first-husbands-name-972793.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Fuel pumps closed in Rajasthan as dealers demand rollback of VAT on fuel||People faced difficulty across the state due to a one-day strike called by Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers Association of fuel stations on Saturday with the demand of a rollback in VAT on fuel in the state. Around 7,000 petrol pumps remained closed in the state due to the strike. However, fuel pumps that are company owned and company operated were open for the public. Association president Suneet Bagai said diesel and petrol sales remained closed on the day. “The state government increased VAT during the coronavirus pandemic and generated extra revenue. The sales volume in the state has declined by 34 per cent because the fuel prices are comparatively low in neighbouring states,” he said. The association has already submitted a memorandum of demands and we would go on an indefinite strike from April 25 if there is no positive decision by the government, Bagai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fuel-pumps-closed-in-rajasthan-as-dealers-demand-rollback-of-vat-on-fuel-972795.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Sisodia calls Kejriwal 'only leader with vision', takes a jibe at PM Modi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is the only leader with a vision for development, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should discuss with him schemes to improve the lives of common people, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday. Addressing a press conference here, Sisodia claimed that all political parties were promising to follow the "Kejriwal model" of governance in states where elections are being held. "Kejriwal is the only leader who has a vision for the country. He understands the problems faced by common people and their needs and the way for development. He has the capability of taking the country in the right direction. Other parties are following his policies. What he promises, he does," Sisodia said. "I hope the prime minister will take opinions from Kejriwal. Every 15 days, Arvind Kejriwal should be called for 'chai' (tea) to discuss what model can be followed for the country's development and which schemes can be implemented for the betterment of the people," he added. The deputy chief minister claimed that Delhi has become a laboratory for developing various policies of development. "Whether it is giving 200 units free electricity or free bus rides for women, all political parties are promising these schemes in other states where elections are being held," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sisodia-calls-kejriwal-only-leader-with-vision-takes-a-jibe-at-pm-modi-972803.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||MP's active Covid-19 case count may reach 1 lakh by April end: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state might reach one lakh by the end of this month given the spike in infection count. He made the statement while speaking to reporters. "The way there is a spike in coronavirus infection cases, the number of active cases in Madhya Pradesh may reach one lakh by the end of this month. We will try to stop this in the middle as we have started adopting some measures, including lockdown," he said. Till Friday night, the number of active cases in Madhya Pradesh was 30,486, while its caseload reached 3,27,220. The state government has decided to open Covid Care Centres in all the districts due to the rise in cases, Chouhan said, adding that in Bhopal and Indore, a team under Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajesh Rajora is looking for buildings, where such facilities could be set up. The supply of oxygen for medical purposes has been maintained in the state, he added. "Till three days back, 60 metric tonnes of oxygen was supplied everyday. On Friday, 180 MT of oxygen was supplied in the state. We mainly get the supply of oxygen from Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and a small amount from Maharashtra. We have also started getting it from Bhilai (Chhattisgarh) steel plant," Chouhan said. Oxygen should be used judiciously and as per requirement, the chief minister added. Recently, several cities in the state had reported shortage of remdesivir injection that is used in the treatment of coronavirus patients. Talking about that, Chouhan said, "We have got 2,000 injections (remdesivir) day before yesterday. The state government has decided to purchase one lakh injections and it has started getting them." According to Chouhan, the state government is also making arrangements for the ventilators. "We will soon get 350 ventilators from the Centre," he said. Chouhan appealed to the people to stay at home and avoid venturing out unnecessarily to help curb the spread of the virus. "We should adopt appropriate behaviour to protect ourselves from the pandemic...People should help by keeping themselves protected," he said. The CM said he is scheduled to hold a virtual meeting on Saturday with the district crisis management committees to discuss the pandemic situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mps-active-covid-19-case-count-may-reach-1-lakh-by-april-end-chouhan-972808.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Punjab commission agents withdraw strike against DBT payments to farmers hours after calling it||A few hours after going on a state-wide strike against the Punjab government’s decision to follow the Centre’s direction to transfer the farmers’ crop MSP directly to their bank accounts, 'arhtiyas' on Saturday withdrew their strike. The arhtiyas or commission agents withdrew their strike after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh assured them that they would remain an integral part of the procurement system. Earlier on the day, around 40,000 arhtiyas across the state had gone on strike to protest against the direct benefit transfer (DBT) of the minimum support price (MSP) to farmers for their crops, bypassing them. The decision to call off the strike was taken by 'arhtiyas' after their leader Vijay Kalra, under the banner of the Federation of Arhtiya Association of Punjab, held a meeting with Punjab Food Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in Ludhiana. After the commission agents announced the rollback of the strike, they said wheat procurement would start in the state. “Punjab CM @capt_amarinder formally launched wheat procurement in the state after Federation of Arhtiya Association of Punjab withdrew their strike. CM assured the Association members that arhtiyas would always remain an integral part of the state's procurement system,” the CM's media advisor said in a tweet. On Thursday, a group of ministers from Punjab had met Union Food Minister Piyush Goyal on the issue of the “direct benefit transfer” of the minimum support price to farmers for their crops bought by the state on behalf of the Centre. After the meeting, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Thursday had said the state government has "no choice" but to implement the Centre's instruction on direct bank transfer of MSP to farmers from the current season. He had said the Centre rejected the state government's demand to give more time to implement DBT scheme. Punjab procures wheat and rice at the MSP on behalf of the central government. Currently, the assured price to farmers in Punjab is paid through ‘arthiyas’ unlike in other states where the MSP is directly transferred to farmers' bank accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-commission-agents-withdraw-strike-against-dbt-payments-to-farmers-hours-after-calling-it-972825.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Centre approves highway projects worth Rs 726 crore in Madhya Pradesh||The government on Saturday said it has approved Rs 726 crore highway projects in Madhya Pradesh. These projects are for building 291 km of highways in the state. "Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has sanctioned road development projects of 291 km worth 726 Cr for the state of Madhya Pradesh," Road Transport, Highways and MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari said in a tweet. These projects include preparation of detailed project reports for upgradation of declared National Highway (572 Km) at a cost of 17.72 crore besides strengthening of road section of Sagar-Chhatarpur on NH 86/934 at a cost of 22.65 crore. "Balance work of Sidhi-Singrauli highway has been sanctioned in the state of Madhya Pradesh at a cost of 529.44 Cr," Gadkari said. Among other projects sanctioned include Bameetha-Khajuraho road at a cost of 73.43 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-approves-highway-projects-worth-rs-726-crore-in-madhya-pradesh-972826.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Plea filed in SC for transferring petition on Uniform Civil Code||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to transfer from the Delhi High Court to the top court to adjudicate upon a petition for framing the uniform civil code to promote fraternity, unity and national integration. The petition filed by BJP leader advocate Ashwini Upadhyay urged the apex court to transfer the case from the Delhi High Court to the top court and decide it, in order to secure gender justice, gender equality and dignity of women in spirit of Articles 14, 15, 21 and 44 of the Constitution and International Conventions. The plea asked the court to direct the Centre to constitute a Judicial Commission or expert committee to draft Uniform Civil Code or Indian Civil Code within three months, while considering the best practices of all personal laws and civil laws of the developed countries and international conventions and publish it on website for at least 60 days for extensive public debate and feedback. It also sought direction to the Law Commission of India to draft a Uniform Civil Code/Indian Civil Code in spirit of Articles 14, 15, 21, 44 of the Constitution within three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-filed-in-sc-for-transferring-petition-on-uniform-civil-code-972830.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Shopian encounter: How a mosque was saved and 5 terrorists killed||The terrorists were inside the mosque and security forces, as well as a host of anxious locals, outside. The situation in Kashmir’s Shopian town was volatile and the challenge was to flush out the five men while protecting the place of worship but it was ‘mission accomplished’, officials said on Saturday. Enabling the successful effort, which culminated in what was the first time in more than 20 years that five terrorists were gunned down in the restive south Kashmir town, were the parents of the terrorists and prominent citizens of the area, the officials said, counting up to 17 appeals made to them to surrender peacefully. As the tension built up over the hours between Thursday night and Friday afternoon, the loudspeaker rang out intermittently with appeals from the parents of the terrorists holed up inside the Jama Masjid, citizens and Army personnel. Groups of people were also sent inside to negotiate with the men to come out peacefully, officials recounted. That didn’t happen. Finally, on Friday afternoon, the last of the five men of the banned Ansar Ghazwatul Hind (AGuH), a shadow group of the Jaish-e-Mohammed, were gunned down and with minimal damage to the mosque.         Narrating the events of the day, officials said the forces of the 44 Rashtriya Rifles and Jammu and Kashmir Police were undeterred by the terrorists' refusal to surrender and moved closer to the mosque. Against the established practice of maintaining safe distance from the target area, Army officers took the decision to move towards the mosque. The intention was to engage in pinpoint and not random, distant firing. "Our main concern was to preserve the sanctity of the masjid while neutralising the terrorists. This exposed our troops to high degree of risk while engaging with the terrorists, who were heavily armed," says Maj Gen Rashim Bali, General officer in Command of Victor Force that looks after militancy in South and central Kashmir.         He said the message had to be firm that "picking up weapons against the state is not an option and would be suitably responded to".         The operation against the men started in the dead of night at 1 am on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday following an intelligence tip-off that five terrorists were hiding inside the mosque. Within no time, the area was sealed and many civilians evacuated to safer places, officials said.  While three of the terrorists were killed by dawn, the other two were gunned down at 2 pm on Friday. The Army had deployed drones to keep a close watch on the movements of the terrorists.    Officials said the parents of one of the terrorists, the brother of another and a prominent citizen were sent inside the mosque to ask them to give up arms but to no avail. At one point, a terrorist fired at a citizen who asked them to surrender in order to ensure the mosque is not damaged.         The terrorists, officials said, also attempted to set ablaze a portion of the mosque in their attempt to flee. After the operation, the troops cleared and cleaned the mosque and handed over all the religious books to the local administration to stem rumours about some books being desecrated. This was the first time that terrorists were cornered inside the mosque in Shopian town. The last big encounter in Shopian was in the late 1990s when four terrorists were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shopian-encounter-how-a-mosque-was-saved-and-5-terrorists-killed-972840.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Covid positive youth isolated at petrol pump in UP||In a shocking display of official apathy, a Covid-positive youth was allegedly 'isolated' at a petrol pump in the state capital of Lucknow by the officials even as the number of positive cases in Uttar Pradesh crossed the 12 thousand-mark in the past 24-hours. According to the sources, the youth, who worked at the petrol pump, had tested positive on Tuesday. He tried to get himself admitted to the hospital but could not due to an alleged unavailability of beds. After four days, some police personnel came to the petrol pump on Saturday and asked the youth to lie down under a tine shed at the pump. The shed was made out of bounds for the people and rope was tied around it, sources said. The state reported 12,780 positive cases in the past 24-hours. Lucknow topped the list with 4,000 cases. As many as 48 people died from Covid-19 in different parts of the state since Friday, according to official sources. UP government has imposed a night curfew in several towns, including Lucknow, Noida, Bareilly, Moradabad, Jhansi, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Kanpur and Varanasi. The state government has also directed that only 50 per cent employees should attend offices in the four most affected towns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-positive-youth-isolated-at-petrol-pump-in-up-972844.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Lockdown extended till Apr 19-22 in some MP areas||The Madhya Pradesh government on Saturday decided to extend the lockdown in several cities, including commercial hub Indore, till April 19 amid a surge in coronavirus cases in the state, an official said. Besides, the lockdown in some other districts has been extended till April 22, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajesh Rajora informed. At present, the lockdown is in force in all urban areas of the state till 6 am on Monday. The decision to extend the lockdown was taken at a meeting held by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan with district crisis management committees via video conferencing. Speaking on the extension, Rajora said, "Lockdown will be in force in Indore city, Rau, Mhow, Shajapur city and some districts like Ujjain, Barwani, Rajgarh and Vidisha till 6am on April 19." Lockdown will be in force from April 12 till the morning of April 22 in Balaghat, Narsinghpur and Seoni districts as well as Jabalpur city, and orders under section 144 of CrPC will be issued by respective collectors soon, Rajora added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-apr-19-22-in-some-mp-areas-972850.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Kashi Vishwanath temple-Gyanvapi mosque case petitioner receives life threat||A petitioner in the Kashi Vishwanath temple-Gyanvapi mosque dispute case has allegedly received a life threat, after which he has been provided security, police said on Saturday. Harihar Pandey has been provided security on the orders of Police Commissioner A Satish Ganesh and they are investigating the case, a police officer said. Pandey said when he reached home after a fast-track court order in the case on Thursday, he received a call from an unknown number. He claimed that the person gave his name as Yasin and said, "Pandeyji, you have won the case but will not be able to enter the archaeological surveyed temple. You and your colleagues will be killed." A Varanasi court on Thursday ordered an archaeological survey of the Kashi Vishwanath temple and the Gyanvapi mosque premises. In its order, the court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to get examined the disputed premises by a five-member team of the Archaeological Survey of India at its expense. The plea in the case had contended that the mosque in Varanasi is a part of the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashi-vishwanath-temple-gyanvapi-mosque-case-petitioner-receives-life-threat-972852.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||At least 10 killed, over 30 hurt as truck falls into gorge in UP's Etawah||At least 10 people were killed and over 30 injured as a truck on which they were travelling fell into a gorge in UP's Etawah on Saturday, police said. "The incident took place in the Barhpura police station area after the driver of the vehicle lost control over it. There were 40 to 50 people travelling by the truck," Additional Superintendent of Police (City) Prashant Kumar Prasad told PTI, adding that the accident took place in a ravine area. A police PRO told PTI, "The number of people who have died stands at 10 while 30-35 are injured. The injured have been admitted to the Etawah district hospital. Depending upon the seriousness of the cases, the injured will be shifted to higher centres for medical treatment." He said all dead are men.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-10-killed-over-30-hurt-as-truck-falls-into-gorge-in-ups-etawah-972865.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||As Covid-19 cases rise, Delhi bans political, sports gatherings; metro, buses to operate at 50%||With coronavirus cases rising rapidly in the national capital, the Delhi government Saturday announced stricter curbs, allowing Delhi Metro and DTC buses to operate only at 50 per cent capacity and limiting the number of guests at weedings at 50, officials said. The city government also prohibited all social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural and religious gatherings in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases. Negative RT-PCR report will be required for travellers arriving in the national capital from Maharashtra by air, the DDMA said, adding those without a report will have to undergo 14-day quarantine. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority said restaurants, bars can operate at 50 per cent occupancy. Delhi Metro, DTC and cluster buses will run at 50 per cent occupancy in view of the rising coronavirus cases, it said. It said colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed in Delhi. Not more than 20 people are allowed in funeral gatherings and upto 50 in weddings, it said. Swimming pools will also remain closed except for training of sportspersons participating in national and international events.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-cases-rise-delhi-bans-political-sports-gatherings-metro-buses-to-operate-at-50-972920.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||FCI wheat procurement row: Delhi BJP MLAs sit on dharna outside Kejriwal's residence||Delhi BJP MLAs staged a dharna outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence here on Saturday after they failed to meet him to discuss procurement of wheat from farmers in the national capital. Leader of Opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri claimed that the farmers in Delhi are "unhappy" with "bad" farm policies of the Arvind Kejriwal government. The protesters alleged that the "failure" of the Delhi government to verify the documents of farmers had forced them to sell their produce at Rs 1,600 per quintal, which was below the minimum support price (MSP) offered by the Centre. "Kejriwal had claimed that his government had implemented the Swaminathan Committee report in the city and the farmers were being provided 50 per cent bonus over and above the MSP," Bidhuri said. "At present, the MSP declared by the central government is Rs 1,975 per quintal and the 50 per cent bonus comes to Rs 987.50 per quintal and this should be paid to the farmers immediately," he said. The delegation, led by Bidhuri, later presented a memorandum to Kejriwal which stated that the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had started procurement of wheat at Rs 1,975 per quintal in Delhi from April 6.  "This procurement was done based on verified documents of farmers. However, on April 7, the city government stopped verifying the documents and so FCI could not make any further procurement which was unfortunate," Bidhuri claimed. BJP MLA  Vijendra Gupta urged Kejriwal to immediately issue strict instructions to the agriculture department to commence the verification of documents of the farmers so that they are able to sell their produce to FCI at the MSP. Notable, Delhi Agriculture Minister Gopal Rai had alleged that FCI did not set up counters in mandis for procurement of wheat from farmers. After a meeting with FCI officials, the minister said FCI counters will be set up in Narela Mandi from Monday. "Bidhuri had falsely claimed that FCI counters were already set up in Narela Mandi, and that I should resign. I request him to first properly investigate the matter and then make statements," Rai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fci-wheat-procurement-row-delhi-bjp-mlas-sit-on-dharna-outside-kejriwals-residence-972934.html
10-04-2021||North and Central||Punjab to challenge HC order in 2015 Kotkapura incident||The Punjab government on Saturday said it will challenge the Punjab and Haryana High court order that quashed the state’s SIT probe report into the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said his government will challenge any adverse decision of the high court in the Supreme Court, asserting that the probe into the Kotkapura firing case was “totally fair, impartial and unbiased”. The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday had reportedly quashed the probe by a Punjab Police’s SIT into the 2015 Kotkapura firing at a gathering of Sikh demonstrators, protesting against the “sacrilegious” incidents of Guru Granth Sahib’s pages found strewn in Faridkot that year. The bench of Justice Rajbir Sehrawat had also asked the state government to reconstitute the special investigation team without IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. The orders had come on pleas by Gurdeep Singh, a former sub-inspector and the then SHO of Kotkapura and another cop who had sought quashing of the subsequent FIR registered in August 2018. The first FIR was registered in October 2015 in this case. They had also sought the removal of Kunwar Vijay from the SIT. The SIT was probing the 2015 Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents. At Behbal Kalan, two people were killed in the police firing. Reacting to the media reports on the high court order, the chief minister said he has directed the state government's legal team to examine the order as soon as its copy is available and move the apex court challenging it if either the SIT probe has been scrapped or its leader has been asked to be removed. The CM said he has full faith in the state's legal team, headed by Siddharth Luthra, a senior advocate from Delhi who had appeared for the state in the case before the high court, the state government said in a statement. The case will be taken to its logical conclusion and nobody, who is guilty, will be spared, irrespective of his political affiliation or position, the chief minister said. He reiterated his “commitment” to fulfilling every single poll promise, including that of ensuring the much-awaited justice for the families of the victims of the firing case. Expressing full confidence in SIT chief Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, and the probe conducted so far under his supervision, the CM said he was an extremely competent and experienced officer who had been working relentlessly on the case since the SIT was constituted. The inquiry was being conducted in a completely fair and unprejudiced manner by the SIT under the leadership of Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, he said, adding neither changing the officer nor setting up a fresh SIT at this stage was acceptable to his government. He said the investigations were in an advanced stage, with four charge sheets already filed against persons in the 2015 case. The CM also slammed Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal, accusing him of continuing to play “dirty politics” over such a grave and sensitive issue. Rejecting as “totally unwarranted and unfounded the allegations of the political witch-hunt against the Badals”, the CM said had he wanted to resort to the “malicious persecution” of his political rivals, he would have done it immediately after taking over and had not given them such a long rope. “I and my party believe in a fair trial and it is because of it that every opposition party and leader in Punjab is freely criticising my government without any fear today,” he added. On Sukhbir's charge of “wasting four years in a political investigation”, the chief minister said it was the BJP-led central government, of which the Akalis were a part that had been scuttling the probe into the case through the CBI, at the behest of SAD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-to-challenge-hc-order-in-2015-kotkapura-incident-972940.html
10-04-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh CM's sister to float party in Telangana||YS Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Friday said she would float a political party in Telangana. Addressing a public meeting in Khammam, about 200 KM from here, Sharmila said the outfits name, agenda and other details would be announced on July 8. Also, she said she would undertake a hunger strike in Hyderabad for three days from April 15 if notification for government jobs is not issued by the dispensation. The relay hunger strike would continue in every district by her partys cadre and leaders until the demand is met, she further said. There is a necessity to float a party to question the alleged corruption in K Chandrasekhar Rao-led government in Telangana, she said. Our party is very much needed to question the KCR government( on anti-people policies). Though Telangana was formed seven years ago, peoples ambitions were not fulfilled," she said. Sharmila's father late Y S Rajasekhara Reddy, widely known as YSR, was the Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh from 2004 to 2009 until he died in a chopper crash which took place in September 2009. She recalled her fathers association and developmental works he had undertaken in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cms-sister-to-float-party-in-telangana-972657.html
10-04-2021||South||Body of accused in IUML worker death case found hanging from tree in Kerala||An accused in the recent killing of a Youth League activist in a post-poll clash allegedly between workers of the CPI(M) and the IUML, was on Friday found dead in an isolated area at Valayam in Kerala, police said. The deceased has been identified as Ratheesh (36), a Panoor native, they said. "Some locals informed the police about the body of an unidentified person found hanging from the tree. We circulated his photograph and found that he was an accused in the IUML worker death case," a police official told PTI. Youth League member Mansur (22) was killed when a group of people waylaid him and his brother Muhsin, a UDF poll agent, near their home. They hurled bombs at the duo before attacking Mansur with sharp weapons on April 6, witnesses had said. Police said Ratheesh, a neighbour of the deceased IUML worker, was absconding. Police have already arrested Shinos in the case. The state police had on Thursday handed over the case to the district crime branch and a 15-member team had initiated probe into the incident. IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty earlier said that his party lacked confidence in the probe team. While the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has alleged that the ruling CPI(M) was behind the killing of Mansur, the Left party dismissed the charge and asserted that it was not a political murder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/body-of-accused-in-iuml-worker-death-case-found-hanging-from-tree-in-kerala-972680.html
10-04-2021||South||Customs questions Kerala speaker in gold smuggling case||Kerala Legislative Assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan was quizzed by the Customs Department in connection with the probe into the US dollar smuggling case. Sreeramakrishnan had earlier kept off from appearing before the Customs twice citing personal inconveniences. Hence, a Customs team came down to Speaker's official residence on Friday and took his statement. According to the Speaker's office, the team from Kochi sought some clarifications from him and the whole process lasted for two to three hours. The customs had earlier registered a case based on gold smuggling accused Swapna Nair's statement that US dollars worth Rs 1.9 crore were smuggled with the knowledge of the Speaker and the Speaker intended to make investments in educational institutions abroad. Allegations of Sreeramakrishnan's nexus with the gold smuggling accused surfaced much earlier as he was found to have inaugurated a shop of one of the accused. But Sreeramakrishnan had been maintaining that he did not have any unholy nexus with the accused. The other day Sreeramakrishnan had made a video post on social media alleging that a 'wretched creature' was unleashing a rumour that he (Sreeramakrishnan) tried to end life as his family life was shattered. He said that he was not a coward and he was willing to open up before any investigation agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/customs-questions-kerala-speaker-in-gold-smuggling-case-972785.html
10-04-2021||South||Jaleel will not resign immediately, has many legal options: Kerala law minister||As the clamour for Higher Education minister K T Jaleel's resignation continued over the Lokayukta's adverse report that he had abused his position to favour a relative for a job, Law minister A K Balan on Saturday came out in support, hinting he will not step down immediately. Pointing out that Jaleel has many legal options, he said the minister can appeal against the Lok Ayukta verdict and get it stayed. "The Chief Minister has three month's time to act on the report. Those seeking his immediate resignation should realise that there is no such precedence in the state," he told reporters at Palakkad. "Has anyone ever resigned just because a lower court has said something?", he asked. "In Kerala there is no precedence of resignation based on a lower court verdict. K T Adeeb, the relative of Jaleel, was appointed on deputation...We only need to verify if the person was eligible or not. No law states that a relative cannot be appointed," Balan said. A division bench of the Kerala Lok Ayukta had on Friday submitted a report to the Chief Minister, saying Jaleel had abused his position as a public servant to obtain a favour for his relative, and should not continue as a minister. The bench had held that the charge of abuse of power, favouritism and nepotism against the minister was proved. Balan said, according to the report, the government has three months time to take action. He alleged that there were occasions in the past when former ministers like Manjulamkuzhi Ali and K M Mani had appointed their close relatives on deputation. CPI(M) Secretary in charge A Vijayaraghavan said the available secretariat met and discussed the issue this morning. "Legal options will be considered. It is quite normal for the opposition to keep on asking for Jaleel's resignation," he said. Union Minister V Muraleedharan said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should demand the resignation of Jaleel. "Why is the CM scared of Jaleel?" he asked, while Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala demanded that the CM seek Jaleel's resignation or he be thrown out if he refuses. The Lok Ayukta verdict was on a complaint filed by a Muslim Youth League leader in November 2018, alleging that Adeeb, a cousin of Jaleel, was appointed general manager in the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation, flouting rules. Adeeb was the manager of a private bank when the appointment was made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jaleel-will-not-resign-immediately-has-many-legal-options-kerala-law-minister-972810.html
10-04-2021||South||Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev lauds Uttarakhand CM for freeing temples||Isha Foundation founder and spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on Saturday congratulated Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat's decision to release temples in the state from government control. The decision, according to Vasudev, is a matter of great joy as 51 temples and shrines in Uttarakhand have been freed from government control. "This should be a welcome step for the whole country and I wish more Chief Ministers take note of this and move in this direction," he said. In his tweet, the spiritualist said, "Congratulations Shri @TIRATHSRAWAT ji, to govt of Uttarakhand & to all others who supported the #FreeTemples movement including media houses, over 3 cr people, & many spiritual & religious leaders who have stood up for this cause. I express my utmost gratitude to everyone." "This should be a welcome step for the whole country and I wish more Chief Ministers take note of this and move in this direction," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sadhguru-jaggi-vasudev-lauds-uttarakhand-cm-for-freeing-temples-972839.html
10-04-2021||South||Major gold heist in Kerala||Gold ornaments weighing about 100 sovereigns were reportedly stolen from a car after an attack on a trader at Pallippuram, about 15 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city, on Friday night. According to the police, Maharashtra native Sambath, who was involved in the supply of ornaments to jewellery shops, was robbed. The gangsters were said to have come in two cars. After intercepting the car in which Sambath was travelling, they broke the windscreens using country weapons and attacked Sambath and his driver Arun. They also sprinkled chilly power on them. The driver was taken away by the gang and abandoned at another location. Another relative of Sambath, who was also in the car, was missing. Police were trying to trace the gang with the help of CCTV footage of the nearby locations. Whereabouts of the gangs involved in similar robberies earlier were also being looked into.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/major-gold-heist-in-kerala-972858.html
10-04-2021||South||Kerala Minister K T Jaleel to move legally against Lokayukta order asking him to quit||Kerala Higher Education and Minority Welfare Minister K T Jaleel is planning to move the state High Court against the order of Kerala Lokayukta that found him guilty of nepotism and declared that he should not continue as a member of the council of ministers. The Lokayukta on Friday gave a report to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take appropriate action on the same. Jaleel said in a social media post that the allegations against him were earlier dismissed by the Kerala High Court and the Kerala former Governor P Sathasivam. Hence, he said he would move legally against the Lokayukta order after seeking expert legal opinion. The allegation against Jaleel was that his second cousin K T Adeeb was appointed as general manager of Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation by altering the qualifications required for the post. Following the allegations, Adeeb had resigned from the post in November 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-to-move-legally-against-lokayukta-order-asking-him-to-quit-972864.html
10-04-2021||South||ED raids in Telangana including against ex-minister's kin||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday said it conducted raids in Telangana, including against the son-in-law of former state minister late Nayani Narsimha Reddy, in connection with a money laundering probe linked to alleged fraud in the IMS and ESIC departments of the state. The central probe agency in a statement said that it has seized a "large amount of incriminating evidence, unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs 3 crore, jewellery of Rs 1 crore, blank cheques, property papers and lockers etc" during searches at seven locations in Hyderabad. Raids are still being conducted, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said. Searches were carried out at the residential premises of Dr Devika Rani, Srihari Babu alias Babji, V Srinivas Reddy, the son-in-law of Nayani Narsimha Reddy, Mukunda Reddy, personal secretary to the former minister, M Vinay Reddy, the brother-in-law of Mukunda Reddy, Burra Pramod Reddy and business premises of Omni Medi, it said. "Unaccounted cash of around Rs 1.50 crore, Rs 1.15 crore, Rs 45 lakh was seized from the residential premises of V Srinivas Reddy, Burra Pramod Reddy and M Vinay Reddy respectively," the ED said. The agency said it initiated the probe in the case under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the then director for IMS (Insurance Medical Services) Dr Devika Rani, her husband Srihari Babu alias Babji of Omni Group and several others on the basis of eight FIRs registered by the Telangana anti-corruption bureau. The bureau booked them on allegations of financial irregularities in the purchase and supply of medicines and surgical kits, huge price escalation, gross deviations from the Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and government norms. They were also booked for creation of fake indents, fake bills, diversion of medicines, falsification of records among others. "The scam has generated proceeds of crime of about Rs 100-Rs 200 crore," it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-raids-in-telangana-including-against-ex-ministers-kin-972929.html
10-04-2021||South||TN to shut entry to beaches in Chennai, two other districts on weekends from April 11||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced that effective April 11, people would not be allowed entry to beaches in Chennai and two other nearby districts on weekends and all government holidays. As Covid-19 cases continued to rise in the state, especially here and in neighbouring districts, the government said beaches in Chennai, Tiruvallur and Chengelpet districts would be out of bounds for the public on "Saturday, Sunday and all other government holidays." Outlining fresh restrictions and relaxations, the government, in an official release, said one additional screening of new movies would be allowed in cinemas during the first week of release, over and above the already permitted shows (four shows a day, usually). However, seating capacity shall remain restricted to 50 per cent. Access to public beaches including the Marina here was allowed last December after a gap of about eight months. In a fresh relaxation, the government said people could offer prayers in places of worship till their 'usual time' or till 10 pm (the maximum allowed time-limit). Days ago, the government had said that places of worship could be open only till 8 pm from April 10 for prayers. The fresh relaxation follows requests from Muslim bodies seeking extension of time for prayers in view of the holy Ramadan month (April 12-May 12). The government, however, made it clear that there would be no permission to hold congregations in places of worship and gatherings shall also be not allowed for festival purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-to-shut-entry-to-beaches-in-chennai-two-other-districts-on-weekends-from-april-11-972944.html
10-04-2021||State||Covid-19: Night curfew in 7 Karnataka cities begins on April 10||The state government on Friday issued detailed guidelines for the 10-day ‘Corona Curfew’ (night curfew) that begins from Saturday night (April 10) and ends on April 20 to contain the galloping Covid-19 cases. According to the guidelines, all services and movement of the public have been banned during the curfew that will be in force from 10 pm to 5 am. However, during this period, essential services, movement of vehicles providing essential service, home delivery and e-commerce vehicles will be permitted. The government also allowed factories and companies carrying out operations in night shift to function. But such firms must ensure their employees reach their offices before the curfew hours. Passengers travelling to and from airport, railway stations and bus stands can do so in auto-rickshaws and cabs by showing authentic tickets and boarding passes. The government also allowed movement of patients and their attendants for availing medical services, medical and emergency services. The order was issued by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar under the section 24 of the Disaster Management Act (2005).  Deputy commissioners and superintendents of police along with police commissioners of Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mysuru and Kalaburagi and Commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) have been directed to strictly enforce the curfew orders. The guidelines stated that those violating the curfew orders will be booked under section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act (2005) along with provisions of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant acts. The 'Corona Curfew' was announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday in seven cities — Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Udupi, Kalaburagi and Bidar — and Manipal town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-night-curfew-in-7-karnataka-cities-begins-on-april-10-972631.html
10-04-2021||State||Karnataka govt cuts districts’ powers to centralise Covid-19 decisions||Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri had to withdraw an advisory that insisted travellers from Bengaluru on carrying a Covid-19 negative report, after the government put its foot down on centralising decision-making on containing the fresh wave of the pandemic.  The withdrawal of the advisory came soon after N Manjunatha Prasad, Principal Secretary (Revenue) and Karnataka Disaster Management Authority’s member-secretary, issued a circular in which he underlined that only the chief secretary can sign off on directions related to Covid-19.  This is a significant departure from how decisions were made during the first wave of the pandemic last year when deputy commissioners were free to take measures they saw fit to contain Covid-19 in their districts.  According to the circular, all decisions on Covid-19 containment, including curbs on movement of people and operation of activities, will be routed through the disaster management wing of the Revenue Department and signed off only by the chief secretary, who also heads the state’s disaster management authority.  This, the circular stated, is to ensure “uniformity and steadiness” in containing the spread of Covid-19 and in line with the system being followed by the Centre.  Any decision will need the chief minister’s approval, the circular stated. “No minister or official can issue statements on imposing new restrictions, but can only explain details of orders already issued,” the circular said, adding that some district administrations were acting in contravention of this norm.  This means DCs, heads of departments and even the BBMP cannot take decisions at their level. However, they can propose measures to the government.  Sindhuri withdrew the advisory acknowledging that her power had been curtailed. She stated that she would submit a proposal to the government that a Covid-19 negative report should be insisted on by those entering Mysuru from Bengaluru.   However, her order requiring citizens to carry a Covid-19 negative report to visit tourist places, theatres, recreation clubs and other crowded places has not been rolled back. This order is to come into effect from April 10 for 10 days. An officer confirmed the order had not been withdrawn and that a final call would be taken after consulting the higher-ups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-cuts-districts-powers-to-centralise-covid-19-decisions-972646.html
10-04-2021||State||Mysuru reports 283 new Covid-19 cases||Mysuru reported 283 new Covid-19 positive cases and five deaths reported on Friday. The total number of positive cases increased to 57,668 and the total number of deaths stands at 1,075. There are 1,682 active cases in Mysuru district. Among the new cases, 237 are primary contacts of infected persons, while 41 are suffering from Influenza like illness (ILI) and five are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases. While the Health department authorities have observed a total of 3,44,738 persons till date, 2,80,053 persons have successfully completed quarantine and 7,017 are under quarantine. A total of 54,911 persons have recovered and are discharged from the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-reports-283-new-covid-19-cases-972670.html
10-04-2021||State||What's allowed and not allowed during night curfew in Karnataka cities||To curb the spread of coronavirus, the Karnataka government has ordered night curfew in select cities of the state beginning today, April 10, and ending on April 20. The curfew order calls for a halt of public movement between 10 pm and 5 am. The 'Corona Curfew' was announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday in seven cities — Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Udupi, Kalaburagi and Bidar — and Manipal town. What is allowed during the curfew: — Essential services, movement of vehicles providing essential service, home delivery and e-commerce vehicles will be permitted. — Factories and firms operating in the night hours are permitted to function, given the employees reach work before 10 pm. — Passengers travelling to and from the airport, railway stations and bus stands can do so in auto-rickshaws and cabs by showing authentic tickets and boarding passes. — Patients and others availing medical treatment and also those requiring medical attention are allowed. What's not allowed: — All public gatherings and meetings will be prohibited during the night curfew — All commercial establishments, including bars, restaurants and other shops, will remain shut. — The guidelines stated that those violating the curfew orders will be booked under section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act (2005) along with provisions of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/whats-allowed-and-not-allowed-during-night-curfew-in-karnataka-cities-972714.html
10-04-2021||State||PM Modi is satisfied with my fight against BSY: Yatnal||Vijayapura MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal claimed that his fight against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his family’s corruption has brought satisfaction to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, the disgruntled BJP MLA said the fact that BJP high command has not taken action against him even after two months of serving notice is proof of the corruption.. “During my visit to Delhi, I had given 11 pages documents and proof to the party high command against Yediyurappa and his family’s corruption. As the party high command have realised that the documents speak the truth, no action has been taken against me,” he said. Yatnal said each member of the Yediyurappa’s family have ‘opened a shop’ and are operating different departments from ‘Kaveri’ (official residence of Karnataka’s chief minister). “One need not be surprised if tomorrow, the grandchildren of Yediyrappa walks around holding IAS officers transfer request,” he said and added that there should be a limit for family involvement in administration and corruption. “Mariswamy, a Zilla Panchayat member and chief minister’s relative gets Rs 65 crore for development, whereas MLAs do not get any funds. What kind of administration is this?” he asked. Reacting to BJP State In-charge Arun Singh of expelling him (Yatnal) from the party, the former Union minister asked the central leader as to who is stopping Singh from terminating him from the party. He claimed that the ‘volcano’ of the rebel against Yediyurappa and his family will explode after April 17. Already, Minister K S Eshwarappa and National General Secretary C T Ravi have raised their voice against the CM. By May 4, there will be a change of guard in BJP and the next chief minister will be from North Karnataka. Yatnal said the Central BJP has not left its Hindutva ideology. After Ayodhya, the movement has shifted towards Kashi and Mathura. However, at State-level the party is harping on ‘fake secularism’ by allocating Rs 1,500 crore to those section of the community, which hates BJP and do not vote for us. “This allocation of funds for Muslims has angered Hindus,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pm-modi-is-satisfied-with-my-fight-against-bsy-yatnal-972869.html
10-04-2021||State||Karnataka-SET exam postponed||The University of Mysore (UoM), the nodal agency which conducts the Karnataka State Eligibility Test (K-SET) for the assistant professorship, has postponed the examination scheduled for Sunday. In a communication, K-SET convener H Rajashekar has mentioned that the examination has been cancelled due to certain reasons and the fresh date for holding the examination will be announced shortly on its website (http://kset.uni-mysore.ac.in). The test was to be held for 41 subjects at 11 nodal centres as per the UGC guidelines.  Several candidates had urged the university to cancel the examination due to the ongoing protest of Road Transport Corporation employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-set-exam-postponed-972896.html
10-04-2021||State||History, geography & political science of Yediyurappa-Eshwarappa rivalry||The BJP’s growth story in Karnataka arguably starts from Shivamogga, and the plot is incomplete without B S Yediyurappa and K S Eshwarappa, a friendship that made people call them Lava-Kusha.  Eshwarappa’s ties with Yediyurappa - they even rode a moped together - seem to have soured, particularly over the last decade.  Earlier this month, in an unprecedented move that sent shock waves, Eshwarappa, the Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister, gave Governor Vajubhai R Vala a 5-page letter in which he described Chief Minister Yediyurappa’s “serious lapses, authoritarian way of running the administration and direct interference (with his department)”. The 72-year-old newsmaker is not new to controversies in a colourful career of over three decades that even saw him become the deputy chief minister. Eshwarappa’s loyalists vouch that he’s a simple man who doesn’t mince words. Being an unapologetic hardliner, Eshwarappa has landed the party in a soup on several occasions. Recently, he publicly justified why Muslims cannot be given BJP tickets. In 2015, he asked a woman journalist, “If you are raped, what can we or anybody do?” Back in the 1980s, Eshwarappa, Yediyurappa and former Legislative Council chairperson D H Shankaramurthy - they were known as the triumvirate of Shivamogga politics - set up a Torino factory that shut within two years, its fate similar to that of many others when Coca-Cola entered the Indian market.  Eshwarappa contested his first Assembly elections in 1989 from Shivamogga and won big against the then health minister K H Srinivas. In the next 1994 election, the BJP increased its tally from four seats to at least 40. Eshwarappa played a significant role in the saffron surge.  During the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, the tension was clear. When Yediyurappa, the CM then, fielded his son B Y Raghavendra from the Shimoga Lok Sabha constituency, it strengthened the family’s hold over the district. Eshwarappa is said to have been miffed, publicly criticizing “dynasty politics”. By 2013, though, when the first independent BJP government’s tenure ended, Eshwarappa was sulking, his relationship with Yediyurappa deteriorating. Some say that Eshwarappa felt he had not received his due, which might have included a shot at becoming the chief minister. Things worsened after Yediyurappa quit the BJP to start the Karnataka Janata Party (KJP). In the 2013 Assembly polls, KJP candidate Rudre Gowda contested against Eshwarappa and got more votes than him, adding fuel to the fire. It was as though the KJP’s sole aim was to see the defeat of Eshwarappa. After all, Eshwarappa was one of the several BJP leaders who ran an anti-Yediyurappa campaign. In December 2016, Eshwarappa launched Rayanna Brigade, an outfit to mobilize the Ahinda (minorities, backward classes and Dalits) to counter the then Congress chief minister Siddaramaiah. Eshwarappa belongs to the backward Kuruba community like Siddaramaiah. The Brigade irked Yediyurappa, who was then the BJP state president. The party’s central leadership had to intervene and broker peace.  Those in the know say that the conflict is not rooted in the past, but the future. Eshwarappa is grooming his son Kantesh and Yediyurappa, too, wants to hand over the reins to his sons. “The rivalry is about the second generation wresting control,” a Congress leader from Shivamogga says. “But, they keep patching up. They need each other. Eshwarappa controls Kuruba votes and is close to the RSS, while Yediyurappa controls the Lingayat votes.”  But has the sun set on the friendship? “People are too quick to judge,” Shankaramurthy says. “They don’t have an understanding of their friendship. It’s only grown stronger over the years.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/history-geography-political-science-of-yediyurappa-eshwarappa-rivalry-972900.html
10-04-2021||State||Docs, entrepreneurs discuss Covid impact on workplaces, employees||Experts from various fields shared their concerns about the effect of Covid-19 pandemic on workplaces and ways to bounce back, an a webinar organised by Deccan Herald Brandspot in collaboration with Manipal hospital, Whitefield, Bengaluru, on Saturday.  Doctors from the hospital and entrepreneurs shared their thoughts about isolation of employees last year and how a series of online activities have been tried at workplaces to bring people closer. Dr Abhinav Raina, Consultant, Neurology, Manipal Hospital, Whitefield, spoke about how long working hours from home has pushed the people further into a sedentary lifestyle increasing their propensity for non-communicable diseases. “Working behind a desk for long hours has increased stress, anxiety, substance abuse, alcohol intake, and drug abuse. We also have people suffering from back aches, neck aches, leg aches and spondylitis. People have become obese. There is lack of exercise with closure of gyms. Hospitals are flooded with such cases of non-communicable diseases,” he said. Dr Sheetal Chaurasia, Consultant, Pulmonary Medicine, Manipal Hospital, Whitefield, said, “Health-seeking behaviour has reduced during the pandemic. Due to the lack of follow-ups and physical examination, those suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases have discontinued medicines. They are getting admitted in ICUs in severe condition.” Ankit Maheshwari, Senior Director, Finance and Centre Head, Capgemini Technology Services India Ltd, said, “With 1.5 lakh people across 10 cities in India, we try fun activities and motivation calls with employees over video calls, podcasts and sharing best practices sessions. We have counselling sessions for stress management, mental health, webinars and seminars multiple times a day. There is guided meditation, singing and dancing to beat Monday morning blues.” Divya Kumar, Global Digital CFO and Chief Data Officer, IKEA Retail, said, the pandemic had brought its own set of problems, especially for women, as the support systems they count on no longer existed. “Be it cooks or nannies, they act as support pillars that allow women to juggle between work and home. Now with the elderly who are vulnerable to Covid at home, these support systems stopped coming home in order to avoid posing a risk of infection. With cooking, cleaning, and children, there is hardly any ‘me’ time left for women. We have these virtual ‘breakout rooms’ where we just ask each other how we’re doing,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/docs-entrepreneurs-discuss-covid-impact-on-workplaces-employees-972913.html
10-04-2021||State||Rank holders, gold medalists wish to pursue research||Hard work, support from teachers and parents had paid off for the gold medal winners and first rank students who were glowing with happiness at the 39th convocation of Mangalore University. The students who had bagged top ranks and gold medals said they were keen on pursuing research in future. Despite experiencing a personal tragedy of losing mother while pursuing second semester in MSc in Industrial Chemistry, Pallavi did not lose hope. Instead, she worked hard and continued to top throughout her MSc programme. She has secured `ICRAIEST -2009' gold medal (converted to cash) and `Syngenta' gold medal (converted to cash) during the convocation. (When the interest accrued from corpus, set aside by individuals/institutions for awarding gold medals, does not cover the cost of gold medal, University then converts into cash award.) Pallavi is presently working in Syngene International and wishes to pursue higher studies through research. Pramitha of St Philomena College in Puttur who secured first rank in MSc Physics has enrolled for PhD programme. She bagged `Prof K Siddappa' gold medal (converted to cash), `The Centre for Advanced Research in Environmental Radioactivity (CARER)' Gold medal (converted to cash), `International Conference on Recent Advances in Materials Science and Bio Physics 2018' gold medal, `Prof M I Savadathi' Cash prize and `Nobel Laureate Sir C V Raman' cash prize (Nuclear Physics). Hailing from an agrarian , family, she said hard work and teachers support helped her to achieve success. Jayalakshmi G, who is serving as a coach in Alva's College Moodbidri had secured first rank in Post Graduate Diploma in Business Management. She is a national level ball badminton player and has represented Mangalore University six times in national level competitions. She is also the recipient of Karnataka Kreeda Rathna award. Bharatesh who secured first rank in Tulu MA is working as a bank employee. The love for Tulu language and culture made him to enroll for Tulu MA and wishes to work for Tulu language. Sukanya who secured first rank in history is the student of Dr G Shankar Government Women's First Grade College and PG Study Centre in Udupi. She won late `Dr Padooru Gururaj Bhat' Memorial gold medal (converted to cash), late `Dr Gururaja Bhat Memorial' gold medal (converted to cash), `Dr P Gururaj Bhat memorial' cash award, `Prof B Sheikh Ali' Felicitation Committee cash award, `Dr M V Shetty Memorial' Cash award and `Abrey D'Souza Charitable Foundation' cash award. Sushma M S, a first rank holder in Masters in Communication and Journalism at Vivekananda College Puttur won Dr `TMA Pai Endowment' Gold medal (converted to cash), `Dr Ramakrishna Malya' gold medal (converted to cash), `Dakshina Kannada Makkala Chalanachitrotsava 1988' cash award and `Public Relations Society of India (PRSI)' cash award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rank-holders-gold-medalists-wish-to-pursue-research-972955.html
10-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bribe for VC post: MU Syndicate suspends professor||The Syndicate of Mangalore University resolved to suspend Prof M Jayashankar with immediate effect pending an inquiry by a retired district judge, Mangalore University Vice-Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya said on Friday. The highest decision-making body of the University decided to conduct an inquiry by a retired district judge. Jayashankar, by paying a bribe of Rs 17.5 lakh to rowdy-sheeter and Rama Sene founder president Prasad Attavar to secure the post of vice chancellor of Raichur University, has loweredthe dignity and reputation of the University, members argued. As soon as Jayashankar had filed a police complaint accusing Prasad Attavar of cheating him, Mangalore University had removed him from the post of Director of College Development Council and was appointed as Director of International Students’ Centre, a non-statutory post. Jayashankar reported for duty as Director of International Students’ Centre on Friday. But the Syndicate decided to suspend him with immediate effect, the VC told DH. Earlier, the University had served a show-cause notice to Jayashankar on why he had not filed the complaint through the varsity. The University had also sought an explanation on why he had resorted to bribery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bribe-for-vc-post-mu-syndicate-suspends-professor-972696.html
10-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Don’t allow KSRTC, BMTC to sink, says Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Friday compared KSRTC, BMTC and NWKRTC to sinking boats. “It is not right to drill holes and let them sinking,” the minister stressed.  Recollecting his previous stint as Transport Minister, Ashoka said he was aware of the difficulties faced while running the Corporations. “One should not allow the organisation to sink. Those who are engaged in strike will be held responsible for its sinking and not the government,” he told mediapersons in Belthangady. The government had paid salaries of KSRTC employees even when the Corporation was facing severe financial crunch due to lockdown. Now, it is not right on the part of employees to engage in strike by listening to someone, the Minister said. The government made alternative arrangement to ensure that people do not face any inconveniences due to KSRTC employees’ strike. “The chief minister is planning to initiate strict action against employees who have gone on a protest. The employees should immediately report to duty,” he stressed. 70 KSRTC buses operated Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Friday operated 55 buses from Mangaluru division, even as staff remained defiant and continued their strike for the third consecutive day. Private buses continued to operate in areas where the KSRTC had failed to run buses. KSRTC Mangaluru Divisional Controller Arun said that the division had operated 55 buses on 29 routes. There are over 450 buses in the division. Even long route buses, including to Mysuru, Bengaluru, Somwarpet and Coimbatore, are being operated, he added. On Thursday, 15 buses had been operated from Mangaluru division. KSRTC Puttur Divisional Controller Jayakar Shetty said that 16 buses were operated from the Division within the district. On Thursday, a total of nine buses had been operated, he added. Shetty said the buses are run on 520 routes from the Division including in Madikeri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/don-t-allow-ksrtc-bmtc-to-sink-says-ashoka-972713.html
10-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fertiliser companies directed to sell stocks at old price, says Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda||The government will initiate measures to check rise in price of fertilisers. The prices of fertilisers have also increased in international market, which now has reflected in domestic market, Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda said.  He said fertiliser manufacturing companies had been directed to sell the stocks available in godown at old price. The stock available is sufficient for next 45 days. The fertilisers are sold at subsidised rate for farmers. The government will also consider increasing subsidies given to farmers for purchasing the fertilisers. The price of DAP and NPK fertilisers have doubled in the international market, the Minister said. “India is dependent on foreign countries for 90% of the fertilisers. The international market price will have an impact in the domestic market. The government will initiate all measures to protect the interest of farmers,” Gowda stressed.  “The price of urea has increased by 17% while that of other fertilisers rose by 40%. I had held talks with fertiliser unit heads and had directed them not to increase price of existing stock of fertilisers,” he said. The minister expressed confidence that prices would reduce in the international market shortly. Night curfew The minister said that night curfew helps in controlling spread of Covid-19. “A majority of activities come to a standstill during night curfew and people reach home early. There is a need to create awareness among people on Covid-19,” Gowda added. There is no shortage of vaccines in India, the Minister said and added that already 8 crore people had received the jab. Karnataka has received 10.50 lakh doses of vaccine recently. When compared to previous year, Covid mortality rate has increased, which is a matter of some concern, he added. “Lockdown is not a solution to check surge in Covid cases. People should remain cautious,”  Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fertiliser-companies-directed-to-sell-stocks-at-old-price-says-union-minister-of-chemicals-and-fertilisers-d-v-sadananda-gowda-972716.html
10-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary tests positive for Covid-19||Minister for Backward Classes and Muzrai, who is also Dakshina Kannada district in charge, Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary has been tested positive for Covid-19. “I have been admitted to hospital after testing positive for Covid. People can contact me over the phone in case of an emergency. All those who have come in contact with me in the last two days should get themselves tested for Covid,” he tweeted. The minister along with others had taken part in the Dharma Nemotasava held at Kelagina Kunjadi Taravadu house of State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel, on April 8 along with other ministers including Minister K S Eshwarappa, BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh.   DHO Dr Kishore Kumar said that the district surveillance officer has been asked to take up contact tracing immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minister-kota-srinivas-poojary-tests-positive-for-covid-19-972834.html
10-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No holding back exams or academic activity: Karnataka Deputy CM||Karnataka government on Saturday made it clear that it would not hold back any examination or stop academic activities due to Covid-19. "The examinations at university-level, including degree, post-graduation, engineering, diploma and all other courses, will be conducted as per schedule,' Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan told reporters. Narayan, who holds the higher education portfolio, said the academic activities for the year 2021-22 have already been delayed and there should not be further delay. If delayed, the cycle of course period, test, results, employment, further studies would get cut, he said. Measures have been taken to ensure the academic activities for the year 2021-22 are not affected, he said. "After the completion of the examinations that are being conducted now, there will be no summer holidays. Functioning of the classes will begin immediately and there will be both offline and online classes," he said. Online classes would be started quite early, Narayan said adding that it would be mandatory for students either to attend online or offline classes. He, however, said the universities and colleges have to follow the standard operating procedure to check the spread of the disease. According to him, the Integrated Learning Management System (LMS) has already been implemented in view of Covid-19. "Students are facilitated to learn from the locations wherever they are and 2.70 lakh tablet PCs have been distributed," Narayan pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-holding-back-exams-or-academic-activity-karnataka-deputy-cm-972862.html
10-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs nearly 7,000 new daily Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths||Karnataka saw 6,955 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday - a dip in the number of new Covid-19 cases by 1,000 compared to the previous day's 7,955, according to the health department. Even the number of deaths declined, by 10 cases. It was 36 today as against 46 on Friday. So far, the total number of cases stood at 10,55,040 and deaths 12,849, the department said. According to the bulletin, 9,80,519 people have so far got discharged. This comprised 3,350 on Saturday. There were 61,653 active cases and of which 405 were in the ICU, the department said. The Bengaluru urban district alone contributed more than 50 per cent of the day's cases and mortalities with 4,384 fresh infections and 19 deaths on Saturday. The city has so far reported 4,74,398 infections and 4,788 deaths. There were 44,863 active cases. According to the bulletin, 276 infections were reported in Kalaburagi, 266 in Mysuru, 215 in Bidar, 206 in Tumakuru, 152 in Bengaluru Rural, 137 in Dakshina Kannada, 121 in Kolar, 119 in Mandya, and 100 in Hassan. Cases were also reported in Dharwad, Ramanagar, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Ballari and Chikkaballapura and Vijayapura. Other than Bengaluru, five deaths were recorded in Mysuru, two each in Bidar, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru and one each in Ballari, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Uttara Kannada. There were 98,790 tests done today, they comprised 90,587 using the RT-PCR and other methods taking the total tests done so far to 2.26 crore, the department said. As many as 56.26 lakh people have been vaccinated so far, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-nearly-7000-new-daily-covid-19-cases-36-deaths-972880.html
10-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bus strike: RTCs continue to crack whip on workers with notices, dismissals||The state road transport corporations (RTC) continued to crack the whip on their workers whose strike entered its fourth day on Saturday, disrupting weekend travel ahead of the Ugadi festival. The BMTC said it has dismissed 118 trainee and probationary employees, in addition to 216 personnel sacked over the last two days for violating the terms and conditions of their contract. The BMTC also issued notice to 1,772 employees who have completed 55 years of age, seeking their fitness certificate. Failing to submit the certificate will lead to forcible retirement, the corporation added. The KSRTC sent 88 personnel, including drivers, conductors, and traffic supervisory staff on punishment transfer for allegedly threatening employees not to report to duties. The NWKRTC and NEKRTC have also issued notices to trainees and probationers and are expected to take stern action against those who fail to turn up for work. More buses on road Meanwhile, the number of RTC employees resuming work increased as the corporations succeeded in running more buses on Saturday. By 6 pm, the four corporations had operated 1,467 buses, up from 855 buses operated on Friday. However, for lakhs of commuters who were traveling home for the long weekend combined with the Ugadi festival holiday on April 13, the absence of the corporation buses caused much inconvenience. The fares charged by private buses remained costly as the government failed to regulate the same for a fourth continuous day. A senior official said the dependency on private players has made it difficult to take tough decisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bus-strike-rtcs-continue-to-crack-whip-on-workers-with-notices-dismissals-972902.html
10-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hours before night curfew, Karnataka eases norms for industrial personnel||The Karnataka government relaxed the night curfew norms for industrial personnel barely hours before it came into effect on Saturday. The Karnataka government has decided to impose night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in major cities, district headquarter towns, and other urban areas for 11 days from Saturday till April 20. People were asked to stay indoors and not to venture out without any valid reason in the night in a bid to contain coronavirus. One of the orders for the employees working in the night shift was that they should be inside the campus of their workplace by 10 pm and stay there till 5 am. However, Chief Secretary P Ravikumar issued a fresh order relaxing the norms for the employees working in the night shift. Vehicles plying employees of Industries from home to factory and vice versa with authorisation letter issued from their respective industrial units, are permitted, the order said. The employees should also carry with them identity cards provided by their respective industry and observe Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and protocol during the travel, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hours-before-night-curfew-karnataka-eases-norms-for-industrial-personnel-972915.html
10-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||11,000 books torched in Mysuru library fire||Miscreants allegedly set fire and reduced to ashes a library here housing over 11,000 books, particularly a large collection of Bhagwad Gita, Quran and Bible besides Kannada books, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in the wee hours of Friday. The library owner blamed some miscreants in his neighbourhood for the incident. They had been threatening him for running the library, he said. "The person residing next to the library rushed to my house at about 3.50 am on Friday and told me that my library has completely been burned down," Ishaq told PTI. The 62-year-old owner, also working as a sanitary worker, said he was passionate about books ever since he ran away from home. "I went to school for only 15 days and ran away from home. I had the opportunity to work as a domestic help in some houses where I developed a taste for books," Ishaq said. Later, he set up the library in a shanty to encourage everyone, especially children, to cultivate reading habits. While most of the books in his library were donated by several people, he used to stock many newspapers which he bought everyday with his own money. An ardent Kannada lover, Ishaq alleged there were some anti-Kannada people in his neighbourhood who did not like him promoting Kannada. "On many occasions, they threatened me of dire consequences but I did not pay heed to them. Finally, they executed their plan," he said. Though police maintained that the mishap could be due to short circuit, Ishaq said there was no electricity in his library.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/11000-books-torched-in-mysuru-library-fire-972933.html
10-04-2021||West||Maharashtra Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar no more||Maharashtra Congress MLA from Nanded Raosaheb Antapurkar passed away on Friday. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-mla-raosaheb-antapurkar-no-more-972624.html
10-04-2021||West||Vaccination only in govt, civic centres on April 10-11 in Mumbai||The vaccination drive against Covid-19 in Mumbai will take place only in government and civic centres on April 10 and 11 and not in any private hospital, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said on Friday. The vaccination drive at private hospitals will resume once more vaccine doses are made available, it added. "On April 10, vaccination will take place in government and civic centres between noon and 6am, and it will be between 9am and 5pm on April 11. Citizens eligible for vaccination can travel to centres during curfew on medical grounds," the BMC said. There are 49 vaccination centres in government and BMC run hospitals in the metropolis, while 71 have been set up in private hospitals, and some 50,000 people are being inoculated daily, as per BMC data. Earlier in the day, Mangala Gomate, executive health officer, BMC told PTI the city was expected to get upto 1.8 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Some 90 vaccination centres, including 71 in private facilities, had to be shut on Friday due to shortage of vaccine doses. This meant that only 25,474 vaccine doses, including 2,854 second doses, could be administered at various centres on Friday, taking the number of doses administered so far in the country's financial capital to 16,14,278, including 1,82,308 second doses. At several centres, people protested after being asked to go back due to the lack of vaccine doses, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vaccination-only-in-govt-civic-centres-on-april-10-11-in-mumbai-972652.html
10-04-2021||West||Mumbai in lockdown as Covid vaccines run short||India's most coronavirus-hit state Maharashtra went into a weekend lockdown on Saturday as the country battles exploding infection numbers and vaccine shortages. Having let its guard down with mass religious festivals, political rallies and spectators at cricket matches, the world's second most populous nation has added more than a million new infections since late March. After a lockdown a year ago caused widespread misery and hit the economy for six, the central government is desperate to avoid a hugely unpopular second shutdown. But many states are tightening the screw, in particular the epicentre Maharashtra and its capital Mumbai, where restaurants are shut and public gatherings of more than five people are banned. Every weekend from Saturday until the end of April the state's 125 million people are confined to their homes unless shopping for food, medicine or travelling. "I'm not for the lockdown at all but I don't think the government has any other choice," media professional Neha Tyagi, 27, told AFP in Mumbai. "This lockdown could have been totally avoided if people would take the virus seriously." Cricket is now played behind closed doors -- including the big-bucks Indian Premier League, which began Friday -- and in many states including in the capital New Delhi a night curfew is in force. All eight teams in the IPL, which includes the sport's top international stars, are in strict bio-bubbles and four players have so far tested positive. Raipur district, home to the capital of Chhattisgarh state, is under a 10-day lockdown with no one allowed to enter the area unless performing essential services. India's drive to vaccinate its 1.3 billion people also looks to be hitting problems, with just 94 million shots provided so far and stocks running low. In megacity Mumbai, 25 out of 71 private hospitals administering jabs ran out of supplies Thursday, city authorities said. The situation at government-run inoculation centres was not much better, with a giant 1,000-bed field hospital turning away people arriving for their first dose on Friday morning. City authorities tweeted that the shortage was "due to non-receipt of stocks" from the national government. The Times of India reported Friday that states on average had just over five days of stock left, according to health ministry data, with some regions already grappling with severe shortages. But the central government has accused some states -- run by opposition parties -- of "distract(ing) attention from their failures" and playing politics. "It is not right to say that there is a vaccine shortage. Vaccines have been made available to all states according to their needs," Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday. The CEO of the Serum Institute of India, the world's biggest vaccine maker by volume, has warned that production capacity is "very stressed". Poorer countries, as well as some rich nations, have relied heavily on Serum for supplies of the AstraZeneca vaccine, but last month New Delhi put the brakes on exports to prioritise domestic needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-in-lockdown-as-covid-vaccines-run-short-972707.html
10-04-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 curfew: What's allowed, what's not allowed||The weekend lockdown in Maharashtra, which the state government had recently announced as part of the curbs to break the coronavirus chain, came into force from Friday night. On Friday, the state recorded reported 58,993 new cases of coronavirus, which pushed its overall tally to 32,88,540, while the death of 301 patients took the toll to 57,329, the state's Health Department said. Strict curbs to contain the spread of the virus came into force in Maharashtra from April 5 and will be in force till April 30. These restrictions include a weekend lockdown, prohibitory orders during day time and night curfew imposed from 8 pm to 7 am on weekdays. The weekend lockdown starts from 8 pm on Fridays and lasts till 7 am on Mondays. Prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 will be in force during the day time during the week. These restrictions are part of the  'Break the Chain' campaign instead of 'Mission Begin Again', a campaign that was launched by the state government for the phase-wise reopening of lockdown last year. What's allowed: - Public and private transport systems will continue to operate. Taxis and autorickshaws will ferry 50 per cent of their total capacity at a time. There will be no standing passengers in public and private buses and masks will be mandatory. - Petrol pumps, government and private security services, and fruit vendors among others have been added to the list of essential services and are being exempted from the ambit of the curbs. - Essential services have been exempted from the existing night curfew. - Movement of maids, cooks, drivers, house help, nurses, and medical attendee providing service to senior citizens and ailing people at home will be allowed between 7 am and 10 pm on all days during the restrictions, including the weekend lockdowns. - Newspaper printing and distribution will continue. -  Agriculture-related activities, including transport of food grains and agriculture produce, will continue uninterrupted. - Government offices, except those departments involved in Covid-19 management, will function at 50 per cent of their capacity. - Organisations like the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), offices of the Sebi-recognised market infrastructure institutions like stock exchanges, depositors, clearing corporations and intermediaries registered with the Sebi, will be allowed to remain open on all weekdays from 7 am to 8 pm. Other offices that will be allowed to remain open include RBI-regulated entities and intermediaries including standalone primary dealers, financial market participants operating in RBI regulated markets, all NBFCs, microfinance institutions etc. - Offices of advocates, custom house agents, licensed multi-nodal transport operators associated with the movement of vaccines, life-saving drugs and pharma products, will also be allowed to function. - Persons arriving or departing by trains, buses or flights during the 8 pm to 7 am period or weekends may travel provided they have a valid ticket. What's not allowed: - Except for the essential services shops, medical shops and grocery shops, all other shops, markets and shopping malls will be closed till April 30. - Only take-away and parcel services will be available from restaurants and bars and roadside eateries will also do business only for take-away and parcel service. - Gardens, beaches and all public places will be closed from 8 pm to 7 am. If the local administration feels that people crowd these places during daytime without observing physical distancing, they will be closed. - Schools, colleges and private coaching classes will be closed. However, exams for Classes 10 and 12 will take place as announced earlier. Any student requiring to attend the examination physically will be allowed to travel to the examination centre or back home after 8 pm or on weekends subject to carrying a valid hall ticket. - Places of entertainment like theatres, cinema halls, video parlours, multiplexes, clubs, swimming pools, sports complexes, auditoriums, water parks will remain shut.  - While places of worship will also be closed for devotees, religious rituals there will continue. Priests and staff at religious places have been asked to get themselves vaccinated immediately. - Salons, beauty parlours will be closed and the staff have been asked to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. - All private offices, except in banking, stock market, insurance, pharma, telecommunication and medical sectors, will be shut as part of these restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-curfew-whats-allowed-whats-not-allowed-972710.html
10-04-2021||West||Maharashtra Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar dies of Covid complications||Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar, who had tested positive for Covid-19, passed away at the Bombay Hospital in Mumbai on Friday evening. He was 55. Antapurkar, the Congress MLA from Deglur in Nanded district of Maharashtra, was initially undergoing treatment at a hospital in his constituency. He was later shifted to Mumbai when his health deteriorated. Antapurkar, a two-term MLA, was close to senior Congressman and public works department minister Ashok Chavan. Antapurkar is the second MLA from Maharashtra to have died of Covid-19. An engineer, he had served the Maharashtra State Electricity Board and joined politics in 1999. Earlier, NCP MLA from Pandharpur-Mangalwedha, Bharat Bhalke, a three-time legislator, had died due to post-Covid complications on 28 November. The bye-elections of this seat is to be held on 17 April and counting on 2 May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-mla-raosaheb-antapurkar-dies-of-covid-complications-972752.html
10-04-2021||West||MVA urges for criteria-based policy on Covid-19 vaccine distribution||Faced with an acute shortage of vaccines, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Saturday urged the Centre to formulate a criteria-based policy on distribution and disbursement of vaccines to various states. Besides, it reiterated the demand of 1.6 crore vaccine doses per month to ensure smooth inoculation of people and fight the pandemic. “We have scaled up the daily vaccination up to six lakh people. Weekly we are able to vaccinate 40 lakh people and monthly around 1.60 crore….we need vaccines accordingly, please provide us,” Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. According to him, the Centre is distributing the vaccine and it must consider the fact that 60 per cent of the active cases of India is in Maharashtra. “Where there are more cases, it is necessary that we develop immunity and vaccines are the only answer…it is the kavach-kundal that we need, it is the Ram-baan and it is the raj-marg,” Tope said in an appeal to the Narendra Modi government. He also pointed out that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP President Sharad Pawar are also of the same opinion and the MVA government has been repeatedly pleading with the Centre for more vaccines. Tope said that he has been in touch with Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on a regular basis and pleading with them to replenish the stocks. He said that out of the latest dispatch of 3.5 crore doses, Maharashtra got 7.5 lakh and after much persuasion, the Centre has added another 10 lakh. Reeling facts and figures, he said as of now the state has eight lakh doses available of its stock that has been received earlier. “We have been told we will get four lakh doses in a day’s time and rest thereafter,” he said. “Lot of arrangements need to be done…if it is Mumbai or Pune, it is okay…we have to send vaccines to far-flung areas…we are a big state…it needs planning and scheduling,” he said. Tope pointed out that of the latest supply of 3.5 crore doses, many smaller states with less population and less number of active cases had got more doses than Maharashtra. “Maharashtra with a population of over 12 crore accounts for 60 per cent of the total active cases in the country… Gujarat has a population of 6 crore and 70,000 cases…The progressive total in Maharashtra has crossed 30 lakh while in Gujarat it is around 3.5 lakh. "The criteria should be decided in terms of size of the population and number of active cases…there should be a criteria-based policy on distribution and disbursement of vaccines to the states,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-urges-for-criteria-based-policy-on-covid-19-vaccine-distribution-972790.html
10-04-2021||West||Maharashtra: Streets, markets deserted as 1st weekend lockdown comes into force||The weekend lockdown imposed across Maharashtra to bring under control the Covid-19 surge, has elicited a positive reponse from people so far with the streets and markets in most parts of the state, including Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur, wearing a deserted look, officials said on Saturday. However, at some locations in the state, including some market areas in Mumbai, people were seen flouting social distancing and other norms by gathering at one place in large numbers. The first weekend lockdown in the state began at 8 pm on Friday and it will continue till 7 am on Monday. The announcement about the weekend lockdown had been made on Sunday, when the state government also declared some other restrictions, like night curfew during the week days and prohibitory orders during the day time as part of its 'Break the Chain' Covid-19 action plan. The weekend lockdown and other curbs will continue till April 30. In the country's financial capital, some areas like south Mumbai were completely deserted due to the lockdown. But people in some other pockets of the city, like the market areas in the central parts and some suburbs in the eastern parts, could be seen stepping out of their houses and also crowding at some points. A large number of people were seen in Dadar vegetable market, with many of them not even wearing face masks, eyewitnesses said. At many places in the city, people also made a beeline outside liquor shops. Mumbai police have deployed personnel to ensure that people adhere to the rules. Taking to Twitter, Mumbai Police had said, "Indoor Mode: ON! A Friday-evening reminder about the weekend lockdown from 8pm tonight till 7am Monday. We urge all citizens to not step out, except for essential services or medical emergencies. Stay home, Mumbaikars. Help Mumbai stay safe!" In Pune, the weekend lockdown has so far received a good response as all shops, commercial establishments, major market areas remained shut and there were no people on the roads. "There is a very good response to the weekend lockdown in Pune. Barring medical shops, almost all other shops, commercial establishments and market areas are shut. People are not coming out on the streets and 95 per cent of those who stepped out, had a valid reason to do so," Joint Commissioner of Police Ravindra Shisave said. Police have set up multiple checkpoints in the city to ensure that peole follow the lockdown in letter and spirit. The lockdown in Pune had started at 6 pm on Friday. In Aurangabad, the weekend lockdown brought the movement of people under control. People have deferred their travel plans and the movement of public transport vehicles has also declined, a senior official told PTI on Saturday. "The weekend lockdown in Aurangabad district had come into effect from the second week of March due to the spike in cases. This was done to avoid unnecessary rush during the weekends," DCP Nikhesh Khatmode said. Nagpur Commissioner of Police Amitesh Kumar told PTI that the weekend lockdown in the city has received a good response so far. PTI DC SPK AW CLS Maha: Streets, markets deserted as 1st weekend lockdown comes into force||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-streets-markets-deserted-as-1st-weekend-lockdown-comes-into-force-972823.html
10-04-2021||West||Maharashtra facing step-motherly treatment from Centre: Congress on 'biased' distribution of medical equipment||Amid a raging war-of-words between the Centre and Maharashtra over the volume of Covid-19 vaccine supplies to the worst-affected state, the Congress – a constituent of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government – has alleged bias in the distribution of PPE kits, N95 masks, and ventilators. “Maharashtra has the highest Covid-19 caseload, but we are facing step-motherly treatment from the Centre,” senior Congressman and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said. “The bias is not only limited to the distribution of vaccines as can be seen in a reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, in which the Government of India has given details of the quantities of critical medical equipment supplied to each state as of 10 February 2021.  If we project the total quantity supplied to each state over the patient caseload we get a shocking picture,” he added. “Gujarat got 9,623 N95 masks per thousand Covid-19 patients as compared to Maharashtra, which got 1,560 masks per thousand patients. Even Uttar Pradesh got 3,916 N95 masks, more than twice that of Maharashtra,” he said. “In PPE kits, Gujarat got 4,951 kits per thousand, Uttar Pradesh got 2,446 kits while Maharashtra got just 223 kits.  In ventilators, Gujarat was given 13 ventilators per 1000 patients, UP got 7 while Maharashtra got only 2 ventilators per thousand Covid-19 patients. Kerala got even less than Maharashtra on a per thousand patient basis,” said Chavan, a former minister of state in the Prime Minister's Office in 2009. “As per the Lok Sabha reply, in all the categories, Gujarat was given the lion's share of supply of medical equipment which is disproportionate to caseload. What is this if not discrimination on the basis of politics,” he said “The Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) seems to be forgetting that he is the PM of the entire country and not just Gujarat, UP and other BJP ruled states,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-facing-step-motherly-treatment-from-centre-congress-on-biased-distribution-of-medical-equipment-972833.html
10-04-2021||West||Total lockdown in Maharashtra likely soon||Maharashtra, the worst-affected state of the Covid-19 pandemic, seems to be heading for a total lockdown for at least two to three weeks. The announcement of a Corona lockdown is expected in the next couple of days. The possibility of a total lockdown was discussed at an all-party virtual meeting on Saturday presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, attended by top leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government and opposition BJP. “Our first priority should be to save lives….the way Covid-19 cases are increasing, if we do not take a decision of lockdown now, there would be a lockdown-like situation in the future automatically. If we want to break the chain, we have to go in for further stricter measures…we do not have options, lockdown is the only option,” Thackeray said expressing concern over the sweeping second wave of the pandemic. As of now, Maharashtra has night curfew, a weekend lockdown and prohibitory orders during the day. Also present in the meeting were Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil, Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil of the NCP, Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde of Shiv Sena, State Congress President Nana Patole, Public Works Minister Ashok Chavan and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat and Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh, Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in council and state BJP president Chandrakant Patil. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte presented a report on the ground situation of Maharashtra. On Sunday, Thackeray will preside over a meeting of the Covid-19 Task Force. On Monday, Pawar, who holds the finance and planning portfolios, would look at the best ways of helping out the public. “I appeal to all political parties that whatever decision is taken, we all should support it,” Thackeray said at the meeting that lasted for over two hours. “It is the role of all to ensure that the poor, the working class do not suffer while imposing strict restrictions. Of course, it should be considered and done, but it is very important to prevent the rapidly increasing infection and morbidity by doing something urgently,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/total-lockdown-in-maharashtra-likely-soon-972877.html
10-04-2021||West||FIR against musicians booked for hurting religious sentiments quashed by Bombay HC||Nearly two years after members of an alternative band 'Dastaan Live' were booked and arrested for allegedly hurting religious sentiments during a live performance at an arts festival in Goa, a Bombay High Court bench has quashed the FIR and slammed the state police for being insensitive while dealing with issues related to "freedom of speech and expression". In their order, Justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar also slammed the hurry with which officials at the Panaji police station filed the first information report, almost instantly after the complaint was filed. "The police authorities are expected to be quite sensitive in such matters, because what is at stake is the freedom of speech and expression. Therefore, unless the complaint discloses the ingredients of the offense under section 295-A of IPC, it is not expected of the Police authorities to rush and register an FIR in such cases,” the order by the Bombay High Court's Goa bench states. “There was no justification whatsoever for the Police Inspector to hurriedly register such an FIR, possibly without even going into the complaint or for that matter the provisions of Section 295-A of the IPC," the order adds. Four musicians from the band namely Sumant Balakrishnan, Anirban Ghosh Shiva Pathak and Nirmala Ravindera were arrested soon after their performance at the popular Serendipity Arts Festival in Goa in 2019. 'Dastaan Live' was performing at the festival as part of a musical event curated by Bollywood music director Sneha Khanwalkar, after a complaint was filed by a lawyer at the Panaji police station. The complainant had alleged that the band members during the live concert had insulted “Hindu religion by chanting Om with abusive languages like ‘Ullu ka Patta’ and displayed walks of life with deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of Hindu citizens” during their performance. In its order, the Bombay High Court bench also slammed the police for not carrying out due diligence and making the artists apologise for their performance, saying the police had no justification to exhort an apology. “There was no justification whatsoever to call some of the petitioners to the Police Station and require them to apologize or to arrest them, no sooner the FIR was registered,” the order said. “To simply allege that ‘OM’ which is a symbol of the complainant's faith ‘in negative   narrative’  or ‘abusing people chanting the OM and followers to Hindu stream as Ullu ke Patta’ is by no means sufficient to spell out the ingredients of Section 295-A of the IPC. Further, to allege ‘blasphemy of my religion and sentiment of hundred crores of India and few million abroad’ also does not spell out the ingredients of Section 295-A of the IPC,” it added. The High Court order also states that the police had filed the FIR and arrested the band members "without even bothering" to read the complaint. "Even the police authorities registered the FIR, literally the minute the same was lodged, perhaps,without even bothering to either read the complaint or the provisions of section 295-A of the IPC. The FIR records that the same was lodged at 13:17 hours on 18.12.2019 and the same recorded also at 13:17 hours on the same date,” the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-musicians-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-quashed-by-bombay-hc-972887.html
10-04-2021||West||PE against Anil Deshmukh: CBI reviews documents and statements||The CBI on Saturday reviewed the statements and documents collected by it during the ongoing Preliminary Enquiry (PE) in former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's allegations of corruption against ex-Home minister of Maharashtra Anil Deshmukh, an official said. As the PE ordered by the Bombay High Court is time- bound, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is preparing an action plan to be adopted during the probe, as part of which the agency team studied all the documents and statements. "As the allegations are serious and sensitive in nature, the CBI team on Saturday reviewed the documents and statements," the official said. The CBI team has so far recorded statements of former Mumbai Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh, currently posted as the Director General of state Home Guards, suspended API Sachin Waze, who is in the custody of the NIA, DCP Raju Bhujbal, ACP Sanjay Patil, Advocate Jayshree Patil, a petitioner, and hotel owner Mahesh Shetty. The NIA is probing the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, 'Antilia', in south Mumbai on February 25. Waze is also under the scanner for the alleged murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of that SUV. Armed with an order of a special NIA court here, the CBI has been questioning Waze. Following an order of the Bombay High Court, the CBI on Tuesday registered a case to probe the allegations against Deshmukh. Singh was shifted from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to the Home Guards department on March 17. Singh later filed a petition in the HC seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh, alleging the NCP leader had asked Waze and other police officers to extort Rs 100 crore from restaurants and bars in Mumbai. Deshmukh, who has rejected the allegations levelled against him, resigned from the cabinet on April 5 after the HC order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pe-against-anil-deshmukh-cbi-reviews-documents-and-statements-972889.html
10-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Gandhinagar municipal corporation polls postponed||The Gujarat State Election Commission (SEC) on Saturday decided to postpone the elections to the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation, scheduled to be held on April 18, due to the rise in Covid-19 cases, an official statement said. The elections are postponed for an indefinite period following a request made by the main political parties including the BJP, the Congress and the AAP, and many social groups. "Taking in view the grave situation caused by the pandemic, to maintain public health and to ensure that voting is done in a free and fair environment, the State Election Commission (SEC) has decided to postpone this election till further orders," the SEC said. As per the earlier programme, the elections were scheduled to be held on April 18 and the counting of votes was to be taken up on April 20. Candidates had also filed their nomination papers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gandhinagar-municipal-corporation-polls-postponed-972891.html
10-04-2021||West||Maharashtra sees 55,411 new Covid-19 cases, 309 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 55,411 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 309 fatalities, taking the tally to 33,43,951 and the toll to 57,638, the state health department said. Maharashtra is now left with 5,36,682 active cases. A total of 53,005 people were discharged during the day, taking the count of recoveries in Maharashtra so far to 27,48,153, it said in a release. The case recovery rate is 82.18 per cent while the fatality rate is 1.72 per cent. With 2,19,977 new tests, the total number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra has gone up to 2,18,51,235, the department said. The case positivity rate in Maharashtra is 15.3 per cent. Currently, 30,41,080 people are in home quarantine while 25,297 others remain admitted in institutional quarantine in the state, it said. Mumbai on Saturday reported 9,330 fresh cases and 28 deaths, taking the count of infections to 5,10,512 and the toll to 11,944. Mumbai division, comprising Mumbai and satellite towns, reported 18,241 new cases and 89 deaths during the day, raising the tally to 10,64,221 and the fatality count to 21,028, as per the department. Nashik division added 7,856 cases, including 1,944 in Nashik city. Pune division reported 11,749 infections, including 4,925 in Pune city. Kolhapur division added 1,040 cases,Aurangabad division 2,190, Latur division 4,593, Akola division 1,369, and Nagpur division 8,373, including 3,696 cases in Nagpur city. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 33,43,951, deaths 57,638, recoveries 27,48,153, active cases 5,36,682, total tests 2,18,51,235, tests today 2,19,977.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-55411-new-covid-19-cases-309-deaths-972909.html
10-04-2021||West||Will not allow vaccines to go out of Maharashtra: Raju Shetti||Even as Maharashtra reels under severe vaccine shortage, veteran farmers’ leader and Swabhimani Shetkari Sangathana founder-president Raju Shetti has threatened to stop vehicles carrying consignments of Covishield vaccine from Pune-based Serum Institute of India. “If Maharashtra does not get adequate quantities of vaccines in a week’s time, we will stop vehicles carrying vaccines to other parts of India,” said Shetti, a former Lok Sabha MP and ex-Maharashtra legislator. Shetti said that he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan. “Will stop SII's vehicles carrying vaccines to other states if doses not supplied to Maharashtra…our stand is very clear on the issue…the vaccines are manufactured in Pune,” he said, pointing out that the Covid-19 pandemic situation in Maharashtra is the worst. “We have very high active cases. The progressive total is very high, we need to be given vaccines on priority,” he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-not-allow-vaccines-to-go-out-of-maharashtra-raju-shetti-972919.html
10-04-2021||West||Javadekar does the firefighting in Maharashtra, says will help the state in procuring 1.1K ventilators||In a bid to douse the tensions brewing between the Centre and Maharashtra, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar held a meeting with Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and announced help for procuring ventilators. Javadekar met Pawar in their hometown of Pune where they reviewed the situation of the state's worst Covid-19 affected district. Javadekar said the Centre would help Maharashtra procure 1,121 ventilators to meet the shortage. “I have spoken with the concerned Central ministers and officers about the acute ventilator shortage in Maharashtra. Within 3-4 four days, 700 ventilators from Gujarat and 421 ventilators from Andhra Pradesh will arrive in the state," he said. He further added that the Centre will also help Maharashtra in increasing oxygen supply for Covid-19 care. “Testing, Tracking, Tracing and Treatment are the thrust areas of containing the Covid epidemic and the Centre has assured Maharashtra to provide funds under the National Health Mission to hire additional manpower required for scaling up the operation, Javadekar said. He further informed that 30 Central Teams are already in various districts of Maharashtra, including Pune, guiding and assisting the state health machinery in controlling the pandemic. About the vaccine shortage issue, Javadekar said Maharashtra has a stock of 15.63 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines in hand and the same should be optimally distributed.  "Boards like 'vaccination centre closed due to no stock' should not be visible and I have spoken about this with the chief secretary Sitaram Kunte", said the minister. Javadekar said the Covid-19 pandemic is a national issue and it is time now for all to work together and not engage in politicizing the issues. Pawar said the next 15 days would be crucial for Pune as well as the state, and urged everyone to join hands in breaking the chain of infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/javadekar-does-the-firefighting-in-maharashtra-says-will-help-the-state-in-procuring-11k-ventilators-972922.html
10-04-2021||West||Gujarat sees record 5,011 Covid-19 cases, 49 deaths||Gujarat's Covid-19 tally rose by over 5,000 cases in a day for the first time on Saturday as 5,011 people were detected with the infection, while the day also saw 49 deaths, which equalled a single-day record of fatalities set in May last year, an official said. The state's caseload stands at 3,42,026, including 4,746 deaths, while the recovery count rose to 3,12,151, or 91.27 per cent of the tally, after 2,525 people were discharged during the day, he said. The state has 25,129 active cases, including 192 on ventilator support, the official said. "Of the 49 deaths, 16 each took place in Surat and Ahmedabad, eight in Rajkot, four in Vadodara, two each in Surendranagar and Gandhinagar and one in Chhotaudepur. Ahmedabad led with 1,440 new cases, followed by 913 in Surat city, 462 in Rajkot city, 287 in Vadodara city," he said. A state government release said, on Saturday, 2,34,272 people were given the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, and 43,474 were given the second dose. So far in the state, 78.71 lakh persons have got the first dose and 10.31 lakh have received the second one, it added. Another official said 103 cases were reported in Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu in the last 24 hours, while 15 people recovered, leaving the Union Territory with a caseload of 3,985 and recovery count of 3,639. With two deaths, the number of active cases in the UT stands at 344, he added. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 3,42,025 new cases 5,011, deaths 4,746, discharged 3,12,151, active cases 25,129 and people tested so far - figures not released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-sees-record-5011-covid-19-cases-49-deaths-972937.html
10-04-2021||West||BJP gives out Remdesivir in Surat office, irks Opposition||Amidst a massive surge in coronavirus cases in Gujarat and health services going haywire, a fresh controversy erupted on Saturday hen the Bharatiya Janata Party started distributing Remdesivir, an anti-viral injection that is in huge demand by people infected with the virus, at party office in Surat, one of the worst affected cities. The development comes amidst reports of shortage of vials and the government scrambling to meet the demand at public as well as private hospitals. As announced a day before, the BJP started distributing free Remdesivir injections at the party's office in Surat to people lined up with doctor's prescriptions. The party plans to distribute 5,000 such injections in the city and neighbouring towns in south Gujarat, represented by state BJP president C R Paatil. However, as the distribution began, a controversy started brewing over how a political party can get the stock of medicines and distribute them. Also, this came a day after Surat district administration suspended allotment of injections to private and well as civic body-run hospitals. During a media briefing when Chief Minister Vijay Rupani was asked how BJP and Paatil received the stock of injections, he responded, "You should ask CR (Paatil) how he arranged those. Government has nothing to do with this." Moments after the remark, Paatil told reporters in Surat that, "Many friends in Surat bought these injections...after buying them at market price, the BJP is distributing them. We have committed for 5,000 injections as an alternative for anyone who comes. Besides, the government is also arranging them efficiently. The government is distributing them in civil hospitals...these injections are only for Covid-19 infected people. It is an effort to help those people." Congress, the Opposition, was quick to criticise the Rupani government while questioning how the BJP received injections at a time when commoners are struggling to get one despite being in queues for hours. State Congress president Amit Chavda said in a Twitter thread, "It's clear from the recent statement by @BJP4Gujarat President, @CRPaatil that BJP has stocked Remdesivir, which is a crucial drug in the fight against Covid, amidst the shortage in the market & pharmacies... Stocking and Distribution of Remdesivir injection by a political party without any drug license is a direct violation of section 18 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940. Will commissioner FDCA initiate action under section 27 of the D&C act against the concerned supplier and distributors? Or the law is only applicable for small retailers? Will the FDCA inspector raid the premises and arrest the person involved in the illegal purchase, storage, and distribution of life-saving medicines?" As the daily Covid-19 cases are witnessing a massive surge in the state, people are lining up at all places where Remdesivir injections are provided. Expert doctors and the state government have warned against the unnecessary use of this injection stating that it can damage vital organs. In a release, the state government had stated on Friday that in March, over 1.63 lakh Remdesivir injections were used while in the first nine days of this month, the government procured and supplied over 1.70 lakh injections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-gives-out-remdesivir-in-surat-office-irks-opposition-972943.html
