11-04-2021||Comment||‘A Change is Gonna Come’||A couple of weeks back, many of us – but far, far too few of us really – commemorated the Mahad satyagraha. On March 20, 1927, B R Ambedkar had led thousands of ‘untouchables’ to the Chavadar tank in Mahad to defiantly drink water from the well. Despite the water tank being public, Dalits were prohibited from accessing it. This radical defiance, what Anand Teltumbde has dubbed ‘the first Dalit revolt’, was likely also the first massive civil rights campaign of the modern world. We have, all of us, benefited from it, as we do when basic human rights are established and preserved anywhere. Himself a rights activist, and also the author of the magnificent comprehensive history of Ambedkar’s campaign, Mahad: The Making of the First Dalit Revolt, Anand Teltumbde currently languishes in jail – as many of us know, but far, far too few of us do anything about. Hardly a single day passes by when I do not think about Anand and the brazen, egregious injustice he continues to suffer. And on the 20th of March, while reading his book about Mahad, I thought about him even more than usual. That same day, I had the chance to watch the recent film One Night in Miami, about the eventful evening that Muhammad Ali spent with Malcolm X, Jim Brown and Sam Cooke in Ali’s Miami motel room. The film crescendos with Sam Cooke singing his poignant, soulful masterpiece, A Change is Gonna Come, a song he partly composed while in jail for ‘disturbing the peace’; that is, for the crime of being black and audaciously expecting equality. As Cooke captures it in his lyric, even a humble request for rights and recognition are met with hostility and violence: ‘Then I go to my brother /and I say brother, help me please/ But he winds up knocking me/back down on my knees. It’s been a long time coming/but I know/ a change gonna come.’ This week, we shall all enjoy the declared national holiday of Ambedkar Jayanti, although only a fraction of us will actually celebrate it. Talk about ‘a long time coming’, this is the 130th birth anniversary of Ambedkar. Even under the impact of one of human history’s most dynamic and influential social reformers and civil rights activists, after a full 130 years, not enough change has come about. In fact, given that Anand Teltumbde, Ambedkar’s ‘grandson-in-law’ was imprisoned on April 14, 2020 (that is, on the 129th Ambedkar Jayanti), we might even observe that we are witnessing the change going in the opposite direction from what we want and from what Sam Cooke’s lyrics intended. On the eve of his imprisonment without bail, Anand penned an open letter addressed to all of us: “Under the draconian provisions of the UAPA, a law that renders a person defenceless, I am being jailed…The jingoist nation and nationalism have got weaponised by the political class to destroy dissent and polarise people…As I see my India being ruined, it is with a feeble hope that I write to you at such a grim moment…I do not know when I shall be able to talk to you again. However, I earnestly hope that you will speak out before your turn comes.” Speaking out is dangerous, as the paradigmatic lives of a Muhammad Ali or a Malcolm X well illustrate. It can get you jailed, and it can get you killed. But if there is any day that we should find the courage to speak out for rights, for justice, for ‘liberty of thought, expression, belief’, then the natural day for that is Ambedkar Jayanti. We can honour Ambedkar’s legacy by demanding change. ‘It’s been a long, a long time coming/but I know/ a change gonna come/Oh, yes it will.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-change-is-gonna-come-972966.html
11-04-2021||Comment||A case against history||How much of the past should a society remember and how much should it forget? Indian politics is obsessed with history – from movements to renaming towns, to fighting over medieval emperors, and holding undying grudges from centuries ago. The fallouts from the British colonial era and Partition are a timeless favourite: During West Bengal’s acrimonious election campaign, Home Minister Amit Shah claimed that infiltrators from Bangladesh were “eating” the rice that was meant to go to the natives. He had earlier called the alleged infiltrators “termites”, and the entire citizenship registry exercise was merely meant to avenge Bengal’s difficult history of partitions and cross-border migration. Meanwhile, Hindu nationalist warriors across the country have been seeking to avenge Partition ever since it happened, holding that Muslims have no right to be equal citizens in India because they “already have Pakistan.” And crimes against liberty that took place during the Emergency are often cited as justification for any authoritarian action in the present day. In the midst of such fiery politics, here’s a radical idea: Shall we as Indians simply agree to bury the past and forget about it? As crazy as this may sound, it’s not unheard of elsewhere in the world. In the early 1990s, in Rwanda, the majority Hutu community mercilessly slaughtered the less numerous but more prosperous Tutsi minority. In the aftermath of the genocide, Rwandans have tried to forget that recent history. Researchers found that while many people remembered the genocide (because of how it upended their daily lives), they were actively trying to forget the ethnic tensions that led to the slaughter. Some Tutsis even objected to monuments commemorating the victims because it brought back painful memories. The post-genocide Rwandan government – run by a Tutsi leader, Paul Kagame – actively tried to teach its citizens that ethnic differences were not innate to Rwandan society, having been created by Belgian colonialists in order to ‘divide and rule’. Why was such an effort to forget the past accepted by people who had lost their loved ones in a genocide? Researchers found that many Rwandans, across ethnic lines, believed that it was simply wiser to forget the ghosts of the past, so as to be able to live with one’s neighbours without being haunted by their possible role in the violence. This isn’t just the story of Rwanda; similar efforts to bury difficult episodes of history have also taken place in Poland, Ireland and even South Africa, where Nelson Mandela famously emerged from prison after 27 years, willing and ready to forgive those who put him there. (Mandela went so far as to defy his own vote bank, to declare that there shall only be a non-racial South Africa, rather than one dominated by his black voters. That kind of ‘unwise’ politics would make most people scratch their heads in India today!) The case for forgetting difficult episodes from history is only stronger in a country as vast and complex as India. Much of Indian identity politics is driven by historical communal tensions. But this is only made worse by the fact that Indian history is extraordinarily complex, full of contradictions and heavily contested. Parts of Indian history are often craftily twisted by politicians – to build a sense of victimhood among any and every community. None of this is to say that a country should not learn from its history, if only not to repeat it. But the line between learning from history, and avenging it, is extremely thin. At the end of the day, the pride of the dead should matter far less than the fate of those still alive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-case-against-history-972968.html
11-04-2021||Comment||A few tall tales about Ambedkar||Many years ago, Siddalingaiah, the Kannada poet, folklorist and co-founder of the Dalit movement in Karnataka, met an aged Ambedkarite in Bedikehala, a village in Belgaum district. The old man, who lay on a charpoy, was known to have seen Ambedkar. Siddalingaiah asked him, “What were your impressions when you saw him?” Ill and weak, the old man replied: “Ambedkar had visited Bedikehala. When I went over to see him, thousands of people were already standing on either side of the road he was to pass through. Each one of them held a stick in each hand. Fearing someone might pelt stones at Ambedkar or harm him in some other way, they had crossed the sticks, scissors-like, up in the air to shield his passage. Their raised sticks didn’t let me get a clear glimpse of him.” ***** A VIP visitor once visited Ambedkar’s house. He wished to see his large collection of books. Inside the home library, the visitor asked him skeptically, “Have you read all these books?” “Yes,” the host said with confidence. The visitor proceeded to pull out a book from one of the shelves and opened a page at random. He asked, “Do you know what appears on Page 59?” Ambedkar recalled the contents of that page in an instant. Pulling out another book, the visitor asked, “What’s being discussed on Page 152 of this book?” Ambedkar knew exactly what that page contained. The visitor didn’t give up. He picked out another book and chose another page at random. Ambedkar clearly remembered this page, too. This went on until the visitor was left with no choice but to give in. He exclaimed, “You are truly a son of Saraswati.” ***** A foreign reporter arrived in India to interview major political figures. He decided to visit Gandhi first. But Gandhi was already asleep when he got there. He then dropped in at Nehru’s house. But Nehru had also gone to sleep. He visited Sardar Patel next. He had also fallen asleep by then. It was past midnight when the reporter arrived at Ambedkar’s house. But Ambedkar was wide awake and working away at his desk. The reporter asked him, “All the other leaders are already in bed. How is it that you are still awake?” Ambedkar replied, “Those leaders have already awakened their people. They can now afford to sleep peacefully. But my people are yet to awaken. So, I have to stay up and keep working.” ***** After losing his first wife, Ramabai, Ambedkar remained unmarried for over twelve years. He would say, “The Dalits consider me as their father. Marrying a Dalit woman again will be difficult as I regard all Dalits as my children.” So, when he married again (Savita Ambedkar), it had to be a woman from another community. ***** On Friday evening, when I felt that I had to write on Ambedkar, since his birth anniversary was around the corner, I visited Siddalingaiah, a long-time family friend, at his home. “Can you share a few tall tales about Ambedkar?” (His famous autobiography, Ooru-Keri, in fact, shares a delightful one, where a young Ambedkar falls into a mound of ash while climbing down a tree and then swears in front of his jeering friends, “I might now be a Budisaheb (‘An ash-covered Saheb’), but I will become a ‘Babasaheb’ one day.”) Siddalingaiah, a captivating raconteur, went on to narrate one exciting Ambedkar episode after another until close to midnight. I have translated and retold above a few tall tales from among them. A distinct genre of myth-making, tall tales step above ordinary reality to disclose truths and mysteries about social predicaments. Whether self-consciously funny or dead literal in their style of articulation, they afford nonetheless a precious glimpse of the inner lives of communities, their desires, anxieties and hopes. The folk lives of Ambedkar -- and, no doubt, those of several other political leaders -- await a careful and creative engagement. The objective biographer’s fixation with facts, it is clear, limits the research focus to certain kinds of archival data, short-changing thereby the task of unpacking public figures as cultural phenomena. Interpretive attention to the novel ways in which communities and individuals allow iconic personalities inside their lives, and indeed help sustain those figures as iconic presence, can richly aid in fulfilling that task.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-few-tall-tales-about-ambedkar-972970.html
11-04-2021||Comment||The copywriting skills of RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) publishes a monthly bulletin. The March 2021 bulletin begins with the following in the first paragraph regarding the state of India’s economy: “There is a restless urgency in the air in India to resume high growth, with signs that the capex cycle is uncoiling and turning, and earnings results of corporates having beaten market expectations.” This is the kind of fluff you expect copywriters at advertising agencies to write and not the folks at India’s central bank. One has no problem with the Reserve Bank resorting to fluff to make its communication more interesting and accessible at large. Nevertheless, what it says needs to be backed by data. And what the RBI is trying to say here isn’t really backed by data. The World Bank has predicted that the Indian economy will grow by 12.5 per cent in 2021-22. Other financial institutions and think-tanks have made similar double-digit growth predictions. This is clearly good news, but it comes with a disclaimer. The 12.5 per cent growth will come on the base of a huge economic contraction of perhaps 8-10 per cent, in 2020-21. In that sense, the size of the Indian economy in 2021-22 will be very similar to or a little bigger than that in 2019-20. We have lost two years of economic growth, like many other countries in the world. Also, there has been some permanent economic destruction. As the Economic Survey released earlier this year had pointed out, even if the economy grows by 10 per cent in 2021-22 and by 6.5 per cent and 7 per cent, respectively, in 2022-23 and 2023-24, the size of the economy would still be at around 90 per cent of where it would have been without the pandemic. The RBI’s bulletin further talks about the capex cycle turning. This basically means that corporates are borrowing and expanding, building more industry and infrastructure. But the data does not bear this out. Data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy points out that the total new investments announced (in value terms) fell by 70.5 per cent in 2020-21. Of course, 2020-21 was the year in which the covid pandemic impacted the economy negatively. So, let’s look at investment data for 2019-20. The total new investments announced in 2019-20 were lower than the new investments announced in each of the years between 2006-7 and 2011-12. That’s how far investments have fallen in the last decade. This can also be gauged by the fact that total lending to industry by banks stood at Rs 27.86 lakh crore as of February 2021, the latest data available. It had stood at Rs 27.45 lakh crore as of February 2016, five years back. The interest rate on fresh rupee loans given by banks during the same period has fallen from 10.54 per cent to 8.19 per cent, a fall of 235 basis points. One basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage. Clearly, bank lending to industry has barely moved up over a period of five years. There could be two reasons for it. The reluctance of banks to lend and the reluctance of corporates to borrow, because they are not confident enough about India’s economic future. Hence, they do not want to take on new loans. Corporates take on loans when they are confident that the returns that they will earn from the business that they build by taking on new loans will be more than the interest that they need to pay on the loans. The RBI’s bulletin also talks about high corporate profits. As Mahesh Vyas of the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy pointed out in a recent piece: “In the December 2020 quarter, the net profit of listed companies exceeded…the record profits of September 2020.” How did this happen? The net sales of these companies fell by 10.4 per cent in the quarter ending September and by 0.9 per cent in the quarter ending December, in comparison to a year earlier, but the companies still made record profits. This happened primarily because the companies were able to drive down their operating expenses. In the quarter ending March 2020, the operating expenses made up 91.1 per cent of their sales. In the quarters ending September 2020 and December 2020, the operating expenses amounted to 81.4 per cent and 82.8 per cent of the sales, respectively. In simple English, the companies slashed employee expenses and renegotiated their contracts with their suppliers and contractors. The larger businesses benefitted in the process, at the cost of the smaller ones. Of course, if a small company gets paid a lower amount of money from a large company, it also has to renegotiate the money it pays to its employees and suppliers. This is not good news for the economy, something that RBI’s monthly bulletin should have pointed out, but didn’t. While the RBI Governor cannot be held responsible for every word that the central bank puts out, nevertheless, he should at least be aware of what the first paragraph of the lead article of RBI’s monthly bulletin, is saying. That he may not have known what is being written is not a good enough excuse. As the head of the institution, he should have known. In legal terms, at the very least, this is willful blindness. As the country’s central bank, it is expected that the RBI brings out the right state of the economy in the commentary and analyses that it puts out. But that doesn’t seem to be happening. Copywriting skills seem to have taken over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-copywriting-skills-of-rbi-governor-shaktikanta-das-972971.html
11-04-2021||Comment||The powerful seeking sexual favours? But that’s an old story||Remember the CD controversy that cropped up in the wake of the Karnataka cabinet expansion, and has since kept making news in one way or another? Some BJP legislators, annoyed at how the cabinet expansion ended for them, had accused Chief Minister Yediyurappa of making decisions in favour of certain ministers after being “blackmailed” using the contents of a CD. The Congress, of course, seized the opportunity to demand a probe. All very amusing. But wouldn’t it be nice to have someone like Upakosha around, talented as she was at catching people red-handed and exposing them for their lies? Who is Upakosha? Glad you asked. Upakosha is the heroine of a short story in the Kathasaritsagara (the ‘Ocean of Stories’). She was married, but her husband was away, so other men thought they could mess with her. One day, when Upakosha emerged from her bath in the Ganga and was walking back home, the king’s minister accosted her. He was a very powerful man, and she knew no one would take her seriously, so she told him to meet her on the night of the spring festival at a specific hour. She had barely walked some distance further when the king’s chaplain stopped her, much the same way. She told him to meet her the night of the spring festival too, but an hour later than she had told the minister. Next, the head magistrate made a pass at her. She arranged for him to visit an hour after the chaplain. The next day, she needed some money, and visited the merchant that her husband had left a deposit with. The merchant told her she had no witnesses to prove that he had her husband’s money but offered to give it to her if she spent a night with him. She agreed to meet with him an hour after the magistrate. Finally, she went home and made preparations with her house help. She kept a large trunk ready, with secure fastenings on the outside. She also had lamp black mixed with scented oils. On the appointed night, the minister arrived. Upakosha offered him spa services first, with a nice massage and bath. Before the massage (with the lampblack) was finished though, the chaplain was knocking on the door. The handmaids immediately warned the minister to hide in the huge trunk, lest his improprieties be discovered. They repeated the same ritual with the chaplain and the magistrate. Now, the three men were squeezed into a huge trunk when the merchant knocked at Upakosha’s door, all too terrified to even breathe lest their presence be discovered. Upakosha brought the merchant into the seemingly empty room with the trunk and asked him for the money her husband had deposited. Seeing that they were alone, he said, “I told you I would give it to you after a night with you.” She announced out aloud, “Gods! Listen to these words of the merchant. He admits that my husband had deposited money with him.” She and her handmaidens then shoved him out into the streets. The next morning, Upakosha marched to the king and lodged a case against the merchant. As evidence, she declared, “My husband kept the deities of the house in a trunk before he left, and the merchant admitted to having my money in the presence of those deities.” She brought the trunk to court, and announced to it, “Gods, if you do not testify to the truth, I will burn this box right here or open it!” The three terrified men called out that she was saying the truth. The merchant was forced to give her back her money. The curious king asked for Upakosha’s consent to open the trunk and found three sorry men covered in soot. When the king discovered that high ranking officials in his kingdom were trapped in Upakosha’s trunk, he actually gave her a reward for exposing them. But who can imagine that happening outside of a story?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-powerful-seeking-sexual-favours-but-that-s-an-old-story-972972.html
11-04-2021||First Edit||Free BBMP chiefs from other duties||Bengaluru is a burgeoning city that is growing and crumbling at the same time. The once pensioner’s paradise which boasted of salubrious weather, is fast becoming unliveable with poor infrastructure, traffic congestion, depleting greenery, vanishing lakes and below par civic amenities, taking the sheen out of the city. Some of the lost glory may still be salvaged if Bengaluru is managed by a dedicated team of officers who are able to dedicate their complete time and energy to the affairs of the city. Unfortunately, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) does not have either a full-time administrator or chief commissioner, as both hold these posts in addition to their other responsibilities. Newly appointed administrator Rakesh Singh is the envy of many IAS officers as he is simultaneously in charge of other plum posts. He continues as the additional chief secretary (ACS) of two important departments, urban development and water resources, besides being the chairman of the Tumakuru Smart City Project.  Now, in addition, he has also been appointed as the managing director of Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), which has its own set of problems. Though the foundation stone was laid in 2006, there is no sign of completion even 15 years hence, with the project dogged by undue delays and cost escalation. It is anybody’s guess if it is humanly possible for a single bureaucrat to handle such major assignments efficiently. BBMP’s chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta continues to hold the post of ACS, industries and commerce department, which in itself is an enormous responsibility. The previous commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad had sought transfer from the post citing extreme fatigue which only gives an indication of the high pressure under which the incumbent is required to work. At a time when the second wave of Covid-19 is raging, the city simply cannot put its fate in the hands of part-time officers. While these officers may be competent in their own right, a trend has emerged over the past few years where the political administration has developed some sort of compatibility with a set of bureaucrats who enjoy coveted posts irrespective of the government in power. There is no shortage of IAS officers in the state that certain bureaucrats should hold concurrent charge of several crucial departments, in the process doing justice to none. Such rank favouritism also demotivates other hardworking officers. While the government should emerge as an equal opportunity employer, it would do well to immediately relieve the BBMP administrator and chief commissioner of all their other responsibilities so that they can devote their complete attention to the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/free-bbmp-chiefs-from-other-duties-973288.html
11-04-2021||In Perspective||Making safe deposit lockers safer||As the name indicates, the safe deposit lockers in banks are supposed to safeguard the contents kept in the lockers. But if the number of complaints filed by customers in the Consumer Forums about loss of valuables kept in the bank lockers it appears that the very nomenclature appears to be a misnomer. Despite paying rent for the facility, consumers have found valuables missing. Yet they had no recourse to legal remedy as banks took shelter under law relating to bailment.   Consumer Forums, which decide complaints on summary trial basis, could not provide relief.  Besides, consumers could not prove as to what they had kept in the lockers. Queries under the Right to Information Act have also revealed that banks have no liability for loss or damage of articles kept in the lockers. Thanks to Supreme Court, in the case of Amitabha Dasgupta vs. Union Bank of India & Others it has decided that Banks are liable for their negligence in safeguarding the contents in the lockers.  In this case, the customer was holding a locker in Union Bank of India, Kolkata Branch, since 1970s. He had kept seven ornaments in a sealed envelope in the locker. In June 1995, the customer went to collect the ornaments and found five of them missing. On questioning, the bank admitted to having inadvertently broken open the locker, though there were no outstanding dues and apologised for the same. The bank also said that the locker had only two ornaments. Dasgupta filed a complaint in the District Consumer Forum, which directed the bank to return the seven ornaments that were in the locker or pay Rs 3 lakhs towards cost of jewelry and Rs 50,000 as compensation towards mental agony, harassment and cost of litigation. The appeal by the bank, the State Commission modified the District Forum’s order and reduced the compensation to Rs 30,000. With regard to the contents of the locker it said that the issue can only be decided upon elaborate evidence and was directed to approach the civil court for adjudication. Even the National Commission accepted the State Commission’s view. As a result, the case was taken to the Supreme Court. In its 41-page judgment, the Supreme Court has observed that ‘there has not been any authoritative pronouncement from this court on the issue of whether banks are responsible as bailees, or in any other capacity, for any loss or damage to the contents of the lockers’. Referring to several foreign and Indian cases and also the circulars with regard to safe deposit lockers issued by Reserve Bank of India, it said that ‘a combination of the bank’s key and the locker holder’s key is required for opening a locker, providing neither with complete access and such being the case the question arises whether the modern-day bank locker system would be guided by the laws of bailment. In this case, the bank did not dispute the fact that they were negligent in breaking open the locker in spite of clearance of dues by the customer. The dispute was only with regard to number of ornaments. The Supreme Court did not go into this dispute and agreed that the customer must file a suit in a civil court. However, the SC observed that this does not mean that the customer is left without any remedy. It said that ‘banks are service providers under the Consumer Protection Act 1986 and 2019, and owe a duty of care to exercise due diligence in maintaining and operating their locker or safety deposit systems. The Supreme Court has found that the present state of regulations on the subject is inadequate and muddled. Each bank is following its own set of procedures and there is no uniformity in the rules. It has said that ‘it seems that the banks are under the mistaken impression that not having knowledge of the contents of the locker exempts them from any liability for failing to secure the lockers in themselves as well’. The best part of the Apex Court’s judgment is when it says ‘as the highest court of the country we cannot allow the litigation between the bank and locker holders to continue in this vein. This will lead to a state of anarchy wherein the banks will routinely commit lapses in proper management of lockers, leaving it to the hapless customers to bear the costs’. It has said that the banks cannot wash off their hands and claim that they bear no liability towards their customers. Such actions will only violate the provisions of the CPA and also damage investor confidence. Having said this, the SC has directed the RBI to issue suitable rules and regulations about safe deposit lockers. Further, the Court has directed the bank to pay to the customer Rs 5 lakhs as compensation and Rs 1 lakh as litigation expenses. The beauty of the judgment lies in the fact that this amount is to be recovered from the salary of the erring official. (The writer is Founder of Consumer Rights Education and Awareness Trust, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/making-safe-deposit-lockers-safer-973289.html
11-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Strict night curfew in Mangaluru city amid second Covid-19 wave||Police have started strictly implementing the night curfew imposed to check the spread of a second wave of coronavirus infection within the police commissionerate from Saturday night. Police sources said all vehicles plying after 10 PM were checked and the unnecessary movement of people was brought under control during the curfew hours between 10 PM and 5 AM. People who ventured out were warned and sent back. Hoteliers and other businessmen in the city downed their shutters early in the night on Saturday. A large number of police personnel, including four assistant commissioners, two deputy commissioners, 18 inspectors and 40 sub inspectors have been deployed in the city to monitor the situation. A total of 45 checkpoints have been set up across the city corporation. Eight to ten policemen, led by an ASI are posted at all the checkpoints. The Karnataka government decided to impose night curfew from 10 PM to 5 AM in major cities, district headquarter towns and other urban areas for 11 days from Saturday till April 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/strict-night-curfew-in-mangaluru-city-amid-second-covid-19-wave-973096.html
11-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Udupi DC G Jagadeesh Malalagadde's Facebook account hacked||Fraudsters have hacked the Facebook account of Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesh Malalagadde.  After hacking the account, the miscreants sent messages to his friends seeking money. The DC has already filed a complaint to the Cyber Crime, Economic Offences & Narcotics (CEN) station in Udupi and appealed to the people not to send money for the request sent in his name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-dc-g-jagadeesh-malalagaddes-facebook-account-hacked-973164.html
11-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||New timings in Karnataka government offices due to heat||Karnataka government on Sunday said its offices in certain northern districts of the State would function from 8 AM to 1.30 PM from April 12 till May- end because of the summer heat. The new timings would be applicable to the Vijayapura district in the Belagavi division, and all the districts in the Bagalkote and Kalaburagi divisions, according to an order from the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR). The order has been issued after considering the representations from the Karnataka State Government Employees Association. Stating that the timings have been changed from 10 AM - 5.30 PM to 8 AM - 1.30 PM in these districts in view of the severe summer in April and May, the order asked the government employees to discharge their duties in the changed hours without causing any inconvenience to the public. The change would not be applicable for employees who have been instructed to do emergency work, especially related to Covid-19, by the district's Deputy Commissioners or CEOs of the Zilla Panchayats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-timings-in-karnataka-government-offices-due-to-heat-973173.html
11-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||130 youths apprehended from rave party of Hassan's Alur||A rave party, at an estate on the outskirts of Alur, Hassan district, was busted on Saturday late night and police apprehended 130 youths, in this connection. Acting on a tip-off, a team, led by Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda, conducted a raid and took into custody 130 youths, for participating in the rave party, at Nandipura estate, near Alur. Young men and women from Bengaluru and other states had arrived at the Motorcycle resort near Nandipura estate on Saturday night in cars and motorbikes to attend the rave party. SP R Srinivas Gowda, Dy SP Gopi and the team conducted a raid and found DJ playing loud music. The youths were partying on the spot. Liquor consumption and usage of ganja were found. Police took all the 130 people into custody and also seized the vehicles, including luxury cars and motorbikes. Police seized liquor, ganja and other narcotics on the premises. The youths were from Karnataka, Goa and also other states. Their blood samples have been collected. In a press conference, SP Srinivas Gowda said, despite a ban on night parties by the government, the youths from Karnataka, Goa and also other states were found involved in a rave party, which is a warning bell to the society. The region is facing a wild elephant menace and several have lost their lives. Who is responsible in case the jumbos had attacked them during the party, he asked. They will also be booked for violation of covid norms, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/130-youths-apprehended-from-rave-party-of-hassans-alur-973195.html
11-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP candidate for Maski bye-election tests Covid-19 positive||Pratapgouda Patil, BJP candidate for the bye-election to Maski assembly constituency, tested positive for Covid-19. This message has gone viral on social media. In the message, Pratapgouda said "after I tested positive for Covid-19, I have been isolated on the advice of the doctor. The electorates need not panic and will recover soon. On my behalf, the BJP leaders and workers will come to your doorsteps. Please vote for me on April 17", he appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-candidate-for-maski-bye-election-tests-covid-19-positive-973213.html
11-04-2021||Main Article||Govt-controlled system: The state of universities||The recent news about one of the professors of the Mangalore University paid Rs 17.5 lakhs to a politician of the party in power to broker a Vice Chancellor’s post at Raichur University did not come as a surprise to anybody. It came out in the open, only after the professor filed a police complaint for being duped. No one dare speak out as no one has the proof to prove that there were considerations other than merit in choosing educationists for this coveted post.  It is also rumoured that even a member of University Syndicate carries a price tag. Gone are the days when professors declined the offers of Vice-Chancellorship. A good example is that of Prof Parvathamma of the Sociology department of the Mysore University a couple of years ago.  It is also rare to come across academicians like Prof Thimmappa, former V-C of Bangalore University, who refused to accept a government nominated position of Syndicate member on grounds that he was not an educationist. Nowadays there seem to be a set pattern of operation for professors aspiring to be a Vice Chancellor, though it is everyone’s right to aspire high.   In the race to become V-C, the aspirant first aligns with a political party in power; develop contacts with people who have connections and use community might and political backing. The erstwhile Vice Chancellors are often good guides.  I dare not speak further what more might follow. Leaving the press report of attempted bribery to the police to investigate, I would like to raise some concerns related to our state universities. The first concern is about how much time does a V-C spend in his office during the term of four years, purely doing university business, debating with academics, the changes he would like to make in the system, improving teaching and research quality, enhancing research facilities? Is it not time that the number of overseas visits by a Vice-Chancellor for reasons of collaboration and MoU signing are made accountable? No one knows how many such MoUs were signed and how many are really working?  The second matter of concern is the Common State University Act that has taken away academic freedom and power of approval of every decision of the university bodies being vested with the government. This sort of control has left a Vice Chancellor powerless, and helpless.  A university cannot make any change in its ordinances or regulations or create a position, start any new department or implement any policy without the government’s nod. Hence, we cannot entirely blame the Vice Chancellor for this. The blame should be pinned on the government for assuming control over universities. The remedy is to scrap the Common Universities Act. The Third issue is the process of selection of Vice -Chancellor. There are three hurdles to cross after a public notice is issued for filling up the V-C’s position. The first stage is to get the name in the panel prepared by the search committee, second, the government to pick and recommend one name and third the Governor’s approval or rejection of the government’s choice.  The constitution of the search committee is also not free from lobbying as the university Syndicate nominates one member and the Governor nominates one. The UGC sends its representative. So, every aspirant tries to cross these hurdles and works hard to get the name cleared in his or her favour by lobbying. One who is good at it gets the chair. Once he or she is on the seat, out of the four years, first year is a honeymoon time for some and the last six months are spent on felicitations.  The first six months are also spent in building clout around them of “likeminded” supporters or inner circle.  My fourth focus is, on the challenges before the future graduates in their quest for getting employed. My questions are: How many times does academics debate and adopt global trends of teaching, research and skill development? Do we recognise that we are producing human resource for global employability? Have we thought about the potential of AI and Robotics replacing human beings? Are we discussing what interdisciplinary programmes should dominate our curricula to cope with changing dynamics of employment? Perhaps the answer is no as the administrators of the universities find no time for it. Finally, do V-Cs have a voice to raise against government policies? Did any of our Vice Chancellor make an attempt to abolish university jurisdiction to allow free mobility of students? Can we change the present system and bring innovation and creativity in the soul of our universities? We all need to ponder seriously. It’s time that the government-controlled, bureaucracy-monitored education system should be replaced by a more pragmatic system. (The writer is a former Vice-Chancellor of Kashmir University and Pondicherry Central University, BSA University Chennai, and a former member of UGC)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/govt-controlled-system-the-state-of-universities-973290.html
11-04-2021||National||US says its warship sailed through India's EEZ in accordance with international law||The American Navy warship USS John Paul Jones went by international law when it sailed through the Exclusive Economic Zone of India on April 7, the United States Department of Defence stated, notwithstanding protest by New Delhi. A spokesperson of the US Department of Defence stated that the USS John Paul Jones Freedom of Navigation Operation in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of India on April 7 was “consistent with international law”. The US Navy’s missile destroyer USS John Paul Jones sailed through the EEZ of India in the Indian Ocean on April 7 last without requesting for New Delhi’s prior consent and thus deliberately challenged its “excessive maritime claims,” India conveyed to the US its concern over the incident. “That's consistent with international law,” John Kirby, the spokesperson of the US Department of Defence, said in Washington D.C. when journalists asked him about the American Navy warship’s Freedom of Navigation Operation (FONOP) in the EEZ of India. “Again, we continue to maintain the right, indeed the responsibility, to fly, sail, and operate in accordance with international law,” he said, adding that it was the responsibility of the US to uphold the freedom of navigation and the rights and freedom and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law. The USS John Paul Jones “asserted navigational rights and freedoms” approximately 130 nautical miles west of Lakshadweep Islands, a Union Territory of India, on April 7 last. The US warship did not request India’s permission before sailing through its Exclusive Economic Zone. “India requires prior consent for military exercises or manoeuvrers in its exclusive economic zone or continental shelf, a claim inconsistent with international law,” the 7th Fleet of the US Navy stated, adding that the FONOP had upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging “excessive maritime claims” of India. Kirby referred to a FONOP carried out by the USS John Paul Jones in the EEZ of Maldives on the same day. He said that it was an “innocent passage” and “normal operation”. He, however, did not specifically refer to the similar operation carried out by the warship in the EEZ of India. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi on Friday reiterated the position of the Government of India that the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) did not authorise any nation to carry out military exercises or manoeuvres, particularly the ones involving the weapons and explosives, in the EEZ or the Continental Shelf of another nation without the consent of the second nation. India had clarified its position while ratifying the UNCLOS in 1995. The US, on the other hand, never ratified the convention at all but has been maintaining that the UNCLOS gave all nations the right to conduct drills in the EEZ and continental shelves of other nations, without prior consent of the governments of the other nations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-says-its-warship-sailed-through-indias-eez-in-accordance-with-international-law-972961.html
11-04-2021||National||UP, Chhattisgarh are the new worries in India's Covid surge||Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh – two states with poor health infrastructure - may emerge as the next Corona trouble spots as new cases have surged in both in the last seven days. Till a week ago (April 4), Uttar Pradesh was not among the top five states with the maximum caseloads, but the numbers rose steadily since then. For the last two days, Uttar Pradesh is at the third position after Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh with the reporting of more than 9,500 cases in the last 24 hours. What makes the UP situation even more worrying is the current trend in the value of R or reproduction number, which denotes how many healthy individuals will get the infection from a Covid-19 positive person. An R value of 1.9 means 10 Covid positive persons will spread the infections to 19 others. “With data up to April 8, Uttar Pradesh has a R value of 1.83 which is almost the same as what it was in late March-early April last year, i.e., at the very beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic in India prior to the lockdown,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. This is the highest R value recorded for any state at the moment. The apprehension is corroborated by another mathematical projection that predicts more than 100,000 new cases each day in the most populous state by the end of April going by the current trend. Even assuming 5% of the persons require hospitalisation with oxygen, the state needs to arrange approximately 5,000 beds required each day. “There has to be an aggressive containment strategy to prevent such a trajectory,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. The situation in Chhattisgarh too is worrisome as two districts - Durg and Raipur - are among the top ten districts in terms of the maximum caseload. The number of new cases doubled in the last one week – from less than 6000 on April 4 to nearly 12,000 on April 10. Durg was the first district to announce a lock down during the second wave while the state reported more than 10,000 daily new cases consecutively for the last three days. It has an R value of 1.57, which is one of the highest among the states. In the last 24 hours, more than 1.45 lakh new Covid-19 cases have been reported with Maharashtra leading the pack with nearly 59,000 new followed by Chhattisgarh with 11,447 cases. The daily death toll rose to 794 while the active caseload crossed the one million mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-chhattisgarh-are-the-new-worries-in-indias-covid-surge-973018.html
11-04-2021||National||No further progress on withdrawal of troops despite meeting between Indian, Chinese military commanders||Though the senior military commanders of India and China held the 11th round of talks on Friday, they could not agree on withdrawal of front-line troops from the remaining face-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. They, however, agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground, avoid any new incidents along the LAC and jointly maintain peace in the border areas, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Saturday. The senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had a meeting at Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector – on Friday. The two sides however did not issue a joint press-release after the meeting, unlike the previous few rounds of talks. The MEA in New Delhi issued a press release though. “The two sides had a detailed exchange of views for the resolution of the remaining issues related to disengagement along the LAC in eastern Ladakh” the MEA stated, adding that the two sides had agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols. The stand-off started almost a year ago with the Chinese PLA deploying a large number of troops and trying to alter the status quo along the disputed boundary and the Indian Army mobilizing additional forces to counter the communist country’s bid to push the LAC westward. India and China a few weeks back withdrew front-line troops from the northern and the southern banks of the Pangong Tso lake, but they could not yet agree on similar disengagement on other face-off points along the LAC. India conveyed to China that completion of disengagement in other areas would pave the way for two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in bilateral relations. “The two sides agreed that it was important to take guidance from the consensus of their leaders, continue their communication and dialogue and work towards a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest,” the MEA stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-further-progress-on-withdrawal-of-troops-despite-meeting-between-indian-chinese-military-commanders-973019.html
11-04-2021||National||DH Toon | A year on, India's Covid-19 situation looking grim||When millions of Indians switched off lights and lit candles and earthen lamps in the early days of the pandemic in solidarity with Covid warriors, many probably though the fight will be over soon, but a year on, the situation has become grimmer. On April 10 last year, five days after millions responded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to show the nation's "collective resolve and solidarity" in the fight against the coronavirus, the number of confirmed infections stood at 6,761, while the death toll was 206.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-a-year-on-indias-covid-19-situation-looking-grim-973046.html
11-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 11||India surpassed 1.32 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 29 lakh people dead globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,33,58,805 as of April 11, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,69,275      No. of people discharged: 1,20,81,443 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-11-973055.html
11-04-2021||National||No respite as India logs record 1.5L new Covid-19 cases, 839 deaths||New Covid-19 cases in India surged to a record of 1,52,879 on Sunday as the country battled a second wave of infections by pushing for faster vaccinations, with some states considering tougher restrictions to slow the spread of the virus. India leads the world in the daily average number of new infections reported, accounting for one in every six infections reported globally each day, according to a Reuters tally. Daily cases have set record highs six times this week, according to data from the federal health ministry. Deaths have also surged, with the federal health ministry reporting 839 fatalities on Sunday - the highest in over five months - as hospitals and crematoriums in some parts of the country grappled with the worsening situation. India's tally of more than 1.33 crore cases is the third-highest globally, behind only Brazil and the United States. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a four-day 'Tika Utsav (Vaccination Festival) on Sunday to push more eligible Indians to get a Covid-19 shot. "During this time we have to move towards optimum utilisation of the country's vaccination capacity," Modi said in an open letter. The country has administered more than 10 crore vaccine does since the middle of January, the most after the United States and China. But several Indian states have complained of a vaccine shortage, despite immunisation being currently restricted to only about 40 crore of India's 135 crore population. The second surge in infections, which has spread much more rapidly than the first one that peaked in September, has forced many states to impose fresh curbs on activity. The administration in Maharashtra, which is home to the financial capital Mumbai and has the highest number of cases in the country, said it may impose additional measures beyond a weekend lockdown that will end early on Monday. "To break the Covid transmission chain, it is imperative that strict restrictions must be imposed for a certain period of time," Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said late on Saturday. Authorities have blamed the resurgence of the virus mainly on crowding and a reluctance to wear masks, even as massive election rallies and large religious gatherings have continued in recent weeks. Thousands of people thronged the banks of the holy Ganges River in the northern city of Haridwar on Sunday for morning prayers during the Kumbh Mela - where up to five million are expected on certain days. Authorities have made it mandatory for all people entering the area to do Covid-19 tests. But many devotees on Sunday gathered by the riverside without masks, standing in densely-packed crowds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-as-india-logs-record-15l-new-covid-19-cases-839-deaths-973043.html
11-04-2021||National||PM Modi's 4 steps to contain Covid-19 as 'Tika Utsav' begins||On the first day of 'Tika Utsav', Prime Minister Modi makes several suggestions, calls for "each one vaccinate one". Stressing on personal hygiene as well as social hygiene, PM Modi said proposed guidelines that everyone must follow in the view of the coronavirus pandemic. "Tika Utsav marks second big war on Covid-19," he wrote.   From today, we are all starting a vaccine festival across the country, the Prime Minsiter tweeted. A 'Tika Utsav' or vaccine festival will be marked in the country from April 11-14 at the behest of PM Modi with an aim to inoculate a maximum number of eligible people against the coronavirus amid a surge in cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-4-steps-to-contain-covid-19-as-tika-utsav-begins-973074.html
11-04-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tributes to social reformer Jyotirao Phule||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to noted social reformer Jyotirao Phule on his birth anniversary, and said his commitment to reforming the society will continue to inspire future generations. In a tweet, Modi also hailed him as a great thinker, philosopher and writer and noted that he was committed to women's education and empowerment throughout his life. महान समाजसेवी, विचारक, दार्शनिक एवं लेखक महात्मा ज्योतिबा फुले की जयंती पर उन्हें कोटि-कोटि नमन। वे जीवनपर्यंत महिलाओं की शिक्षा और उनके सशक्तिकरण के लिए प्रतिबद्ध रहे। समाज सुधार के प्रति उनकी निष्ठा आने वाली पीढ़ियों को प्रेरित करती रहेगी। Born in an extremely backward caste in 1827 in Maharashtra, Phule fought against social discrimination and strove to promote education among the most deprived communities. He and his wife, Savitribai Phule, are considered pioneers for their efforts to promote education among women. Modi had recently suggested a "vaccination festival" from April 11 to April 14, birth anniversary of Dalit icon Bhim Rao Ambedkar, to push inoculation against the coronavirus among the people eligible for the shots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tributes-to-social-reformer-jyotirao-phule-973076.html
11-04-2021||National||'Tika Utsav' marks second big war on Covid-19: PM Modi||Asserting that the 'Tika Utsav', a vaccination drive between April 11 and 14, marks the beginning of the second big war on Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made several suggestions to people on tackling the virus and urged them to focus on personal and social hygiene. In a statement, he urged people to keep four things in mind, including "each one, vaccinate one", "each one, treat one" and "each one, save one". Elderly people or those who may not be much educated should be helped in getting the vaccine, he said, and also asked people to help those Covid-19 patients in getting treatment who may lack resources or information. By wearing masks, people can save themselves and others, Modi added. He also asked families and members of the society to take lead in setting up micro containment zones in case of anyone getting the infectious disease, saying this is an important way to fight the disease in a densely populated country like India. "Our success will be decided by how much aware we are about micro containment zones. Our success will be decided by us not stepping outside homes when not needed. Our success will be decided by that those eligible for the vaccine get it. Our success will be decided by as to how much we adhere to wearing masks and following other protocols," he said. "Anyone eligible for the vaccine should get the jab, and for this the society and administration have to make full efforts," he added. Pitching for "zero vaccine waste", he said it has to be ensured that not a single jab is wasted. "We have to move towards optimum utilisation of the country's vaccination capacity. This is a way to augment our capacity," he said. In these four days of the vaccination drive, targets have to be set at personal, societal and administration's level, all efforts be made to meet them, Modi said. "I have full confidence that with this people's participation, awareness and fulfilling our responsibility, we will again be successful in containing coronavirus," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tika-utsav-marks-second-big-war-on-covid-19-pm-modi-973080.html
11-04-2021||National||EC frowned on invoking martyrs in polls but uses symbol in Bengal ad||Urging voters to take part in Phase 4 of the West Bengal Assembly elections, the Election Commission of India invoked the armed forces in an advertisement, even as it advises against involving Defence personnel during a poll campaign. The image shared by the EC during the fourth phase of polling illustrates what looks like a silhouette of the Amar Jawan Jyoti along with a sketch of cartoonist R K Laxman’s ‘Common Man’ paying homage to martyrs with flowers in hand. “They sacrifice for their country. Can’t you even vote for the country?” the advertisement read. The Amar Jawan Jyoti is a memorial symbolised by a rifle standing on its barrel atop a marble pedestal, with a soldier's helmet over it and an eternal flame burning beside it. It was built in 1972 underneath the India Gate arch in memory of the soldiers who lost their lives during the Indo-Pakistan war. However, a senior EC officer reportedly said that silhouette is supposed to signify the police forces as well. Armed forces are “apolitical” and “neutral stakeholders” in a modern democracy and hence should not be dragged into an election, the EC had reportedly argued in the past. According to the report, EC had also advised political parties to “desist from displaying photographs of Defence personnel or photographs of functions involving Defence personnel in advertisements, or otherwise as part of their election propaganda/campaign." Elections to the 294-member assembly are being held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Results will be announced on May 2. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-frowned-on-invoking-martyrs-in-polls-but-uses-symbol-in-bengal-ad-973088.html
11-04-2021||National||Reconsider conducting CBSE exams, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra writes to Education minister||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday asked Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank to reconsider conducting the CBSE examinations, fearing that the exam centres could prove to be hotspots for the spread of the disease. “...by forcing the children to sit for these exams during a raging pandemic, the government and the CBSE board will be held responsible in the event that any of the exam centres prove to be hotspots at which large number of children become infected with the disease,” Priyanka said. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi also asked the CBSE to reconsider conducting the examinations in the light of the devastating second wave of the Covid-19. “All stakeholders must be consulted before making sweeping decisions. On how many counts does the Government of India intend to play with the future of India’s youth,” Rahul asked. Shiv Sena leader Aditya Thackeray also said party MP Arvind Sawant had written a letter to Nishank seeking a national consensus and central guidance on conduct of examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 instead of various state governments taking different decisions. In her letter to the minister, Priyanka said “the Government and the CBSE board might want to consider whether they are prepared to own the legal liability for students or others who might be severely affected by the disease in this manner.” देश भर में कोरोना के बढ़ते मामलों के बीच छात्रों व उनके अभिवावकों ने CBSE परीक्षा 2021 को लेकर कुछ वाजिब चिंताएं जाहिर की हैं। She said with over one lakh cases of Covid-19 being reported across the country, lakhs of children and parents have expressed fear and apprehension about assembling at exam centres to sit for the exams in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic. Priyanka said the apprehensions of students are well-founded, as giving exams under the spectre of a deadly disease will cause unnecessary anxiety to children and impact their ability to perform as well. “They are rightfully requesting that the exams be cancelled under the prevailing circumstances,” she said. “I do hope that the Government will engage in a dialogue with schools, students and their parents so that a safer way for them to fulfil their educational obligations can be found. Rather than forcing them into a potentially dangerous situation, it would be in the fitness of things for them to be given the support, encouragement and protection that is due to them at this very trying time,” the AICC General Secretary said. According to the revised date sheet for CBSE board exams 2021, the Class 10 exams would be held between May 4 and June 7 and those for Class 12 would be held between May 4 and June 15. CBSE officials have said that exam centres across the country have been increased by 40-50% to ensure social distancing among students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reconsider-conducting-cbse-exams-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-writes-to-education-minister-973125.html
11-04-2021||National||Maternal health should be priority even during Covid-19, say experts||On the occasion of National Safe Motherhood Day on Sunday, experts said maternal health and family planning services should not be compromised and given due priority even in emergency situations like the Covid-19 pandemic. National Safe Motherhood Day is observed every year on April 11 on the birth anniversary of Kasturba Gandhi, wife of Mahatma Gandhi. The experts also called for strengthening the country's health system. "We have witnessed a steep rise in maternal deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic. The nationwide lockdown disrupted maternal health services, which resulted in a decline in institutional deliveries as well as women's access to prenatal and antenatal services," said Poonam Muttreja, Executive Director of Population Foundation of India and a public health expert. She said the fear of getting infected as well as limited access to health services has led to depression and anxiety among young mothers which is expected to impact health outcomes for both women and infants in the long run. "Going forward, health system strengthening is vital to ensure maternal health and family planning services are given due priority and aren't compromised even in emergency situations like the Covid-19 pandemic," Muttreja told PTI. Dr. Sujeet Ranjan, Executive Director, The Coalition for Food and Nutrition Security, said it is not yet known if pregnant women are more susceptible to be infected by Covid-19 when compared to the rest of the population. "Despite this, pregnant women are advised to reduce social contact with social distancing. It is an established fact that in some women, pregnancy alters how the body fights some viral infections," he said. "Though evidence for coronavirus is still insufficient, it is for this reason that pregnant women are advised to be extra cautious during this pandemic," he added. Ranjan warned that decades of progress in reducing child deaths will be jeopardised unless action is taken to protect and improve quality care services for mothers and newborns, and coverage of lifesaving interventions is expanded. "WHO advises that mothers should continue to share a room with their babies from birth and be able to breastfeed and practice skin-to-skin contact – even when Covid-19 infections are suspected or confirmed - and should be supported to ensure appropriate infection prevention practices," he said. "The risk of a new-born getting Covid-19 from their mother could be reduced, especially when the mother takes steps (such as wearing a mask and washing hands) to prevent spread before and during care and breast feeding of the new-born," he added. According to Ranjan, breastfeeding is particularly effective against infectious diseases because it strengthens the immune system by directly transferring antibodies from the mother. "There is an urgent need to protect life-saving interventions, such as Kangaroo Mother Care, threatened by the pandemic, and to be ready to recover and build back better," he said. "As a global health community, we need to act to protect the most vulnerable and prevent reversals of hard-earned gains in new born survival, as well mitigate the wider impact on women and families," he added. Kangaroo mother care involves close contact between a mother, and a new born baby. Ranjan said especially for babies born preterm or at low birthweight, kangaroo mother care (early, prolonged skin-to-skin contact with a parent and exclusive breastfeeding) is particularly critical. Dr. Loveleena Nadir, senior consultant gynaecologist and obstetrician at Fortis La Femme, Rosewalk Hospital and Apollo Cradle Royale said the risk of Covid-19 infection in mothers and newborns is the same as in general population but since pregnancy is a immunocompromised state, one is more prone to any kind of infection. Noting that better nutrition helps prevent Covid-19, she said a fibre rich plant based diet with plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains and legumes support the growth and maintenance of beneficial gut microbiota which helps in building immunity. She further suggested that super foods like eggs, lean meat, lentils, broccoli, spinach, bananas, sweet potatoes, pumpkin and sunflower seeds, figs, avacados, yogurt, mixed nuts, garlic, ginger and citrus fruits can be accommodated into the diet to increase immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maternal-health-should-be-priority-even-during-covid-19-say-experts-973134.html
11-04-2021||National||Tibetans in 26 countries cast votes to elect next head of Dharamshala-based parliament-in-exile||Tibetans living in 26 countries including India on Sunday voted for the final phase of the general election for the Dharamshala-based parliament-in-exile to elect the next Sikyong (president), an official said. Forty-five members of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), also called as Tibetan-parliament-in-exile, will also be elected by the voters, Wangdu Tsering, the chief election commissioner of the Tibetan election commission said. There are around 1.3 lakh Tibetans living in exile in India and across the globe. The Tibetan government-in-exile will elect its head on May 14. In the last phase of the polls to the post of the president of the CTA only two candidates -- Pempa Tsering and Aukatsang Kelsang Dorjee -- are in the fray, Wangdu Tsering said. However, Pempa Tsering, the former chairman of Tibetan parliament, is the front runner. During the first phase of elections, there were eight candidates contesting for the post of Sikyong. Pempa Tsering secured the maximum votes (24,488) followed by Dorjee (14,544). Sikyong is the head of the Kashag or Cabinet, part of the executive branch of the CTA, and the post was created by the Tibetan parliament in 2011 to provide democratic governance to the exiled Tibetan community. Prior to that, Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama used to exercise the powers as temporal head of the Tibetan community in all affairs. Lobsang Sangay, who became the first Sikyong of the CTA, has held the post for two terms, and according to the constitution, he cannot contest for a third term. Pempa Tsering had lost to Sangay in 2016. "We are sending a clear message to Beijing that there is no democracy in China and Tibetans don't enjoy freedom but under the great leadership of his holiness the Dalai Lama, we in-exile have been given this gift of democracy and today is a proud day," Sangay told reporters. According to Wangdu Tsering, 83,079 voters are participating in the electoral exercise. "We have two kinds of elections -- one is for the presidential election of the CTA and the second is parliamentary. There are two nominees contesting for the post of the president and Tibetans are also voting to choose 45 members of parliament. We will declare the results on May 14," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tibetans-in-26-countries-cast-votes-to-elect-next-head-of-dharamshala-based-parliament-in-exile-973143.html
11-04-2021||National||Karnataka among 5 states that account for over 70% of India's active Covid-19 cases||The five states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 70.82 per cent of India's active Covid-19 cases which have breached the 11-lakh mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. India's total active caseload has increased to 11,08,087 and it now comprises 8.29 per cent of the country's total infections.  A net increase of 61,456 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra alone accounts for 48.57 per cent of the total active caseload of the country, the ministry said. Besides, the ten states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have shown a steep rise in the daily new Covid-19 cases accounting for 80.92 per cent of the new infections reported in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted. India's daily new cases continue to rise, the ministry said as 1,52,879 new cases of coronavirus infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 55,411. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 14,098 while Uttar Pradesh has reported 12,748 new cases. Sixteen states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab and Kerala -- are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,20,81,443 with 90,584 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Daily deaths continue to show an upward trend with 839 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 86.41 per cent of the new deaths, the ministry said. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (309) and Chhattisgarh followed with 123 daily deaths. Ten states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Mizoram, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 10 crore. Cumulatively, 10,15,95,147 vaccine doses have been administered through 15,17,963 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am, the ministry said. These include 90,04,063 HCWs who have taken the first dose and 55,08,289 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 99,53,615 FLWs who have received the first dose, 47,59,209 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 3,96,51,630 and 18,00,206 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 3,02,76,653  and 6,41,482  beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have taken the first and second dose respectively. Eight states account for 60.27 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country Over 35 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on Day-85 of the vaccination drive (April 10), 35,19,987 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 31,22,109 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 42,553 sessions for first dose and 3,97,878 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine. "In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 38,34,574 doses administered per day," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-among-5-states-that-account-for-over-70-of-indias-active-covid-19-cases-973145.html
11-04-2021||National||Electronic device to curb airborne spread of Covid-19 developed||An incubator under Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has developed a pioneering electronic device that could contain airborne novel coronavirus. The new device of Allabout Innovations Pvt Ltd -- 'Wolf Airmask -- performs real-time sterilisation rupturing the SARS-CoV-2, a press statement from the KSUM said here on Sunday. The device has proven its efficiency at tests conducted by Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), an autonomous institute of the Department of Biotechnology. RGCB, Trivandrum, is an ICMR-recognised testing lab. "The Wolf Airmask is the first of its kind in the country for RGCB to give such an attestation," the statement said. The gadget can reduce 99 per cent of the novel coronavirus in just 15 minutes, according to the test held with support from the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research). Allabout Innovations founder Shyam Krishnan Kurup said the appliance when switched on would provide 360-degree protection and 24x7 shield by sterilising the air. This will also prevent in-house transmission of viruses inside any space. The negative ions also have proven to enhance health and vitality, he said. Negative ion thrusters are standard devices used in developed countries like Germany and Japan, Kurup said. The airmask, developed from German technology and with components from Denmark, can be used for 60,000 hours, spanning nine years. Facilitating purification of air upto a space of 1,000 square feet, it requires no service or change of parts. The new tool will be of benefit in the contemporary world where household routine and office work are subject to pandemic-induced protocols. The closed-door living culture adds to the risk of acquiring the Covid-19 virus against which the Wolf Airmask is set to fight successfully," he said. "It also promotes low-cost purification of the air in enclosed spaces such as hospitals, laboratories, auditoria (including cinemas), cafeteria and banks where people frequent in great numbers", the statement said. The Wolf Airmask has the capacity to deactivate the microbes, bacteria and fungus while also significantly reducing the subject MS2 bacteriophage. It brings the ozone production to BDL (below detection level) as per a test with a lab under the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). Founded in August 2020 and headquartered in Alappuzha, Allabout Innovations has been working in association with scientists, entrepreneurs, doctors, engineers, social volunteers and commercial partners to create sustainable and eco-friendly solutions. The company came up with the country's first ion-based Covid-preventive product, fetching two national awards: MSME Time2Leap Best Covid Solution and Business Mint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/electronic-device-to-curb-airborne-spread-of-covid-19-developed-973156.html
11-04-2021||National||JP Nadda asks BJP members to make 'Tika Utsav' successful||BJP president J P Nadda asked party members on Sunday to work to make the 'Tika Utsav', which aims to inoculate maximum number of eligible people against coronavirus, successful and help keep the society healthy.  He urged BJP members to follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi's suggestions fully to make the drive a success.  Asserting that the vaccination drive between April 11 and 14 marks the beginning of the second big war on Covid-19, Modi on Sunday made several suggestions to people on tackling the virus and urged them to focus on personal and social hygiene.  Elderly people or those who may not be much educated should be helped in getting the vaccine, he said, and also asked people to help those Covid-19 patients in getting treatment who may lack resources or information.  By wearing masks, people can save themselves and others, Modi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jp-nadda-asks-bjp-members-to-make-tika-utsav-successful-973158.html
11-04-2021||National||SC deprecates practice of passing bail orders without giving reasons||The Supreme Court has said that the administration of the criminal justice system can't be reduced to a mantra with general observations, as it deprecated the practice of granting bail to the accused without citing sufficient reasons. "An order without reasons is fundamentally contrary to the norms which guide the judicial process. The administration of criminal justice by the High Court cannot be reduced to a mantra containing a recitation of general observations," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The top court set aside an order by the Allahabad High Court granting bail to Sonu Yadav, husband of a woman who died on February 8, 2019 within eight months of marriage allegedly due to harassment over dowry demands. The court noted that the High Court's order of December 1, 2020, granting bail contained absolutely no reasons at all.  It said the reasons, though brief were must in a judicial order, for that unravelled the thought process of a trained judicial mind. "We are constrained to make the observations because (lack of) reasons indicated in the judgment of the High Court are becoming increasingly familiar in matters which come to this court. It is time such a practice is discontinued and the reasons in support of orders granting bail comport with a judicial process which brings credibility to the administration of criminal justice," the bench said. The top court said it was true that a detailed enquiry into the facts at the time of hearing bail was not required, but an application of mind to the rival submissions was necessary. It found just one sentence in the High Court's order which stated, "Considering the entire facts and circumstances, submissions by the parties and keeping in view the nature of offence, evidence, complicity of accused and without expressing any opinion on the merits, the court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail.” The bench said that this does not constitute the kind of reasoning which is expected of a judicial order.  "The High Court cannot be oblivious, in a case such as the present, the seriousness of the alleged offence has to be evaluated in the backdrop of the allegation that she was being harassed for dowry," the bench said. The court said the bail order must contain reasons showing that there has been a judicious application of mind by the judge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-deprecates-practice-of-passing-bail-orders-without-giving-reasons-973167.html
11-04-2021||National||Some industrialists fear another exodus of migrant workers||With the second wave of Covid-19 sweeping across various parts of Tamil Nadu, some of the industrialists in the State are apprehensive of migrant workers leaving for their hometowns considering the health conditions. The industries recovered from the jolt of the first wave of coronavirus when over one lakh migrant workers from both Coimbatore and Tirupur industries rushed back to their home towns in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha by special trains. Even as the business started picking up, the 30 per cent increase in the raw materials has affected the industries, sources from different industrial associations said. A few workers reportedly left for their natives early last week as they feared the availability of transport like trains to reach their towns. However, there was no major exodus from the industries as the workers working on weekly payment basis had taken their wages Saturday last, the sources said. Coimbatore and Tirupur reported increased infection cases and a correct picture of workers returning would emerge only after another week, they said. No worker left the city till Saturday from nearby Tirupur, a major hub of knitwear garments where 80 per cent of over three lakh workers hailed from the North, said sources in the Tirupur Exporters Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-industrialists-fear-another-exodus-of-migrant-workers-973171.html
11-04-2021||National||PM Modi asks people to set up micro containment zones as Covid-19 cases mount||Faced with a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged the people to set up micro containment zones on their own to curb the spread of the disease and pitched for zero wastage during the vaccination drive. In a message to mark the launch of ‘Tika Utsav’, a four-day mega vaccination drive from April 11 to 14, the Prime Minister renewed his appeal not to step out of homes if it was not required and wear face masks to succeed in the war against Covid-19. The mega vaccination drive was launched on Sunday when India reported a record 1.52 lakh fresh cases of Covid-19 in a single day and Chief Ministers of some states complained about shortage of vaccines and urged the Centre to step up supplies. He also asked families and members of the society to take lead in setting up micro containment zones in case of anyone getting the infectious disease, insisting that this was an important way to fight the disease in a densely populated country like India. “Our success will be decided by how much aware we are about micro containment zones. Our success will be decided by us not stepping outside homes when not needed. Our success will be decided by those eligible for the vaccine. Our success will be decided by how much we adhere to wearing masks and following other protocols,” he said. The Prime Minister outlined three responsibilities for every citizen in the fight against Covid-19. “Each one, vaccinate one, each one, treat one, and each one, save one,” he said. The drive drew a lot of criticism from leaders of opposition parties. “What India needs? - Jobs & Jabs. What BJP Government gives? - Jumlas & Jibes,” Rahul Gandhi said adding that vaccine shortage was a grave issue and not an ‘utsav’ (celebration). The Prime Minister said anyone eligible for the vaccine should get it, and urged the society and administration to make full efforts. “We have to move towards optimum utilisation of the country's vaccination capacity. This is a way to augment our capacity,” he said. In these four days of the vaccination drive, targets have to be set at personal, societal and administration's level, all efforts be made to meet them, Modi said. “I have full confidence that with this people's participation, awareness and fulfilling our responsibility, we will again be successful in containing coronavirus,” the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-asks-people-to-set-up-micro-containment-zones-as-covid-19-cases-mount-973174.html
11-04-2021||National||SC to hear plea for uniform retirement age for SC and HC judges||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a plea for fixing uniform retirement age for the apex court and High Courts judges.   A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian would take up the PIL by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, on April 12. The petitioner sought direction from the top court to the Centre to take steps to make the retirement age of judges of High Courts and Supreme Court uniform, as it was irrational to have different retirement age for judges of constitutional courts. “Alternatively, being the protector of right to speedy justice guaranteed under Article 21, the court may use its plenary constitutional power to declare that the judges of High Courts shall retire at the age of 65 years until the Centre takes steps to reduce the pendency of cases from 15 to three years," the plea contended. It pointed out in developed countries, the retirement age of higher court judges varied from 70-80 years.  For example, judges retired at the age of 75 years in the UK and Canada and the age of 70 years in Australia, the Netherlands, Ireland, Belgium, Norway. Moreover, the judges worked for a lifetime in the United States, Russia, New Zealand and Iceland, subject to their physical-mental fitness.  The plea contended that uniformity in the retirement age was not only necessary to reduce the pendency of cases but it would also attract and retain the best legal talent on the bench. To reduce judicial and procedural error, India needs more experienced judges, the petitioner said.  At present, the retirement age for the apex court judges is 65 years whereas, for the High Court judges, it is 62 years.  The plea argued that the judges of the High Court will work independently, without any expectation to move the top court, if the retirement age is made uniform.   “Finest lawyers don’t want to become a judge of the High Courts because instead of continuously giving valuable services to the nation, High Court Judges are compelled to retire at a very early age i.e, 62 years," said the plea.  The petitioner argued that uniformity in the retirement age of judges will create a pool of experienced judges in High Courts, which will be extremely useful for deciding the cases of extreme importance or which require deep knowledge for interpretation of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-for-uniform-retirement-age-for-sc-and-hc-judges-973176.html
11-04-2021||National||India bans export of Remdesivir till Covid-19 situation improves||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, the Centre has banned the export of the anti-viral drug Remdesivir. "Government of India has prohibited the exports of Injection Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) till the situation improves," a statement from the government said on Sunday. The government took this decision to ensure easy access of Remdesivir to infected patients and hospitals. The government also advised all domestic manufactures of Remdesivir to display on their website, details of their stockists/distributors to facilitate access to the drug. Drugs inspectors and other officers have been directed to verify stocks and check their malpractices and also take other effective actions to curb hoarding and black marketing, the statement said. "The State Health Secretaries will review this with the Drug Inspectors of the respective States/UTs.The Department of Pharmaceuticals has been in contact with the domestic manufacturers to ramp up the production of Remdesivir," the statement said. "India is witnessing a recent surge in Covid-19 cases. As on April 11, there are 11.08 lakh active Covid-19 cases and they are steadily increasing. This has led to a sudden spike in demand for Injection Remdesivir used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. There is a potential of a further increase in this demand in the coming days," the statement added. Seven Indian companies are producing Injection Remdesivir under a voluntary licensing agreement with M/s. Gilead Sciences, USA. They have an installed capacity of about 38.80 lakh units per month. Several hospitals witnessed a shortage of Remdesivir, considered a key anti-viral drug in the fight against Covid-19, especially in adult patients with severe complications. Even in some places public staged a protest over the crisis due to a shortage of drug as there have also been cases of hoarding and black marketing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bans-export-of-remdesivir-till-covid-19-situation-improves-973181.html
11-04-2021||National||Fresh plea filed in SC for probe into Rafale deal||A fresh petition has been filed in the Supreme Court for a court-monitored probe into the 2016 Rafale fighters jet deal on the basis of "new revelations" by a French portal that manufacturers Dassault Aviation paid approximately one million Euro to middlemen.  Advocate Manohar Lal Sharma, in his petition, made Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sushen Mohan Gupta of Defsys Solutions Pvt Ltd, and Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (DRAL) as parties in the matter.  The top court had earlier on December 14, 2018, dismissed a batch of petitions, including by Sharma, seeking a probe into the deal, and also rejected the review petitions against the judgement on November 14, 2019.  In his plea, Sharma sought a direction of the court for registration of FIR against the accused persons under Sections 420 (Cheating), 120-B (Criminal Conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), along with for offences with Prevention of Corruption Act.  He alleged that certain accused persons had illegally engaged themselves to secure secret papers from the defence ministry to secure the Rafale deal on September 23, 2016. He said the cause of action arose on April 5, 2021, as an investigation report by the AFA (France CAG) declared that Dassault gave one million euro to middlemen of India as a bribe. Agence Française Anticorruption (AFA) functioned in a capacity similar to India’s Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), with the aim of checking whether large companies implemented the anti-corruption procedures. However, unlike the CAG, the AFA also audited private firms. In its report, the AFA did disclose corruption in the Rafale deal, he claimed. He sought an independent probe into the case under the supervision of the top court for prosecution of the accused. He sought a direction for cancelling the 2016 agreement for the purchase of 36 Rafale fighters jets from Dassault France, having been hit by "fraud, corruption and the offence under the Official Secret Act". He also contended that a direction must be issued by the court to recover the entire advanced money with a penalty and to blacklist Dassault Aviation in future defence deals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-plea-filed-in-sc-for-probe-into-rafale-deal-973185.html
11-04-2021||National||State-wise Covid-19 vaccines administered in India||Amid the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases in India, the vaccination drive in the country has received a considerable boost. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India has crossed 10 crore. Eight states account for 60.27 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country. Over 35 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. Meanwhile, 'Tika Utsav' or vaccine festival is being marked in the country from April 11-14 at the behest of PM Modi with an aim to inoculate the maximum number of eligible people against the coronavirus. As on Day-85 of the vaccination drive (April 10), 35,19,987 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 31,22,109 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 42,553 sessions for first dose and 3,97,878 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-wise-covid-19-vaccines-administered-in-india-973186.html
11-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: 5 states including Maharashtra and Karnataka account for 70% of active Covid-19 cases||In your evening news brief, 5 states including Maharashtra and Karnataka account for 70% of active Covid-19 cases; strike by employees of Karnataka road transport corporations entered its fifth day and Chinese military says India should cherish the "current positive trend" of de-escalation.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of April 11, 2021: The five states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, and Kerala cumulatively account for 70.82 per cent of India's active Covid-19 cases which have breached the 11-lakh mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Union Health Ministry said. India's total active caseload has increased to 11,08,087 and it now comprises 8.29 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 61,456 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra alone accounts for 48.57 per cent of the total active caseload of the country, the ministry said. Bus services remained largely hit across Karnataka on Sunday too, as the strike by employees of the road transport corporations (RTCs) on wage-related issues entered its fifth day. With a stalemate between the government and employees of the four transport corporations in the state over their demand for wages as per the 6th Pay Commission continuing, the majority of workers did not turn up for work, resulting in buses remaining off-road, affecting commuters. With no forward movement at the latest round of Sino-India military talks on disengagement from the remaining areas in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese military has said that India should cherish the "current positive trend" of de-escalation and cooling down of tensions in the border area. A day after the 11th round of Corps Commander-level talks that lasted for 13 hours, the Indian Army said in a statement on Saturday that both sides held a detailed deliberation on the disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points of Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh and agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground, avoid any new incidents and resolve the outstanding issues in an "expeditious manner". Source: PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-5-states-including-maharashtra-and-karnataka-account-for-70-of-active-covid-19-cases-973194.html
11-04-2021||National||Over 2,000 years on, Sanskrit remains popular in China, says Chinese professor||Sanskrit studies are flourishing in China, over 2,000 years after the ancient Indian language was brought to this country along with Buddhism, making a profound impact on Chinese monarchs and scholars over the centuries, according to a distinguished professor here. Wang Bangwei, a well-known Chinese scholar in Sanskrit and Director of Sino-Indian Buddhist Studies, Institute of Oriental and Indian Studies at the Peking University, said Sanskrit which is the root of Indian culture continues to remain popular in China, contrary to its modest progress in modern India. Wang said the Peking University is one of the oldest in China and this year marks the completion of 100 years of teaching Sanskrit at the leading varsity. Wang credited 4th Century AD Indian scholar Kumarajiva for spreading Sanskrit in China. Kumarajiva was instrumental in translating Buddhist sutras into Chinese language during his stay in China over 2,000 years ago, earning the royal title of “National Teacher of China”. He was the first among numerous scholars who laid a firm foundation for civilisational links between the two countries. Kumarajiva, hailing from a Kashmiri Brahmin family from the then Kucha Kingdom, spent about 23 years in China in the 4th century AD both as a prisoner and as a most revered scholar. Sanskrit, its associated culture and its development was kept alive by numerous Chinese scholars, like Fa Xian and Xuan Zang and others, who visited India, Wang said, while launching the Sanskrit learning application "Little Guru" of the Indian Council of Cultural Relations, (ICCR) at the Indian Embassy here on Friday, along with Indian Ambassador, Vikram Misri. Sanskrit teaching programme started at the Peking University a century ago but Sanskrit research and teaching in China has a history of over 2,000 years, Wang said. When Buddhism came to China from India, Chinese Buddhist monks started translating Indian texts into Chinese. “From that moment, Sanskrit study and research started. China has a long history of Sanskrit tradition, till that time outside of India, China has the longest and strongest scholarship in the world," he said. Over 100 Chinese scholars studied in Nalanda University until it began to decline in 11th Century, Wang said. “Sanskrit is a major language of Indian culture. More and more people in China are interested in Indian culture and Sanskrit is a good way to learn more about Indian culture," he said. He said Sanskrit was the most important language through which Chinese learned about Hinduism, Buddhism, ancient Indian medicine, astronomy and mathematics. “While Buddhism declined in India, it became very strong in China and has become part of Chinese culture," he told PTI. Once the language became strong in China, the need to go to India to learn it declined, he said. “China gradually became centre of Buddhism in Asia. In India, Buddhism has declined and in China it grew," he said, adding that thanks to numerous scholars who visited India over the centuries, China has some rare Sanskrit scriptures brought by them, which may not be available in India. Y.E. Shaoyong, Associate Prof of Sanskrit in Peking University, said the Sanskrit studies in China are booming. His department now has 10 scholars specialising in the language while 200 others studied as part of the subject for their graduate programme. The job prospects of the Sanskrit learning students are also good as most of them pursue academic career in Buddhist studies, specially its history, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2000-years-on-sanskrit-remains-popular-in-china-says-chinese-professor-973197.html
11-04-2021||National||IFTPC encourages weekly testing of crew members of TV shows||The Indian Films & TV Producers Council (IFTPC) on Sunday said producers of all shows have been asked to get their crew tested for Covid-19 as per the recent guidelines. The entertainment sector has been badly hit due to the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, particularly Mumbai, which is home to Hindi film and television industry. In a statement, the IFTPC said the producers of 90 TV shows were asked to conduct RT-PCR/Antigen tests on their entire crew. Following the directive, the IFTPC received confirmation that more than 9000 tests were conducted. The tests will be repeated after 15 days as per the 'Break the Chain' guidelines. The IFTPC mandated that "antigen tests shall be done every week for additional safety". Actor-producer JD Majethia, Chairman TV & Web wing, said the broadcasters have borne the cost of the tests and are ensuring that all the guidelines are being followed. "The producers have been urged to create a bio-bubble of the sets and post production facilities for total safety... The work on bio-bubble has already commenced and will fructify in couple of days," the statement added.  In recent days, several on-ground productions like "Ram Setu", "Gangubai Kathiawadi" and Dharma Productions-backed "Mr Lele" had to their shoots after actors, including Akshay Kumar, Alia Bhatt, Vicky Kaushal and Bhumi Pednekar tested positive for coronavirus. Apart from the actors, as many as 45 members of Kumar's "Ram Setu", have also tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The Federation of Western India Cine Employees (FWICE) recently formed a "monitoring team" to ensure that all Covid-19 shooting guidelines -- including safety precautions on set, avoiding filming of crowd sequences-- are strictly followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iftpc-encourages-weekly-testing-of-crew-members-of-tv-shows-973198.html
11-04-2021||National||Supreme Court to pronounce judgement on April 12 on ex-judge's plea against enquiry into taped conversation||The Supreme Court is set to pronounce its judgement on Monday on a plea by former judge V Eswaraiah against the Andhra Pradesh High Court's directions to conduct an enquiry into his secretly recorded conversation with a suspended district munsiff-magistrate, about a sitting top court's judge and then chief justice. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan would deliver the judgement on April 12. The court had earlier indicated it would consider the contention by the former judge that the High Court's order has to be set aside as serious observations were made without issuing a notice or hearing him. Justice Eswaraiah challenged the validity of the August 13, 2020 order by the High Court which directed an enquiry into a conversation into "conspiracy". Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Justice Eswaraiah, had contended that when the HC was hearing a case relating to Covid issues, the district magistrate filed an intervention application in which he annexed a pen drive and later leaked the conversation to the media. "There is no criminal conspiracy in the conversation. Even if one goes through the transcript filed by the district magistrate there is nothing to show that a crime has been committed," Bhushan had said. "If an inquiry is to be conducted then a complete enquiry must be conducted into the transactions also," he added. In his special leave petition, the 69-year-old retired judge and chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission contended that the HC "erred" in ordering the enquiry on the basis of an unverified pen-drive to conclude a plot was hatched against judges. He claimed he had openly exposed various improper acts of the sitting judge of the Supreme Court in various press conferences in the past, which he considered against judicial propriety and a misuse of power, such as his close proximity to the former Chief Minister N Chandra Babu Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-pronounce-judgement-on-april-12-on-ex-judges-plea-against-enquiry-into-taped-conversation-973205.html
11-04-2021||National||India benefitted from globalisation, says Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel prize winning economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Sunday said India had been a beneficiary of globalisation but the country needed to develop a mechanism to deal with the associated risks. Speaking virtually at an event organised by Bandhan- Konnagar, a Bengal-based NGO, Banerjee said that risks associated with globalisation could be managed if resources came in with globalisation. India has been a beneficiary of globalisation. Exports have grown faster than most countries from the early 1990s till today", Banerjee said. The Nobel laureate however added a globalised world means a lot of risks. We can deal with these risks if resources are coming with them, said Banerjee. He said "these risks are not necessarily concentrated among the poorest of the poor. Banerjee, an alumnus of Kolkatas Presidency College, said "There is a need to build (measures for) mitigation. But less attention was paid towards mitigating mechanisms and was left mostly to NGOs till the time programmes like NREGA and other schemes were developed." Many economists have pointed out in the past that among the effects of globalisation were jobless growth as manufacturing and supply chains shifted and became more automated. Speaking of Indias steps to contain the pandemic, the economist said the lockdown came too early and was too rigid and consequently had a massive ripple effect on lots of people. He added that policy responses need to be calibrated properly. Referring to the randomised control trials (RCT) which were done to generate sustainable data points in the Targeting the Hardcore Poor (THP) programme of Bandhan conducted in a village in Murshidabad in West Bengal, Banerjee said that after its conclusion after 18 months, it was found people had more incomes, were consuming more and were less likely to complain about ill health. Banerjee said to fight poverty, there is a need for sustainability of the programme period and a need for creative solutions. The study by a group of economists led by Banerjee and his wife Esther Dufflo, reported on the results of a randomized evaluation of a program designed to help extremely poor people gain a reliable stream of income through direct transfer of productive assets and training. "There is a worldwide interest in the THP including in the World Bank. This has been a possible global tool to fight poverty", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-benefitted-from-globalisation-says-nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee-973211.html
11-04-2021||National||Co-WIN can handle 10,000 transactions per second: RS Sharma||Even as Covid vaccination drives from mid-January have seen technical glitches slowing inoculation in various centres, Dr Ram Sewak Sharma, Chairman of Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat Covid-19, at a virtual session here on Friday said the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) portal is ready to take on the increasing load of registering and scheduling beneficiaries in the days to come. Sharma, who is also the Chief Executive Officer, National Health Authority, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, and member of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of Covid-19, spoke at a virtual session organised by the Public Affairs Forum of India. Speaking on the issue of scalability of Covid vaccination he said, "We're doing 44 million transactions, as in vaccine records, every day. We did load testing of the system and could do 10,000 concurrent transactions per second. Currently, we are doing less than 300 per second, so there is absolutely no concern of a breakdown of the website." In computing, an API or application programming interface is an interface that defines interactions between multiple software applications or mixed hardware-software intermediaries. Currently, one can register and schedule a vaccination slot in the Arogya Setu app which is linked with the Co-WIN portal. "Co-WIN is API-based and our core component is issuing the vaccination certificate. While GoI will take care of it even in the coming days, the rest can be taken care of by the private sector. For example, the Apollo Hospital group can use their own registration and scheduling applications and send the data to us. APIs have been published. We've learnt from Aadhaar what can and cannot be decentralised," Sharma said. Vaccination certificate as per global standards He also spoke about the QR code-based vaccination certificate being generated by the Co-WIN portal after the first and the second dose. "Many ask me why their phone camera isn't able to read the QR code on their vaccination certificate. I have to explain to them that it is encrypted," he said. "WHO is working on a standard which is called Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHRI). They are designing and working on the format of the digital certificate including various aspects that a digital certificate should contain and digital verifiability of the same. India since the beginning has aligned to it. As soon as they come up with the standard, we will be in full compliance with the FHRI standard. So, the digital certificate issued by India will be valid everywhere," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-can-handle-10000-transactions-per-second-rs-sharma-973228.html
11-04-2021||National||900 vaccination sites in Odisha shut due to vaccine shortage||On Sunday when 'Tika Utsav', a special inoculation drive against coronavirus was launched across the country, at least 900 session sites in Odisha remained shut owing to shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, triggering a blame game between the ruling BJD and the BJP. Director of Family Welfare Bijay Panigrahi said, while vaccination is underway in only 579 out of over 1,400 centres in the state, the inoculation programme may have to be stopped in many places on Monday, if fresh vaccine stock does not arrive. While state Labour Minister Sushant Singh accused the Centre of not performing 'Rajdharma' and discriminating against Odisha in the distribution of the vaccines, BJP MLA Mukesh Mahaling said, Eastern India, including the coastal state, is on the priority list of the central government. Till Saturday, the state had 2,33,658 doses of Covishield and 77,960 doses of Covaxin vaccines. "We will know the actual position only after completion of vaccination work in the evening. I think the entire stock will be exhausted by today," Panigrahi said. The vaccines are being sent to districts that have reported more Covid-19 positive cases, the senior official said. On the launch of the four-day 'Tika Utsav' from April 11 to April 14, Panigrahi said, the purpose of the vaccination festival is to ensure zero wastage of vaccines and motivate people to get inoculated. The state had received only 2.5 lakh doses of vaccine against its demand of 25 lakh doses for the 'Tika Utsav'. So far, the state has received 42,71,870 doses of the Covishield vaccine, of which 40,38,212 doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries till Saturday, officials said. Similarly, 2,58,820 doses of Covaxin have been used against the supply of 3,36,780, they said. Speaking to reporters, the state's labour minister said, "Statistics reveal that BJP-ruled states are being given preference in the distribution of vaccines. Where is Sab Ka Saath, Sab Ka Bikas slogan now? It is duty of the king to treat everyone in equal terms. This is Rajdharma." With the second wave of Covid-19 sweeping across the country, there should be no discrimination against Odisha, Singh said. Describing Singh's comment as "irresponsible", BJP MLA Mukesh Mahaling said, "He is a member of the Council of Ministers and his irresponsible statement is not acceptable. "There has been no discrimination against states on political lines. Odisha will certainly get the required number of vaccines." Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, during a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 8, had sought at least 10 days stock of vaccines for the smooth conduct of the vaccination drive. The chief minister had said that Odisha is at present vaccinating 2.5 lakh persons per day and has the capabitity to increase it further. Odishas Health and Family Welfare Minister N K Das, and Additional Chief Secretary H&FW P K Mohapatra, in separate letters to the Centre, had demanded adequate supply of vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/900-vaccination-sites-in-odisha-shut-due-to-vaccine-shortage-973230.html
11-04-2021||National||FATF likely to carry out evaluation of India's mechanism to deal with financial crimes this year||The FATF, the global body against money laundering and terror financing, is likely to carry out an evaluation of India's established mechanism to deal with such financial crimes later this year. The mutual evaluation of country-specific anti-money laundering and the terror-financing mechanism by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is a routine ongoing process and is being conducted on all member countries of the global body on a rotational basis. The routine process of evaluation of India's established mechanism against financial crimes by the FATF is likely to be carried out later this year, a government official privy to the matter said. The Centre has also written to Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab to nominate one IGP-rank officer each, and Gujarat has been asked to nominate a DIG-rank officer to prepare the groundwork for the proposed evaluation of the country's anti-money laundering regime and legal measures to check financial crimes. The selected officers, belonging to the Indian Police Service (IPS), should have expertise on the subject. The Department of Revenue, under the Ministry of Finance, and the Intelligence Bureau, under the Ministry of Home Affairs, will coordinate the whole process, which is expected to take several months. The officers nominated by the states will be required to undergo training, participate in interviews, aid the FATF during on-site visits and demonstrate the effectiveness of India's fight against terror. Officers from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) will also be part of the Indian team. The mutual evaluation of India's anti-money laundering and terror-financing mechanism was slated to start last year but got delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The mutual evaluation will be conducted by the FATF's Asia Pacific Group. The FATF is an inter-governmental body established in 1989 to combat money laundering, terror financing and other related threats to the integrity of the international financial system. It currently has 39 members, including two regional organisations -- the European Commission and the Gulf Cooperation Council. India is a member of the FATF consultations and its Asia Pacific Group. Pakistan continues to remain on the "Grey List" of the FATF as the global body has found "serious deficiencies" on the part of the neighbouring country in checking terror financing and also that "it lacks an effective system" to deal with it. Pakistan has been on the "Grey List" of the FATF since 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fatf-likely-to-carry-out-evaluation-of-indias-mechanism-to-deal-with-financial-crimes-this-year-973234.html
11-04-2021||National||No plans to operate Shramik Special trains: Indian Railways||With many states announcing restricted lockdown to curb raising Covid-19 cases, Indian Railways has said it has no plan to operate Shramik Special trains to facilitate to ferry migrant workers to their home states. "Railways already operating a sufficient number of special trains. If required the Railways is ready to operate more trains. There is no need to operate Shramik Special trains," said an official in the Railways. "Existing trains are enough to cater for the needs of passengers. The Railways also ready to operate more trains in a short time," said the official. Presently, Indian Railways is running 1,402 special train services on an average per day. Total 5381 suburban train services and 830 Passenger train services are also operational. Apart from this, 28 special trains are being operated as clones of highly patronized trains with high patronage. “Additional trains are being run during April-May 2021 to clear rush in Central Railway with 58 trains (29 pairs) and Western Railway with 60 trains (30 pairs). These trains are for destinations having high demand including Gorakhpur, Patna, Darbhanga, Varanasi, Guwahati, Barauni, Prayagraj, Bokaro, Ranchi and Lucknow," the Railways said. Meanwhile, Central Railway has also tweeted that, "Central Railway FACTCHECK. There is some misinformation in social media that Shramik Special trains are being run. It is clarified that 'No such Shramik special trains' are run planned. Railways are running only special trains in summer. Please do not fall prey to rumours." During Covid-19 lockdown last year, Indian Railways had operated a total of 4,615 Shramik Special trains to ferry  63 lakh migrant workers and stranded people to their native states. The national transporter started Shramik Specials on May 1 last year and operated trains till July 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plans-to-operate-shramik-special-trains-indian-railways-973242.html
11-04-2021||National||Gujarat HC takes up suo moto PIL, says news reports indicate 'state heading towards health emergency of sorts'||Citing media reports on "harrowing tales" of "unimaginable difficulties" and "unmanageable conditions of the infrastructure", the Gujarat High Court on Sunday filed a suo moto public interest litigation (PIL) while constituting a special division bench that will hear the matter on Monday. The chief justice notified the constitution of the special bench later on Sunday night. The court has said that it is intervening since the news reports "indicate that the state is heading towards a health emergency of sorts." High Court Chief justice Vikram Nath ordered the court's registry to register the PIL titled, "Uncontrolled Upsurge and Serious Management Issues in COVID Control”." He ordered Chief Secretary of Gujarat government, Principal Secretary of department of Medical, Health and Family Welfare, Secretary, Union of India, Department of Home, Government of India, among others, to be impleaded as parties in the litigation. In the order, the HC chief justice has mentioned that he had a "dialogue" with senior law officers on April 6 when he expressed concerns regarding "upsurge of Covid-19 cases in the state" and also requested the State to take appropriate measures to control the virus spread. The order states that the "dialogue" was widely reported in the media. "It has been five days. The newspapers, news channels are flooded with the harrowing tales, unfortunate and unimaginable difficulties, unmanageable conditions of the infrastructure, the shortfall and the deficit of not only testing, availability of beds, ICU, but also supply of Oxygen and basic medicines like Ramdesivir, etc."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hc-takes-up-suo-moto-pil-says-news-reports-indicate-state-heading-towards-health-emergency-of-sorts-973248.html
11-04-2021||National||JNU makes negative Covid-19 test report mandatory in JNU for anyone coming from Maharashtra||The Jawaharlal Nehru University on Sunday made it mandatory to carry a negative RT-PCR test report for anyone coming to the campus from Maharashtra. It said in a circular that the report "should not be older than 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey". Those without the negative Covid-19 test report will have to quarantine for 14 days, it said. The university also asked for strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocol in public places, libraries, laboratories, markets and hostels. It asked department heads to plan for staggered working hours. "The staggered working hours should be implemented in laboratories as was the case in the beginning of the phased-opening of the campus. Department heads may also plan for staggering work-hours and reduced number of staff whenever there is concern of social distancing in the offices," the circular stated. It said the students are advised not to come out of their hostels unless there is a necessary requirement to visit any particular facility. The schools and libraries which are smaller in size and cannot maintain Covid-19 protocol will remain closed, it added. The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) had on April 6 issued guidelines in compliance with the Delhi government's order for night curfew in the national capital. The university had directed in a notice that movement within the campus, and movement in and out of the campus, will be restricted during the curfew timing of 10 pm to 5 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jnu-makes-negative-covid-19-test-report-mandatory-in-jnu-for-anyone-coming-from-maharashtra-973279.html
11-04-2021||National||Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra set to be next Chief Election Commissioner||Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra is set to become the next chief election commissioner, sources said on Sunday. Going by the convention of appointing the senior-most election commissioner as the CEC, the government is learnt to have cleared his name for the top post at Nirvachan Sadan. The order of his elevation maybe issued anytime, the sources said. Chandra will assume charge on April 13, a day after incumbent Sunil Arora demits office. Chandra was appointed as an election commissioner on February 14, 2019 ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. He would demit office on May 14, 2022. Under him, the Election Commission would hold assembly polls in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The term of the assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab ends on various dates in March next year. The term of the Uttar Pradesh assembly ends on May 14 next year. New assemblies have to be constituted before their five year term ends. Chandra was the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes before he joined the poll panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commissioner-sushil-chandra-set-to-be-next-chief-election-commissioner-973285.html
11-04-2021||National||Is Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine next to get approval in India?||With Covid-19 vaccines in short supply impacting India’s vaccination drive, the Centre may soon give Emergency Use Authorisation to the Russian-origin Sputnik V vaccine, which is yet to secure approval from the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation that sought more data from the company. “It is expected that Sputnik is likely to get the EUA within the next ten days,” government sources told news agency ANI on Sunday. Neither the Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan nor the spokesperson of the ministry confirmed the development. In its last meeting on April 1, the Subject Expert Committee of CDSCO sought more data on Sputnik’s clinical trial in India conducted by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories. The data was sought on six specific points including “unblinded data of all Serious Adverse Events and RT-PCR Covid-19 positive cases along with causality analysis reported till date for further examination”. In addition, the regulators sought data on “package insert, fact sheet including indication, dosage, schedule, contraindications, warning, precautions and storage conditions.” Last year, the Russian manufacturers signed their first agreement with Dr Reddy's Laboratories to conduct the clinical trial in India and distribute 100 million doses of the vaccine that would be shipped to the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company. Subsequently, the Russians have signed agreements with Hetero, Virchow, Strides (Stelis) and Gland to use their vaccine manufacturing capacity for the production of 850 million doses of Sputnik vaccine in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-next-to-get-approval-in-india-973313.html
11-04-2021||National Politics||Raghav Chadha calls for vaccine nationalism, writes to Narendra Modi||Terming vaccine universalisation and vaccine nationalism need of the hour, AAP leader Raghav Chadha wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying there must be a strict India-first rule as citizens' needs must be given priority over exports to other countries. In a letter, the AAP MLA said the Centre has chosen to export over 64 million doses to 84 countries while Indian citizens are desperately looking for a vaccination centre that is still open. "I wish to ask Government of India as to what its priority is – the people of Delhi or of Dominican Republic? The people of Maharashtra or of Mauritius? The people of Bengal or Bangladesh? Gujarat or Guyana? Odisha or Oman? Uttar Pradesh or United Kingdom? Kerala or Kenya," Chadha asked. He urged the government to prioritise vaccinating the entire 135 crore in India before "earning trivial international laurels". "I urge Government of India to adopt 'vaccine nationalism', and prioritise vaccinating the entire 135 crore in India before earning trivial international laurels. Do not let vaccination centres shut while doses are being flown out of the country. "It is further alarming to read reports that Government of India will be exporting nearly 45 million doses to Pakistan in the coming days. On one hand, Government of India claims that Pakistan has only exported terrorism to India, on the other hand, we are exporting life-saving vaccines to Pakistan," he said. Chadha said vaccine nationalism and vaccine universalisation are the need of the hour. "Vaccines should have a strict India-first rule, with Indian citizens' needs being given priority over exports to other countries. Government of India should not be exporting doses while Indian citizens are dying by the thousands, with a cure within grasp, but out of reach. "By promoting vaccine nationalism, Government of India must ensure that every Indian citizen is vaccinated and does not have to suffer because of Government of India's diplomatic adventurism," Chadha said. The letter comes amid complaints of vaccine shortage by several states in the country. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh have formally informed the Centre about their fast depleting stock of Covid-19 vaccines, while Chhattisgarh and Odisha said they too are facing a similar shortage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raghav-chadha-calls-for-vaccine-nationalism-writes-to-narendra-modi-973106.html
11-04-2021||National Politics||Dial 'aam' for mango, not common man: Rahul Gandhi to PM Modi||The Congress on Sunday attacked the Centre over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, alleging that Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc on Indian lives and economy due to the Modi government's "arrogance and incompetence". The Opposition party also alleged that every section of the society was troubled due to the policies of the government. In an apparent dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, "No control over coronavirus, not enough vaccines, no employment, labourers and farmers not being given a hearing, no protection for MSMEs, nor the middle class is satisfied...It was okay to eat 'aam' (mango), but should have at least spared 'aam aadmi (common person)'!" ना कोरोना पे क़ाबू,ना पर्याप्त वैक्सीन,ना रोज़गार,ना किसान-मज़दूर की सुनवाई,ना MSME सुरक्षित,ना मध्यवर्ग संतुष्ट... आम खाना ठीक था, आम जन को तो छोड़ देते! The Congress, from its official Twitter handle, also slammed the government over the situation in the country. "One year on, Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc upon Indian lives & the Indian Economy, all thanks to Modi govt and its arrogance & incompetence," the party lashed out in a tweet. In another tweet in Hindi, the party claimed that every section of the society in the country is troubled due to the policies of the government. "Coronavirus is spreading unchecked, there is shortage of vaccines, farmers-labourers are troubled, economy is collapsing, small businesses are closing down and the middle class is also a worried lot," the party said.  The Congress-led opposition has been criticising the government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the vaccination drive, while the Centre has maintained that its timely steps have been instrumental in effectively dealing with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dial-aam-for-mango-not-common-man-rahul-gandhi-to-pm-modi-973140.html
11-04-2021||National Politics||Decision to conduct CBSE exams from May 4 should be reconsidered: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the decision to conduct the CBSE exams from May 4 should be reconsidered in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country. "In the light of the devastating Corona second wave, conducting CBSE exams must be reconsidered. All stakeholders must be consulted before making sweeping decisions," he said in a tweet. On how many counts does GOI intend to play with the future of India’s youth? "On how many counts does GOI intend to play with the future of India's youth?" he asked. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has also written to the education minister to consider the demands of students for cancelling the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/decision-to-conduct-cbse-exams-from-may-4-should-be-reconsidered-rahul-gandhi-973189.html
11-04-2021||National Politics||BJP accuses TMC leader of 'insulting' SC community, seeks EC action||The BJP on Sunday urged the Election Commission to take action against a Trinamool Congress leader and her party's leadership for allegedly making disparaging remarks against scheduled castes by likening them to beggars. In a memorandum to the poll watchdog, a BJP delegation said TMC leader Sujata Mondal Khan had targeted the SC community for its support to the BJP and accused her of making insulting remarks against its members.  The party delegation, which included Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and party general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam, told the EC that Khan's remarks were in violation of the Model Code of Conduct, Indian Penal Code and also the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.  "This is neither the first time, nor is it a one-off statement. It reflects a certain mindset in the AITC (All India Trinamool Congress) and follows a pattern set by Mamata Banerjee, where she has consistently attempted to polarise the elections on the basis of religion or caste and going to the extreme fringes by raising the bogey of 'outsider', thereby challenging and negating the very foundations of the Indian Constitution," the BJP said.  Such deeply "shocking and insulting statements" are a blow to the democratic polity, and it is utterly "shameful and disgraceful" that such statements are being openly and brazenly made by the TMC leadership to create enmity and hatred between different social classes in West Bengal, it alleged.  The BJP said it has been requesting the commission to follow a zero tolerance policy in enforcement of the election code, and claimed that recent events indicate a growing level of desperation  in the TMC.  "We, therefore, request this commission to take necessary action against Sujata Mondal Khan and the leadership of the AI Trinamool Congress as per the provisions of the electoral laws, Indian Penal Code, The Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989 and the Model Code of Conduct," it said.  In a recent poll rally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had referred to Khan's statement without naming her to attack the TMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-accuses-tmc-leader-of-insulting-sc-community-seeks-ec-action-973222.html
11-04-2021||National Politics||Vaccination drive not festival, but crusade: Congress leader P Chidambaram||Congress on Sunday hit out at the Modi government for describing the vaccination drive as an “utsav” (festival) and likened it more to a “crusade” against the pandemic. “By no stretch of imagination can it be a festival. The vaccination drive is a crusade,” senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a four-day ‘Tika Utsav’ – a mega vaccination drive – beginning Sunday. He accused the Modi government of resorting to “rhetoric and hyperbole” after having “messed up” the management of the production and supply sides of the vaccines. Chidambaram also demanded that the government provide funds to vaccine makers to step up production in India and ramp up supplies. “Government must also authorise the use of more approved vaccines and allow their manufacture or import. We have a duopoly of two vaccines, but they are hardly sufficient to vaccinate a nation of 138 crore,” the former Finance Minister said. He said the Congress was the first to demand universal vaccination and insisted that inoculation should be a walk-in programme with no requirement of pre-registration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vaccination-drive-not-festival-but-crusade-congress-leader-p-chidambaram-973284.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||MBBS students to be engaged for fight against Covid in Delhi: Order||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases, authorities on Saturday issued an order whereby Delhi government hospitals have been directed to engage fourth and fifth year MBBS students to meet the increased demand for manpower. Delhi recorded 7,897 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, while 39 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,235, according to the city health department. The positivity rate has mounted to 10.21 per cent, breaching the 10 per cent-mark for the first time this year. "In order to meet the increased demand for manpower during the ongoing pandemic, all Delhi government hospitals are directed to engage fourth and fifth year MBBS students, interns and BDS doctors. The situation demands for all hands on deck, and we hope to fight this surge soon," the order issued by the health department said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain also tweeted a copy of the order. The city government on Saturday issued multiple orders to combat the ongoing spike in cases. In another decision, the government issued an order regarding oxygen concentrator facility for patients who have been discharged and need post-Covid care. "During the surge in Covid-19 cases, swiftness of the process is a must. In view of the same, in addition to CDMOs, all medical superintendents and directors of Delhi government hospitals dedicated for Covid, are now authorised to issue oxygen concentrators to discharged Covid patients," Jain tweeted, and shared a copy of the order on domiciliary oxygen support for patients. In another order, the government said to combat rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi, and meet the demand of medical personnel, "the tenure of presently working SRs/JRs (senior and junior residents) will be extended for six months". In addition, candidates will be hired for the vacant posts, it said. In another order, the Delhi government on Saturday said, the Ayurvedic and Unani Tibbia College and Hospital has now been declared a Covid health centre. All orders have been issued with immediate effect, a senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mbbs-students-to-be-engaged-for-fight-against-covid-in-delhi-order-973013.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||4 cops injured in stone-pelting in J&K's Ramban||Four policemen were injured in heavy stone-pelting during an anti-drug drive in Jammu and Kashmir's Ramban district on Saturday, officials said. One stone-pelter was arrested and the rest are being identified by the police, they said. A police party reached Maitra area in the district after receiving input about the presence of some drug addicts and dealers there. A heavy stone pelting started in Shiekh Mohalla at a police party in which four policemen suffered injuries, the officials said. A case was registered at Ramban police station in connection with the matter||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-cops-injured-in-stone-pelting-in-jks-ramban-973020.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Five militants, including a juvenile, killed in encounters in Kashmir||Five local militants, including a juvenile, were killed in two separate overnight encounters with security forces in Shopian and Anantnag districts of south Kashmir on Sunday. Police said three militants were killed in an encounter in Chitragam, Shopian, 56 kms from here. The gunfight erupted on Saturday evening in an orchard after security forces cordoned off the area following inputs about the presence of militants there. The hiding militants opened fire on the security forces thereby triggering off a gunfight, reports said. In the ensuing firefight, three militants were killed, a police official said and added one of them was a juvenile and newly recruited ultra. The family of the juvenile slain ultra, identified as Faisal Gular, a student of class 10th, was reportedly brought to the gunfight site by the police to persuade him to surrender. Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said they made “sincere efforts” to persuade the newly recruited militants to surrender “but his associates didn’t allow him to come out.” “We tried our best to take the surrender of the newly recruited third militant but he was not allowed to do so by his associates," the IGP said. Sources said the slain militants were all locals, affiliated with the Al-Badr outfit. According to local media reports, Faisal was the lone brother of four sisters and had joined militant ranks just last Tuesday. Two more militants were killed in a separate overnight gunfight with security forces at the Semthan area of Bijbehara in neighbouring Anantnag district. Police said the slain militants were responsible for killing an army soldier two days ago. The encounter erupted in the area Saturday evening shortly after security forces cordoned off the area following specific inputs about the presence of militants. In the last three days, security forces have killed 12 militants affiliated with Ansar Gazwat-ul-Hind (AGuH), Al-Badr and Lashkar-e-Toiba outfits in south Kashmir. While seven among the slain militants belonged to AGuH including the outfit’s chief, three were from Al-Badr and two were affiliated with the LeT, police said. According to official figures, 28 militancy-related incidents were reported in Kashmir from January 1 till date in which 36 militants were killed. Last year, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in over 103 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 38 civilians had also lost their lives in militancy-related incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-militants-including-a-juvenile-killed-in-encounters-in-kashmir-973063.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal says Covid-19 situation 'very serious', does not want to impose lockdown||The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is "very serious" with 10,732 fresh cases of infection being reported in the last 24 hours, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. He asked people not to go out of their homes unless it is urgent, and use face masks and sanitisers and maintain social distance. The chief minister said his government does not want to impose lockdown. "I believe lockdown is not a solution to deal with Covid-19. It should only be imposed if the hospital system collapses," he said. He, however, asked people to remain in home isolation if infected with the virus instead of rushing to hospitals. "The hospital beds should be left vacant for serious patients. It should not be so that people rush to hospitals and all beds are occupied and then lockdown is to be imposed," he said in a press conference. Kejriwal asked all political parties to work together to fight the coronavirus spread, saying it was not time to do politics and point fingers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-says-covid-19-situation-very-serious-does-not-want-to-impose-lockdown-973101.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||BJP cancels candidature of Unnao rape case convict Kuldeep Sengar's wife for UP Zilla Panchayat polls||The BJP on Sunday withdrew the candidature of former MLA and Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Singh Sengar’s wife from the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls. The BJP had made Sangeeta Sengar a candidate for the district panchayat member from Ward No. 22 of Fatehpur Chaurasi, according to a list released by it earlier. "The candidature of Sangeeta Sengar, the wife of former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who is a convict in the 2018 Unnao rape case, has been cancelled," State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told PTI. Singh said the Unnao party president has now been asked to submit three fresh names for finalising a candidate. He, however, exuded confidence that the BJP will emerge victorious in the four-phase panchayat elections, beginning April 15. Unnao will go to the polls on April 26. Kuldeep Sengar was awarded a life sentence by a Delhi court on December 20, 2019, for raping a 17-year-old girl in Unnao. After his conviction, Sengar's membership as an MLA was cancelled. Sangeeta had earlier held the post of the district panchayat chairperson. Earlier, BJP spokesperson Harishchandra Shrivastava had said names of all candidates were recommended by the district unit and were forwarded to the party headquarters through the regional unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-cancels-candidature-of-unnao-rape-case-convict-kuldeep-sengars-wife-for-up-zilla-panchayat-polls-973123.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||CM Kejriwal warns Covid-19 situation dire as Delhi records highest ever infections||The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is "very serious" with 10,732 cases of infection reported in the last 24 hours, the highest ever since the pandemic began, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Sunday as he issued a stark warning -- do not step out of homes unless it is urgent. "The fourth wave is more dangerous than the previous wave. The government is closely monitoring the situation," Kejriwal told a press conference. In just a few weeks, Delhi has gone from near normalcy -- with less than 100 cases reported on a single day on February 16, to an exploding pandemic, a grim reminder that the virus is contributing to extract its toll. Kejriwal said the current fourth wave of the pandemic in the city is "very dangerous" and is spreading at such a rapid rate that it has left many people baffled. "Cases have escalated in a big way in the last 10-15 days. And, in the past 24 hours, the city has recorded 10,732 cases. The situation is very serious. This is the highest single-day spike in Delhi since the outbreak of coronavirus. The previous highest ever single-day spike in Delhi -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11, 2020. That day, the city had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date. The chief minister said that his government does not want to impose lockdown in Delhi but such a situation may arise if there is a rush to the hospitals and beds are unavailable for serious patients. "We need your cooperation. If your cooperation is received and situation of hospitals is under control, there will be no need to impose lockdown in Delhi. But, if beds in the hospitals fell short and are unavailable, then lockdown may have to be imposed," he said. He said lockdown should be imposed by any government only when its hospital system has collapsed. "I am not in favour of lockdown. I believe lockdown is not a solution to deal with Covid-19. It should be imposed if hospital system collapses," he said. He, however, asked people to remain in home isolation if infected with the virus instead of rushing to hospitals, saying the most important thing is that hospital beds are kept vacant for serious patients. He said that there was a peculiar contradiction that despite vaccine availability in the country, coronavirus was spreading fast. "As per data available with me, 65 per cent Covid-19 patients are below 45 years. How will coronavirus stop when 65 per cent of affected are below 45 years for whom there is no vaccination," he said. Kejriwal said that in a recent meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi 2-3 chief ministers requested restrictions on vaccination to be lifted. "Our government is ready to vaccinate people door to door. The time is to launch vaccination at a war footing lifting restrictions of age and setting up vaccination centres." He said that experts say that despite receiving vaccine, people may get infected with Covid-19 but they will not be seriously ill. So, people need to wear masks and observe all the precautions even after getting vaccinated, he said. Kejriwal asked all political parties to work together to fight coronavirus spread, saying it was not time to do politics and point fingers. He also appealed the religious and social organisations and NGOs to contribute in the fight against the virus and check its spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-kejriwal-warns-covid-19-situation-dire-as-delhi-records-highest-ever-infections-973129.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Dharamshala mayor will be from BJP: Himachal Pradesh Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania||The BJP has said it would elect its mayor in the Dharamshala Municipal Corporation as it claimed to have support of two Independents, helping it cross the majority mark. In elections to the four corporations held on Wednesday, the Congress got the majority in Palampur and Solan, while the BJP secured majority in Mandi. In Dharamshala, the BJP won eight out of 17 seats, just one short of the majority mark. The Congress got five and Independents four seats. The BJP claimed to have support of 10 members after two Independents joined the saffron camp. The newly-elected body will choose its mayor and deputy mayor on Tuesday. "I have discussed in detail about the posts of mayor and deputy mayor in the municipal corporation with eight BJP councillors and two independents councillors in Dharamshala on Saturday," Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania said. The BJP has got full support to elect its mayor and deputy mayor as two Independent councillors has also agreed to give its support in running the civic body, Pathania said. The Congress had run the outgoing civic body with its 13 members, while the BJP had four members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dharamshala-mayor-will-be-from-bjp-himachal-pradesh-forest-minister-rakesh-pathania-973133.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Scribe booked for 'cyberterrorism' in Haryana after social media post||The Haryana police has booked a Hisar-based journalist for "cyberterrorism" and "promoting enmity between classes" for one of his alleged social media posts. The case was registered by the police against Rajesh Kundu, who runs a news portal, on Friday under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology (IT) Act. Opposition leaders, including Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kumari Selja, Deepender Singh Hooda of the Congress and INLD's Abhay Singh Chautala, have condemned the registration of the case against Kundu. They have demanded that the case be immediately withdrawn. Police said the journalist has been booked on charges of promoting enmity between different classes, assertions prejudicial to national integration and cyberterrorism for one of his social media posts. According to the FIR, in the social media post, Kundu had said Hisar would witness caste-based violence in a week and this will be a blueprint for an experiment in the state and then in the country. The FIR was lodged on a complaint filed by a Hisar police official. District police spokesperson Vikas stated in his complaint that inflammatory messages, which could incite the public, were allegedly sent to WhatsApp groups and over Facebook from Kundu's mobile phone number and this can have an impact on maintaining peace. Therefore, a case should be registered against him, the complainant sought. On the basis of the complaint, a case under sections 153A (promoting enmity between classes), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the IPC and 66F (cyberterrorism) of the IT Act was registered against the scribe here on April 9. Kundu has been extensively covering the ongoing farmers' agitation against three new agriculture laws of the Centre. The FIR triggered a strong reaction from Haryana journalists as well as opposition parties, who slammed the police move. The opposition leaders claimed that the case was lodged against Kundu because he was raising the farmers' voice through his social media handles. "When the government could not break the ongoing farmer agitation, it lodged an FIR against journalist Rajesh Kundu, who has become a voice of the farmers. Neither this voice can be suppressed nor the farmer agitation," Surjewala said in a tweet. Journalists in Hisar held an emergency meeting at the PWD Rest House on Saturday evening and slammed the police for lodging the case against Kundu. The Chandigarh Press Club also condemned the registration of the FIR against the Hisar-based journalist. "Kundu was vocal in raising the farmers' voice during the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. Now, Hisar police have booked him under charges of 'cyber terrorism' and 'promoting communal disharmony' over an alleged message that he posted on a WhatsApp group and Facebook," Press Club secretary general Saurabh Duggal said in a statement. The statement mentioned that Kundu has maintained that he was "just performing his duty as a responsible citizen and as a journalist by sharing a post regarding his apprehension of violence on the basis of information received through sources". "With this post, I just wanted to alert the people so that such a situation can be averted," the Press Club statement quoted Kundu as saying. "In these circumstances, the registration of a criminal case against the journalist is highly condemnable. Not only this, the police have conducted raids at several places in Hisar apparently to create fear among the media fraternity," it said, adding that the Press Club will raise the matter with the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scribe-booked-for-cyberterrorism-in-haryana-after-social-media-post-973160.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Slain juvenile militant’s romance with gun lasts just 3 days||The killing of a juvenile militant in an encounter with security forces on Sunday in south Kashmir’s Shopian district has once again put the spotlight on how children are becoming the casualty of the armed conflict. The romance of Faisal Gulzar (15) — a student of 10th standard from village Chitragam-Kalan in Shopian — with militancy, according to local media reports, began sometime Tuesday and ended Sunday morning. The newly recruited juvenile militant was shot dead along with two other ultras by security forces in the same district on Sunday morning. After the police came to know that a juvenile militant was trapped in the cordon, they quickly sent a team to his home asking his parents to convince their son to surrender. But according to the Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar, the other two militant associates of Faisal didn’t allow him to come out and surrender despite “sincere efforts” by the security forces to persuade him. Faisal is not the first juvenile militant who was killed in recent years. 15-year-old Faizan Bhat, from Tral area of southern Pulwama district was a student of 10th standard before joining militancy. He died in a gunfight in May 2017 three months after he had picked up a gun. Similarly, Fardeen Khanday, another class 10 student, was part of a fidayeen (suicide) squad of Jaish-e-Mohammad, which launched a pre-dawn attack on the CRPF’s training-cum-induction centre at Lethpora in Pulwama in December 2017. Khanday and his two associates were killed in that attack. Fardeen survived as a militant for just three months. In December 2018, Mudassir Rashid from Hajin town of north Kashmir’s Bandipora district became the youngest slain militant in the three-decade insurgency in Kashmir. He was killed along with another juvenile militant Saqib Bilal Sheikh (17) on the outskirts of Srinagar city. Though international laws prohibit the recruitment of juveniles into any armed conflict and seek their protection, the number of juvenile militants being killed in Kashmir is rising. The United Nations Convention on the rights of children (UNRC) 1989, of which India became a signatory in 1992, talks about the protection and care of children and states even a child who joins militancy needs to be rescued. Under the Statute of the International Criminal Court, “conscripting or enlisting children into armed forces or groups constitutes a war crime in both international and non-international armed conflicts.” Dr Asima Hassan, a member of Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), Srinagar, says not only the state, but militant organizations in Kashmir too should give serious thought and ensure that children, who are becoming the casualty of the armed conflict, are saved. She said as per Section 83 (1) of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, any non-state, militant group or outfit that recruits or uses any child for any purpose shall be liable for rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to pay a fine of Rs 5 lakh. However, a police officer blamed the impact of doctored social media, lack of parental guidance, glamour, and ‘hero’ worship, as reasons for young boys in Kashmir joining militancy. “The idea of owning a gun and enforcing their will had somehow taken hold of many young minds in Kashmir and radical groups are taking advantage of it. Radicalization is more effective in south Kashmir, where socio-politico-religious organization Jamaat-e-Islami has a huge influence,” he revealed. The officer added that some of the children, who were involved in stone-pelting and other forms of protests, were eventually lured into the ranks of militancy. A US State Department report on human trafficking in India had last year stated that non-state armed groups continue to recruit and use children as young as 14 years in direct hostilities against the government in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/slain-juvenile-militant-s-romance-with-gun-lasts-just-3-days-973170.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Won't let Haryana Chief Minister Khattar enter Badauli village: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will not allow Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to enter Badauli village for an event on April 14. Speaking to the media at the Singhu border, Tikait alleged that Khattar is coming to "disrupt the amity" in the area in the garb of unveiling a statue of B R Ambedkar. "We are not against Baba Saheb's statue, we are against Khattar. Samyukta Kisan Morcha has decided that as long as our protest is on we are against the CM and the deputy CM. "He is not coming here to unveil the statue, but as per the BJP's plot he is coming here to disrupt the amity among people. And we, along with the Khap Panchayat, we will not allow him to do that," Tikait said. Khattar is scheduled to visit Badauli village in Panipat to unveil a statue of Ambedkar on the occasion of the Dalit icon's birth anniversary on April 14. "We won't let him enter the village. If anyone else wants to unveil the statue, they can do it," Tikait added. Hundreds of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur --demanding a repeal of three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. The Centre says the new laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops. The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-let-haryana-chief-minister-khattar-enter-badauli-village-rakesh-tikait-973182.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||You'll need a negative Covid-19 report to enter Himachal Pradesh from these seven states||The Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday made it mandatory for people coming from seven states which have witnessed a spike in coronavirus cases to show a Covid-19 negative test report on entering the state. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said people coming from Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh need to carry a negative RT-PCR report not earlier than 72 hours while visiting Himachal Pradesh from April 16. The decision has been taken to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state, he said. Thakur said an advisory in this regard will soon be issued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youll-need-a-negative-covid-19-report-to-enter-himachal-pradesh-from-these-seven-states-973199.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||As Covid-19 cases rise, Uttar Pradesh shuts schools, limits entry to religious places||Uttar Pradesh government announced new restrictions as surge in Covid positive cases continued unabated with over 15,000 cases being reported in the state in the past 24-hours. According to the official sources here 15,353 Covid positive cases were reported from different parts in the state in the past 24-hours taking the total number of active cases in the state to 71,214. The state had reported 12,780 positive cases on Saturday. The number has almost doubled in the past five days. Sources said that over 85 lakh people had so far been vaccinated against Covid 19 in the state. The state government has ordered the closure of all schools from 1st to 12th standard till April 30 in view of the rising number of cases. The government has, however, allowed them to conduct pre-scheduled examinations. An all-party meeting was convened by the state governor Anandiben Patel at Rajbhavan to discuss the situation and formulate an effective strategy to prevent the infection from spreading. Night curfew had already been imposed around dozen towns including Lucknow, Noida, Bareilly, Moradabad, Jhansi, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Kanpur and Varanasi. The government has also banned the entry of more than five people at a time at religious places in the state. The state government has also directed that only 50 per cent employees should attend offices in the four most affected towns. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that the number of beds in the ICUs at different hospitals, which have been designated as Covid centres, were being increased to cope up with the influx of patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-cases-rise-uttar-pradesh-shuts-schools-limits-entry-to-religious-places-973206.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Sonu Sood appointed brand ambassador for Punjab's anti-Covid-19 vaccination programme||Actor Sonu Sood has been made the brand ambassador for Punjab's anti-coronavirus vaccination programme. During the coronavirus-induced lockdown last year, the actor had helped migrants reach their home states. Sood catapulted to the national spotlight for feeding thousands of underprivileged people amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He was viewed as a messiah of sorts for migrants. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday made the announcement, a day after his meeting with the actor who called on him at his residence. "Happy to share that actor & philanthropist @SonuSood will be the Brand Ambassador of our #Covid19 vaccination drive. I thank him for supporting our campaign to reach out to, and protect every Punjabi, and appeal to all to get vaccinated at the earliest," the chief minister tweeted. Singh said there is no one more ideally suited to inspire and influence people to take the vaccine. "There is a lot of hesitancy among people here in Punjab. Sonu's popularity among them, and his exemplary role in helping tens of thousands of migrants reach safely home since the pandemic broke out last year, will help counter their reservations," he said in an official statement here. "When people hear this 'Punjab da puttar' talk about the benefits of the vaccine, and how safe and essential it is, they will believe him. Because they trust him,” he added. Sood said he was happy and honoured to be appointed the brand ambassador for the vaccination programme. "I feel blessed to be playing any part in this huge campaign of the Punjab government to protect the lives of the people of my home state," he added. On the occasion, the actor presented to the chief minister his book 'I am no Messiah', which he says captures his experiences of his journey from Moga to Mumbai. "I truly believe I am no saviour. I am just a human being playing my own small part in the big plans of God. If I can, in the process, touch any lives in any manner, I can only say – God has blessed me, he is guiding me to fulfil my duty," Sood said in another statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sonu-sood-appointed-brand-ambassador-for-punjabs-anti-covid-19-vaccination-programme-973219.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Curfew imposed, internet suspended in Rajasthan's Baran over communal violence, vandalism||Dozens of vehicles and shops were torched and vandalised by mobs as communal violence broke out on Sunday in Chhabra town of Baran district following the stabbing of two youths, forcing authorities to clamp curfew and suspend internet. Police used tear gas to disperse the violent crowds but members of two communities, armed with sticks, iron rods and weapons, continued the rampage late in the evening, even setting ablaze a fire tender and damaging public property including police and government vehicles. "The situation is very tense. Violence by the mobs has been continuing and we are trying to control the situation," Superintendent of Police, Baran, Vineet Bansal, who was on the site, said. There was no immediate official word on any casualties. Officials said additional forces have been called in and senior officials including Kota range DIG Ravi Gour have rushed to the area. According to sources, two youths of the Gujjar community identified as Kamal Gurjar (32) Dhakad (21) were injured in an attack by 4-5 youths of another community at Dharnawada circle on Saturday evening. The youths were admitted to a hospital. The families of the injured and community members staged a dharna at Dharnawada circle on Saturday night demanding immediate arrest of the five accused. While the police nabbed three of the accused late Saturday night, the key accused was not arrested. The group resumed their protest on Sunday morning and called for a closure of shops. The violence erupted when a group was marching through markets asking traders to close shops in Aliganj and Ajaj Nagar, and soon spread to other areas, the sources said Around 10-12 shops in Dharnawda Circle, Station Road, Ajaj Nagar, and Aliganj area were set ablaze and a fire tender was torched along with a private passenger bus, cars and other vehicles in the evening, the sources said. Baran District Collector ordered a curfew in the municipal periphery of Chhabra town from 4 PM on Sunday. Internet has been suspended in the district till 4 PM on April 13, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/curfew-imposed-internet-suspended-in-rajasthans-baran-over-communal-violence-vandalism-973243.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Necessary to remove social evils like 'purdah' system, says Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday stressed that it is necessary to remove social evils like the ''purdah'' system and said his government has campaigned to end the practice. Addressing a state-level women's conference on the occasion of 'Kasturba Jayanti', he also said Rajasthan's new women's policy will prove to be a milestone for their empowerment. The policy issued by the state government on the occasion will inspire millions, Gehlot said. The state government is working with a committed spirit to give women equal status in every field. It is promoting women education along with the implementation of various schemes to empower them, he said. Gehlot said that it is necessary to remove social evils like ''purdah''. "Our government in Rajasthan has campaigned to end this evil," the chief minister said. He appealed to voluntary organisations and social activists, among others, to play an active role to end the practice. Gehlot said that the state government's focus is to reduce maternal and child mortality. Along with the government, the society will also have to come forward in this direction, he said. Minister of State for Women and Child Development Mamta Bhupesh and former Vice Chancellor of the Gujarat Vidyapith of Ahmedabad and a Gandhian thinker, Sudarshan Iyengar were present at the event among others. Barmer-based handicraft artist Ruma Devi was conferred with the Nari Shakti Award on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/necessary-to-remove-social-evils-like-purdah-system-says-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-973250.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh governor bats for 'janata curfew' amid Covid-19 surge||Madhya Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel on Sunday said 'janata curfew' (voluntary shutdown) would be very effective in preventing the spread of coronavirus. Patel, who is also Uttar Pradesh governor, was addressing a meeting of all parties in MP through video- conferencing from Lucknow. Janata curfew will prove to be very effective in preventing the spread of coronavirus, she said, and asked mohalla committees in urban areas and sarpanches in rural areas to effectively implement the concept to contain the outbreak. She also asked people to play their part by adhering to Covid-19 norms like maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and using hand sanitisers etc, as well as getting vaccinated against the infection. The governor asked the state government to provide information about vaccination, vacant beds etc to the public through the media. Addressing the meet, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said Covid-19 cases in the state have doubled currently when compared to the peak of the outbreak last year. In place of lockdown, the state will opt for self- imposed "corona curfew" to effectively control the pandemic, he said. Chouhan said 83,000 persons had registered themselves as volunteers in the state to render service in the fight to contain the pandemic, and they will assist in vaccination, providing medical facilities to patients, creating awareness about masks, and helping those in home and institutional quarantine. BJP state president VD Sharma, Congress MLA PC Sharma and representatives from the BSP, CPI, NCP etc attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-governor-bats-for-janata-curfew-amid-covid-19-surge-973254.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Shameful that Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis: Navjot Singh Sidhu||In an apparent reference to an accusation by gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana that his cousin was beaten up by the Delhi Police, Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said it was “shameful” that they were allowed to "torture" Punjabis in the state’s domain. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal too condemned the alleged assault on Sidhana’s cousin Gurdeep Singh, holding Chief Minister Amarinder Singh responsible for it. Meanwhile, the Delhi Police refuted the allegations. Sidhana, who is wanted in connection with the Republic Day violence in the national capital, had claimed that his cousin was picked up from Patiala by the Delhi Police and then beaten up. Sidhana alleged that the Delhi Police questioned his cousin for his whereabouts. "Shameful that the Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis in our domain and territory. It violates Punjab govt's authority-with whose connivance was it done?? Lessons should be learnt from Mamata Banerjee who put CBI behind bars when they encroached in West Bengal's jurisdiction," said Sidhu in his tweet on Sunday.  Shameful that Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis in our domain and territory. It violates Punjab Govt’s authority - with whose connivance was it done ?? Lessons should be learnt from Mamata Banerjee who put CBI behind bars when they encroached in W.Bengal’s jurisdiction. Reacting to the alleged incident, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh was "directly responsible for the atrocities being inflicted" on the state youth, who had participated in the farmers' agitation against the Centre's farm laws. In a statement here, Badal said, "The manner in which Delhi Police personnel abducted and mercilessly thrashed Mundi Sidhana (Gurdeep), cousin brother of Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted in a case pertaining to the January 26 action at the Red Fort, was condemnable." "The Delhi Police does not have any jurisdiction in Punjab but Amarinder Singh is allowing it a free hand to conduct raids with impunity in the state and arrest youth on flimsy charges. This needs to be stopped immediately," alleged Badal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shameful-that-delhi-police-is-allowed-to-torture-punjabis-navjot-singh-sidhu-973257.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||12-year-old girl raped in UP's Mathura, 3 held||A 12-year-old girl was allegedly raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura on Sunday, following which three accused persons were arrested, police said. The incident took place at a village in Mathura on Sunday afternoon. An FIR was registered and three of the four men were arrested by the police, SP (city) Martand Prakash Singh said, adding that efforts were underway to nab the fourth accused. The minor has been sent for a medical examination, he said. Meanwhile, additional police force has been deployed in the village to avoid any untoward incident, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-year-old-girl-raped-in-ups-mathura-3-held-973282.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh cops hit Covid-19 patient's kin, 2 pulled up||Two policemen were "line attached" as punishment in Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly beating up some villagers on Sunday after a dispute between health workers and the kin of a Covid-19 patient, an official said. A video of the incident, in which police can be seen hitting a man and two women with plastic pipes, went viral on social media soon after. A police team had reached Sirsod Banjari village under Chhaigaon Makhan police station limits after a dispute between the kin of a 20-year-old Covid-19 patient and health workers who had come to take him to a hospital, said the official. "After the health workers complained about being attacked by the patient's family, a police team arrived at the village. They too were attacked and a sub inspector and an assistant sub inspector got injured along with two health workers," said Chhaigaon Makhan police station in charge G Kanail. Health officials said the man was tested for coronavirus on Friday and his report returned positive on Sunday, after which a team went to the village to get him to a hospital, but his kin insisted that he be home quarantined, which started the altercation. After the medical team was attacked, a police complaint was filed, said health worker Purva Kushwaha. "The Chhaigaon Makhan police station in charge and a constable were 'line attached' (taken off field duty and deployed in police line as punishment) in connection with this incident," said Khandwa Superintendent of Police Vivek Singh. City Superintendent of Police (CSP) Lalit Gathre will carry out a probe into the matter, Singh added. Meanwhile, senior MP Congress leader Arun Yadav demanded the erring policemen be booked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cops-hit-covid-19-patients-kin-2-pulled-up-973299.html
11-04-2021||North and Central||Over 17 lakh received 1st jab of Covid vaccine, second dose for 3.5 lakh beneficiaries in Delhi||More than 17 lakh people in Delhi have received the first jab of anti-coronavirus vaccine, while over 3.5 lakh have got both the doses, according to data shared by the Health Department on Sunday. In the latest health bulletin, which also included a segment on vaccination as well, it mentioned that 20,70,868 people have been vaccinated in total till date. Out of these 17,12,109 people had got their first shot, while rest 3,58,759 had also got the second dose. On Sunday, a total of 64,943 beneficiaries were administered doses till 6 pm. The first dose was given to 59,518 people and the second dose was given 5,425 beneficiaries, the data showed. In the age group of 45-59 years, 42,841 received the shots on Sunday. Five minor cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) were also reported, according to the data. The inoculation drive is taking place at a time when the coronavirus cases have again mounted in the last few weeks. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, were vaccinated in Delhi. Meanwhile, the national capital recorded 10,774 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the highest single-day surge in the national capital till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-17-lakh-received-1st-jab-of-covid-vaccine-second-dose-for-35-lakh-beneficiaries-in-delhi-973312.html
11-04-2021||Oasis||Seasons in the sun ||The other day a friend began cribbing as the summer temperatures climbed steadily. She wanted to fast forward to autumn and winter and skip the intervening summer weeks given a chance. Covid of course made escaping to the hills a distant possibility.  The very same person might desperately yearn for some sunshine when it has been pouring for a few days in a row. Damp homes, wet clothes, flooded roads are enough to drive anyone up the wall.  Think about it. Summer is not just blistering heat. It has its blessings. Succulent mangoes, sun-dried vegetables and crisps, abundant solar energy what with germ destroying properties, a season for cold food and summer wear in pretty colours and airy cotton and much more.  Instead of complaining, we would be kinder to ourselves if we realised and accepted that every season has a place and role in nature’s scheme of things. Don’t our lives go through many seasons, many twists and turns, ups and downs and emotional highs and lows? Besides what happens to and around us at any given point of time, what complicates matters is how we react and respond. By immediately labelling something as good, bad, terrible, whatever and working up a whole range of emotions around it (which influences our thoughts and actions) we only end up amplifying and exaggerating what is a natural, manageable occurrence. Maybe we could all come together and start planting more trees so that the next summer becomes bearable. And perhaps we could also spare a thought for those who toil day in day out, summer, or winter, rain or shine to serve or make life smoother for someone else because the nature of their job is such or because they don’t have a choice. Providing footwear and umbrellas, creating birdbaths and drinking water facilities are simple things that could make a world of difference. If we can remain level headed and accepting through it all and find and look for the one redeeming feature from every situation we will definitely fare better.  As the Book of Ecclesiastes says “To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under the heaven.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/seasons-in-the-sun-973294.html
11-04-2021||Opinion||Prince Philip was no saint, but he was the Queen's rock||By Martin Ivens, “I doubt whether I’ve achieved anything likely to be remembered,” the Duke of Edinburgh once observed to a BBC interviewer. But the British monarchy has survived exactly because Queen Elizabeth II and her deceased consort steered clear of flashy commitments and grand ambitions. The Ronald Reagan dictum, “Don’t just do something, stand there,” was always a more appropriate strategy for an ornamental royal family that must remain above politics than for an executive head of state. Like his wife, Prince Philip stuck to this course. In reality, as the Queen’s rock of support for 73 years, Philip didn’t just stand there. He helped the UK monarchy survive the turbulence and changing fashions of the modern world and served as a confidant and trusted adviser when others couldn’t get a hearing. Had he been a king, I doubt his bristling manner and erratic — sometimes offensive — humour would have been particularly popular, but as stalwart companion to the world’s most admired monarch he was perfect for a role that came without a job description. Like most interesting people he could divide opinion. He learned to rein in his more objectionable jokes late in life (just about), although unlike the Queen he had a fiery temper and didn’t often curb it. I was once on the receiving end of his ill humour when I failed to disgorge a raft of statistics about a journalistic charity I was promoting. As far as the Duke was concerned, his job was to lend presence to the event — and my job was to know my stuff. A fair cop. As a Royal Navy officer Philip had a reputation for being a martinet with officers but was popular with the other ranks who appreciated that he shared the legendary ability of sailors to curse freely. One amateur sailor who crossed courses with him when they were sailing along one of the UK’s coastal islands remonstrated and got the reply, “It’s my wife’s ******* water.” If he was free with his words, he always understood that baring his soul to the cameras and the world would, in the words of the great constitutional historian Walter Bagehot, let “daylight in on magic.” So although people felt they knew the Duke well from thousands of photographs or from his salty comments and often diplomatically alarming attempts at wit on royal tours, his strength was really as the nation’s best-known stay-at-home husband, who accepted — after some early frustration when he married into “The Firm” — that he’d always be the royal plus-one. That isn’t an easy role, even in a gilded setting. The House of Windsor has come under fire, first after the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, now in a full-on assault from the Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle, who alleges cold-heartedness and a lack of emotional bandwidth. But reticence makes perfect sense for royalty even if it isn’t prized in the modern world. When his sons, Prince Charles and Prince Andrew, and his daughter-in-law Diana gave personal interviews airing their troubles and marital frustrations, it was excellent for television ratings but not for the monarchy’s standing. This sort of performance is best delivered by real actors. Markle, versed in Hollywood celebrity, masters the medium superbly. Philip, by contrast of age and outlook, understood that royal life was a mixture of solemnity and absurdity, and behaved accordingly. The entertaining Netflix biopic, The Crown, invents a story that he resented kneeling to the Queen at her coronation and went off in a huff to take dangerous flying lessons. It appears the real Duke had a greater sense of proportion about walking three paces behind his wife in perpetuity. After the ceremony at Westminster Abbey, he turned to his young spouse, weighed down by a Crown studded with gold and several pounds of precious gems, and asked, “Where did you get that hat?”  Later in life he opened the new stand at Lord’s cricket ground, joking, “You are about to see the world’s most experienced plaque unveiler.” Someone has to cut the ribbon at ceremonies and break a bottle on the sides of newly launched ships and the British prefer it to be a royal. He understood that was all part of the game. The British prize neither intellect nor culture in their kings and queens — they prefer them to like horse racing — and sneer at the cleverer ones. So Philip, an instinctive, intelligent man, read voraciously but cultivated the role of outspoken simple soul. His son Prince Charles, heir to the throne, has allowed his private passions to become public and these often chime more with modern preoccupations: the environment and man’s relationship with nature. While that might seem like a route to popularity, it hasn’t endeared Charles more to his future subjects. No one could accuse Philip of being endearing, either, as shown by his tendency to indulge in cultural stereotyping. He regularly caused controversy on royal tours with questions and remarks that would definitely fail the test of political correctness, and even common courtesy, today. In part, this was a trait of his generation: a curiosity about the world but a reluctance to codify the way he dealt with people. One can’t defend foolish language which suggests unacceptable attitudes, even from a different time. But when he managed to avoid offending people — which was usually the case in later life — Philip could enliven the more dreary bits of royal activity, a welcome thing in a world where language is formal and insights cloaked in protocol. And it’s worth remembering that he was more cosmopolitan than most in the British aristocracy. “Phil the Greek,” as he was dubbed by the English tabloids, bridged generations and had a good grasp of international politics. He came to the fore in the difficult era of postwar Europe — a time in which he met the woman who was to become a Queen — but he survived happily enough to the 21st century. He was no saint, though that wasn’t in the job description. When Her Majesty announced her “deep sorrow” at his death, it wasn’t just a form of words. He was the rock, the consort and the closest friend to the woman with the heavy “hat” and the lonely job that goes with it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/prince-philip-was-no-saint-but-he-was-the-queens-rock-973053.html
11-04-2021||Opinion||International travel won’t rely on fancy vaccine passports||By Stephen L. Carter, The World Health Agency has stepped into the controversy over vaccine passports, announcing its opposition. Not enough is known about whether the vaccines prevent transmission, says the WHO. And vaccine passports wouldn’t be fair to poorer countries where vaccination has been slow. They might discriminate against people who can’t be vaccinated. Although the agency has been consistently late to the Covid party, this time, the WHO is probably right, albeit not entirely for the reasons it gives. Seriously. But maybe we shouldn’t be surprised. Evidence is growing that the public is a lot less scared than it was a few months ago. As restaurants reopen, people are dining out in droves. Shopping malls are crowded. Popular demand for freedom to live life is at last wearing down the restriction-by-fiat that has characterized so much of the response to the pandemic. I say this not in criticism of public health officials but to point out that people can often make risk-versus-reward decisions on their own. It’s true, as many suggest, that our acceptance of risk might pose risks for others. But the burden of showing that these externalities are worth the burdens of special passports rests on the supporters. They may have a hard time making their case. For as long as vaccines have existed, people have worried about how to show that someone’s had one. Back in 1880, a letter to a medical journal complained that it was impossible to know for sure whether the smallpox vaccination worked because the only “proof of vaccination” was the scar left by the shot — a scar that the onset of disease might render invisible. Yet the world survived. For over a century, we’ve accepted as evidence of vaccination for schoolchildren a scrap of paper with a scrawled signature, or even, at one time, the simple declaration of the child’s parents. Overseas travelers have long been familiar with the yellow International Certificate of Vaccination, typically filled out in an inscrutable hand. If proof of vaccination matters, why do we now need a fancy QR code? Yes, the little CDC-approved cards that show one had received the Covid-19 vaccine look easy to forge. Or even to steal: At the site where my wife and I received our shots, I noticed a package of new, unmarked cards on an unguarded shelf near the rear exit. But the fact that it’s possible to forge or steal the cards doesn’t prove that there exists an epidemic of forgery or theft. Here I feel the same way I do about voter ID laws: Before we march any further down the road toward a society where we’re constantly proving our identities, supporters should at least be able to show with something more than anecdotes that a problem actually exists. Yet even though we’ve survived for over a century with relatively simple proofs of vaccination against a variety of dangerous viruses, I’ve been unable to find a single reported case involving their forgery. True, in the current crisis, fake certificates have been offered for sale on the dark web for $250 or more, but we don’t know how many takers there have been, and it’s hard to imagine that whatever demand they are sopping up will survive the widespread availability of the vaccine itself, which is free. This in turn suggests that distributing more doses globally (estimated worldwide cost $27 billion — scarcely a drop in the US bucket these days!) is the cheapest and easiest way to prevent any potential forgery. And that would have the not-insignificant benefit of helping poorer countries defeat the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/international-travel-won-t-rely-on-fancy-vaccine-passports-973054.html
11-04-2021||Opinion||Kardashians herald the age of Instagram billionaires||By Alex Webb, Kim Kardashian West might have made her name on reality television, but she has made her fortune thanks to Instagram. The irony is that, while she drives a vast amount of traffic to the Facebook Inc.-owned social media platform, the photo-sharing app itself doesn’t make much of a cut. Forbes now reckons she’s a billionaire. Let’s set aside the assertion that it’s “official” for a second — it is, after all, just an estimate and the magazine previously revoked her sister Kylie Jenner’s billionaire status. However you slice it, West is a fabulously wealthy woman. And she’s built that fortune by parlaying her fame into a media brand that helps her sell products, not just through sponsored Insta posts, but also items from KKW Beauty, the makeup label she founded in 2017, and Skims, the shapewear line she launched a year later. Kardashian West’s success shows not only the scale of the opportunity for Instagram but also how slow the app has been to capitalise on it.  As my Bloomberg News colleague Sarah Frier chronicles in “No Filter,” the definitive account of the rise of Instagram, the Kardashians have used the platform to hoover up money that the tabloid media industry once would have made from her image. Back in the 1990s, when the paparazzi were in their pomp, pictures of celebrities going about their daily lives — so-called “Just Like Us” snaps —  could fetch $15,000 a pop from tabloids and magazines such as Us Weekly and People, according to the BBC. The publications would in turn sell advertising space alongside those images and rake in a hefty profit. Thanks to social media, the Kardashians were able to cut out the middle man. Instagram let the family post images that they controlled and allowed them to essentially sell their own advertising space to brands. “They’re a strange hybrid of media channel and content creator rolled into one,” says Nik Speller, strategy director at the agency Influencer in London. The upshot is that Kardashian West can make $1 million per sponsored post, while paparazzi now earn just $5 to $10 apiece for “Just Like Us” snaps. The Kardashians’ use of Instagram is extremely valuable to the platform — Kardashian West drives a huge amount of engagement from her 213 million followers to whom Instagram can show ads. Testament to their importance was Kylie Jenner’s questioning in 2018 whether people used rival Snapchat any more: Her tweet erased $1.3 billion in market value from parent company Snap Inc. in a single day. still love you tho snap ... my first love Yet Instagram extracts little direct value from what the Kardashians actually post. Facebook doesn’t get a cut of any sponsored post, nor of the products sold as a consequence. This is one reason why, in 2019, Facebook launched Instagram Checkout. It let users click on a brand linked in a sponsored post and buy it right within the app. Facebook would get a 5% cut of any purchase, though it hit pause on those fees early in the pandemic. That was a shrewd move to drive adoption of Instagram Checkout at the very moment that more retail shifted online. And crucially, it let Facebook better understand when users buy a product — valuable information that lets its advertising business better compete with Amazon.com Inc.’s growing ad offering. Now the company needs to focus on getting more influencers to sell through Instagram Checkout. Although KKW Beauty sells its products through the service, Skims does not. In 2018, KKW Beauty generated $100 million in sales. But the sale of a stake in Skims is what tipped Kardashian West’s net worth over $1 billion, according to Forbes.  If even a fraction of the other six million accounts that have more than a million followers were to use Instagram Checkout to sell products, it would quickly become a very compelling part of Facebook’s business. Analysts expect the company to generate $108 billion of revenue this year.  Kardashian West managed to subvert the old compact between advertiser, publisher and paparazzo. Facebook might regret not having done more to get its cut too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/kardashians-herald-the-age-of-instagram-billionaires-973066.html
11-04-2021||Panorama||LPG Subsidy: Why only for the rich?||The price for the domestic LPG cylinder has been going up since May 2020 when it had a price tag of Rs 581. The pre-pandemic cost of non subsidised LPG cylinder was Rs 859 in Delhi in February 2020. In March of 2021, it was Rs 819. However, for most, the high price last year did not hurt since the subsidised cylinder was priced at Rs 567 and beneficiaries’ bank account was deposited with Rs 292. Only those who declared their income was above Rs 10 lakh per annum did not get this subsidy. While 261 million households got this subsidy only 10 million people did not.  Today, since the price of both the subsidised and non-subsidised domestic LPG cylinder is the same, none get the subsidy. While denying subsidy to the middle class may be justified, it is cruel to deny it to the poor.   When LPG was first introduced in India in the late 1960s, there might have been a need to incentivise the consumers by way of subsidy but due to initial investment in terms of deposit amount and cost of stove, it was mostly the rich and the middle class could afford LPG.  Once people got accustomed to subsidy, no political party dared to drop it or even limit the amount of subsidy. Under UPA in 2012, a cap of six cylinders per year was imposed. Later, under pressure from Congress leadership, it was increased to nine and then to 12. In reality, such a cap was making mockery since on average each household uses only about 6.3 cylinders a year.  The NDA government introduced Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) in 2016. Earlier, the government had been promoting several projects like improved stove, smokeless chulas, and biogas. Unfortunately, they did not achieve the desired results.  Under the PMUY, the government provided a subsidy of Rs 1,600 per LPG connection which is roughly 50%  of the total cost, and even though the government offered an interest-free loan on the rest of the amount, it has continued to remain an expensive option for a number of rural households. Over the years between 2011-2020, those households having LPG connection have been getting Rs 1,717 subsidy per year. Such an average number does not convey the inequity of the subsidy system. It may be recalled how some ministers and VVIPs used to get more than 200 subsidised cylinders a year. Let us look at those rich who might have gotten say 100 subsidised cylinders per year in 2013-14. They would have managed to get a government handout of Rs 48,800 since the average subsidy per cylinder during that year was Rs 488.  Now with even PMUY families having to pay full price, deserving poor families fail to get any subsidy. It is beyond comprehension that a government that had introduced a progressive policy like PMUY has failed to extend the subsidy to the poor. This is one of the reasons for PMUY failing to achieve its goal of poor switching completely to LPG.  Several studies have shown why poor families are continuing to use firewood, cow dung or biomass. For example, a Gurugram based NGO, Sehgal Foundation conducted a survey of 605 households (April, 2020) in the Samastipur district of Bihar to learn about the cooking fuel preferences.  Survey results have clearly shown that despite having LPG connections more than 40% end up using firewood. Though housewives prefer LPG, many cannot afford to pay for it. 81.8% of the respondents were landless while 11.2% were marginal farmers. The sample is certainly not representative of Indian villages. Still, the survey shows the problem of shifting to LPG.  Thanks to PMUY, today 99.5% of Indian households have an LPG connection. Should we celebrate this remarkable achievement?  The answer is no. According to a survey by National Statistical office in November 2019 only 61% of total households of the country use LPG for cooking purpose. Around 50% of rural households still use firewood, crop residue and cow dung for cooking purposes.  Now it is time for the government to constitute an expert committee to look into the entire LPG distribution to reinvent PMUY by studying the problems of all stakeholders.   To begin with, poor families should be given subsidy to incentivise them to completely switch over to LPG and stop use of other polluting fuels. The total subsidy amount needed to support the poor to start using six cylinders a year will be Rs 13,000 crore. In comparison, in 2013-14, non PMUY families were given a total LPG subsidy of Rs 50,370 crore when most did not need it. How ironic! Second, the commission structure of LPG distributors should be designed in a way to motivate them to market LPG among the poor.  Finally, oil marketing companies should have the incentive to market LPG. Today they carry out it almost as a Corporate Social Responsibility activity.  (The writer is former governing council member of Manipal Institute of Technology, and an international oil industry expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/lpg-subsidy-why-only-for-the-rich-973292.html
11-04-2021||Panorama||Off the record: April 12, 2021||Election trail  After the Kerala elections, where Congress was pitted against the CPI(M), Rahul Gandhi is expected to hit the campaign trail in West Bengal where the grand old party is an ally of the Left parties. Gandhi is expected to take part in the roadshow in Matigara-Naxalbari and Goalpokar assembly seats considered as the gateway to the northeast. Top Congress leaders have given the West Bengal campaign a miss with leaders arguing that in the initial phase,  not many seats allocated to the Congress went to polls. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Low vaccination  Amid a raging pandemic situation, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has blamed the farmers’ protests against the three farm laws for the low vaccination numbers in the state. The state government has managed to administer 16 lakh jabs. “People in Punjab were still not coming out in large numbers for the vaccination due to the massive anger prevailing against the Government of India on the issue of farm laws,” Singh told Congress President Sonia Gandhi. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Sleep disorder The Jammu and Kashmir government’s decision to impose a night curfew in the urban areas of eight districts to check the spread of the soaring coronavirus cases sounds strange as there is no nightlife in the Valley for more than three decades. Kashmir otherwise also shuts down during the night as there are no night clubs and night partying here. Simply replicating the Mumbai model in Srinagar sounds bizarre. Better was to shut down gardens in Kashmir, where thousands of people throng daily. But then the administrators’ logic might be that the coronavirus has some kind of sleep disorder that makes it roam around during nights only and take rest during the day! Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar  Zero gravity It’s fun to move in zero gravity, says Wing Commander (Retd) Rakesh Sharma, the only Indian astronaut to reach space. “It was fun to move in space in zero gravity, doing somersaults, and impossible things which can not be done while on Earth, but all with a lot of hardships and training,” he said at an online event hosted by the Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai and Russian Centre for Science and Culture, to commemorate the first human space flight of Yuri Gagarin. Reliving his 1984 mission to space, he said, “I was excited to hear of the achievement of Yuri Gagarin’s first space flight while I was just 10th grader.” “Now we are going to colonise Space soon but while doing so, we must not repeat mistakes we have committed in developing earth, like pollution, overexploitation of earth natural resources,” said Sharma, a former pilot. In April 1984, Sharma, as part of an Indo-USSR mission, became the first citizen of India to go into space when he flew aboard the Soviet rocket Soyuz T-11 blasted off from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Witch-hunt? With most of the prominent faces having left the party, the J&K’s People’s Democratic Party has already crumbled. The former Chief Minister and PDP President, Mehbooba Mufti doesn’t seem to be enjoying much support beyond her own family. Amid a massive crackdown of the investigative agencies on the “leftover” PDP leaders, even the family of Mehbooba is not being spared. In the latest, her elderly ailing mother, who is also the wife of the former Union Minister late Mufti Muhammad Sayeed, has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate. The Mufti family calls it a ‘witch-hunt’. The Mufti family says that the questioning which started with Mehbooba is now being extended to her mother. They call it the sequel of the “The Wolf and the Lamb story.” Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-april-12-2021-973293.html
11-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Treasure hunt||Many things which we could have easily disposed lie stored in our houses for decades together. Most of the stuff that occupies the lofts in these rooms sleep there happily undisturbed. This is more so, in our ancestral homes in our villages where the so-called ’junk’ which comprises age-old furniture, books, cuttings from newspapers, pictures, photos, century-old letters, curios, medals, coins, documents with British stamps and seals etc. remain imprisoned in the  ‘Dumping rooms’. They remain unattended for decades and in some cases, even centuries together.  No one bothers to even open the room to check convinced that they are not worth the try. I am one who is keen on keeping old stuff safe, adhering to the adage, ‘old is gold! Most of my collection comprises books, scripts of my articles, short stories and poems published in reputed journals and weeklies in the past five decades. Some more files contain my appointment orders, certificates, elevation advice, salary particulars etc covering my long journey of over 45 years in banks and other corporate entities. Though all those are filed properly, undoubtedly they occupy a precious space in our anteroom exhibit meant to be adorned with beautiful dolls, curios brought by us overseas, pictures of our family etc. Needless to stress, my collection has become an eyesore to all, particularly my wife who is very keen on good housekeeping. She starts nagging me to dispose of them off as they have outlived their utility and also that both of us have turned septuagenarians now. This becomes a loud cry at the end of every year when absolute cleaning is given to the entire house and some of the ‘unwanted’ items are mercilessly thrown into the dust bin, most of the time in my absence. I have been resisting her onslaught all these years but wonder whether I would be able to save my bosom stuff coming December as she has already smelt that I have almost decided to give in. However, those who are keen to be free of any of the above stuff, particularly any ancestral stuff, should visit my house one day. Much against the wishes of my family, I brought a Rosewood oblong table with carvings of the best kind found among the ‘junk’  in our grandmother’s ancestral house in Manapad which adorns our main hall now. Never a person who visits our house for the first time fails to fall in love with this piece which is already an antique now. I have heard from my grandma that the Burmese origin table was spotted and bought by my grandfather in Colombo and ferried to Manapad in 1917 when my mother, their first child, was born. The coveted piece of Rosewood, 103 years old now, was meant to seat a big cute baby doll that was sent along with the table. Now my family does realise that this antique attractor is not only beautiful but also priceless. I have no doubt when I visit Manapad next time, I would be able to excavate more of such precious items from the ‘dumping room’ nay, ’treasure room’ of my grandmother. Tell me now. Is it wrong to keep safe our elders’ possessions?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/treasure-hunt-973291.html
11-04-2021||Second Edit||Russia’s bonhomie with Pakistan a threat to India||Russia’s changing equations with India and Pakistan, which was evident during Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov’s recent visit to New Delhi and Islamabad, is of serious concern to India. Not only are Moscow’s ties, especially on the military front, deepening but also, Russia-Pakistan co-ordination on global issues has implications for India’s security and national interests. In Islamabad, Lavrov agreed to supply Pakistan with “special military equipment” to strengthen its counter-terrorism capabilities. The two countries will also conduct more joint military and naval exercises. They also discussed Afghanistan, on which they have developed common positions. They are also said to have discussed Kashmir. Russia’s ties with Pakistan were fraught with tension during the Cold War years but over the past decade, relations have warmed considerably. Russia’s military sales to Pakistan have increased over the years. In the past, Moscow has downplayed such sales, claiming that this was merely a commercial engagement. It ruled out strategic motivations or implications behind the military ties. However, this has clearly changed. A growing meeting of minds, intentions and interests between Russia and Pakistan is visible. On Afghanistan, for instance, Moscow now supports the Taliban being part of an interim government and is actively co-ordinating strategies with Pakistan on the matter. Understandably, India is apprehensive. The India-Russia military relationship remains strong. Despite the threat of US sanctions on Russia, New Delhi is likely to go ahead with purchase of S-400 missiles from Moscow. Russia on its part plans to set up a manufacturing unit in India to produce Russian weapons under the ‘Make in India’ initiative. The two sides have also started talks on creating a free trade area between India and the Eurasian Economic Union. Notwithstanding these positive developments, the India-Russia relationship is in trouble. Unlike in the past when a meeting with the Indian Prime Minister was routine for all senior visiting Russian dignitaries, this did not happen this time around. While in Delhi, Lavrov raised the issue of Russia’s discomfort with India’s participation in the Quad, especially if the grouping turns into ‘a NATO-like entity for Asia.’ Lavrov’s cozying up to the Pakistanis is likely to have been aimed at sending India a message that Moscow is ready to deepen ties with Pakistan, if India persists with building ties with the US. Russia is already in a strong relationship with China and this together with the emerging partnership with Pakistan poses a threat to India’s security. India must take seriously the growing proximity between Moscow and Islamabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/russia-s-bonhomie-with-pakistan-a-threat-to-india-973286.html
11-04-2021||South||State Speaker among 6,194 fresh Covid cases in Kerala||As many as 6,194 more fresh Covid cases were reported in Kerala on Saturday indicating a further surge in Covid cases. Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan was among those tested Covid positive on Saturday. He is under quarantine in his official residence in Thiruvananthapuram. He requested all those who came in contact with him over the last few days to remain in observation. Customs officials had taken his statement on Friday in connection with dollar smuggling case. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and former chief minister Oommen Chandy were also tested Covid positive earlier. At present 39,778 Covid positive cases are there in the state. The total Covid deaths in Kerala reached 4767 with 17 more deaths on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/state-speaker-among-6194-fresh-covid-cases-in-kerala-973017.html
11-04-2021||South||Chopper with businessman M A Yusuff Ali makes emergency landing in Kochi||A helicopter in which business tycoon and Lulu Group head M A Yusuff Ali was travelling had to make an emergency landing in Kochi on Sunday morning. Five persons including Yusuf Ali, his wife and the pilot, were aboard. All were reported unhurt. The incident took place at Panangad in the suburbs of Kochi city at around 9.30 am. The private helicopter made the crash landing at a marshy land. A group of local people who witnessed the emergency landing and assisted the rescue said that it was drizzling at the time of the incident. The pilot first came out of the helicopter and took Yusuff Ali and his wife out of the helicopter and took them to nearby private hospital. Kochi city police commissioner H Nagaraju told DH that according to preliminary information, the helicopter was supposed to land in a nearby school ground. Yusuff Ali was flying from his house in Kochi to a hospital in the city. Owing to visibility issues due to mist, the pilot was forced to make land the chopper at the nearby marshy land. All passengers were safe. DGCA officials will be inspecting the spot. Yusuff Ali heads various business establishments across the world, including the Lulu group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chopper-with-businessman-m-a-yusuff-ali-makes-emergency-landing-in-kochi-973075.html
11-04-2021||South||Ex-IPS Annamalai tests positive for Covid-19||Former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai, who is the BJP candidate from Aravakurichi constituency in the Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Annamalai, 36, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday night and is currently being treated at a private hospital in Coimbatore. “I have tested positive for COVID & hospitalised! I sincerely request everyone who has been around me lately to watch out for any symptoms & get tested,” Annamalai tweeted on Sunday morning. I have tested positive for COVID & hospitalised! I sincerely request everyone who have been around me lately to watch out for any symptoms & get tested. The former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer joined the BJP in August 2020 and was appointed as Vice-President. Annamalai, who is contesting the assembly polls from his native Aravakurichi constituency in Karur district, had been campaigning for his party and himself for the past few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-ips-annamalai-tests-positive-for-covid-19-973115.html
11-04-2021||South||Congress candidate dies due to Covid-19 infection in Tamil Nadu||P S W Madhavarao, the Congress candidate from Srivilliputhur (reserved) constituency in Virudhunagar district in Tamil Nadu, passed away on Sunday morning due to Covid-19 complications. Madhavarao, who was admitted to a corporate hospital in Madurai on March 20, was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on Saturday evening after his condition deteriorated. He passed away on Sunday morning, a source in the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) said. 63-year-old Madhavarao had tested positive for the novel coronavirus and hence, could not campaign in his constituency. His daughter Dhivya Rao took up the task of campaigning for her father in the just-concluded elections to Tamil Nadu assembly. A businessman and a legal consultant, Madhavarao, who hails from a village near Virudhunagar, contested the Assembly elections for the first time. He had held several posts in the Congress, including heading the District Congress Committee. Congress leaders and DMK President M K Stalin condoled Madhavarao's death and appealed to politicians to be very cautious and get vaccinated for Covid-19. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo said Sriviliputhur will face by-elections if Madhavarao wins the polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-candidate-dies-due-to-covid-19-infection-in-tamil-nadu-973127.html
11-04-2021||South||Kozhikode-bound AIE flight diverted to Kochi after tyre issue||A Kozhikode-bound Air India Express (AIE) flight from Riyadh was diverted and landed at the International Airport here in the wee hours of Sunday after the pilot detected a fault in one of its tyres mid-air, sources said here. Incidentally, the faulty tyre of the AIE IX1322, carrying 180 passengers, burst after its safe landing at the Kochi airport, they said. The pilot decided to divert the aircraft to Kochi airport after a tyre issue was noticed, sources said. The decision to land at Kochi airport was taken considering the safety aspect, they said. While the Kochi international airport is the biggest one in the state, the international airport at Kozhikode is a tabletop one, which has limited space at the ends of the runway. The decision of the pilot to divert the flight to Kochi proved right as its faulty tyre burst immediately after the passengers were safely deboarded following its landing at the airport at 3.16 am, sources said. The Air India Express arranged another aircraft in the morning for facilitating the journey of the deboarded passengers to Kozhikode, they said. A Kuwait-bound Air India Express flight had made an emergency landing at the Kozhikode airport last Friday after a fire warning in the cargo compartment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-bound-aie-flight-diverted-to-kochi-after-tyre-issue-973131.html
11-04-2021||South||Kerala medical students dance away to glory amid communal criticism||Michael Jackson, the man who revolutionised Pop dance and mesmerised audiences with his famous 'moonwalk', once said, "To live is to be musical, starting with the blood dancing in your veins. Everything living has a rhythm. Do you feel your music?” To borrow the title of a famous Bollywood film, anybody can dance. Dance uplifts the mood of an individual gives her or him a sense of unbridled happiness, satisfaction and enlightens the thought process. Recently, Naveen Razak and Janaki Omkumar, students of the Thrissur government medical college, made a 30-second video clip dancing to the tune of Boney M classic 'Rasputin'. The two were in scrubs and the video was shot in their hospital corridor. They posted the video on social media and it went viral and they became celebrities overnight. Naveen said that he had posted some videos earlier also, but those did not receive this much viewership. What made this video different was that they were in scrubs and it was shot in the hospital corridor. And also, they can be seen enjoying the dance in a carefree manner, and that struck a chord with the viewers. However, an ugly spat triggered over the video after one Krishna Raj, said to be a Sangh Parivar supporter and also a layer, made a post on Facebook, referring to the communities of the two students and cautioning Janaki's parents that he was smelling a rat. Raj also made a reference to Nimisha, a Kerala girl who reportedly joined ISIS along with her husband.  He wrote, "There’s something fishy. It would be good if Janaki’s parents are careful. They won’t have to be sorry later as the case of Nimisha’s mother proves. Let us pray for Janaki’s father Omkumar and his wife.” A large section had strongly flayed Krishna Raj for his comment, even as he received support from a section of like-minded Sangh Parivar supporters. Groups of medical students had also flayed the communal colour being given to the viral video clip. As a mark of protests against the efforts to give communal colour to a dance video, student unions in colleges are organising similar dance competitions. The students’ unit of the Indian Medical Association has organised ‘Rasputin Challenge’, inviting video entries on Instagram, and Milma, Kerala’s biggest milk cooperative posted on Facebook a beautiful cartoon of Janaki and Naveen with the caption, “when you set hearts on fire”.  The students’ union at the Cochin University of Science and Technology in Kochi, led by the CPM’s Students’ Federation of India, announced a dance challenge with cash prizes in solidarity with Janaki and Naveen. A member of the union, Abhinav Krishna, said, “We also borrowed the term ‘Entho oru panthikedu (there’s something fishy)’ from the lawyer’s comments for our dance challenge. We want to register our protest at those making such hateful comments to show that these have no place in Kerala.” Overcoming the obstacles, Janaki and Naveen have danced away to glory, and now, they are being joined by many with new moves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-medical-students-dance-away-to-glory-amid-communal-criticism-973154.html
11-04-2021||South||BJP leader K Annamalai tests positive for coronavirus||BJP nominee from Aravakkurichi constituency in the April 6 Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, K Annamalai, has tested positive for Covid-19. Annamalai tweeted saying he has tested positive for coronavirus and has been hospitalised. He requested those who came in contact with him recently "to watch out for any symptoms & get tested." I have tested positive for COVID & hospitalised! I sincerely request everyone who have been around me lately to watch out for any symptoms & get tested. A former Karnataka cadre IPS officer, Annamalai had taken voluntary retirement from service in 2019 and joined the BJP last year. He was fielded from the Aravakkurichi Assembly constituency in the Assembly polls. Actor-politician Khushbu Sundar, also with the BJP, said her filmmaker husband Sundar C has tested positive for Covid-19. "He is doing well but admitted in hospital for precautionary measures...," she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-leader-k-annamalai-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-973172.html
11-04-2021||South||Thrissur Pooram being held amid Covid-19 surge triggers health concerns, row||The decision of the Kerala government to allow Thrissur Pooram, a major temple festival of Kerala that draws thousands of people, has triggered a row with the health authorities expressing serious concerns in view of the fresh Covid-19 surge in the state. Parading of elephants and fireworks are the major attraction of the Thrissur Pooram held at the Thekkinkadu ground premises of the Vadakkunnathan temple in Thrissur town. This year's event is scheduled to be held on April 23. District Medical Officer K J Reena has said that she had brought to the attention of the government the high risk involved in allowing a huge gathering for the Thrissur Pooram as it could lead to the spread of the coronavirus. She also said that she was hopeful that the government would reconsider its decision. The Thrissur district administration was also learnt to have urged the state chief secretary to convene a meeting of all stake holders. With the representatives of the Devaswoms participating in the Thrissur Pooram raising strong objections against these moves, Kerala agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar, who is the MLA of Thrissur, said that there was no question of putting off the event. However, restrictions would be imposed on the number of participants, he said. Last year the Thrissur Pooram was limited only to rituals owing to Covid-19. Most temple festivals of Kerala were also put off. But now, all temple festivals are being allowed. Owners of captive elephants were also learnt to have put pressure on the government to allow temple festivals as they used to generate revenue from parading elephants for temple festivals. Thrissur Pooram is often referred to as the mother of all temple festivals in Kerala. It was called off only on a few occasions like Mahatma Gandhi's assassination and the India-China war. The last time the festival was called off was in the 1960s owing to some dispute among the organisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thrissur-pooram-being-held-amid-covid-19-surge-triggers-health-concerns-row-973239.html
11-04-2021||South||Finally, work on AIIMS, Madurai begins?||The establishment of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai is one of the issues that dominated the campaign for the April 6 elections to the Tamil Nadu Assembly. A few days after voting ended in the state, it has now emerged that there is light at the end of the tunnel – work on building the premier medical institute has begun. “Loan agreement has been signed between Government of India and Government of Japan for setting up AIIMS in Tamil Nadu,” the Centre said in a reply to a query raised by R Pandiaraja under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. However, the Centre said further details can only be shared only when the signed loan agreement is received by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) will provide the loan for construction of AIIMS.  AIIMS, Madurai was announced by the Narendra Modi government in 2015, but the time taken by the state government in identifying the location delayed the establishment of the premier institute. After lobbying by several cities in the state, the Tamil Nadu government zeroed in on Thoppur, 20 kilometres from Madurai, for AIIMS and the foundation stone for the same was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January 2019. However, nothing moved forward for two years, prompting the Opposition parties to make it an issue in the run-up to the Assembly elections. The issue assumed centre stage when DMK youth wing chief Udhayanidhi Stalin held a red brick in his hand during a roadshow and called it “AIIMS, Madurai” to take a dig at the AIADMK-BJP alliance, implying there was nothing except the brick at Thoppur, the village where the institute will come up. Videos of Udhayanidhi holding the brick at many roadshows went viral on social media. AIIMS has always been in news in Tamil Nadu, but mostly for wrong reasons. To be fair, it is the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by Modi which announced setting up of the institute in the 2015-16 Union Budget, though Congress leaders claim they initiated the process. The Centre took time to kick off the process and when things started moving, Tamil Nadu witnessed a political upheaval following J Jayalalithaa's death. In 2017, there was a clamour among ministers and senior leaders of AIADMK to take AIIMS to their area, delaying the process further. Thanjavur, Tiruchirapalli and other cities were in contention – many associations took out rallies demanding that the institute should come up in their place, but Madurai won finally. Though there was not much progress after the foundation stone was laid in 2019 due to a slew of reasons, including Covid-19, the Centre appointed members to the governing council of the institute and has now allotted funds in the Union Budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/finally-work-on-aiims-madurai-begins-973252.html
11-04-2021||State||20% of NWKRTC employees return to work: Officials||Circular of non-releasing of March salary to protesting employees of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation had its desired ‘results’ as nearly 20% of the striking employees, who till Saturday were incommunicado, returned to work on Sunday. On Saturday Hubballi Division controller H Ramanagoudar had issued orders stating that only those employees who return to work by Sunday will receive their March salary by April 12 on a priority basis. Sources in NWKRTC said that of the 3,430 buses that the corporation manages in 7 districts of the Mumbai-Karnataka region, 400 vehicles hit the road till 9:00 pm. On Saturday, only 219 buses came out of the depot. “Nearly 750 bus drivers and conductors attended the work on Sunday. The numbers are expected to go up on Monday,” said a senior officer and added that the hardstand, including termination of trainees, an eviction notice from staff quarters, and transferring of ‘trouble making’ staff, taken by the government is yielding the results. Ramanagoudar said the government is going to toughen its stand further on Monday and stringent action will be taken against the regular employees also. Footfall increases Though the government had allowed private players to operate their service from government bus stands, the occupancy was thin on the first four days of the protest. However, on Sunday the footfall at the bus stand was comparatively high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/20-of-nwkrtc-employees-return-to-work-officials-973226.html
11-04-2021||State||Karnataka submitted third-highest number of Covid-19 insurance claims in India: Data||Karnataka, one of the 11 states of concern as far as Covid-19 caseload goes, submitted the third-highest number of insurance claims for its Covid-19 bills, according to data from the General Insurance Council (GIC) of India. Till April 1 from the start of the pandemic, the state made 75,938 claims amounting to more than Rs 1,136 crore after Maharashtra (Rs 4,345 crore), and Gujarat (Rs 1,922 crore). Bengaluru, with the highest Covid-19 caseload, made the highest number of claims -- 15,299 -- amounting to Rs 210 crore. The average claim amount was Rs 1.37 lakh. This is followed by Udupi (790 claims amounting to more than Rs 7.95 crore) and Mysuru (592 amounting to more than Rs 6.36 crore). As per Project Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, supported by the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), which did the analysis of the data from the GIC, only 13% of the population has health insurance. Most patients pay out-of-pocket for hospitalisation bills if they are not eligible under any state-sponsored health scheme. Mysore Sanjeev, convenor, Project Jeeva Raksha, told DH, "Shockingly, there is a 75-80% difference in the average claim between districts in Karnataka. For instance, in Mysuru, the average reported claim is Rs 1.07 lakh, whereas in Belagavi, Chitradurga and Vijayapura, it is Rs 1.75 lakh and in Yadgir, it is Rs 1.84 lakh." Yadgir District Health Officer Dr Indumati Kamshetty told DH that out of 10,992 Covid-19 cases that the district has seen since the start of the pandemic, only 16 having raised claims (amounting to more than Rs 29.46 lakh) and that too from the private sector is a small number. "At least eight must be from a local MLA's family, which should be quite affordable for them," she said. Ironically, claims from these districts are higher than in Bengaluru Urban at Rs 1.36 lakh, which should have ideally been the other way round because of the cost of running a hospital in terms of rent, manpower, and other administrative expenses in a metropolitan city is significantly higher. "There are several instances where a large number of Covid-19 patients have had to pay over Rs 10 lakh towards hospitalisation. The family members have to borrow and also exhaust their life-long savings to meet the hospitalisation charges," Mysore added. "The huge variation in average claim amount clearly indicates that the local administration has failed to monitor and regulate the Covid-19 treatment pricing in accordance with the guidelines issued by the state government. The elected representatives need to protect the interest of the people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-submitted-third-highest-number-of-covid-19-insurance-claims-in-india-data-973253.html
11-04-2021||State||Gutted library: Owner wants govt to regularise land||Syed Ishaq, whose library was gutted by miscreants recently, has appealed to the authorities to regularise the place where the library was functioning so far. He was running the library on an unauthorised land.  Ishaq had established a library on the land belonging to Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) at Rajeev Nagar in the city. He has now urged the government to officially allot land for the library. Miscreants had torched the library recently, which had a collection of more than 11,000 books, including 3,000 Kannada books, 3,000 copies of Bhagavad Gita, 1,500 copies of Bible and 1,000 Urdu books. Ishaq spoke to BJP state unit vice-president M Rajendra, who visited him on Sunday. Rajendra said Ishaq requested land for the library and sought help for the construction of a room to run the library.  Rajendra said B Y Vijayendra, son of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, had shown keen interest and assured 100% support for the reconstruction of the library. “Vijayendra spoke to me and Ishaq over phone. He has promised all possible help for Ishaq,” Rajendra said. He said despite Ishaq being uneducated and poor, he is a role model for many, owing to his service and commitment towards Kannada. “We will definitely help him in connection with re-establishing the library,” Rajendra said. Ishaq said he will run the library till his last days and he just needs a room for the purpose. A large number of people have extended support for rebuilding the library.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gutted-library-owner-wants-govt-to-regularise-land-973259.html
11-04-2021||State||Fertiliser stock will be cleared at old price: DVS||Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said on Sunday fertiliser stock, enough to last one and a half months, was lying at ports and the godowns of various companies and that the stock would be cleared at old prices. "Fertiliser stocked in godowns will be sold to farmers at old price. The ministry will hold a second meeting with the stakeholders on the price hike issue on Monday," he told reporters here. The country imports about 90% of its fertiliser requirement. The fertiliser price in international market has gone up. The DAP price has increased by 200 to 220%. This sharp rise has reflected in the domestic market," Gowda said.  The farming activities have been completed in the US and the Europe. The demand for fertilisers will be low in those countries. Hence, we are planning to import fertilisers at cheap price, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fertiliser-stock-will-be-cleared-at-old-price-dvs-973263.html
11-04-2021||State||Summer: Office timings changed in 9 North Karnataka districts||Government offices in nine north Karnataka districts will remain open from 8 am to 1.30 pm in the months of April and May, owing to extreme heat conditions observed in the region during the summer. The work hours will be applicable from April 12, a government order said. While normal work hours are from 10 am to 5 pm, office hours are shuffled during summer months in north Karnataka districts as temperatures cross the 40 degrees-mark. The order was based on a petition by Karnataka State Government Employees' Association. However, the change of timings will not be applicable to Covid-19 emergency works. The timings will be applicable for Vijayapura and Bagalkot districts, and districts in Kalaburagi division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/summer-office-timings-changed-in-9-north-karnataka-districts-973266.html
11-04-2021||State||HDK demands rollback of fertiliser price hike||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy attacked the BJP-led central government for hiking fertiliser prices, and demanded its rollback to help farmers, here Sunday. "Union Minister for Fertilisers and Chemicals D V Sadananda Gowda should speak to PM Modi to continue fertiliser subsidies worth Rs 1.5 lakh crore, which was slashed by 50% in the previous budget," he said. The problem cannot be addressed by holding meetings with representatives of chemical companies, the former CM said, advising the Centre against hurting the interest of farmers. "Mere words cannot improve the lives of farmers. How long will you build a castle of lies eyeing the farmers vote?" he said, demanding the Centre to rollback the hike in fertiliser prices. Kumaraswamy said that BJP government was stabbing farmers in the back, despite making tall claims of their welfare. Now, they have increased fertiliser prices by 60%, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hdk-demands-rollback-of-fertiliser-price-hike-973268.html
11-04-2021||State||Govt launches Rs 198-cr plan to computerise credit societies||The government has started work on its ambitious Rs 198-crore plan to streamline the finances of cooperative lending institutions that cater to farmers at the grassroots level.  But, authorities say bringing them all under one technology platform is easier said than done.  In his 2021-22 Budget speech, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said 5,500 Primary Agricultural Credit Cooperative Societies (PACS) would be computerized to increase their efficiency.  "There are many schemes whose money, for short-term loans running into thousands of crores, goes to the Apex Bank and then the District Central Cooperative Banks and then to the PACS. The PACS will then disburse the loans to farmers. Now, the farmer can have more than one account in the PACS, which is against the rules. Computerization can help prevent such frauds," Principal Secretary (Cooperation) Tushar Girinath told DH, on the benefit of computerizing the PACS.  "Since they are not computerized, reconciliation of accounts is a problem," he added.  Farmers largely depend on cooperative institutions for their credit needs. Karnataka has 21 District Cooperative Central (DCC) Banks and there is the Karnataka State Co-Operative Apex Bank. The state government is looking at ways in which a common technology interface can be provided for DCC banks and the PACS.  "The problem is that the software is not uniform across DCC banks," Girinath said. "There are 3-4 different systems running across all DCC banks. We can't seem to have one uniform system now," he added.  Girinath said the government will first get a consultant onboard to identify the requirements. "Then comes computerization," he said. "We're in the consulting process now."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-launches-rs-198-cr-plan-to-computerise-credit-societies-973271.html
11-04-2021||State||Bee fences help in reducing elephant-human conflict||Installing honey bee fences to ward off wild elephants, which was successfully tested as a pilot project in Kodagu in Karnataka, will be implemented in different parts of the country, the government has said. Union Medium Small and Micro Enterprises Minister Nitin Gadkari said here that Project RE-HAB (Reducing Elephant Human Attacks using Bees) has yielded encouraging results and it will soon be implemented in different states. Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), last month launched Project RE-HAB in which boxes with bees were placed at various locations near Chelur village in Kodagu. The KVIC officials had hoped that the buzzing of the bees would confuse and frighten the elephants as they fear that the honey bees might sting them in their eyes and the inner side of the trunk. Also, the buzz of the bees irritates them the most. Gadkari said the project has yielded encouraging results. He said the project “has huge potential and it will soon be replicated in all states, affected by elephant attacks like West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala”. In Kodagu, the location, where bees boxes kept, was on the periphery of the Nagarahole National Park, which is frequented by wild elephants. Under this, bee boxes are used as a fence to prevent elephants from entering human habitation, thus reducing loss of lives and property, KVIC Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena said. “It is a unique, cost-effective way of preventing elephant-human conflicts without causing any harm to both, the animals and the humans,” Saxena said. Bee fences have reduced the movement of elephants at these points to a great extent. Night vision cameras installed at these locations have captured amazing footage of elephants’ behaviour on seeing bee boxes. A number of elephants are seen returning to the jungles fearing honey bees. Also, no destruction of crops or property by elephants has been reported in these areas since the bee boxes have been placed on the passageways of elephants, the statement from KVIC said. Through this project, the locals, residing in these areas, will be trained for beekeeping and provided bee boxes which will be used to ward off the wild elephants, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bee-fences-help-in-reducing-elephant-human-conflict-973272.html
11-04-2021||State||Evening showers bring joy & misery to North Karnataka||Thundershowers on Sunday evening provided some relief from searing heat to people in north Karnataka and coastal districts. It also brought misery to Vijayapura grape growers and residents in low-lying areas in several pockets of the region. Heavy showers lashed Hubballi-Dharwad twin cities for two hours in the evening, leaving several roads and houses in low-lying areas waterlogged. The residents of Sadhanakeri, Brahmachaitanya Park, Sampige Nagar, CB Nagar and Jannat Nagar in Dharwad were in for a nightmare as rainwater gushed into their houses after a spell of heavy rain accompanied by thunder activity. Vehicular movement was disrupted on waterlogged Toll Naka and CRF roads. The hailstorm in Tikota, Vijayapura district, damaged six tonnes of raisin kept in open for drying. The grape growers of Kallakavatagi were planning to take their produce to market in a week or two. Vijayapura city and parts of the district also received thundershowers for the third consecutive day on Sunday. The Sunday evening showers caused untold hardships to the shop owners of Khade Bazaar in Shahpur area of Belagavi. Rainwater inundated several clothes stores in the area. The ongoing smart city works have only made the matters worse for the traders. Parts of Gadag and Haveri districts experienced their first pre-monsoon showers of the season. Uttara Kannada, including Karwar city, Sirsi and Halyal, recorded temperatures in the late-thirties for the best part of the day. But the evening showers cooled the coastal district. Parts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi also received moderate to heavy spell of rain, along with high intensity winds. Rain, accompanied by strong winds, brought down several electricity poles in Hebri. Power outages were reported from several parts of the twin coastal districts. Malnad districts - Shivamogga, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru - also recorded heavy showers with hail stones in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/evening-showers-bring-joy-misery-to-north-karnataka-973274.html
11-04-2021||State||RTC workers to intensify protest on April 12||Leader of road transport corporation (RTC) workers said the strike, which completed five days on Sunday, will continue despite the dismissal and suspension of hundreds of employees. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, the honarary president of Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, said the workers along with their family members will stage protests in front of the taluk and zilla panchayat offices on Monday. "Instead of creating fear psychosis among employees, the government should call them for talks and resolve the issue," he added. He said the order banning the strike shows the government's ignorance. "Our strike will continue and will be intensified. Only the government has to be blamed for this," he added. The four RTCs together succeeded in operating 2,663 buses of the corporation with 22 FIRs registered against miscreants who had damaged the vehicles. Another 5,836 private buses and about 1,000 buses from RTCs of neighbouring states were also operated, the KSRTC said. The BMTC said 122 trainee and probationary employees were dismissed from service on Sunday for their failure to respond to the notices. R Chandrashekhar, president of the League, said any negotiation with the governmenet will involve the reinstating the dismissed trainees and probationers. Meanwhile, the CITU is expected to announce its support to the strike on Monday morning. The KSRTC has extended the validity of the student passes and monthly passes to the tune of strike period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rtc-workers-to-intensify-protest-on-april-12-973281.html
11-04-2021||State||Minimum wage fiat not available in Kannada||The government is not only betraying the working class with the draft Karnataka Code on Wages 2021 but is also keeping the workers in the dark by not providing information in Kannada, trade unions have said. The All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) said the new rules change the methodology for the calculation of minimum wages, effectively reducing the same from Rs 9,935 to Rs 5,935. The government has failed to provide any publicity to the draft rules which are made available in English only. "This results in the exclusion of the vast majority of the working class who are affected," it said in a release. The new formula for calculating the minimum wage which assigns one consumption unit to males and 0.8 point to females is also gender discriminatory as it assigns lower consumption to female adult member of the household. Moreover, it fails to consider the dependents such as parents. General Secretary of AICCTU P P Appanna warned that under the present rate of inflation, the variable dearness allowance need to be increased. However, the draft rules do not have a mention about it. Kannada Rakshana Vedike's Arun Javagal said the Kannada activists will take up the issue and press the government to provide information regarding all the key issues in Kannada. "The denial of information is betrayal of Kannadigas. Many of the public information materials on Covid-19 were also given exclusively in English," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minimum-wage-fiat-not-available-in-kannada-973295.html
11-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PM Modi speaks to Yediyurappa, suggests focus on micro containment zones to control Covid-19||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has suggested focusing on micro containment zones to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection in the state. The Chief Minister who spoke to the Prime Minister Sunday said that the latter also appreciated the state government's efforts. "Spoke to Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji and apprised him about the measures being taken in the state to mitigate second wave of pandemic. PM appreciated the government's efforts and suggested to focus on micro containment zones to contain the spread of infection," Yediyurappa tweeted. Following the video conference with Modi, Yediyurappa on Thursday had announced a corona curfew between 10 PM to 5 AM in seven district centres of the state along with Manipal, from April 10 to 20, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19. The state has seen a spike in Covid cases since the beginning of this month and is reporting nearly 7,000 fresh cases per day for the last couple of days. As of last evening, the total number of active cases in the state stood at 61,653. The Chief Minister also appealed to the people, those eligible, to get vaccinated. "Vaccine is the biggest weapon available to us in this battle against Covid-19. I urge all eligible citizens to get vaccinated and also encourage people around you to get vaccinated. Let us continue to stay protected by wearing masks and following social distance," he said in another tweet. Vaccine is the biggest weapon available to us in this battle against Covid-19. I urge all eligible citizens to get vaccinated and also encourage people around you to get vaccinated. As suggested by the Prime Minister at Thursday's videoconferencing with various Chief Ministers, the state government is organising vaccination drives from April 11- Jyotiba Phule's birthday till April 14- Ambedkar's birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pm-modi-speaks-to-yediyurappa-suggests-focus-on-micro-containment-zones-to-control-covid-19-973120.html
11-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bus services continue to be hit in Karnataka as RTC employees' strike enters fifth day||Bus services remained largely hit across Karnataka on Sunday too, as the strike by employees of the road transport corporations on wage-related issues, entered its fifth day. With a stalemate between the government and employees of the four transport corporations in the state, over their demand for wages as per the 6th Pay Commission continuing, the majority of workers did not turn up for work, resulting in buses remaining off-road, affecting commuters. Amid threats of tough action, "no work no pay", few RTC employees have returned to work and are operating buses on some routes in the city, along with police escort, and similar reports are emerging from few other places in the state, officials said. Though the number of commuters waiting for buses at bus stands remained scarce, today being Sunday, those wanting to travel to their native for celebrating Ugadi on Tuesday are affected. Private buses, minibuses, maxi cabs and other passenger transport vehicles, whom authorities have roped in to manage the crisis and help commuters, were seen providing services to passengers in different parts of the city and the state. People were using their own vehicles or were seen using cabs, Metro and autorickshaws, especially in the city areas. Metro has increased the frequency of its services between 7 am and 9 pm. RTCs that have been warning employees about continuing with the strike, have started taking actions against trainee employees and are issuing notice for absence from work. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) said it has decided not to consider requests for inter corporation transfers of employees who are instigating, threatening colleagues for the strike and are hindering bus services, thereby causing inconvenience to the public. Also, employees who have been given such transfers, have been warned that it will be cancelled and that they will be posted to their original place on failing to attend duty immediately, KSRTC tweeted. ಹಾಗೂ ಈಗಾಗಲೇ ಕೋರಿಕೆ ಮೇರೆಗೆ ಅಂತರ ವಿಭಾಗ ವರ್ಗಾವಣೆಗೊಂಡು,‌ ವಿಭಾಗಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಕರ್ತವ್ಯ ನಿರ್ವಹಿಸುತ್ತಿರುವ ಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿಗಳು ಈ ಅವಧಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಕೂಡಲೇ ಕರ್ತವ್ಯಕ್ಕೆ ಹಾಜರಾಗದಿದ್ದಲ್ಲಿ (2/3) Citing inconvenience caused to the public and that the strike was against provisions of the industrial disputes act, the Labour department on Friday had issued an order banning the strike. The dispute has been referred to the industrial tribunal, Bengaluru for adjudication, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bus-services-continue-to-be-hit-in-karnataka-as-rtc-employees-strike-enters-fifth-day-973124.html
11-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 cases may peak in Karnataka by May first week: Health Minister K Sudhakar||Experts opine that the second wave of Covid-19 is likely to peak by the first week of May in Karnataka and will slow down by the end of that month, Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar said. The wave, he said, would last for 60-80 days. Following a meeting with the Technical Advisory Committee, the minister told reporters that the Committee was directed to come up with a detailed report regarding the spread of Covid-19 in the state, and measures to reduce it. "The report will be submitted to the Chief Minister, based on which we will decide any changes in guidelines or regulations to curb the pandemic," he said. The Committee discussed how the cases will vary in the coming days, how scientific the measures taken by the state government are, and what additional measures can be employed, he said. "Any wave will last for 80-60 days. Till the end of May, we have to be careful. Experts also opine that the wave has just started," the minister said, noting that the wave will peak in two to three weeks. With the rise in cases, hospitalisation will also increase. "We are also planning to monitor those in home isolation more stringently and the Committee has advised to rope in private agencies for the purpose," he added. Suggestions that impact economic activities will not be considered. However, experts suggest curbs on large gatherings that spread infection, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cases-may-peak-in-karnataka-by-may-first-week-health-minister-k-sudhakar-973200.html
11-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Reserving 50% beds for government quota Covid-19 patients outside Bengaluru untenable: Private hospitals||With 60,000 beds available with the private sector across the state, an order to reserve 50 per cent beds for government quota Covid patients has peeved the private hospitals in districts other than Bengaluru as they do not have a surge similar to that in the state capital. In the absence of a four-digit rise in cases like the one seen in Bengaluru, they are worried that the beds will remain vacant. At the peak of the pandemic last year, only 20 per cent to 25 per cent reserved beds were used for government quota Covid patients, and the loss was absorbed by the private hospitals themselves. A private hospitals association is approaching the government in this regard, to ask for some relaxation of the 50 per cent rule. Dr HM Prasanna, President, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said, "As per Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust, across Karnataka there are 60,000 beds in private hospitals and 50% of it, that is 30,000 should be made available for government quota Covid patients. The government does not require those many beds. It did not use all of them even during the peak of the pandemic last year. The demand is only in a few cities in seven or eight districts of Karnataka." "Remaining places, there is no demand at all. But they had made a blanket rule because they cannot issue government orders for each district. It should be left to the Deputy Commissioners of the districts to take the beds," he added. Members of the Working Group of Federation of Healthcare Associations -Karnataka also said the same. Mysuru reported 243 cases on Wednesday taking the active caseload to 1,453. The district surveillance officer said there are 3,500 beds in government and private hospitals put together in the district. Dr. Chandrashekar GR, Chairman, Cauvery Group of Institutions, Mysuru, which includes Cauvery Heart & Multi Speciality Hospital, said, "Last year, by the time they took 50% of the 150 beds we have for government quota Covid patients in Mysuru, the infections came down. Even at the peak, only around 25% of these beds were occupied. We bore the losses that came with it. We have no choice but to make a representation. Non-Covid patients are affected. Mysuru doesn't have the kind of surge Bengaluru does." Vijayapura reported 50 cases on Wednesday, taking the active caseload to 205 in the district. Prasad Sasnur, owner of Sasnur hospital, Vijayapura, said, "We admit Covid patients in our 90-bedded hospital and non-Covid patients in 100-bedded hospitals. In tier 2 cities, the ceiling rates fixed by the government may suffice, but for hospitals in metropolitan areas, it is not enough. Last time, we had a meeting with the district health officer saying some private hospitals cannot treat Covid patients. Even this time around only seven private hospitals will treat Covid. The problems are different in different cities."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reserving-50-beds-for-government-quota-covid-19-patients-outside-bengaluru-untenable-private-hospitals-973212.html
11-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases, 40 deaths||Karnataka has reported over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases and 40 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 10.65 lakh and the toll to 12,889, the Health Department said on Sunday. Out of the 10,250 fresh cases reported, 7,584 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The day also saw 2,638 patients getting discharged after recovery. Cumulatively 10,65,290 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,889 deaths and 9,83,157 discharges, the Health Department said in a bulletin. Out of 69,225 active cases, 68,785 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals, while 440 are in Intensive Care Units.  Among the 40 deaths reported on Sunday, 27 are from Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi and Mysuru 3, Kalaburagi 2, and one each from Bagalkote, Bengaluru Rural, Bidar, Shivamogga and Vijayapura. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 7,584, Kalaburagi 291, Bidar 290, Mysuru 277, Hassan 170, Dharwad and Tumakuru 150, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,81,982, followed by Mysuru 58,211 and Ballari 40,560. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban headed the list with 4,25,930, followed by Mysuru 55,224 and Ballari 39,256. A total of over 2,26,90,258 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,32,706 were on Sunday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-over-10000-new-covid-19-cases-40-deaths-973240.html
11-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||100 villages on River Krishna basin to get flood alerts||Learning from the 2019 disaster when floods and landslide cost 91 lives and caused a total loss of over Rs 35,000 crore, the disaster management officials have begun work to build a state-of-the-art public broadcasting system in 100 villages of 13 districts in Krishna basin. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Center (KSNDMC) has designed a multi-tier system where communication can be relayed directly from state, district or taluk headquarter to all the vulnerable gram panchayats. "Besides the local expertise, the system will have direct connections with scientific institutions such as Indian Space Research Organisation and several networks monitoring seismic, weather and other phenomena. The focus will be on reducing the time consumed at several stages, from identifying the problem to the relaying it to the last receiver," a senior official from the KSNDMC said. The loudspeakers will come to life not only for floods but also to provide information on extreme weather like heatwave, heavy rains and weather phenomena that has a direct consequence on agrarian life. "This continuous engagement will not only ensure that the system is in working condition, but also helps in developing a communication channel with the public," he said. The system will provide three types of messages. First, public awareness messages with a precautionary note based on the information gathered through scientific monitoring networks; secondly, warning about ongoing events once the disaster sets in at an area and lastly, follow up on the events by providing advisories keep in mind long-term impacts of disasters. The 100 "severe flood-vulnerable" gram panchayats are spread across Belagavi, Raichur, Ballari, Koppal, Kalaburagi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Gadag, Haveri, Dharwad, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada and Yadgir. Officials plan to set up the new system in Raichur, Belagavi and Vijayapura in the first phase within the next three months at a cost of Rs 1 crore. "These districts need immediate attention. Once the central system is in place, all we need to scale up the system are simple devices like transmitters, loudspeakers and amplifiers," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/100-villages-on-river-krishna-basin-to-get-flood-alerts-973276.html
11-04-2021||West||Shiv Sena seeks uniform policy for 10 & 12th board exams||At a time when several states including Maharashtra are facing a sharp uptick in Covid-19 cases, the Shiv Sena has petitioned the Centre for a uniform policy vis-à-vis 10th and 12th standard board examinations to avoid any future discrimination and disadvantages. Mumbai South MP and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant has written a letter to union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to consider all the issues concerning the students, who are to appear for board examinations in April-May. Sawant, a close aide of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, requested that there should be a clear communication from the Centre. “All students come in the age group that has not been allowed to be vaccinated by the health ministry. The exams due in a few days will have millions of students and their families and teachers/invigilators, the non-teaching staff at high risk considering the virulence of the current pandemic,” he said. According to him, many students and teachers are also coming from micro containment zones as constantly suggested by the union health ministry which makes logistics difficult,” he said. Sawant said that multiple boards operate in India – CBSE, ICSE, State Boards, IB, IGCSE to name a few for the 10th and 12th standard exams. “Apart from the state boards, two boards are national in nature and two are international, whereby your kind intervention and guidance is required,” the senior Shiv Sena leader and former union minister wrote. Sawant pointed out that any unilateral decision by any state would lead to the students of that particular state being at a disadvantage, career and opportunity wise. “Your intervention would mean national consensus , instead of a unilateral decision from any particular state,” he said and called for a “uniform decision for the country” so that there is no discrimination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-seeks-uniform-policy-for-10-12th-board-exams-973059.html
11-04-2021||West||Vaccines will help to prevent new Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra, say experts||Experts believe a speedy vaccination programme will be able to prevent the third wave and subsequent surges of the Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra. “Vaccine is the kavach-kundal in the fight against Covid-19…it is the Ram-baan…it is the raj-marg,” public health and family welfare minister of Maharashtra Rajesh Tope said. India is currently facing a big demand-supply gap of vaccines as the second wave of coronavirus is sweeping large parts of the country. “By and large people think speedy Covid-19 vaccination will prevent current surge. Increased vaccination pace can help to prevent the third and subsequent surges immensely. It is important to understand the Vaccinology science,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, the secretary-general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), an umbrella organization of professional medical associations of post-graduate doctors. According to him, the Covid vaccines provide triple benefits.   “It prevents Covid-related severe illness as well as Covid-related deaths in nearly 100 per cent of vaccinated people. But it prevents only 60-80 per cent of vaccinated people from Covid-19 infections depending on which vaccine was taken and when the second dose was given. The benefits are not delivered as soon as you get the vaccine. Immunity is developed to a desirable level 15 days after the second dose,” added Dr Gilada, who is also the President of AIDS Society of India and governing council member of the International AIDS Society. “That is the reason even vaccinated people are getting Covid-19 infection, especially so after the first dose as immunity has not yet set in,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vaccines-will-help-to-prevent-new-covid-19-wave-in-maharashtra-say-experts-973061.html
11-04-2021||West||Maharashtra government sets up Distric-level control rooms for supply of Remdesivir||Concerned with incidents of hoarding and black-marketing of Remdesivir, the Maharashtra government has set up district-level control rooms to ensure smooth supply of the broad-spectrum anti-viral drug being prescribed for treatment of Remdesivir. Maharashtra’s commissioner of health services Dr Ramaswami N, who is also the mission director of National Health Mission has written to all the district collectors to set up control rooms. The state is facing multiple issues on Remdesivir – a massive demand supply gap, hoarding and black-marketing by stockists and pharmacy shops, the unaffordable prices and irrational prescription by certain doctors.  There have been multiple protests on this issue and there were apprehensions of law and order situation. At several places, people were seen standing in queues for hours to get Remdesivir in places like Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and Nagpur – and often did not get it. Over the last week, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has reviewed the situation with public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope, medical education minister Amit Deshmukh and food and drug administration minister Dr Rajendra Shingne and urban development minister Eknath Shinde on the issue. “We have decided to set up district-level control rooms,” Tope said. The government is working to decide on a price band of Rs 1,100 to Rs 1,400 per injection and has asked the dozen-odd pharmaceutical companies manufacturing Remdesivir to ramp-up production. The government has asked the commissioner of health services to put in place a separate mechanism to streamline the supply of Remdesivir in the wake of rise in its demand due to rising Covid-19 second wave. Dr Ramaswami has also directed the FDA to contact the state-level control room and take appropriate action if needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-sets-up-distric-level-control-rooms-for-supply-of-remdesivir-973062.html
11-04-2021||West||More than half a dozen places identified for caravan parks in Maharashtra||More than half a dozen picturesque locations like the Dhom dam and Jawali mountain ranges in Satara, Masai plateau on Kolhapur, Mulshi dam in Pune, areas around Daulatabad and Antur forts in Aurangabad, Naldurg fort in Osmanabad and Sahastrakund waterfall in Nanded have been zeroed in for development of caravan parks in Maharashtra. The Maharashtra government has cleared a policy for caravan tourism and caravan parks – and scouting of locations is underway. The Directorate of Tourism is working on the comprehensive project – that aims to give an addition to the existing tourism facilities. “Caravans can be parked at various tourist spots like forest buffer zones, near the footsteps of forts, hill stations, in the vicinity of dams, caves, seashores and nearby highways,” said Ravi Pawar, assistant director, development, Directorate of Tourism. About the infrastructure development, he said: “In an area of 1 hectare land, maximum 20 parking bays can be created- one parking bay for each Caravan. This means 20 caravans can be parked on a parking area of 1 hectare.” The state government has allowed use of different sets of caravans – single-axle and twin-axle caravans, tent caravan, folding caravan, camper trailer. About the vehicles in operation, Pawar said: “Motohom is based in Vasai and has been operating across Maharashtra. They have 4-5 vehicles comprising RVs which are equipped with kitchen, toilet, terrace, etc., mid-size caravans and Camper vans. They plan to launch Tempo Traveller which will cater 6-7 people excluding the driver.  They have been receiving good responses for smaller vans. Typically, couples and small families have been hiring these caravans.” On the licensing, he said that the caravans must be registered with the Directorate of Tourism and must be compliant with the Transport Department’s rules and regulations. “Caravan can be parked at forest buffer zones, near the footsteps of fort, hill stations and nearby highways. The parking bays will be designed to protect the privacy of tourists and should be compatible with the surrounding area. The tourist convenience centre will be set up near the parking bay where maps of the place will be provided through an information booklet. Waiting room, rest room, travellers guide will be made available,” he said. Apart from the private lands, the Irrigation department, Forest department, Revenue department, and MTDC will develop their lands into caravan parking bays considering the entire basic infrastructure such as water, electricity, security and safety of the travellers. “Caravan parks can be entirely privately owned, taken on rent or built through a public-private partnership (PPP),” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/more-than-half-a-dozen-places-identified-for-caravan-parks-in-maharashtra-973090.html
11-04-2021||West||CBI questions personal assistants of Anil Deshmukh in corruption case||The CBI on Sunday questioned two personal staffers of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with the allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, officials said. Deshmukh's personal assistant Kundan Shinde and personal secretary Sanjeev Palande were asked to appear before the CBI team in connection with its ongoing preliminary enquiry (PE) into the case following directives of the Bombay High Court, they said. Both of them were being questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) at the DRDO guest house in suburban Santacruz, the officials said. Singh had in a letter alleged that Palande was present when Deshmukh allegedly asked suspended cop Sachin Vaze to allegedly extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants of Mumbai, they said. Vaze, who was arrested last month by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, in his statement had reportedly claimed Shinde was present during one such conversation. The agency started its preliminary enquiry into the allegations of bribery against Deshmukh on Tuesday on the orders of the high court. It sent a team of officers from Delhi to Mumbai to carry out the probe. The CBI has so far recorded statements of Param Bir Singh, currently posted as the Director-General of state Home Guards, Sachin Vaze, DCP Raju Bhujbal, ACP Sanjay Patil, advocate Jayshree Patil, a petitioner, and hotel owner Mahesh Shetty. Singh was shifted from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to the Home Guards department on March 17. Later, he filed a petition in the HC seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh, alleging the NCP leader had asked Vaze and other police officers to extort Rs 100 crore from restaurants and bars in Mumbai. Deshmukh, who has denied the allegations, resigned from the cabinet on April 5 after the HC order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-questions-personal-assistants-of-anil-deshmukh-in-corruption-case-973108.html
11-04-2021||West||Covid-19 night curfew extended to rural parts of Surat||Night curfew currently in force in Surat city will be extended to rural parts of the district from Sunday to curb the spread of Covid-19, officials said. The Gujarat government last week imposed restrictions on people's movement during night in 20 cities of the state, including Surat. In a notification issued on Saturday night, Surat Collector Dhaval Patel extended the curfew to rural parts of the district from Sunday till April 31. The curfew will remain in force from 8 pm to 6 am, as per the notification. Surat is the first district in Gujarat where the night curfew has been imposed in both urban and rural areas. The collector said such restrictions are needed "to stem the spread of Covid-19 as people are crowding the markets, restaurants and other places in large numbers". On Saturday, Gujarat for the first time reported over 5,000 Covid-19 cases since the outbreak of the disease in March last year. Out of 5,011 new cases in the state, 239 were from rural parts of Surat district. Besides, Surat city recorded 913 new cases, the second-highest after Ahmedabad city, where 1,409 people tested positive for the viral infection on Saturday, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-night-curfew-extended-to-rural-parts-of-surat-973146.html
11-04-2021||West||Gujarat seer Mahamandaleshwar Bharti Bapu dies at 93||Revered Gujarat seer Mahamandaleshwar Bharti Bapu died on Sunday morning at Bharti Ashram in Sarkhej area of Ahmedabad. He was 93 and died due to age-related complications, a disciple said, adding that the last rites will be performed at the Ashram's main centre in Junagadh city. Condoling the death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. "The teachings of Mahamandaleshwar Vishwambhar Bharti Ji Maharaj of Junagadh Bharti Ashram will always guide us. I offer my condolences to millions of his followers. May god give peace to his soul. Aum Shanti." "I am deeply pained by the passing away of 1008 Mahamandaleshwar Bharti Bapu. We can never forget his contribution of starting a nationwide movement against addictions. May god grant peace to his soul and give strength to his followers to endure the pain," Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani also expressed grief at the death of the seer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-seer-mahamandaleshwar-bharti-bapu-dies-at-93-973147.html
11-04-2021||West||Ambani bomb case: NIA arrests Vaze's associate Riyaz Kazi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday arrested assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, a close associate and colleague of controversial suspended police officer Sachin Vaze. Over the last month, Kazi has been grilled several times by the federal agency. Kazi was directly working under Vaze, an assistant police inspector heading the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police. Kazi is being examined for his role behind the planting of Scorpio laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. The NIA suspects Kazi’s role in the destruction of evidence and procuring fake number plates. Kazi was arrested on Sunday morning and produced before a special NIA court, which remanded him to the custody of the agency till 16 April. Last month, after Param Bir Singh was removed and Hemant Nagrale took over as Mumbai Police commissioner, he effected a major reshuffle in the Crime Branch-CID, during which Kaze was shunted out and posted at the Local Arms unit.  This is the fourth arrest in the case - the three others being Vaze, Naresh Gor, a cricket-bookie, and Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed police constable serving life sentence currently on parole. Vaze, Gor, and Shinde are currently in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-case-nia-arrests-vazes-associate-riyaz-kazi-973162.html
11-04-2021||West||Former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh faces another probe||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh – who had levelled corruption charges against the then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and considered close to controversial police officer Sachin Vaze - now faces multiple probes. The 1988-batch IPS is now posted as the commandant general of Home Guards. The latest in the addition is an inquiry by senior IPS officer Sanjay Pandey, the managing director of Maharashtra State Security Corporation, who has been made the acting director-general of police. This probe follows the report of Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale, who had stated that Vaze, the head of the Crime Intelligence Unit of Crime Branch-CID, was bypassing all other officers and directly reporting to Singh and taking instructions. “Sachin Vaze has not followed the rules and he directly and independently reported to the then commissioner of police, Mumbai (Singh) and he investigated under his guidance,” the report stated, adding that he was following the "guidelines" of Singh about raids on illegal activities, whom to arrest or not, to call whom as witnesses in sensitive cases and points to be mentioned in remand applications and anticipatory bail applications. Besides, the Maharashtra government has already appointed a high-level enquiry committee (HLEC) by Justice Kailash Chandiwal, a retired judge of the Bombay High Court, to probe into the allegations against Deshmukh. The NIA had recorded the statement of Singh last week – in connection with the arrest of Vaze, who has been arrested for the planting of Scorpio with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiran. The Bombay High Court has also ordered a probe into his allegations against Deshmukh by registration of a preliminary enquiry (PE) by the CBI, which too has recorded his statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-faces-another-probe-973184.html
11-04-2021||West||Sharad Pawar to undergo gall bladder surgery on April 12: NCP||NCP chief Sharad Pawar was on Sunday admitted to a hospital here for the gall bladder surgery scheduled on Monday, party leader Nawab Malik said. "Sharad Pawar was advised to rest for seven days after he underwent a medical procedure (last month). It was then decided that the surgery for the removal of his gall bladder will be performed after 15 days. Accordingly, Pawar was admitted to Breach Candy hospital on Sunday," he said. Pawar, 80, had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct at the Breach Candy hospital on March 30, a doctor had said. Under the medical procedure, an endoscope is used to examine the interior of a hollow organ or body cavity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-to-undergo-gall-bladder-surgery-on-april-12-ncp-973201.html
11-04-2021||West||Maharashtra crosses one crore Covid-19 vaccinations||Amid a Centre vs State row, Maharashtra on Sunday became the first state in India to cross the one-crore mark in administering doses. "We have crossed one crore doses today. Till today noon, we have administered 1,00,38,42 doses,” principal secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas said Among the one crore vaccines – around 90 lakh people have been given the first dose while the rest 10 lakh have received both doses. Maharashtra has worked out a target of vaccinating 6 lakh people per month, 40 lakh a week – that comes to around 1.6 crore a month. However, it is facing a shortage of vaccines – and more than 30 per cent of centres have run out of stock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-crosses-one-crore-covid-19-vaccinations-973220.html
11-04-2021||West||Muslims seek Maharashtra govt's nod for prayers at mosques in Ramzan||A Muslim organisation on Sunday urged the Maharashtra government to allow members from the community to visit mosques for prayers during the month of Ramzan that begins next week. Members of the Marathwada division of Jamiat Ulema-e- Hind (of Arshad Madani faction), on Sunday met Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope to make this demand. At present, the places of religious worship in the state are shut due to the spike in Covid-19 cases. The organisation told the minister that in view of the holy month of Ramzan, the government should provide some relaxation and allow entry of Muslim community members into the mosques, up to 50 per cent of the capacity of these religious places, five times daily for prayers, one of the office-bearers said. The organisation's vice president Maulana Sohel assured the minister that Muslims would follow all Covid-19 protocols. The minister assured them that the government would consider their demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/muslims-seek-maharashtra-govts-nod-for-prayers-at-mosques-in-ramzan-973231.html
11-04-2021||West||BJP demands Rs 5,000 Covid-19 relief package for every poor person in Maharashtra||Ahead of the lockdown in Maharashtra, the BJP on Sunday reiterated the demand for a relief package for people who depend on hand-to-mouth sustenance. The fresh demand comes a day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired an all-party meeting attended by the Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, among others to discuss the pandemic situation and the measures that need to be taken to curb the spread of the coronavirus. “There is no doubt that we need strict measures,” Leader of Opposition in Council Pravin Darekar said. However, he added that several other states have given relief packages, but Maharashtra has not doled out anything. “We need to look into this…what we are asking is to give people Rs 5,000 each to those who depend on hand-to-mouth existence, those in small-scale industries and daily wages,” he said on Sunday. "If you really want to impose lockdown, announce a package and give Rs 5,000 per month to every worker from the unorganised sector," state BJP president Chandrakant Patil said last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-rs-5000-covid-19-relief-package-for-every-poor-person-in-maharashtra-973235.html
11-04-2021||West||Gujarat shuts colleges till April 30 as Covid-19 cases rise||Colleges in Gujarat on Sunday were directed to remain shut till April 30 amid a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, officials said. All government and private colleges have been told to impart education through online mode instead of calling students to the campus, they added. Earlier this month, schools for Classes I to IX were ordered to remain shut. Schools and colleges in Gujarat, which were shut when the lockdown was imposed early last year, were reopened in January and February, 2021 in a phased manner. On Sunday, Gujarat reported over 5,400 Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-shuts-colleges-till-april-30-as-covid-19-cases-rise-973237.html
11-04-2021||West||Maharashtra government starts giving final touches to lockdown amid Covid-19 surge||The Maharashtra government has started giving final touches to a short-duration lockdown after a near-unanimity among the political class and the expert advice of the Covid-19 Task Force. Over the weekend, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a series of meetings to discuss the emerging pandemic situation, increasing cases and deaths, availability of hospital beds, shortfall of oxygen supply, the demand-supply gap of Remdesivir medicine, treatment protocol and the vaccination drive were discussed. While on Saturday, the all-party meeting was held, on Sunday, the Task Force held deliberations. On Monday, Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar along with top ministers of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government would meet chiefs of various departments – during which detailed SOPs will be prepared. While on Tuesday and Wednesday, there would be public holidays on account of Gudi Padwa and Babasaheb Ambedkar birth anniversary, respectively, the government will utilize the time to make preparations. “The Task Force was unanimous over lockdown, the chief minister would be meeting top officials and on Wednesday, the weekly Cabinet meeting is scheduled after which a decision would be taken,” public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. The Cabinet would decide on the measures and the duration of the lockdown, sources said. Over the next three days, the facilities in the government hospitals and the jumbo field hospitals in urban areas would be augmented to cater to the projected needs. Among those present in the meeting include public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope, medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, Covid-19 Task Force chief Dr Sanjay Oak. Others present in the meeting include additional chief secretary (CMO) Ashish Kumar Singh, principal secretary (CMO) Vikas Kharge, principal secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary (medical education) Saurav Vijay, Task Force members Dr Shashank Joshi, Dr Avinash Supe, Dr Zahir Udwadia, Dr Vasant Nagvekar, Dr Rahul Pandit, Dr Zahir Virani, Dr Om Shrivastava and Dr Tatyarao Lahane, the director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DEMR). Even while the government is making preparations, there were concerning reports from across the state of patients' sufferings and shortage of Remdesivir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-starts-giving-final-touches-to-lockdown-amid-covid-19-surge-973238.html
11-04-2021||West||Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases cross 60,000-mark||The Covid-19 pandemic boom was clearly visible in Maharashtra as the daily addition cases crossed the 60,000-mark on Sunday. In the last 24-hours, 63,249 cases and 349 deaths were recorded taking the cumulative to 34,07,245 and 57,987. During the day, 34,008 patients were discharged taking the total number of treated patients to 27,82,161. Over 30 lakh people are in home quarantine. In Mumbai, 9,986 cases were reported while the Mumbai metropolitan region stands at 19,953.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-cross-60000-mark-973241.html
